<doc id="4464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4464" title="Atmosphere of Earth">
Atmosphere of Earth

Earth's atmosphere is the layer of gases around the Earth. The atmosphere is held in place by Earth's gravity. It is made up of nitrogen (78.1%) and oxygen (20.9%), with small amounts of argon (0.9%), carbon dioxide (~ 0.035%), water vapor, and other gases. The atmosphere protects life on Earth by absorbing (taking) ultraviolet rays from the sun. It makes our days cooler and our nights warmer.
Solid particulates, including ash, dust, volcanic ash, etc. are small parts of atmosphere. They are important in making clouds and fog.
The atmosphere does not end at a specific place. The higher above the Earth something is, the thinner the atmosphere around it is. There is no clear border between the atmosphere and outer space. 75% of the atmosphere is within of the Earth's surface.
Originally, the Earth's atmosphere had almost no free oxygen. It gradually changed to what it is today, over a very long time (see Great Oxygenation Event). The process began with cyanobacteria. They were the first organisms to make free oxygen by photosynthesis. Most organisms today need oxygen for their metabolism; only a few can use other sources for respiration.
Some parts of the atmosphere are hot or cold, depending on height. If something climbed straight up, it would get colder, but then it would get hotter as the object climbed higher. These changes of temperature are divided into layers. These are like layers of an onion. However, no difference can be seen between each layer. They are just places where the temperature changes in a different way.
These are the layers of the atmosphere, starting from the ground:
Where one layer changes to the next have been named "-pauses." So the tropopause is where the troposphere ends ( high). The stratopause is at the end of the stratosphere. The mesopause is at the end of the mesosphere. 
These are called boundaries.
The average temperature of the atmosphere at the surface of Earth is .
The atmosphere has pressure. This is because even though air is a gas, it has weight. The average atmospheric pressure at sea level is about .
The density of air at sea level is about 1.2 kilograms per cubic meter. This density becomes less at higher altitudes at the same rate that pressure becomes less. The total mass of the atmosphere is about 5.1 × 10 kg, which is only a very small part of the Earth's total mass.

</doc>
<doc id="4465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4465" title="Penis">
Penis

The penis is a male body part found on the outside of the body. It is used for urination and for sexual reproduction. The main sexual function of the penis is to be inserted into a female's vagina and deliver semen which may cause pregnancy. This activity is called sexual intercourse.
The human penis is made up of three types of tissue. It has two corpora cavernosa (special pieces of muscle) next to each other and a corpus spongiosum (spongy muscle) between them.
The end of the corpus spongiosum forms the glans penis which is underneath the foreskin in uncircumcised males. The area on the bottom of the penis, where the foreskin is attached on uncircumcised men, is known as the frenulum.
The urethra, the tube where urine and semen travel through, runs down the corpus spongiosum (spongy tissue), and opens at the tip of the penis. Sperm are made in the testes (ball-like organs) and stored in the epididymis (layer of tissue) around the testes. During ejaculation, sperm are pushed up the vas deferens. Fluids are added by the seminal vesicles, the prostate gland and the bulbourethral glands to make semen.
A penis can become erect if a male is sexually aroused (or sometimes during sleep, even though there is no sexual stimulation). In an erection, the penis fills with blood. The blood makes the penis become longer, thicker and harder. Veins taking blood away from the penis get smaller, so less blood is taken through. Arteries bringing blood to the penis get wider, bringing more blood to the penis.
Ejaculation is when semen is pushed from the penis. It usually happens during an orgasm. Males can ejaculate during sexual intercourse or by masturbation.
In reproductive sexual intercourse between a male and female, the erect penis is inserted into the vagina and moved in and out. The vagina places pressure on the penis, which can cause the male to have an orgasm and ejaculate into the vagina, causing insemination. 
Other forms of sex, like anal and oral sex, can also cause stimulation, and therefore orgasm and ejaculation. In masturbation, a male can stimulate the penis and other sensitive areas of the body, such as the scrotum, by rubbing the genital area. Ejaculation may also happen during sleep (called a 'wet dream'). A male must have started puberty before he can ejaculate. During orgasm, muscles push semen from the penis. Semen moves through the urethra and comes out of the hole at the tip of the penis.
The length and thickness of the penis is different for different people. The size of a soft penis (not erect) is much smaller than when it is erect. Some penises grow more when they get hard than other penises. In most cases, whether a penis is big or small, it can still be used for sex. It averages out to be around 3 to 6 inches long when not erect. The average size of an erect human penis is between 13 – 16 cm (5.1– 6 in). The average circumference of a penis is 12.3 cm (4.85 in) when fully erect. The penis grows bigger during puberty. At the start of puberty, the average length of the penis is . The penis reaches adult size about 5 years later. A study done in 1996 found the mean length of an adult man's penis is when it is not erect. The average length of an erect penis is about .
The foreskin is a fold of skin that covers the end of the penis. Cutting off the foreskin is called circumcision. The foreskin is connected to the head of the penis. During circumcision, the foreskin is removed from the penis. Circumcision is usually performed on infant males for medical, religious or cultural reasons.
Some males have the foreskin cut off when they are adults because they have problems with their foreskin. Some males have the foreskin cut off because they want to change how their penis looks. 
In some religions, babies and young boys have their foreskin cut off. This is expected in Islam and Judaism. It is not required according to Christianity. In Judaism, infant males are required to have their foreskin removed as a sign of the covenant made with God.

</doc>
<doc id="4466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4466" title="Sahara">
Sahara

The Sahara in North Africa, is the one of the largest deserts in the world. Antarctica is also a desert, and is larger. 
It is bounded by the Atlantic Ocean, the Atlas Mountains, the Mediterranean Sea, the Red Sea, and the Sahel region. Inside it are parts of many countries, including Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, Egypt, Mauritania, Mali, Niger, Chad, and The Sudan. Most parts are uninhabited, but some people manage to survive in places where there is water.
The Sahara Desert is about 9,065,000 square kilometers in size. It has been both larger and smaller at different times. After the last ice age it became more fertile, then dried up again. It is the hottest place on the Earth, but not the driest. The driest is the Atacama Desert in South America. The Sahara has about the same size as the whole United States.
The highest mountain is 3415 m, and is the "Emi Koussi" in Chad. Some mountain peaks in the Sahara Desert have snow even in the summer. The main mountain ranges is the Atlas Mountains in Algeria. The Sahara's lowest point lies in the Qattara Depression in Egypt, at about 130 metres below sea level. Sand sheets and dunes are about 25% of the Sahara. All the other parts are mountains, steppes with a lot of stones, and oases.
There are several rivers running through the Sahara. However, most of them come and go through the seasons, except for the Nile River and Niger River.
Metallic minerals are very important to most Saharan countries. Algeria and Mauritania have several major deposits of iron ore. There are also bits of uranium, while Niger has the largest parts of them. A lot of phosphates are in Morocco and Western Sahara. Oil is mainly found in Algeria. The oil is very important to the economy of the entire country. While the mineral exploitation has led to economic growth in Sahara, this has rarely helped the indigenous population, as skilled workers have been brought from other countries.
Of the Sahara's around 4 million people, most live in Mauritania, Western Sahara, Algeria, Libya and Egypt. Dominant groups of people are Sahrawis and Tuareg. The largest city is Nouakchott, Mauritania's capital. Other important cities are Tamanrasset in Algeria, and Sebha and Ghat in Libya.
Only 200,000 km² of the Sahara are fertile oases, where dates, corn, and fruits are grown. The few fertile regions today are fed by underground rivers and underground basins. Many of Sahara's oases rests in depressions (areas under sea level) allowing water to surface from underground reservoirs; artesian wells.
The soil in Sahara is low in organic matter. The soil in depressions is often saline. 
Other sorts of vegetation include scattered concentrations of grasses, shrubs and trees in the highlands, as well as in the oases and along river beds. Some plants are well adjusted to the climate, allowing them to germinate within 3 days of rain and sow their seeds within 2 weeks after that.
Animals living in the Sahara include gerbil, jerboa, cape hare and desert hedgehog, barbary sheep, oryx, gazelle, deer, wild ass, baboon, hyena, jackal, sand fox, weasel and mongoose. The bird life counts more than 300 species. Reptiles, including 4 species of snake also live here. The most venomous scorpion in the world lives here. 
4,000 years ago, the Sahara would have been a thriving savanna grassland with a great variety of wildlife. This would have included animals such as elephants and giraffes. The climate has changed, causing the rainfall to drop and turn the Sahara into the barren, desert wilderness as we know it today.

</doc>
<doc id="4467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4467" title="Paris">
Paris

Paris (nicknamed the "City of light") is the capital city of France, and the largest city in France. The area is 105 square km, and around 2.15 million people live there. If suburbs are counted, the population of the Paris area rises to 12 million people.
The Seine river runs through the oldest part of Paris, and divides it into two parts, known as the Left Bank and the Right Bank. It is surrounded by many forests.
Paris is also the center of French economy, politics, traffic and culture. Paris has many art museums and historical buildings. As a traffic center, Paris has a very good underground subway system (called the "Metro"). It also has two airports. The Metro was built in 1900, and its total length is more than 200 km.
The city has a multi-cultural style, because 20% of the people there are from outside France. There are many different restaurants with all kinds of food. Paris also has some types of pollution like air pollution and light pollution.
Julius Caesar conquered the Celtic Parisii tribe in 51 BC. The Romans called the place Lutetia, or Lutetia Parisiorum. The place got a shorter name, Paris, in 212 AD.
As the Roman Empire began to fall apart in the West, the Germanic tribe called the Franks moved in, taking it in 464. In 506, their king Clovis I made it his capital. Charlemagne moved his capital to Aachen in Germany, but Paris continued as an important town and was attacked by the Vikings twice. When Hugh Capet became king of France in 987, he again made Paris his capital. For a long time, the kings only controlled Paris and the surrounding area, as much of the rest of France was in the hands of barons or English. During the Hundred Years War, the English controlled Paris from 1420 to 1437.
During the Protestant Reformation, a huge massacre of French Protestants started there in 1572, called the Saint Bartholomew Day Massacre. Paris saw many other troubles over the years of the "Ancien Regime" (Old Kingdom), then in 1789, the French Revolution began in Paris, leading to more massacres.
Paris was the Capital of the French Empire which, as well as France, covered Spain, Belgium, Holland, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Italy, most of Germany and some of Austria, Croatia, Slovenia and Poland. The Empire ruled by Napoleon was from 1804-1814/1815. The Russian army seized Paris from Napoleon in 1814, and the Prussian army captured it in 1871. The next time it was captured was by the Nazi Germans in 1940. The Allies freed the city in 1944 and it has not since been captured.
Paris has a temperate oceanic climate. It has warm summers and cool winters. It has moderate rainfall year-round.
Paris has much to offer for sightseeing. Here are five very famous examples:
Because the city of Paris is roughly only 6 miles across, visitors have a wide range of options when it comes to transportation. While much of the more well-known attractions are in the center of the city and are best experienced by walking, there are many destinations that require other means of transport. While taxis offer a fast and relatively inexpensive means of travel, Paris’ public transportation system offers an enjoyable, stress-free way to explore the city.
The Paris Métro system was built in 1900 by engineer Fulgence Bienvenüe and architect Hector Guimard. The Métro covers over 124 miles with 300 stations and 16 lines. Servicing over 6 million residents and tourists every day, the Métro was designed to be an efficient and reliable alternative to the congestion of traffic. Every building in Paris is less than 500 meters from a train station, so accessibility is never a problem. The 16 Métro lines are identified by their final destinations. A rider can simply select the appropriate line and take it in the direction s/he wants. The Métro stations are well marked, and there are ticket booths at most entrances.

</doc>
<doc id="4469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4469" title="The Holocaust">
The Holocaust

The Holocaust, sometimes called The "Shoah" (""), was when Nazi Germany killed people in a planned and forced way during World War II. About six million Jews were killed, as well as five million of others that the Nazis said were bad (e.g., Romani/Roma people, homosexuals, communists, people who were not white, people with disabilities, Slavs, transgender people, and Jehovah's Witnesses). These people were rounded up, put in ghettos, forced to work in concentration camps and then killed in big gas chambers.
There was hatred and persecution of Jews (anti-Semitism) in Europe for hundreds of years. Many people wrongly thought that all Jews were rich, mean, and not social. These simple ideas were popular in the German-speaking world and elsewhere in the late 1800s. Adolf Hitler was born in Austria during this time, when many people disliked Jews. He may have been jealous of Jewish success in Austria. However, in a book he wrote called "Mein Kampf" ("My Struggle), he said it was the Jews' fault that Germany and Austria lost World War I. He also wrote that Germany's economic problems were the Jews' fault. Many people agreed with Hitler’s ideas and supported him as the leader of the Nazi Party.
The numbers below are not known entirely because many of those killed were never written down. The numbers given below are those most thinkers agree on.
Led by Adolf Hitler, the Nazis killed millions of Jews. They forced Jews to wear the golden Star of David on their upper bodies. Jews were rounded up by the thousands and crammed into trains that took them to concentration camps as well as death camps. Most of the Jews killed in the Holocaust were not German; they were from Poland or the Soviet Union.
The Nazis killed millions of people, hundreds at a time, with poison gas in gas chambers. They forced others to dig giant holes in the ground where, after days of hard work, they were shot, buried, and burned in a mass grave. The Nazis executed many others by shooting, stabbing, or beating them to death. Still others died in forced marches from one camp to another. Many other people died of starvation, diseases, and freezing to death because of the terrible conditions in the concentration camps.
On the other hand, there were people who saved Jews from The Holocaust, because they thought it was the right thing to do. Some of them were later given "Righteous Among the Nations" awards by Yad Vashem.
Some people say the Holocaust did not happen at all, or was not as bad as historians say it was. This is called Holocaust denial. However, almost all historians agree that the Holocaust did happen, and has been described correctly. Some people that deny the Holocaust say that the Nazis did not kill as many people as historians say. Instead, they say many of these people died from diseases, and because there was not enough food. They say these people's deaths were not the Nazis' fault.
In some countries in Europe, it is against the law to say that the Holocaust never happened.

</doc>
<doc id="4470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4470" title="Kyoto">
Kyoto

Kyoto () is a city in Japan. This city was the capital of Japan from 794 until 1868.
Kyoto is a major city in the Kansai region of Japan. Its population is 1.5 million people. The city of Kyoto is the capital city of the prefecture of Kyoto. Kyoto is one of the cultural, educational, and technology centers of Japan. In it are many universities including Kyoto University, the second oldest national university of Japan.
After 794, the Japanese emperors lived in this city which was called Heian-kyō.
In 1868, the city was called "Saikyō" ("Western capital") in order to distinguish it from Edo (Tokyo) which was the "Eastern capital".
There are mountains around the city on the east, north, and west sides. Some people in Kyoto believe that these mountains make Kyoto's summer especially hot and humid, and Kyoto's winter very cold.
We can see many temples and shrines built in traditional Japanese architectural styles here. Some of those buildings are registered as UNESCO World Heritage Sites. On the other hand, since Kyoto was one of biggest and wealthiest Japanese cities in the middle of the 19th century; the citizens were eager to import European style, and there are many European style buildings in the center of Kyoto for company offices and schools.
Kyoto is one of oldest cities in Japan. Many tourists from all over the world come to Kyoto. Japanese people often come to Kyoto in the spring to see the cherry blossoms, and in the autumn to see the leaves change color.
Traditional Kyoto food often uses vegetables. McDonald's signboards in Kyoto are brown to preserve the traditional surroundings.
The oldest novel in the world, Shikibu Murasaki's The Tale of Genji is set in Kyoto during the Heian Period.
Kyoto is famous for three festivals: Gion festival, Aoi festival in the summer, and Jidai festival in the autumn.

</doc>
<doc id="4471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4471" title="Anarchy">
Anarchy

Anarchy (From Greek αναρχια meaning "without archons") ; also used as Anarchasea. It is a word that has more than one use. Some of its uses are:
In the first use, an "anarchy" might be a made-up or real society based on a group's beliefs about anarchism (see anarcho-communism).
In the second use, "anarchy" has to do with having no political order. The CIA World factbook says that there is only one nation, Somalia, that is in a state of anarchy. In Somalia, the government is no longer in control, and some parts of the country are ruled by mobs and warlords who sometimes fight one another.
There are a small number of other places (Afghanistan, Albania, Burundi, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Rwanda) where government is "emerging" or "transitional", and were in anomie in the near past. The DC says that the Solomon Islands is "tending towards" anomie because "violence, corruption and crime have undermined stability and civil society".
When there is no political order, more than one government or political authority might sometimes compete for the same food, oil, land, or groups of people. The word "Anarchy" to used to describe this. However, because there is "more than one" competing authority, a better word might be "polyarchy". The difference between "anarchy" and "polyarchy" is important to someone who thinks that true anarchy would work well. The word for someone who thinks this is "anarchist", and the word for this kind of thinking is "anarchism". Anarchism has been thought about for hundreds of years.
Anarchy which follows the death of a ruler and ceases when his successor rises to power, is called interregnum (literally: "in-between rules").
The word anarchy comes from the Greek word αναρχία ("anarchia"), which means "without a leader".
"While the popular understanding of anarchism is of a violent, anti-State movement, anarchism is a much more subtle and nuanced tradition then a simple opposition to government power. Anarchists oppose the idea that power and domination are necessary for society, and instead advocate more co-operative, anti-hierarchical forms of social, political and economic organisation." [The Politics of Individualism, p. 106]

</doc>
<doc id="4472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4472" title="DNA">
DNA

DNA, short for deoxyribonucleic acid, is the molecule that contains the genetic code of organisms. This includes animals, plants, protists, archaea and bacteria. 
DNA is in each cell in the organism and tells cells what proteins to make. Mostly, these proteins are enzymes. DNA is inherited by children from their parents. This is why children share traits with their parents, such as skin, hair and eye color. The DNA in a person is a combination of the DNA from each of their parents.
Part of an organism's DNA is "non-coding DNA" sequences. They do not code for protein sequences. Some noncoding DNA is transcribed into non-coding RNA molecules, such as transfer RNA, ribosomal RNA, and regulatory RNAs. Other sequences are not transcribed at all, or give rise to RNA of unknown function. The amount of non-coding DNA varies greatly among species. For example, over 98% of the human genome is non-coding DNA, while only about 2% of a typical bacterial genome is non-coding DNA.
Viruses use either DNA or RNA to infect organisms. The genome replication of most DNA viruses takes place in the cell's nucleus, whereas RNA viruses usually replicate in the cytoplasm.
DNA has a double helix shape, which is like a ladder twisted into a spiral. Each step of the ladder is a pair of nucleotides.
A nucleotide is a molecule made up of:
DNA is made of four types of nucleotide:
The 'rungs' of the DNA ladder are each made of two bases, one base coming from each leg. The bases connect in the middle: 'A' "only" pairs with 'T', and 'C' "only" pairs with 'G'. The bases are held together by hydrogen bonds. 
Adenine (A) and thymine (T) can pair up because they make two hydrogen bonds, and cytosine (C) and guanine (G) pair up to make three hydrogen bonds. Although the bases are always in fixed pairs, the pairs can come in any order (A-T or T-A; similarly, C-G or G-C). This way, DNA can write 'codes' out of the 'letters' that are the bases. These codes contain the message that tells the cell what to do.
On chromosomes, the DNA is bound up with proteins called histones to form chromatin. This association takes part in epigenetics and gene regulation. Genes are switched on and off during development and cell activity, and this regulation is the basis of most of the activity which takes place in cells.
When DNA is copied this is called DNA replication. Briefly, the hydrogen bonds holding together paired bases are broken and the molecule is split in half: the legs of the ladder are separated. This gives two single strands. New strands are formed by matching the bases (A with T and G with C) to make the missing strands. 
First, an enzyme called DNA helicase splits the DNA down the middle by breaking the hydrogen bonds. Then after the DNA molecule is in two separate pieces, another molecule called DNA polymerase makes a new strand that matches each of the strands of the split DNA molecule. Each copy of a DNA molecule is made of half of the original (starting) molecule and half of new bases.
When DNA is copied, mistakes are sometimes made – these are called mutations. There are three main types of mutations:
Mutations may also be classified by their effect on the structure and function of proteins, or their effect on fitness. Mutations may be bad for the organism, or neutral, or of benefit. Sometimes mutations are fatal for the organism – the protein made by the new DNA does not work at all, and this causes the embryo to die. On the other hand, evolution is moved forward by mutations, when the new version of the protein works better for the organism.
A section of DNA that contains instructions to make a protein is called a gene. Each gene has the sequence for at least one polypeptide. Proteins form structures, and also form enzymes. The enzymes do most of the work in cells. Proteins are made out of smaller polypeptides, which are formed of amino acids. To make a protein to do a particular job, the correct amino acids have to be joined up in the correct order. 
Proteins are made by tiny machines in the cell called ribosomes. Ribosomes are in the main body of the cell, but DNA is only in the nucleus of the cell. The codon is part of the DNA, but DNA never leaves the nucleus. Because DNA cannot leave the nucleus, the cell makes a copy of the DNA sequence in RNA. This is smaller and can get through the holes – pores – in the membrane of the nucleus and out into the cell. 
Genes encoded in DNA are transcribed into messenger RNA (mRNA) by proteins such as RNA polymerase. Mature mRNA is then used as a template for protein synthesis by the ribosome. Ribosomes read codons, 'words' made of three base pairs that tell the ribosome which amino acid to add. The ribosome scans along an mRNA, reading the code while it makes protein. Another RNA called tRNA helps match the right amino acid to each codon.
DNA was first isolated (extracted from cells) by Swiss physician Friedrich Miescher in 1869, when he was working on bacteria from the pus in surgical bandages. The molecule was found in the nucleus of the cells and so he called it "nuclein". 
In 1928, Frederick Griffith discovered that traits of the "smooth" form of "Pneumococcus" could be transferred to the "rough" form of the same bacteria by mixing killed "smooth" bacteria with the live "rough" form. This system provided the first clear suggestion that DNA carries genetic information.
The Avery–MacLeod–McCarty experiment identified DNA as the transforming principle in 1943.
DNA's role in heredity was confirmed in 1952, when Alfred Hershey and Martha Chase in the Hershey–Chase experiment showed that DNA is the genetic material of the T2 bacteriophage.
In the 1950s, Erwin Chargaff found that the amount of thymine (T) present in a molecule of DNA was about equal to the amount of adenine (A) present. He found that the same applies to guanine (G) and cytosine (C). Chargaff's rules summarises this finding.
In 1953, James D. Watson and Francis Crick suggested what is now accepted as the first correct double-helix model of DNA structure in the journal "Nature". Their double-helix, molecular model of DNA was then based on a single X-ray diffraction image "Photo 51", taken by Rosalind Franklin and Raymond Gosling in May 1952. 
Experimental evidence supporting the Watson and Crick model was published in a series of five articles in the same issue of "Nature". Of these, Franklin and Gosling's paper was the first publication of their own X-ray diffraction data and original analysis method that partly supported the Watson and Crick model; this issue also contained an article on DNA structure by Maurice Wilkins and two of his colleagues, whose analysis and "in vivo" B-DNA X-ray patterns also supported the presence "in vivo" of the double-helical DNA configurations as proposed by Crick and Watson for their double-helix molecular model of DNA in the previous two pages of "Nature". In 1962, after Franklin's death, Watson, Crick, and Wilkins jointly received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. Nobel Prizes were awarded only to living recipients at the time. A debate continues about who should receive credit for the discovery.
In 1957, Crick explained the relationship between DNA, RNA, and proteins, in the central dogma of molecular biology. 
How DNA was copied (the replication mechanism) came in 1958 through the Meselson–Stahl experiment. More work by Crick and coworkers showed that the genetic code was based on non-overlapping triplets of bases, called codons. These findings represent the birth of molecular biology.
How Watson and Crick got Franklin's results has been much debated. Crick, Watson and Maurice Wilkins were awarded the Nobel Prize in 1962 for their work on DNA – Rosalind Franklin had died in 1958.

</doc>
<doc id="4473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4473" title="Karl Marx">
Karl Marx

Karl Heinrich Marx (5 May 1818 – 14 March 1883) was a German political thinker who wrote about money (economics) and power (politics). Marx thought that if a place that works together runs on wage-labor, then there would always be class struggle. Marx thought that this class struggle would result in workers taking power. His most famous book was the Communist Manifesto. He wrote it with Friedrich Engels in 1848. The book is about the ideas and aims of communism. His ideas are called Marxism.
His most important work is "Das Kapital", or The Capital. It is commonly known in English as simply 'Capital.' He spent many years working on the three parts of the book. Das Kapital describes how "capitalism" works and the problems this creates, such as division of labour and exploitation. The book has led to many arguments between those who agree with the book and those who do not. Marx's ideas have been thought of as responsible for socialist revolutions (like the Russian Revolution).
Marx's most popular theory was his 'materialism'. He believed that religion, morality, social structures and other things are all rooted in economics. In his later life he was more tolerant of religion.
Karl Marx was born in Trier in 1818, but he had to move many times because the government did not like his ideas. Marx lived for a long time in London. He died there in 1883. After he died, his friend Engels finished many of his works.
Marx also wrote the "Economic and Philosophic Manuscripts of 1844", a critique of political economy in which he discusses topics such as labor wages, labor rent, and capital profit, and his ideas of how to change the economy, including proletarian socialist revolution and an eventual communist society.
Many people continue to follow and develop Marx's ideas.

</doc>
<doc id="4475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4475" title="Bread">
Bread

Bread is a type of baked food. It is mainly made from dough, which is made mainly from flour and water. Usually, salt and yeast are added. Bread is often baked in an oven.
Bread can be toasted or used to make sandwiches. Pizza is a food based on bread. There are many different kinds of bread. 
The two main types of bread are:
The color and taste of the bread depend on the kind of flour used and the style of baking. Flour made from the whole grain gives darker bread. Flour made just from the polished wheat grain gives a very white bread. Rye and barley flour give darker types of bread. The type of flour also changes how long the bread can be kept before going bad. Some strains of wheat are resistant to fungus, but may not produce a bread as tasty as a weaker strain.
Christianity and Judaism have rules about the use of bread in their religions. Unleavened bread is eaten by Jews during the Passover. The Catholic celebration of the Eucharist uses unleavened wafers.
Orthodox churches forbid the use of unleavened bread for the Eucharist (Old Testament) and permit leavened bread only as a symbol of the New. This was one of the three points of contention that brought about the schism between Eastern and Western churches in 1054.
Bread is an important part of life in many countries, because so many people eat it. In many cultures, bread is so important that it is part of religious rituals. 
Cake is made in a similar way to bread but sugar, fat and milk are added to the dough and often more ingredients.

</doc>
<doc id="4480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4480" title="Shinto">
Shinto

Shinto () is a form of Japanese animism. They believe there are many "Kami", translated as gods or nature spirits. Some "kami" are just spirits of certain places, and some are the overall "kami" (like "Amaterasu", the Sun goddess). The word "Shinto" comes from the Japanese words "", "shin"—the word for god, and "", "tō"—the word for "the way" or "path". So, Shinto means "the way of the gods." 
State Shinto was the main religion of Japan before World War II. During the period 1868 to 1945 the Japanese government used Shinto for propaganda. All Japanese were forced to register with their local shrine. All Shinto priests worked for the government. War was seen as a sacred duty. The Emperor of Japan was seen as a god. Japanese Buddhism was also involved with the war effort (See Zen at War)
Shinto has many rituals and customs, and some are done every day. Some people mix Shinto and Buddhist rituals and beliefs. 

</doc>
<doc id="4483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4483" title="Volcano">
Volcano

A volcano is a mountain where lava (hot, liquid rock) comes from a magma chamber under the ground. 
Most volcanoes have a volcanic crater at the top. When a volcano is active, materials come out of it. The materials include lava, steam, gaseous sulfur compounds, ash and broken rock pieces. 
When there is enough pressure, the volcano erupts. Some volcanic eruptions blow off the top of the volcano. The magma comes out, sometimes quickly and sometimes slowly. Some eruptions come out at a side instead of the top. 
Volcanoes are found on planets other than Earth. An example is Olympus Mons on Mars. 
Volcanologists are scientists who study volcanoes using methods from geology, chemistry, geography, mineralogy, physics and sociology.
The lava and pyroclastic material (clouds of ash, lava fragments and vapor) that comes out from volcanoes can make many different kinds of land shapes. There are two basic kinds of volcanoes. 
These volcanoes are formed by fluid low-silica mafic lava. 
Shield volcanoes are built out of layers of lava from continual eruptions (without explosions). Because the lava is so fluid, it spreads out, often over a wide area. Shield volcanoes do not grow to a great height, and the layers of lava spread out to give the volcano gently sloping sides. Shield volcanoes can produce huge areas of basalt, which is usually what lava is when cooled.
The base of the volcano increases in size over successive eruptions where solidified lava spreads out and accumulates. Some of the world's largest volcanoes are shield volcanoes.
Even though their sides are not very "steep", shield volcanoes can be huge. Mauna Kea in Hawaii is the biggest mountain on Earth if it is measured from its base on the floor of the sea.
A stratovolcano, also known as a composite volcano, is a tall, conical volcano. It is built up of many layers of hardened lava, tephra, pumice, and volcanic ash. 
Unlike shield volcanoes, stratovolcanoes have a steep profile and periodic eruptions. The lava that flows from stratovolcanoes cools and hardens before spreading far. It is sticky, that is, it has high viscosity. The magma forming this lava is often felsic, with high-to-intermediate levels of silica, and less mafic magma. Big felsic lava flows are uncommon, but have travelled as far as .
Two famous stratovolcanoes are Japan's Mount Fuji, and Vesuvius. Both have big bases and steep sides that get steeper and steeper as it goes near the top. Vesuvius is famous for its destruction of the towns Pompeii and Herculaneum in 79 AD, killing thousands.
A caldera is a basin-like feature formed by collapse of land after a volcanic eruption. This happens after a huge stratovolcano blows its top off. The base of the crater then sinks, leaving a caldera where the top of the volcano was before. Krakatoa, best known for its catastrophic eruption in 1883, is much smaller now.
There are two main processes.
Volcanoes are made when two tectonic plates come together. When these two plates meet, one of them (usually the oceanic plate) goes under the continental plate. This is the process of subduction. Afterwards, it melts and makes magma (inside the magma chamber), and the pressure builds up until the magma bursts through the Earth's crust. 
The second way is when a tectonic plate moves over a hot spot in the Earth's crust. The hot spot works its way through the crust until it breaks through. The caldera of Yellowstone Park was formed in that way; so were the Hawaiian Islands.
A traditional way to classify or identify volcanoes is by its pattern of eruptions. Those volcanoes which may erupt again at any time are called active. Those that are now quiet called dormant (inactive). Those volcanos which have not erupted in historical times are called extinct.
An active volcano is currently erupting, or it has erupted in the last 10,000 years. An example of an active volcano is Mount St. Helens in the United States (US).
A dormant volcano is "sleeping," but it could awaken in the future. Mount Rainier in the United States is considered dormant.
An extinct volcano has not erupted in the past 10,000 years. Edinburgh Castle in Scotland is located on top of an extinct volcano.
The Earth's largest volcano has been discovered. It is 2km below the sea on an underwater plateau known as the Shatsky Rise. This is about 1,600km east of Japan. The previous record-holder, Mauna Loa in Hawaii, is still the largest volcano on land.
The 310,000 sq km (119,000 sq mi) volcano, Tamu Massif, is comparable in size to Mars' vast Olympus Mons volcano, which is the largest in the Solar System. It was formed about 145 million years ago when massive lava flows erupted from the centre of the volcano to form a broad, shield-like feature. That suggests the volcano produced a flood basalt eruption. 
The Tamu Massif extends some 30 km (18 miles) into the Earth's crust. The researchers doubted the submerged volcano's peak ever rose above sea level during its lifetime and say it is unlikely to erupt again.

</doc>
<doc id="4484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4484" title="Big Bang">
Big Bang

The Big Bang is a scientific theory about how the universe started, and then made the stars and galaxies we see today. 
The universe began very hot, small, and dense, with no stars, atoms, form, or structure (called a "singularity"). Then about 13.8 billion years ago, space expanded very quickly (thus the name "Big Bang"). This started the formation of atoms, which eventually led to the formation of stars and galaxies. It was Georges Lemaître who first noted (in 1927) that an expanding universe could be traced back in time to an originating single point. The universe is still expanding today, but getting colder as well. 
As a whole, universe is growing and the temperature is falling as time passes. Cosmology is the study of the universe began and its development. Scientists that study cosmology agree the Big Bang theory matches what they have observed so far.
Fred Hoyle called the theory the "Big Bang" on his radio show. He did not believe the Big Bang was correct. Scientists who did not agree with him thought the name was funny and decided to use it. Since then, Fred Hoyle's reasons for not agreeing with the theory have been proved wrong.
Scientists base the Big Bang theory on many different observations. The most important is the redshift of very far away galaxies. Redshift is the Doppler effect occurring in light. When an object moves away from Earth, its color rays look more similar to the color red than they actually are, because the movement stretches the wavelength of light given off by the object. Scientists use the word "red hot" to describe this stretched light wave because red is the longest wavelength on the visible spectrum. The more redshift there is, the faster the object is moving away. By measuring the redshift, scientists proved that the universe is expanding, and they can work out how fast the object is moving away from the Earth. With very exact observation and measurements, scientists believe that the universe was a singularity approximately 13.8 billion years ago. Because most things become colder as they expand, scientists assume that the universe was very small and very hot when it started.
Other observations that support the Big Bang theory are the amounts of chemical elements in the universe. Amounts of very light elements, such as hydrogen, helium, and lithium seem to agree with the theory of the Big Bang. Scientists also have found "cosmic microwaves background radiation". This radiation is known as radio waves, and they are everywhere in the universe. This radiation is now very weak and cold, but a long time ago it was very strong and very hot.
It could be said that time had no meaning before the Big Bang. If the Big Bang was the beginning of time, then there was no universe before the Big Bang, since there could not be any "before" if there was no time! Other ideas state that the Big Bang was not the beginning of time 13.8 billion years ago. Instead, some believe that there was a completely different universe before the Big Bang, and it may have been very different from the one we know today.
Many things happened in the first second of the universe's life:

</doc>
<doc id="4489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4489" title="Google Mail">
Google Mail

Google Mail, also known as Gmail, is a free e-mail service that is run by Google. It can be accessed on the web, by POP3, or by IMAP. Some of the competitors to Gmail are Yahoo! Mail, Hotmail/Windows Live Mail, and Inbox.Com. The space given to any GMail member is increased a small amount every second, and as of July 26, 2012, Google provides each account with about 10272 MB of space.
Google Apps is a service from Google that was created in February 2006 as Gmail for your domain. It is to allow system administrators of a company or organisation to create email accounts for their own domain.
In the United Kingdom (UK), the trademark "Gmail" was owned by another company before Gmail by Google was started. Thus, the United Kingdom uses a domain of "googlemail.com" for their users, and the logo has the words of "Google Mail" instead of the normal "Gmail".
In September 2009 Google began to change the branding of UK accounts back to Gmail following the resolution of the trademark dispute.

</doc>
<doc id="4491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4491" title="Astronomer">
Astronomer

An astronomer is a scientist who studies astronomy. Most astronomers work in observatories with telescopes to collect information from what is in outer space specially planets, stars, or galaxies. An astronomer analyses the collected information, and uses it to help us understand how the universe behaves.

</doc>
<doc id="4492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4492" title="Analysis">
Analysis

Analysis is the process of breaking a complex topic or substance into smaller parts to gain a better understanding of it. The technique has been applied in the study of mathematics and logic since before Aristotle (384–322 B.C.), though "analysis" as a formal concept is a relatively recent development.
The word comes from the Ancient Greek ἀνάλυσις ("analusis", "a breaking up", from "ana-" "up, throughout" and "lysis" "a loosening").
In this context, Analysis is the opposite of synthesis, which is to bring ideas together.
The following concepts are closely related to this basic idea:

</doc>
<doc id="4493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4493" title="Foolishness">
Foolishness

Foolishness is when someone acts without wisdom or sense. A foolish decision is one made without careful reasoning or judgement. An act of foolishness is called folly. A person who shows foolishness may be called a fool. It is different to stupidity, which is the lack of intelligence.
A "fool's errand" is a useless piece of work.
A "fool's paradise" a happy state for which there is no good reason.
The "wise fool" is a common literary character, a person who appears at first to be unintelligent but then reveals him or herself to possess a grest deal of wisdom. An example of this is Sancho Panza in Cervantes' "Don Quixote". Sancho is an uneducated peasant who at first seems to have little sense or experience. However, as the tale unfolds, he reveals himself to possess a wealth of common sense, first expressed through endless proverbs, but then through his own skill. In this sense he provides a comic juxtaposition to Quixote himself, who is highly educated but insane; both of them supply what the other lacks.

</doc>
<doc id="4494" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4494" title="Aristotle">
Aristotle

Aristotle (Stagira, Macedonia, 384 – Chalicis, Euboea, Greece, 7 March 322 ) was a Greek philosopher. He was one of the most important philosophers in the history of Western civilization. It is said that Aristotle wrote many books, but only a much smaller number survive. Aristotle was the boyhood tutor of Alexander the Great, who later sent him plants and animals from parts of his new empire.
Aristotle's father, Nicomachus, was the doctor of King Amyntas of Macedonia. From his eighteenth to his thirty-seventh year, Aristotle lived in Athens, as a metic and student of Plato.
At about the age of eighteen, he went to Athens to continue his education at Plato's Academy. Aristotle remained at the academy for nearly twenty years, not leaving until after Plato's death in 347 BC. He then traveled with Xenocrates to Asia Minor. While in Asia, Aristotle traveled with Theophrastus to the island of Lesbos, where they researched the botany and zoology of the island. Soon after Hermias' death, Aristotle was invited by Philip II of Macedon to become the tutor to his son Alexander the Great in 343 B.C.
Aristotle was appointed as the head of the royal academy of Macedon. During that time he gave lessons not only to Alexander, but also to two other future kings: Ptolemy and Cassander. Aristotle encouraged Alexander toward eastern conquest, and his attitude towards Persia was ethnocentric. In one famous example, he advises Alexander to be 'a leader to the Greeks and a despot to the barbarians, to look after the former as after friends and relatives, and to deal with the latter as with beasts or plants'.
By 335 he had returned to Athens, starting his own school there known as the Lyceum. Aristotle taught courses at the school for the next twelve years. It is during this period in Athens from 335 to 323 when Aristotle is believed to have written many of his works. Aristotle wrote many dialogues, only fragments of which survived. The works that have survived are in fairly rough form. They are generally thought to be lecture notes for his students. 
Aristotle's combined works constitute a virtual encyclopedia of Greek knowledge. It has been suggested that Aristotle was probably the last person to know everything there was to be known in his own time.
Near the end of Alexander's life, he began to suspect plots, and threatened Aristotle in letters. Aristotle was vocal about his dislike for Alexander's claim of divinity, and the king executed Aristotle's grandnephew Callisthenes as a traitor. Alexander died in Babylon in 323 without ever having returned to his native land. Upon Alexander's death, anti-Macedonian sentiment in Athens once again flared up, and Aristotle fled the city. However, he died in Euboea of natural causes that same year, 322 .
The three greatest ancient Greek philosophers were Aristotle, Plato, and Socrates. Socrates taught Plato, then Plato taught Aristotle. These three thinkers turned early Greek philosophy into the beginnings of Western philosophy as it is today. Aristotle taught Alexander the Great, who later conquered the entire Middle East.
Plato's main ideas were that knowledge from the senses was always confused and not pure. True knowledge can be gotten from the thinking soul that turns away from the world. Only the soul can have knowledge of "Forms", the real way things are. The world is only a copy of these "Forms" and is not perfect.
Aristotle thought differently. He thought that knowledge from the senses was more important. These thoughts became some of the roots of the scientific method after hundreds of years. Most of the things Aristotle wrote that we still have today are notes from his speaking and teaching. Some of his important writings are "Physics", "Metaphysics", "(Nicomachean) Ethics", "Politics", "De Anima (On the Soul)", and "Poetics".
He also had problems with the atomic theory. He did not believe in Democritus' theories about the atomic theory. He believed that all matter was continuous whereas Democritus stated the all matter was made up of tiny indivisible things called "atoms". Democritus was proved right by physicist John Dalton in 1804.
Aristotle created a form of logic. His logic is called "sentential logic" because it uses sentences for the syllogism. 
Aristotle's logic influenced the history of Western thought. It was Aristotle's logic which was copied and used in the Arabic and Latin mediaeval traditions. It was dominant for two and a half thousand years, until the late 19th century. Then modern logic was started by Gottlob Frege, Charles Sanders Peirce and others.
Aristotle is the earliest natural historian whose work has survived in some detail. He certainly did research on the natural history of Lesbos, and the surrounding seas and neighbouring areas. The works "History of Animals", "Generation of Animals" and "Parts of Animals" have observations and interpretations, along with some myths and mistakes. 
The most striking passages are about the sea-life round Lesbos. As well as live observation, he got specimens from the catches of fishermen. His observations on catfish, electric fish ("Torpedo") and angler-fish are detailed. His writing on cephalopods such as "Octopus", "Sepia" (cuttlefish) and the paper nautilus ("Argonauta argo") are accurate. His description of the hectocotyl arm, used in sexual reproduction, was widely disbelieved until its rediscovery in the 19th century. He separated the aquatic mammals from fish, and knew that sharks and rays were part of the group he called Selachē (Selachimorpha).
Another good example of his methods comes from the "Generation of Animals" in which Aristotle describes breaking open fertilized chicken eggs at intervals to observe when visible organs were generated.
He gave accurate descriptions of ruminants' four-chambered fore-stomachs, and of the ovoviviparous embryological development of the hound shark "Mustelus mustelus".
The works are traditionally listed in this sequence:
Aristotle is still one of the most influential people who ever lived. He contributed to almost every kind of knowledge in his day, and he started many new fields. 
Aristotle was the founder of formal logic, pioneered the study of zoology, and helped to develop scientific method.
Despite these achievements, Aristotle's errors are thought by some, such as Peter Medawar, to have held back science considerably. Bertrand Russell notes that "almost every serious intellectual advance has had to begin with an attack on some Aristotelian doctrine". Russell also refers to Aristotle's "Ethics" as "repulsive", and calls his logic "as definitely antiquated as Ptolemaic astronomy". Russell says these errors make it difficult to do historical justice to Aristotle, until one remembers what an advance he made on his predecessors.
The immediate influence of Aristotle's work was felt as the Lyceum grew into the Peripatetic school of philosophers. Aristotle's influence over Alexander the Great is seen in the latter's bringing with him, on his expedition, biologists and researchers.

</doc>
<doc id="4496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4496" title="Carl Sagan">
Carl Sagan

Carl Edward Sagan (November 9, 1934 - December 20, 1996) was an American astronomer. He tried to make science popular. He thought about what life from other planets would be like. He said that people should look for life on other planets (SETI). He is world famous for his popular science books and the television series "", which he co-wrote and presented. He said people should use the scientific method.
Carl Sagan was born in Brooklyn, New York City where his father, Sam Sagan, was a Jewish clothes maker and his mother, Rachel Molly Gruber, was a housewife. Sagan attended the University of Chicago earning two degrees in physics. He followed with a doctorate in Astronomy in 1960 and taught at Harvard University until 1968, when he moved to Cornell University.
Sagan became a teacher and director at Cornell in 1971. He helped many unmanned spacecraft to explore outer space. He thought of the idea of putting a message on spacecraft which could be understood by any life from another planet that might find it. The first message sent into space was a large gold-plated label on the space probe Pioneer 10. He continued to make the messages better. The last message he helped with was the Voyager Golden Record that was sent out with the Voyager space probes.
He was well known as a writer who warned of the dangers of nuclear winter. He helped people learn about the atmosphere of Venus, seasonal changes on Mars, and Saturn's moon Titan. He showed that the atmosphere of Venus is very hot and dense. He also said that global warming was a growing, man-made danger like the natural development of Venus into a hot and dangerous planet with greenhouse gases. He suggested that the seasonal changes on Mars were due to dust storms.
Sagan was among the first to guess that Titan and Jupiter's moon Europa might have oceans or lakes, which means that life could be there. Europa's underground ocean was later confirmed by the spacecraft Galileo.
Sagan thought the search for life on other planets was a good idea. He said scientists should listen with large radio telescopes for signals from other planets. He thought sending probes to other planets was a good idea. Sagan was editor "Icarus" (a magazine about space exploration) for 12 years. He helped start the "Planetary Society" and was a member of the SETI Institute Board of Trustees.
Sagan also believed that the Drake equation suggested that many kinds of intelligent life could form, but that the lack of evidence (the Fermi paradox) suggests that intelligent beings destroy themselves rather quickly. This made him keen to talk about ways that humanity could destroy itself, in the hope of avoiding such destruction.
Under the name "Mr. X," Sagan wrote about pot smoking in the 1971 book "Reconsidering Marijuana". Lester Grinspoon (the book's editor), told this to Keay Davidson, Sagan's biographer. Sagan said that marijuana helped him write some of his books.
Sagan was very good at helping people to understand the cosmos. He gave the 1977/1978 Christmas Lectures for Young People at the Royal Institution. He wrote (with Ann Druyan, who became his third wife) and made the very popular thirteen-part PBS television series ""; he also wrote books to help science become more popular ("The Dragons of Eden", which won a Pulitzer Prize, "Broca's Brain", etc.) and a novel, "Contact", that was a best-seller and was made into a film starring Jodie Foster in 1997. The film won the 1998 Hugo Award.
After "Cosmos", Sagan was linked with the catchphrase "billions and billions", which he never used in the television series (but he often used the word "billions"). He wrote "Pale Blue Dot: A Vision of the Human Future in Space", which was chosen as a notable book of 1995 by The "New York Times".
Not all scientists agreed with him. Although they all liked the way he made science popular, some were afraid that people would think that his personal opinions might be confused with real science. What he said about the Kuwait oil well fires during the first Gulf War were shown later to be wrong.
Later in his life, Sagan's books showed his skeptical, naturalistic view of the world. In his book "The Demon-Haunted World", Sagan gave a list of mistakes he had made as an example of how science is self-correcting. The compilation "Billions and Billions: Thoughts on Life and Death at the End of the Millennium", published after Sagan's death, contains essays written by Sagan, such as his views on abortion, and Ann Druyan's account of his death as a non-believer.
Some people thought Sagan had a big ego. In 1994, Apple Inc. chose a code name "Sagan" when they developed the Power Macintosh 7100. When Sagan heard this, he tried to make Apple Computer use another name. Sagan lost the fight in court, but Apple engineers did what he asked anyway, and named the project "Butthead Astronomer". Sagan tried to sue Apple again, saying they made him look stupid. Sagan lost in court again, but the name of the project was changed to "LAW" (Lawyers Are Wimps).
Sagan is said to have been an atheist or agnostic, but some people have said he was a pantheist, because he said things like "The idea that God is an oversized white male with a flowing beard who sits in the sky and tallies the fall of every sparrow is ludicrous. But if by 'God' one means the set of physical laws that govern the universe, then clearly there is such a God. This God is emotionally unsatisfying... it does not make much sense to pray to the law of gravity."
Sagan married three times; the biologist Lynn Margulis (mother of Dorion Sagan) in 1957, artist Linda Salzman in 1968, and author Ann Druyan in 1981, to whom he was married until his death.
Sagan purchased a house on the edge of Ithaca Falls which looked like an Egyptian crypt. Before it was converted into a house, the building served as the lodge for a secret society, Sphinx Head.
After a long and difficult fight with myelodysplasia, Sagan died of pneumonia at the age of 62, on December 20, 1996, at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, Washington. Sagan was very important, because he made science popular, and changed the way science was organized, and because he defended humanism, and argued against seeing things from only one point of view.
The landing site of the unmanned Mars Pathfinder spacecraft was renamed the "Carl Sagan Memorial Station" in honor of Dr. Sagan on July 5, 1997. Asteroid 2709 Sagan is also named in his honor.
The 1997 movie "Contact" (see above), based on Sagan's novel of the same name, and finished after his death, ends with the dedication "For Carl."

</doc>
<doc id="4524" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4524" title="Matsuo Basho">
Matsuo Basho

Matsuo Munefusa, known as Matsuo Bashō (, 1644 - November 28, 1694) was a Japanese poet. He is known as the greatest maker of haiku, a kind of poetry with 17 syllables. The Japanese written language was difficult to master, but haiku was easy for him to write. Matsuo's haikus included characteristics of nature and the four seasons. The reader has to use their imagination to understand his poems.
According to Japanese custom, he is usually called "Basho" without his family name, and his signature as a poet does not include his house name. He signed usually "はせを". He is one of the greatest writers of the Edo period, and he raised the haiku form to its highest level.
He was born in Iga, now a part of Mie prefecture in a samurai (Japanese warrior) family. After many years of samurai life he found that poetry would be his life work, and gave up being a samurai. He started his life as a poet when he served his lord as a samurai. Matsuo became educated in classical Japanese poems. First he named himself "Tosei" (桃青) meaning "unripe peach in blue". Basho took this name because he admired a Chinese poet, Li Po whose name means "plum in white".
He quit samurai life 1666, and in 1675 he moved to Edo, today called Tokyo. There, in 1678, he got to be a haiku master ("Sosho") and began the life of a working poet. In 1680, he moved to Fukagawa, where he had a house. This was just outside of Edo. One of his followers gifted him a banana plant ("basho-an"). He planted the plant and called himself "Basho" because it became his favorite tree in his garden.
In his life, Basho visited many places. Those travels were important for his writings. He visited his disciples (followers) and taught them by making "renga", a series of haiku, with them. He also visited famous places in Japanese history. These visits made his writing much stronger.
His most famous book is "Oku no Hosomichi" ("The Narrow Road Through the Deep North"). This book was written after a trip. On the trip, Basho and his disciple left Edo on March 24, 1689. They went around Tohoku and Hokuriku, and returned to Edo in 1691. The trip in this book ends in Ogaki, Mino (Gifu prefecture today) with one of his haiku where he hinted that he wanted to visit Ise shrine after staying in Ogaki. Matsuo was considered to have written some of the most beautiful travel diaries ever written in Japanese.
Basho died because of disease in early autumn of 1694 in Osaka, while staying at a house of his disciple on a trip. Before his death, he made a haiku as his last words:

</doc>
<doc id="4527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4527" title="Colonization">
Colonization

Colonization is the act of one country settling another place, in order to become the new rulers of the new country, and to live in the new country.
In 1492, Christopher Columbus discovered The Americas. This is how the Europeans learned that North America and South America were there. The Europeans colonized the Americas. Because of this, and the killing of lots of Native Americans, most people now living in North America are the descendents of Europeans.
Sometimes, science fiction stories talk about humans colonizing outer space on space stations or planets other than Earth. Some science fiction stories like The Matrix speak of the robots the human beings made, taking over, and colonizing Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="4529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4529" title="Choreography">
Choreography

Choreography (dance-writing) is the art of making dances. It tells dancers how they should dance and move. The word has been used since the late 18th century to mean the art of composing dance.
A person who does choreography is called a "choreographer". A choreographer makes a dance based on music or a synopsis (a writing of what occurs in the dance). They may also act as trainers for professional dancers in ballet, stage shows and competitive ballroom dance. Their ideas may be recorded in dance notation, or on videos.
Choreography is also used in other types of performances. In Ice skating and Ice dancing, the choreographer designs the moves the skates does. In theater, movies and television, a choreographer is used to design fight scenes. For example, Bob Anderson designed many of the sword fight scenes in the "Lord of the Rings" movies as well as some of the "Star Wars" movies. A person who does this type of choreography is usually called a "fight choreographer".

</doc>
<doc id="4534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4534" title="Electrical cell">
Electrical cell

An electrical cell is a device that is used to generate electricity, or one that is used to make chemical reactions possible by applying electricity.
The simple electrical cells were first developed in 1800s. They are also called "galvanic cells", because an Italian scientist named Luigi Galvani invented these cells.
Special chemical reactions which occur inside the electrical cell, result in oxidation and reduction of the substances inside the cell. This produces electrical energy. Normal batteries work like this.
Some of the electrical cells produce electricity without using chemical energy. For example, solar cells produce electricity when they are exposed to sun light.
These cells are commonly related with chemical reactions. For example, a plate of zinc and a plate of copper are immersed in a dilute solution which contains acid or salt. The solution acts as an electrolyte (electric conductor). When the two plates are connected to a meter with a wire, electric current will pass; this is because oxidation and reduction processes take place in this chemical reaction turning the zinc plate to a negative electrode and the copper plate to a positive electrode, and so the electrons flows from zinc to copper which makes the meter move.
Some chemical reactions need high energy to happen. An example is the breakdown of water into hydrogen and oxygen. An electrical cell (or an "electrolytic cell") is used for these reactions. It is a container which has to have a chemical reaction involving electrodes. The chemical substances are exposed to high voltage electrical power, and the reaction happens inside the electrical cell.
Two pieces of metal are placed in water that has a little electrolyte such as hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, sodium bicarbonate, or sodium hydroxide added to it. An electric current is applied and gas comes out of each electrode. Some greenish-brown color may be seen too if iron was used. 
There may also be a chemical reaction which will result in the explosion of the iron and has a strong blast radius (safety goggles recommended).

</doc>
<doc id="4535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4535" title="Dry cell">
Dry cell

Dry cells are a type of chemical cells. Dry cells are commonly used today, in the form of batteries. Dry cells are used in many electrical appliances.
Primary cells are not rechargeable. They have to be thrown away after their chemicals are used up.
Secondary cells are rechargeable. They can be used again.

</doc>
<doc id="4536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4536" title="Vietnam War">
Vietnam War

The Vietnam War (also known as Second Indochina War or American War in Southeast Asia) lasted from 1955 to 1975. It was fought between North Vietnam and South Vietnam. North Vietnam was supported by the Soviet Union, China and North Korea, while South Vietnam was supported by the United States, Thailand, Australia, New Zealand, and the Philippines. This conflict between communist and capitalist countries was part of the Cold War.
The Viet Cong (also known as the National Liberation Front, or NLF), was a South Vietnamese communist force helped by the North. It fought a guerrilla war against the anti-communist forces in the South. The People's Army of Vietnam (also known as the North Vietnamese Army) engaged in a more conventional war, at times putting large forces to battle.
France began to colonize Vietnam between 1859 and 1862, when they took control of Saigon. By 1864 they controlled all of Cochinchina, the southern part of Vietnam. France took control of Annam, the large central part of Vietnam, in 1874. After France defeated China in the Sino-French war (1884–1885), they took over Tonkin, the northern part of Vietnam. French Indochina was formed in October 1887 from these three areas of Vietnam; Cochinchina, Annam and Tonkin, as well as the Kingdom of Cambodia. Laos was added after a war with Thailand, the Franco-Siamese War, in 1893.
During World War II, after Nazi Germany defeated the French in 1940, French Indochina was controlled by the Vichy French government, a puppet government approved by Nazi Germany. In March 1945 Imperial Japan launched the Second French Indochina Campaign. Japan occupied Indochina until their surrender in August 1945. 
After the defeat of Nazi Germany, the Vichy government was no longer in control of France or its territories. The newly formed Provisional Government of the French Republic attempted to take back control of its former colonies in Indochina by force if necessary. But the French efforts at regaining their colony in Vietnam were opposed by a Vietnamese army called the Viet Minh. 
The Viet Minh had been founded in 1941 by the communist party and was led by Hồ Chí Minh. This led to the First Indochina War between France and the Viet Minh. The fighting started with the French bombardment of Haiphong Harbor in November 1946 and ended with a triumph of the Viet Minh at Dien Bien Phu.
In July 1954, France and the Viet Minh signed the Geneva Peace Accord. This resulted in dividing Vietnam along the 17th parallel into a northern section, under the control of the communist led by Ho Chi Minh as president, and a southern section led by the Catholic anti-communist Ngo Dinh Diem. The partition was to be temporary until elections in 1956. However Diem started arresting suspected communist sympathizers in 1956 to keep power for himself. The elections were never held, and in 1957 the north Vietnamese began guerilla warfare against the south. 
The United States supported the anti-communist government in South Vietnam. It began to send military advisors to help train and support the South Vietnamese army. The South was fighting against the Viet Cong, a communist party based in South Vietnam which was allied with North Vietnam. The Viet Cong began a campaign of assassination in 1957. In 1959, North Vietnam dramatically increased its military assistance to the Viet Cong, which then began attacking South Vietnamese military units. In the American domino theory they feared that if communism took hold in Vietnam, it would spread to other countries nearby.
On 2 August 1964, the destroyer USS "Maddox" was in the Gulf of Tonkin, on an intelligence mission along North Vietnam's coast. The US said that three North Vietnamese torpedo boats attacked the destroyer. The Maddox fired back and damaged the three torpedo boats. The US then claimed that two days later, the torpedo boats again attacked the "Maddox" and the destroyer USS "Turner Joy". In this second attack the US ships did not actually see the torpedo boats, but said they had found them using the ship's radar. 
After the alleged second attack the U.S. launched air strikes against North Vietnam. The Congress passed the Gulf of Tonkin Joint Resolution (H.J. RES 1145) on 7 August 1964. This gave the president the power to run large-scale military operations in Southeast Asia without declaring war. There was little to no proof of these attacks and it was believed by some that they were an excuse for expanded U.S. involvement in Indochina. In 2005 an undated National Security Agency (NSA) publication was made public which stated that there was no attack on 4 August. Even President Lyndon B. Johnson said privately in 1965: “Hell, those dumb stupid sailors were just shooting at flying fish" and "For all I know, our Navy was shooting at whales out there.”
The North Vietnamese and Viet Cong were supplied by a vast network of hidden trails, known as the Ho Chi Minh Trail. Supplies and soldiers from North Vietnam were sent through Laos to communists forces in South Vietnam. American planes heavily bombed the Ho Chi Minh Trail; of bombs were dropped on Laos. It slowed down but did not stop the trail system.
Severe communist losses during the 1968 Tet Offensive, made it possible for the U.S. to withdraw many soldiers. As part of a policy called "Vietnamization", South Vietnamese troops were trained and equipped to replace the Americans who left. By 1973, 95 percent of the American troops were gone.
A peace treaty was signed in Paris in January 1973 by all the parties, but fighting continued until 1975.
There were some large-scale battles during the Vietnam War however most of the fighting was guerilla warfare. The word guerilla is Spanish for 'little war'. This type of warfare is different from the large-scale battles fought between armies, like those in World War II. 
Guerilla warfare is when small units fight limited battles against an enemy force, set up ambushes, make surprise attacks against the enemies' camps, and then retreat back into the countryside or blend into the local population. It also includes making it difficult for the enemy to operate by engaging in sabotage and harassing the enemy with lethal means such as booby traps. The communist troops more often engaged in guerilla warfare against the South Vietnamese and American troops. 
Although most traps were non-explosive, there were a few explosive traps which all used grenades. A trip wire was placed and if a soldier tripped over the wire, a grenade pin was pulled out and the grenade would blow, killing the soldier. 
Another style of trap was nicknamed “Venus Flytrap”. It had about eight barbs attached to a rectangular frame sitting on a small hole. The barbs were facing down so when the soldier’s leg got caught in it, it wouldn’t hurt until he pulled his leg out. When he pulled his leg out the barbs would rip through his leg.
Another Vietcong trap was the Punji trap. Two wooden platforms were placed and covered with leaves to camouflage it. There were spikes on the inside of the wood. When a soldier came along and walked on the wood, it caved in and the spikes would go through the soldier’s foot. These traps were the most common because they were the cheapest and very effective. They also were often contaminated so that the soldier would also become infected.
Besides hurting or killing people, these traps were good at causing fear and lowering soldier morale. 
The Fall of Saigon was the capture of Saigon, the capital of South Vietnam, by the People's Army of Vietnam and the National Liberation Front on April 30, 1975. This marked the end of the Vietnam War and the beginning of the formal reunification of Vietnam into a communist state.
Before the city fell the few American civilian and military personnel left Vietnam, along with tens of thousands of South Vietnamese soldiers and civilians had fled. 
North Vietnamese forces under the command of the General Văn Tiến Dũng began their final attack on Saigon, which was commanded by General Nguyen Van Toan on April 29, with a heavy artillery bombardment of Tân Sơn Nhứt Airport which killed the last two American servicemen who died in Vietnam, Charles McMahon and Darwin Judge. 
By the afternoon of the next day, North Vietnamese troops had occupied the important points within the city and raised their flag over the South Vietnamese presidential palace. The government of South Vietnam formally gave up shortly after. 
Saigon was renamed Ho Chi Minh City, after communist leader Ho Chi Minh.
Any Americans that were in Saigon at the time were evacuated by helicopter or fixed-wing aircraft. The surrender of Saigon was told by the South Vietnamese president himself, General Duong Van Minh. He said "We are here to hand over to you the power in order to avoid bloodshed." General Minh had become South Vietnam’s president for two days as the country crumbled.

</doc>
<doc id="4538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4538" title="Sahel">
Sahel

The Sahel is a narrow belt of land in West Africa. It is a strip of dry land about 5500 kilometers long and 450 kilometers wide. It lies at the southern edge of the Sahara Desert and is located between the dry desert land to the north and the forest areas to the south. The Sahel has a tropical semi-arid climate. The temperature is high throughout the year. There is little rainfall in the Sahel (between 100-150 mm and 600mm). It is concentrated during summer months and can be unreliable. It may be very dry in some years, especially if a large area of low pressure, which brings rain, is not carried North over the Sahel by strong winds.
The Sahel is the Arabic word for 'edge' or 'shore'.
The Sahel is facing a big problem, Desertification.
The distribution of rainfall in the Sahel region is uneven. The rainfall in the region has been below average since 1970. The Sahel is becoming drier on the whole. The problem of drought affects most of the countries. As a result, crops and animals die. There is no vegetation to protect the soil, which is then removed by flash floods and strong wind. This leads to soil erosion. Finally the desert spreads towards the surrounding areas.
With better medical services, the birth rate increases and the death rate decreases in the Sahel. As a result, the population in the Sahel is growing. To meet the ever-increasing demand for firewood, a lot of trees have been cut down. More land has become barren. This is called deforestation. Because people farm intensively in order to grow more crops, the soil becomes dry and infertile. If this process continues for a long time, no crops can be grown. This is called overcultivation. People keep many animals for food. However, the grass cannot support so many grazing animals. This is called overgrazing. Finally the desert spreads towards the surrounding areas.

</doc>
<doc id="4540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4540" title="Wikipedia:List of simple adjectives">
Wikipedia:List of simple adjectives

This is a list of simple adjectives used in the English language.
Wet

</doc>
<doc id="4541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4541" title="Chemical change">
Chemical change

A chemical change (chemical reaction) is a change of materials into other, new materials with different properties, and one or more new substances are formed. Burning of wood is a chemical change as new substances which cannot be changed back (e.g. carbon dioxide, water vapor) are formed. For example, if wood is burned in a fireplace, there is not wood anymore but ash. Other examples include burning of a candle, rusting of iron, baking a cake, etc. Special details that describe how a chemical change takes place are called chemical properties. 
"Compare:" Physical change - The opposite of a chemical change is a physical change. Physical changes are a change in which no new substances are formed, and the substance which is changed is the same. For instance, if a stick of wood is broken, there is still a stick of wood; it is just broken. More examples include changes of shape, changes of states, passing electricity through a copper wire, breaking of wood, shattering of glass, pouring of water, etc. Special details which do not change in a substance without new substances being formed are called physical properties.

</doc>
<doc id="4542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4542" title="Physical change">
Physical change

A physical change"' is a change in which no new substances are formed. Physical changes affect the "form" of a chemical substance, but not its chemical composition. Mixtures can be separated into their parts by physical methods, such as spinning in a centrifuge. but can not usually be used to separate compounds into chemical elements or simpler compounds.
Most physical changes are reversible. Examples: changes of shape, changes of states, passing electricity through a copper wire. Some physical changes are melting, freezing, boiling.

</doc>
<doc id="4546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4546" title="Ronald Reagan">
Ronald Reagan

Ronald Wilson Reagan (February 6, 1911 – June 5, 2004) was an American actor and politician. He was the President of the United States from 1981 to 1989. He was the Governor of California from 1967 to 1975. Reagan was President of the Screen Actors Guild twice, from 1947 to 1952 and again from 1959 to 1960. Reagan was a movie, television and radio actor before he began his career in politics.
Reagan was born in Tampico, Illinois. Reagan had a successful career in Hollywood. He appeared in 53 movies. He married actress Jane Wyman in 1940. The couple divorced in 1949. They had three children. Reagan then married Nancy Davis in 1952. They had two children. Their marriage would last until Reagan's death in 2004.
Before winning his president election in 1980, Reagan ran for president two times in 1968 and in 1976. At 69 years old, he is the second oldest person elected president of the United States, just under Donald Trump who was elected at age 70. He is known as the "Great Communicator" because he was a good public speaker. Reagan was also known as the "Teflon president" because any criticism or scandals against him never stuck or affected his popularity. Reagan still remains one of the most popular presidents in American history because of his optimism for the country. Reagan was the first president of the United States to have been divorced.
Reagan was inaugurated in January 1981. As president, Reagan helped create a new political and economic idea. He created the supply-side economic policies. It was later called Reaganomics. Reagan's economic policy lowered tax rates. It created an economic growth and lowered inflation. In his first term he also survived an assassination attempt. Reagan also declared a War on Drugs. Reagan ordered an invasion of Grenada to end a Communist coup.
He was re-elected in a landslide victory in 1984. During his second term, Reagan worked on ending the Cold War. He also ordered the 1986 bombing of Libya. In 1987, the Reagan administration faced a political scandal. It was the Iran–Contra affair. Reagan worked with Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev during his second term. This led to the signing of the INF Treaty. It decreased nuclear weapons in the United States and the Soviet Union. Reagan left office in January 1989.
Reagan was originally a Democrat. In 1962 he changed to the Republican party. He is ranked high in presidential opinion polls.
Reagan died on June 5, 2004 at his Bel Air, Los Angeles home from pneumonia after a ten year battle with Alzheimer's disease. He was 93 years old.
Reagan was born to Jack and Nelle Reagan on February 6, 1911 in a small apartment building in Tampico, Illinois. He had an older brother named Neil. His father was a Roman Catholic of Irish descent. His mother was a Protestant of English and Scottish descent.
The family moved to different places in Illinois when Reagan was a child. They moved to Monmouth, Galesburg, and Chicago. His family finally settled in Dixon, Illinois. They lived in a small house in Dixon. His family was very poor. Reagan did not have much as a child. In high school, Reagan enjoyed acting. Reagan was athletic. He became a lifeguard. He saved 77 lives.
Reagan graduated from Eureka College in 1932. He became a sports announcer at news radio station WHO. Reagan was also a broadcaster for the Chicago Cubs. He was good at recreating baseball games. He made them interesting. At this time, the radio station would get only the scores. He was fired for not mentioning the show's sponsors. Reagan was soon re-hired. Station executives could not find anyone as capable as Reagan to re-create baseball games.
His first screen credit was the starring role in the 1937 movie "Love Is on the Air". He then starred in many movies such as "Dark Victory" with Bette Davis and Humphrey Bogart. Before the movie "Santa Fe Trail" with Errol Flynn in 1940, he played the role of George "The Gipper" Gipp in the movie "Knute Rockne, All American". From his role in the movie, he got the lifelong nickname "the Gipper". In 1941, experts voted him the fifth most popular star from the younger generation in Hollywood.
Reagan's favorite acting role was as a double amputee in 1942's "Kings Row". In the movie, he says the line, "Where's the rest of me?". It was later used as the title of his 1965 autobiography. Many movie critics thought "Kings Row" to be his best movie. Even though the movie was popular, it received bad reviews by "New York Times" critic Bosley Crowther.
Although Reagan called "Kings Row" the movie that "made me a star", he was unable to keep up on his success. This was because he was ordered to active duty with the U.S. Army at San Francisco two months after the movie's release.
During World War II, Reagan was separated for four years from his movie career. He served in the 1st Motion Picture Unit. After the war, Reagan co-starred in such movies such as in, "The Voice of the Turtle", "John Loves Mary", "The Hasty Heart", "Bedtime for Bonzo", "Cattle Queen of Montana", "Juke Girl", "This Is the Army", "The Winning Team", "Tennessee's Partner", and "Hellcats of the Navy", in which he worked with his wife, Nancy. Reagan's last movie was a 1964 movie "The Killers". Throughout his movie career, his mother, Nelle, often answered much of his fan mail.
Reagan was also a spokesperson. He hosted the "General Electric Theater" since it was first shown in 1953. He was fired in 1962.
Reagan was first elected to the board of directors of the Screen Actors Guild in 1941. After World War II, he quickly returned to Screen Actors Guild. Reagan became the 3rd vice-president of the Screen Actors Guild in 1946. Reagan was nominated in a special election to become president of the Screen Actors Guild. Reagan was elected in 1947. Reagan was re-elected president in 1959. He served only a year before resigning in 1960.
During the late 1940s, Reagan gave the FBI names of actors whom they believed were communists. Reagan even spoke at a special meeting at Congress on communism in Hollywood as well.
Reagan met Jane Wyman while filming "Brother Rat" in 1938. He asked Wyman to marry him at the Chicago Theatre. They were married on January 20, 1940 in Glendale, California. They had two children: Michael (adopted) and Maureen Reagan. They had a third child, Christine Reagan, but was stillborn. With Reagan's growing political career and the death of their child, Wyman filled for divorce in 1948. The divorce was official in 1949.
In 1949, months after divorcing Wyman, Reagan met Nancy Davis. Davis was an actress who was accidentally listed as a communist and asked Reagan to help. After Reagan helped Davis, the two began dating. Three years later, Reagan asked Davis to marry her in Beverly Hills, California. They were married on March 4, 1952 in Hollywood, California. Together, they had two children: Ron and Patti Reagan.
Wyman died of natural causes on September 10, 2010. She was aged 90. Nancy outlived her husband by eleven years. She died on March 6, 2016 of heart failure. She was aged 94.
Reagan was very active in politics near the end of his acting career. Reagan used to be a Democrat. He strongly supported the New Deal. He admired Franklin D. Roosevelt. Over time, Reagan became a conservative Republican. This was because he felt the federal government had too much power and authority. He made a famous speech speaking out against socialized medicine (government run health care).
Reagan endorsed Dwight D. Eisenhower and Richard Nixon for the United States presidency. The last time Reagan supported a Democrat was when Helen Gahagan Douglas ran for the United States senate.
During the 1964 presidential election, Reagan supported Republican candidate Barry Goldwater. He made a famous speech called "A Time For Choosing" to support Goldwater. In the speech he spoke against government programs and high taxes. Even though Goldwater did not win the election, Reagan gained popularity from it. In his speech, Reagan said,
After Reagan gave this speech, many businesspeople thought that Reagan could run for Governor of California.
After giving a speech of Barry Goldwater's presidential campaign in 1964, he was persuaded to run for governor. Reagan ran as a Republican against the then governor, Pat Brown. Reagan was inaugurated on January 2, 1967. During his first term, Reagan stopped hiring government workers. He did this to slow the growth of California's workforce. Reagan also approved tax increases to balance the state budget.
Reagan was elected to a second term in 1970. Governor Reagan worked with the Democratic Party majority in the state legislature to help create a major reform of the welfare system in 1971. The reform helped give money to the poor and increase the pay of the rich. During his term as governor, Reagan served as the President of the Republican Governors Association from 1968 to 1969.
During his term as governor, he played a major role in California's educational system. He raised student loans. This caused a massive protest between Reagan and the college students. Reagan would soon be criticized of his views of the educational system.
Reagan left office on January 6, 1975 when Jerry Brown, Pat Brown's son, succeeded Reagan as governor.
Reagan ran for president in 1968. He was not nominated by the Republican Party at the 1968 Republican National Convention. He ran again in 1976, but he lost his nomination by a small amount to then-President Gerald Ford at the 1976 Republican National Convention. Despite not being on the ballot, Reagan received one electoral vote from a "faithless voter" during the 1976 elections.
Reagan ran again for president in 1980 after two failed attempts. This time, Reagan's run for president was successful. Reagan ran under the promise of "Making America Great Again". He won the 1980 Republican National Convention. He was nominated by the Republican Party. When he won the election, Reagan defeated Democrat Jimmy Carter to become president. Reagan won 44 out of the 50 states. Reagan was first sworn in as president on January 20, 1981.
Reagan was nearly killed in an assassination attempt that happened on Monday, March 30, 1981. 69 days after becoming President, he was leaving after a speaking engagement at the Washington Hilton Hotel in Washington, D.C. He was shot by John Hinckley. Hinckley shot six bullets.
White House Press Secretary James Brady was shot in the head. Brady later recovered, but was paralyzed. Two other bullets shot officer Thomas Delahanty in the back, also paralyzing him, and Secret Service agent Timothy McCarthy in the chest. McCarthy took a bullet for Reagan. No one was killed during the event.
Reagan was taken to the George Washington University Hospital, which was nearest hospital from the hotel and White House. He suffered a punctured lung and a broken rib bone. He lost about 3/4 of his blood. Reagan soon made a fast recovery after doctors performed surgery. It was later said that the bullet was one inch away from his heart.
This made Reagan the only President of the United States to have been shot and survive afterwards.
Reagan believed that the government should be small, not big. This means that the government should not interfere in people's lives very much or interfere with what businesses do. He believed in supply-side economics, which was also called Reaganomics and Voodoo economics (by people who didn't like it) during his term. He lowered everybody's income taxes by 25% and cut spending in many government departments.
He also lowered inflation from 14% to 4% and he vetoed 78 bills. Reagan's economic plan resulted in a bad economy during the year 1982, but the economy turned around in 1983. The economy soon recovered. Reagan called it "Morning in America". During his presidency the United States declared a "War on Drugs".
In the summer of 1981, the union of federal air traffic controllers went on strike. They broke a federal law that does not allow government unions from striking. Reagan said that if the air traffic controllers "do not report for work within 48 hours, they have forfeited their jobs and will be terminated". They did not return and on August 5, Reagan fired 11,345 striking air traffic controllers who had ignored his order, and used supervisors and military controllers to handle the nation's commercial air traffic until new controllers could be hired and trained.
On August 20, 1981, Reagan was the honorable guest of Captain Dennis Brooks, commanding officer of the USS "Constellation" (CV-64). President Reagan arrived on the USS "Constellation" (CV-64) by helicopter. He spoke to the ship's crew, ate lunch with them and watched a United States Navy tactical display at sea.
President Reagan then re-enlisted some US Navy personnel. He then was introduced to Special Agent Craig Goodwin of the Naval Investigative Service (NIS). He was the Special Agent who was assigned aboard the USS "Constellation" (CV-64). Special Agent Goodwin was later awarded one of the highest civilian medals for his intelligence work, the Meritorious Civilian Service Medal.
Reagan's "Evil empire" speech was delivered to the National Association of Evangelicals in Orlando, Florida on March 8, 1983. It is his first recorded use of the phrase. Speaking about the nuclear arms race he said that the Soviet Union as evil.
Audio and text of this speech is available here .
In 1983, Reagan sent forces to Lebanon to stop the threat of the Lebanese Civil War. On October 23, 1983, a group of American forces in Beirut were attacked. The Beirut barracks bombing killed 241 American servicemen and wounded more than 60 others by a suicide truck bomber. Reagan withdrew all the Marines from Lebanon.
In September 1983, Korean Air Lines Flight 007 was shot down by the Soviet Union. It killed one politician and many more Americans. Reagan was angry at the Soviets. Reagan addressed the nation. As a result, Reagan proposed that the American military's GPS would be allowed for civilian use. In his address, Reagan said,
On October 25, 1983, Reagan ordered U.S. forces to invade Grenada, code named Operation Urgent Fury. Reagan said that there was a "regional threat posed by a Soviet-Cuban military build-up in the Caribbean" in Grenada.
"Operation Urgent Fury" was the first major military operation done by U.S. forces since the Vietnam War. Some days of fighting started, but it resulted in a U.S. victory. In mid-December, U.S. forces withdrew from Grenada after a new form of government was created there.
Reagan was once again nominated for president at the 1984 Republican National Convention. He was re-elected in 1984 in a landslide victory. Reagan defeated Democrat Walter Mondale, former vice president to Jimmy Carter. Reagan won 49 out of the 50 states. He carried more electoral votes than any other president in American history.
Reagan was sworn in as president once again on January 20, 1985 at the White House this time due to cold weather. In the coming weeks, he changed his staff by moving White House Chief of Staff James Baker to Secretary of the Treasury and naming Treasury Secretary Donald Regan to Chief of Staff.
Reagan became friends with the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Margaret Thatcher. Both of them held meetings about the Soviet Union's threat and how to end the Cold War. Reagan became the first American president to ever address the British Parliament.
In foreign policy, Reagan ended detente (the policy of being friendly to the Soviet Union) by ordering the largest peacetime military buildup in American history. The U.S. government had to borrow a lot of money to pay for it. He had many new weapons built. Soon, the U.S. began to research on a missile defense system which would destroy missiles. It was to prevent a nuclear war from happening. The program was called Strategic Defense Initiative. It was nicked named "Star Wars".
He directed money to anti-communist movements all over the world that wanted to overthrow their communist government. He ordered multiple military operations including the invasion of Grenada and the Libya bombing.
In 1985, Mikhail Gorbachev became the new leader of the Soviet Union (which was in bad shape and soon to collapse). Reagan had many talks with him. Their first meeting together was at the Reykjavík Summit in Iceland. They became good friends.
Reagan announced a War on Drugs in 1982, because of concerns about the increasing number of people using crack. Even though Richard Nixon declared a war on drugs during the 1970s, Reagan used more militant policies.
In 1986, Reagan signed a drug enforcement bill that budgeted $1.7 billion to fund the War on Drugs. It created a mandatory minimum penalty for drug offenses. The bill was criticized for created racial inequalities and mass imprisonment of African-Americans. As a result, First Lady Nancy Reagan created her "Just Say No" campaign to promote anti-drug usage to children.
During the Reagan presidency, relations between Libya and the United States were mixed. In early April 1986, relations were escalated when a bomb exploded in a Berlin discothèque. It resulted in the injury of 63 American military personnel and death of one serviceman. In the late evening of April 15, 1986, the United States launched many attacks in Libya.
The UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher allowed the U.S. Air Force to use Britain's air bases to launch the attack, only if that the UK was supporting America's right to self-defense supported by the United Nations. The attack was done to stop Gaddafi's "ability to export terrorism", offering him "incentives and reasons to alter his criminal behavior". The president addressed the nation from the Oval Office after the attacks started, he said
Many countries and the United Nations did not like Reagan's decision to bomb Libya. The United Nations said that Reagan violated "the Charter of the United Nations and of international law".
Reagan's reputation was badly hurt by the political scandal Iran-Contra Affair. It was about the government illegally selling weapons to Iran. It would later use the profit to support a Nicaraguan terrorist group called the Contras. Reagan told the American people he didn't know anything about the scandal. Soon, he told the American people that it was his fault. After Reagan told the truth, he became more popular. In his apology, Reagan said,
Early in his presidency, Reagan started wearing a hearing aid, first in his right ear and later in his left as well. In 1985, he had colon cancer and skin cancer removed. In 1987, Reagan had surgery to remove nose cancer. Also in that year, Reagan went into surgery for an enlarged prostate.
In 1986, the Space Shuttle Challenger exploded killing everyone onboard. The entire country was shocked. Reagan postponed his 1986 State of the Union Address as a result of the tragedy. It was the first time that a President of the United States postponed a State of the Union Address. Afterwards, Reagan addressed the nation. Reagan famously said,
In November 1986, Reagan signed the Immigration Reform and Control Act. It helped some immigrants to get jobs and become legal citizens. In that same years, the Statue of Liberty was just re-opened after being renovated. Reagan was at the opening ceremony when he said,
In 1987, Reagan travelled to Berlin to give a speech at the Berlin Wall. That is where he gave one of his greatest speeches of his presidency. Referring to the Brandenburg Gate and the Berlin Wall he said,
Audio and text of this speech is available here .
During his term as president, Reagan saw the change in the direction of the Soviet leadership with Mikhail Gorbachev. Months after his Berlin Wall speech, Gorbachev announced his plans to work with Reagan for a big arms agreements. Reagan and Gorbachev signed the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty which banned nuclear weapons being launched between the United States and the Soviet Union.
When Reagan visited Moscow for the fourth summit in 1988, he was seen as a celebrity by the Soviets. A journalist asked the president if he still considered the Soviet Union the evil empire. "No", he replied, "I was talking about another time, another era". In November 1989, ten months after Reagan left office, the Berlin Wall was torn down, the Cold War was officially declared over at the Malta Summit on December 3, 1989, and two years later, the Soviet Union collapsed.
Reagan left office with high rankings on January 20, 1989 when his Vice President George H. W. Bush became president. Reagan and his wife, Nancy, soon returned back home in Bel Air, Los Angeles, California. In the years after he left office, Reagan's time in office was seen as one of the best and is compared to that of Franklin D. Roosevelt and John F. Kennedy.
After leaving office, Reagan and his wife Nancy lived in Bel Air, Los Angeles. They also visited their ranch, Rancho del Cielo. Reagan gave a speech at the 1992 Republican National Convention giving his support for Bush's re-election campaign in the 1992 presidential election.
In November 1991, the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library was dedicated and opened to the public in Simi Valley, California.
In June 1989, Reagan was honored with Honorary Knighthood and received the Order of the Bath presented by Queen Elizabeth II. He received the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1993 by President George H. W. Bush. He was the first former living president to receive the honor. Soon afterwards the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation created the Ronald Reagan Freedom Award for people who made a big change for freedom.
In 1990, Reagan wrote an autobiography titled, "An American Life".
Even after when he left office, Reagan had a close friendship with both Thatcher and Gorbachev. They would often visit him at his home.
In May 1994, Reagan, along with former presidents Gerald Ford and Jimmy Carter, wrote to the U.S. House of Representatives in support of banning "semi-automatic assault guns."
In 1994, Reagan was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease.
On November 5, 1994, Reagan wrote a public letter about having Alzheimer's disease, writing:
After announcing his disease, many people sent supporting letters to his California home. There was also an opinion based on unfinished evidence that Reagan had showed symptoms of mental decline while still in office.
In 1995, the Ronald and Nancy Reagan Research Institute was dedicated in Chicago, Illinois. It is an institution that can help people with Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease.
In her memoirs, former CBS White House correspondent Lesley Stahl remembers about her final meeting with the president in 1986,
But then, at the end, he regained his alertness. As she described it,
As the years went on, the disease slowly destroyed Reagan's mental capacity. He was only able to recognize a few people, including his wife, Nancy. He remained active during his last years. He took walks through parks near his home and on beaches, played golf regularly, and until 1999 he often went to his office in nearby Century City.
Reagan suffered a fall at his Bel Air home on January 13, 2001. The fall resulted in a broken hip. The fracture was repaired the following day. Reagan, 89 years old, returned home later that week, although he faced difficult physical therapy at home.
On February 6, 2001, Reagan reached the age of 90, becoming the third former president to do so (the other two being John Adams and Herbert Hoover, with Gerald Ford, George H. W. Bush, and Jimmy Carter later reaching 90).
Reagan's public appearances became much less frequent with the progression of the disease. His family decided that he would live in quiet semi-isolation with his wife Nancy. Nancy Reagan told CNN's Larry King in 2001 that very few visitors were allowed to see her husband because she felt that "Ronnie would want people to remember him as he was." In that same year, Reagan's daughter, Maureen Reagan, died from melanoma at the age of 60.
The USS "Ronald Reagan" (CVN-76) was finished in 2001. A ceremony was held in March 2001. Reagan's wife, Nancy lead the ceremony. She christened the ship. Reagan could not go because he was very sick.
Following her husband's diagnosis and death, Nancy became a stem-cell research advocate. She urged Congress and President George W. Bush to support federal funding for embryonic stem cell research. President Bush opposed the idea. In 2009, she praised President Barack Obama for lifting restrictions on such research. Mrs. Reagan has said that she believes that it could lead to a cure for Alzheimer's. Nancy died on March 6, 2016 at the age of 94.
On June 5, 2004, Reagan died at the age of 93 of pneumonia, a complication from Alzheimer's disease, in his home in Bel Air, Los Angeles, California.
Reagan was granted a state funeral. Reagan's state funeral was the first in the United States since Lyndon B. Johnson in 1973. It was held at the Washington National Cathedral on June 11 and presided by former Missouri United States senator John Danforth. President George W. Bush and former presidents Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, George H. W. Bush, and Bill Clinton went to the funeral. First Lady Laura Bush and former first ladies Betty Ford, Rosalynn Carter, and Barbara Bush also went. 
Former First Lady Lady Bird Johnson did not go to the funeral because of poor health. Reverend Billy Graham, who was Reagan's first choice to lead the funeral, could not go because he was recovering from surgery. Supreme Court justice Sandra Day O'Connor also went to the funeral and delivered a passage from the Bible. The funeral was led by Reagan's close friend and pastor Michael Wenning.
Foreign leaders also went to Reagan's funeral, Mikhail Gorbachev, Prime Minister of United Kingdom Tony Blair, German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and interim presidents Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan and Ghazi al-Yawer of Iraq. Former Prime Minister of United Kingdom Margaret Thatcher, former Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney and both presidents Bush gave eulogies.
Reagan was buried later that day in an underground vault at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library. His tomb reads,
In 1984, while serving as president, Reagan got a Marine recruiting letter asking him to enlist in the Marines. Reagan jokingly decided not to enlist because of his physical health and preferred to be president.
In 2000, Ronald and Nancy Reagan received the Congressional Gold Medal in "recognition for their service to their nation".
In August 2004, a tribute to Reagan was shown at the 2004 Republican National Convention presented by his son, Michael Reagan.
In June 2007, Reagan received the Order of the White Eagle from Poland's president, Lech Kaczyński, for Reagan's work to end communism in Poland. Nancy Reagan travelled to Warsaw to accept the award on her husband's behalf.
On June 3, 2009, Nancy Reagan unveiled a statue of her late husband in the United States Capitol rotunda. The statue represents the state of California in the National Statuary Hall Collection. Following Reagan's death, both major American political parties agreed to place a statue of Reagan instead of that of Thomas Starr King.
Also in June 2009, President Obama signed the Ronald Reagan Centennial Commission Act into law. It created a commission to plan activities to mark the upcoming centenary of Reagan's 100 birthday.
Independence Day 2011 saw the unveiling of another statue to Reagan. This time, it was in the British capital of London. It is located outside of the American Embassy in Grosvenor Square. The unveiling was supposed to be attended by Reagan's wife Nancy, but she did not attend. Former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice took her place and read a statement on her behalf. British Prime Minister during Reagan's presidency, Baroness Thatcher, was also unable to attend due to frail health.
A statue of Reagan was unveiled in November 2011 in Warsaw, Poland with President of Poland Lech Wałęsa in attendance. In 2011, Reagan was added to the National Radio Hall of Fame. Since 2011, February 6 is known as Ronald Reagan Day in 21 states across the United States in honor of his birthday.
In 2016, Reagan along with his wife Nancy were honored in the Presidential $1 Coin Program in August 2016. He was the last president honored in the program.
In 2001, Richard Crenna played Reagan in the Oliver Stone television movie "The Day Reagan Was Shot". In 2007, the edited version of his diary was published entitled "The Reagan Diaries". It became the New York Times Best Seller. 
Voice actor Hank Azaria voiced Reagan three times (1993, 1994, and 2012) in "The Simpsons". Harry Shearer said that "Simpsons" character Mr. Burns is inspired by Reagan. Seth MacFarlane voiced Reagan in "American Dad!" and on "Family Guy" for special episodes.
During the history of "Saturday Night Live", Reagan has been played by Phil Hartman, Randy Quaid and Robin Williams. In a 2010 short comedy video, "Presidential Reunion", actor Jim Carrey played the spirit of Reagan trying to speak to Barack Obama about bank companies and the media.
In 2014, Reagan was played by British actor Alan Rickman in Lee Daniels' "The Butler".
In 2015, Bill O'Reilly published "Killing Reagan", the fifth book of his "Killing" series. It covers the assassination attempt on Reagan in March 1981. A year later, National Geographic Society announced they were making a television movie based on the book. "Killing Reagan" was premiered on National Geographic on October 16, 2016, with actor Tim Matheson playing Reagan. In late 2015, actor Bruce Campbell played Reagan in the second season of Fox's criminal suspense drama series "Fargo".
Reagan, by public opinion, is one of the most popular American presidents. His legacy is strongly admired among many conservatives and Republicans. Those who do admire Reagan are sometimes called Reagan coalitionists.
Reagan is even admired by people of the opposite party, the Democratic Party. Democrats who support Reagan are called Reagan Democrats. His presidency is sometimes called the Reagan Era because of the changes it brought during Reagan's time as president. In his home state of California, Reagan is seen as a hero. Reagan is known for his witty charm and his warm optimism.
The legacy of his economic policies is still divided between people who believe that the government should be smaller and those who believe the government should take a more active role in regulating the economy. While some of his foreign policies were controversial, many thank Reagan for peacefully ending the Cold War.

</doc>
<doc id="4549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4549" title="United Nations">
United Nations

The United Nations (UN) is an intergovernmental organization established on 24 October 1945 to promote international cooperation. It was founded to replace the League of Nations following World War II and to prevent another conflict. When it was founded, the UN had 51 Member States; there are now 193. Most nations are members of the UN and send diplomats to the headquarters to hold meetings and make decisions about global issues. 
The goals of the United Nations are:
After World War I, the nations of the world formed the League of Nations. This organization was a place where nations could talk through their differences calmly. However, some countries like Germany, Italy and Japan ignored the League and tried to solve their problems through war. Members of the League of Nations did not want to go to war to protect other members and the League failed. A Second World War soon followed.
During World War II, the Allied Powers often called themselves "the United Nations" (united against the Axis Powers). After the War, the winners formed a new organization for world peace. On 25th April 1945 in San Francisco, they decided on the name '"United Nations". The UN was created on 24 October 1945 and its first meeting was held in January 1946. Since 1947 the 24th of October has been called 'United Nations Day'.
All organs of the United Nations are based in New York City, except the International Court of Justice which is located at The Hague in Netherlands
The main building for the United Nations is in New York City in the United States of America, but the UN also has important offices in Geneva (Switzerland), Nairobi (Kenya) and Vienna (Austria). The UN tries to be peaceful, but sometimes when talks do not work the UN, unlike the League of Nations, will fight too. In the 1950s the UN helped South Korea in a war against North Korea, and in the 1990s the UN helped to force Iraqi soldiers out of Kuwait. At other times, the UN has formed 'peacekeeping' forces. UN peacekeepers travel to troubled places in the world and try - sometimes successfully, sometimes not - to keep the peace. Today there are UN peacekeepers working in Afghanistan, Cyprus, Haiti, Liberia and several other countries.
Through a series of goals, resolutions and declarations adopted by member nations of the United Nations, the world has a set of commitments, actions and goals to stop and reverse the spread of HIV and scale up towards universal access to HIV prevention, treatment, care and support services.
The United Nations has set up six "principal organs":
Additionally there are some so-called "special agencies of the United Nations" (this is only a selection):

</doc>
<doc id="4554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4554" title="List of historians">
List of historians

This is a list of historians.
The names are grouped by order of the historical period in which they were writing, which is not necessarily the same as the period in which they specialised.
Chroniclers and annalists, though they are not historians in the true sense, are also listed here for convenience.

</doc>
<doc id="4555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4555" title="Japanese">
Japanese

Japanese might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="4558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4558" title="Marco Polo">
Marco Polo

Marco Polo (1254-January 8, 1324) was an Italian trader and explorer. He was one of the first Europeans to explore East Asia. Many other explorers, including Christopher Columbus, looked up to him.
He could speak four languages.
Marco Polo was known for the book "Travels of Marco Polo" where he talked about Asia.
Marco Polo was born in Venice, one of the most successful trading cities. His exact birth day is not known. Polo's mother died when he was young, and he was raised by his aunt and uncle. His father Niccolo Polo took him on his first journey to Cathay (China). His family were well-known merchants, not explorers. He learned about writing, reading, and arithmetic, and how to do business.
Polo went on a 24-year trip to China with his father and uncle during the Mongol Dynasty. He left Venice at the age of 17 on a boat that went through the Mediterranean Sea, Ayas, Tabriz and Kerman. Then he travelled across Asia getting as far as Beijing. On the way there he had to go over mountains and through terrible deserts, across hot burning lands and places where the cold was horrible. He served in Kublai Khan's court for 17 years. He left the Far East and returned to Venice by sea. There was sickness on board and 600 passengers and crew died and some say pirates attacked. Nevertheless, Marco Polo survived it all.
Some scholars believe that while Marco Polo did go to China, he did not go to all of the other places described in his book. He brought noodles back from China and the Italians came up with different sizes and shapes and called it pasta. Polo returned to Venice with treasures like ivory, jade, jewels, porcelain and silk.
His father had borrowed money and bought a ship. He became wealthy because of his trading in the near East.
Soon after Polo returned from his journeys he fought in a war against Genoa, got captured and put in prison. When he was in prison, he became friendly with a fellow prisoner, Rusticello, who was a writer of romances and novels. He told the writer about all his adventures, which became a book called "The Travels of Marco Polo". The published version was written by Rustichello da Pisa, based on what Polo had told him. It became famous throughout Europe. In the book he said that Kublai Khan's wealthy new empire had a postal system. He also talked about the Chinese people. China used paper money that was made from mulberry bark.
Marco Polo’s nickname was Marco Il Milione, due to an ancestor of his called Emilione. He was actually quite wealthy.

</doc>
<doc id="4561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4561" title="Herpes zoster">
Herpes zoster

Herpes zoster (also known as shingles or zona) is a disease in humans. The same virus that causes chickenpox also causes shingles. The symptoms are pain and a rash with blisters. 
Shingles is a viral disease produced by the (VZV), the same virus that causes chicken pox. Its symptoms include pain and a blistering rash that occurs along the nerves that contain dormant virus. You can not catch shingles. However, you can catch chicken pox through direct contact with someone who has shingles, by touching the area of the rash. Most people who get shingles are old. It sometimes infects younger people, or people with a weakened immune system. Stress may trigger shingles. The disease starts with tingling, itchiness, or pain on an infected person's skin. After a few days, the disease causes a blistering rash. This rash may be on the trunk or face. The rash grows into small blisters filled with fluid. These blisters dry out and crust over for several days. The rash causes anything from mild itching to extreme pain. The rash stays in one region of the body.
The shingles virus is contagious from person to person only by direct contact. For this reason, persons with shingles are advised to limit contact with those who are not immune to chicken pox, those with increased risk are young children and pregnant women. Contracting chickenpox when one is pregnant can be dangerous to the unborn child.
If people have had chickenpox, they cannot get chickenpox from someone else again. However, it is thought that contact with a shingles patient may trigger a person's own dormant chickenpox virus to become shingles.
Doctors recommend antiviral drugs, steroids, antidepressants, anticonvulsants, and topical agents to treat shingles. The antiviral drugs acyclovir, valacyclovir, and famcyclovir can reduce the severity of shingles.
Shingles can be very painful and itchy. It is not very dangerous to healthy people, and it usually ends without major problems. The rash and pain last 3 to 5 weeks. Sometimes, serious problems like temporary, partial facial paralysis, ear damage, or
encephalitis may occur. Persons with shingles on the upper half of the face need immediate medical attention: the virus may cause serious damage to the eyes. Most people who have shingles have only one attack of the disease in their lifetime. However, people with AIDS, cancer or weak immune systems may have multiple attacks.

</doc>
<doc id="4570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4570" title="A Brief History of Time">
A Brief History of Time

A Brief History of Time (1988) is a book written by the scientist and mathematician Stephen Hawking. This book is about physics, or the study of laws that predict how things work in the universe. 
It is also about cosmology, or how we see the universe and how the universe exists.
In this book, Hawking talks about many theories in physics. Some of the things that he talks about are the history of physics, gravity, how light moves in the universe, space-time, elementary particles (very small objects that make up things in the universe), black holes, the Big Bang (the theory that the universe started from one point), and time travel (the idea that travel can be done to the past and to the future.)
There are two other versions of this book: The "Illustrated A Brief History of Time" and "A Briefer History of Time". The Illustrated A Brief History of Time has pictures to help explain its ideas. It was also updated because new information was found. A Briefer History of Time is shorter than the first version and was also updated.
This book is very popular and well-known. This book was on the "London Sunday Times" bestseller list for over 4 years.
In the first part of the book, Hawking talks about the history of physics. He talks about the ideas of philosophers such as Aristotle and Ptolemy. Aristotle, unlike many other people of his time, thought that the Earth was round. He also thought that the sun and stars went around the Earth. Ptolemy also thought about how the sun and stars were located in the universe. He made a planetary model that described Aristotle's thinking. Today, it is known that the opposite is true; the earth goes around the sun. The Aristotle/Ptolemy ideas about the position of the stars and sun was disproved in 1609. The person who first thought of the idea about the Earth going around the sun was Nicholas Copernicus. Galileo Galilei and Johannes Kepler, two other scientists, helped to prove that Copernicus's idea was right. They looked at how the moons of some planets moved in the sky, and they used this to prove Copernicus right. Isaac Newton also wrote a book about gravity, which helped to prove Copernicus's idea right.
In this chapter, Hawking talks about space and time. He describes the motion of planets moving around the sun and how gravity works between the planets and the sun. He also talks about the ideas of absolute rest and absolute position. These ideas are about the thought that events stay in place over a period of time. This was found not to be true by Newton's laws of gravity. The idea of "absolute rest" did not work when objects move very fast (at the speed of light, or light speed). 
The speed of light was first measured in 1676 by the Danish astronomer Ole Christensen Roemer. The speed of light was found to be very fast, but at a finite speed. However, scientists found a problem when they tried to say that light always traveled at the same speed. The scientists created a new idea, called the "ether", which tried to explain light's speed.
Albert Einstein said the idea of the ether was not needed if another idea, the idea of "absolute time" (or time that is always the same) was dropped. Einstein's idea was also the same as Henry Poincare's idea. Einstein's idea is called the theory of relativity.
Also in this chapter, Hawking talks about light. He says that events can be described by "light cones". The top of the light cone tells where the light from the event will travel. The bottom tells where the light was in the past. The center of the light cone is the event. Besides light cones, Hawking also talks about how light can bend. When light goes past a big mass, like a star, the light changes direction slightly towards the mass.
After talking about light, Hawking talks about time in Einstein's theory of relativity. One prediction that Einstein's theory makes is that time will go by slower when something is near huge masses. However, when something is farther away from the mass, time will go by faster. Hawking used the idea of two twins living at different places to describe his idea. If one of the twins went to live on a mountain, and another twin went to live near the sea, the twin who went to live on the mountain would be a little bit older than the twin who went to live at the sea.
In this chapter, Hawking talks about the expanding universe. The universe is getting bigger over time. One of the things he uses to explain his idea is the "Doppler shift". The Doppler shift happens when something moves toward or away from another object. There are two types of things that happen in Doppler shift - "red shifting" and "blue shifting". Red shifting happens when something is moving away from us. This is caused by the wavelength of the visible light reaching us increasing, and the frequency decreasing, which shifts the visible light towards the red/infra-red end of the electromagnetic spectrum. Red-shift is linked to the belief that the universe is expanding as the wavelength of the light is increasing, almost as if stretched as planets and galaxies move away from us, which shares similarities to that of the doppler effect, involving sound waves. Blue shifting happens when something is moving toward us, the opposite process of red-shift, in which the wavelength decreases and frequency increases, shifting the light towards the blue end of the spectrum. A scientist named Edwin Hubble found that many stars are red shifted and are moving away from us. Hawking uses the Doppler shift to explain that the universe is getting bigger. The beginning of the universe is thought to have happened through something called the "Big Bang". The Big Bang was a very big explosion that created the universe.
This chapter is about the "uncertainty principle". The uncertainty principle says that the speed and the position of a particle cannot be found at the same time. To find where a particle is, scientists shine light at the particle. If a high frequency light is used, the light can find the position more accurately but the particle's speed will be unknown (because the light will change the speed of the particle). If a lower frequency light is used, the light can find the speed more accurately but the particle's position will be unknown. The uncertainty principle disproved the idea of a theory that was deterministic, or something that would predict everything in the future.
How light behaves is also talked more about in this chapter. Some theories say that light acts like particles even though it really is made of waves; one theory that says this is Planck's quantum hypothesis. A different theory also says that light waves also act like particles; a theory that says this is Heisenberg's uncertainty principle.
Light waves have "crests" and "troughs". The highest point of a wave is the crest, and the lowest part of the wave is a trough. Sometimes more than one of these waves can interfere with each other - the crests and the troughs line up. This is called "light interference". When light waves interfere with each other, this can make many colors. An example of this is the colors in soap bubbles.
Quarks and other elementary particles are the topic of this chapter. 
Quarks are very small things that make up everything we see (matter). There are six different "flavors" of quarks: the up quark, down quark, strange quark, charmed quark, bottom quark, and top quark. Quarks also have three "colors": red, green, and blue. There are also anti-quarks, which are the opposite of the regular quarks. In total, there are 18 different types of regular quarks, and 18 different types of anti quarks. Quarks are known as the "building blocks of matter" because they are the smallest thing that make up all the matter in the universe. 
All particles (for example, the quarks) have something called "spin". The "spin" of a particle shows us what a particle looks like from different directions. For example, a particle of spin 0 looks the same from every direction. A particle of spin 1 looks different in every direction, unless the particle is spun completely around (360 degrees). Hawking's example of a particle of spin 1 is an arrow. A particle of spin two needs to be turned around halfway (or 180 degrees) to look the same. The example given in the book is of a double-headed arrow. There are two groups of particles in the universe: particles with a spin of 1/2, and particles with a spin of 0, 1, or 2. All of these particles follow "Pauli's exclusion principle". Pauli's exclusion principle says that particles cannot be in the same place or have the same speed. If Pauli's exclusion principle did not exist, then everything in the universe would look the same, like a roughly uniform and dense "soup".
Particles with a spin of 0, 1, or 2 move force from one particle to another. Some examples of these particles are "virtual gravitons" and "virtual photons". Virtual gravitons have a spin of 2 and they represent the force of gravity. This means that when gravity affects two things, gravitons move to and from the two things. Virtual photons have a spin of 1 and represent electromagnetic forces (or the force that holds atoms together).
Besides the force of gravity and the electromagnetic forces, there are weak and strong nuclear forces. "Weak nuclear forces" are the forces that cause radioactivity, or when matter emits energy. Weak nuclear force works on particles with a spin of 1/2. "Strong nuclear forces" are the forces that keep the quarks in a neutron and a proton together, and keeps the protons and neutrons together in an atom. The particle that carries the strong nuclear force is thought to be a gluon. The gluon is a particle with a spin of 1. The gluon holds together quarks to form protons and neutrons. However, the gluon only holds together quarks that are three different colors. This makes the end product have no color. This is called "confinement".
Some scientists have tried to make a theory that combines the electromagnetic force, the weak nuclear force, and the strong nuclear force. This theory is called a "grand unified theory" (or a GUT). This theory tries to explain these forces in one big unified way or theory.
Black holes are talked about in this chapter. Black holes are stars that have collapsed into one very small point. This small point is called a "singularity". Black holes suck things into their center because its gravity is very strong. Some of the things it can suck in are light and stars. Only very large stars, called "super-giants", are big enough to become a black hole. The star must be one and a half times the mass of the sun or larger to turn into a black hole. This number is called the "Chandrasekhar limit". If the mass of a star is less than the Chandrasekhar limit, it will not turn into a black hole; instead, it will turn into a different, smaller type of star. The boundary of the black hole is called the "event horizon". If something is in the event horizon, it will never get out of the black hole.
Black holes can be shaped differently. Some black holes are perfectly spherical - like a ball. Other black holes bulge in the middle. Black holes will be spherical if they do not rotate. Black holes will bulge in the middle if they rotate.
Black holes are difficult to find because they do not let out any light. They can be found when black holes suck in other stars. When black holes suck in other stars, the black hole lets out X-rays, which can be seen by telescopes.
In this chapter, Hawking talks about his bet with another scientist, Kip Thorne. Hawking bet that black holes did not exist, because he did not want his work on black holes to be wasted. He lost the bet.
This chapter explains more about black holes. 
Hawking realized that the event horizon of a black hole could only get bigger, not smaller. The area of the event horizon of a black hole gets bigger whenever something falls into the black hole. He also realized that when two black holes combine, the size of the new event horizon is greater than or equal to the sum of the event horizons of the two other black holes. This means that a black hole's event horizon can never get smaller.
Disorder, also known as "entropy", is related to black holes. There is a scientific law that has to do with entropy. This law is called the "second law of thermodynamics", and it says that entropy (or disorder) will always increase in an isolated system (for example, the universe). The relation between the amount of entropy in a black hole and the size of the black hole's event horizon was first thought of by a research student (Jacob Bekenstein) and proven by Hawking, whose calculations said that black holes emit radiation. This was strange, because it was already said that nothing can escape from a black hole's event horizon.
This problem was solved when the idea of pairs of "virtual particles" was thought of. One of the pair of particles would fall into the black hole, and the other would escape. This would look like the black hole was emitting particles. This idea seemed strange at first, but many people accepted it after a while.
How the universe started and how it might end is talked about in this chapter.
Most scientists believe that the universe started in an explosion called the Big Bang. The model for this is called the "hot big bang model". When the universe starts getting bigger, the things inside of it also begin to get cooler. When the universe was first beginning, it was infinitely hot. The temperature of the universe cooled and the things inside the universe began to clump together.
Hawking also talks about how the universe could have been. For example, if the universe formed and then collapsed quickly, there would not be enough time for life to form. Another example would be a universe that expanded too quickly. If a universe expanded too quickly, it would become almost empty. The idea of many universes is called the "many-worlds interpretation".
Inflationary models are also discussed in this chapter, and so is the idea of a theory that unifies quantum mechanics and gravity.
Each particle has many histories. This idea is known as Feynman's theory of sum over histories. A theory that unifies quantum mechanics and gravity should have Feynman's theory in it. To find the chance that a particle will pass through a point, the waves of each particle needs to be added up. These waves happen in imaginary time. Imaginary numbers, when multiplied by themselves, make a negative number. For example, 2i X 2i = -4.

</doc>
<doc id="4579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4579" title="Alexander Graham Bell">
Alexander Graham Bell

Alexander Graham Bell (March 3, 1847 - August 2, 1922) was a teacher, scientist, and inventor. He was the founder of the Bell Telephone Company.
Alexander Graham Bell was born in Edinburgh, Scotland. His family was known for teaching people how to speak English clearly (elocution). Both his grandfather, Alexander Bell, and his father, Alexander Melville Bell, taught elocution. His father wrote often about this and is most known for his invention and writings of Visible Speech. In his writings he explained ways of teaching people who were deaf and unable to speak. It also showed how these people could learn to speak words by watching their lips and reading what other people were saying.
Alexander Graham Bell went to the Royal High School of Edinburgh. He graduated at the age of fifteen. At the age of sixteen, he got a job as a student and teacher of elocution and music in Weston House Academy, at Elgin in Morayshire. He spent the next year at the University of Edinburgh. While still in Scotland, he became more interested in the science of sound (acoustics). He hoped to help his deaf mother. From 1866 to 1867, he was a teacher at Somersetshire College in Bath, Somerset.
In 1870 when he was 23 years old, he moved with his family to Canada where they settled at Brantford, Ontario. Bell began to study communication machines. He made a piano that could be heard far away by using electricity. In 1871 he went with his father to Montreal, Quebec in Canada, where he took a job teaching about "visible speech". His father was asked to teach about it at a large school for deaf mutes in Boston, Massachusetts, but instead he gave the job to his son. The younger Bell began teaching there in 1872. Alexander Graham Bell soon became famous in the United States for this important work. He published many writings about it in Washington, D.C.. Because of this work, thousands of deaf mutes in America are now able to speak, even though they cannot hear.
In 1876, Bell was the first inventor to patent the telephone, and he helped start the Bell Telephone Company with others in July 1877. In 1879, this company joined with the New England Telephone Company to form the National Bell Telephone Company. In 1880, they formed the American Bell Telephone Company, and in 1885, American Telephone and Telegraph Company (AT&T), still a large company today. Along with Thomas Edison, Bell formed the Oriental Telephone Company on January 25, 1881.
Bell married Mabel Hubbard on July 11, 1877. He died of diabetes at his home near Baddeck, Nova Scotia in 1922.
Bell's genius is seen in part by the eighteen patents granted in his name alone and the twelve that he shared with others. These included fifteen for the telephone and telegraph, four for the photophone, one for the phonograph, five for aeronautics, four for hydrofoils, and two for a selenium cell. In 1888, he was one of the original members of the National Geographic Society and became its second president.
He was given many honors.
His past experience made him ready to work more with sound and electricity. He began his studies in 1874 with a musical telegraph, in which he used an electric circuit and a magnet to make an iron reed or tongue vibrate. One day, it was found that a reed failed to respond to the current. Mr. Bell desired his assistant, who was at the other end of the line, to pluck the reed, thinking it had stuck to the magnet. His assistant, Thomas Watson complied, and to his surprise, Bell heard the corresponding reed at his end of the line vibrate and sound the same - without any electric current to power it. A few experiments soon showed that his reed had been set in vibration by the changes in the magnetic field that the moving reed produced in the line. This discovery led him to stop using the electric battery current. His idea was that, since the circuit was never broken, all the complex vibrations of speech might be converted into currents, which in turn would reproduce the speech at a distance.
Bell, with his assistant, devised a receiver, consisting of a stretched film or drum with a bit of magnetised iron attached to its middle, and free to vibrate in front of the pole of an electromagnet in circuit with the line. This apparatus was completed on June 2, 1875. On July 7th, he instructed his assistant to make a second receiver which could be used with the first, and a few days later they were tried together, at each end of the line, which ran from a room in the inventor's house at Boston to the cellar underneath. Bell, in the room, held one instrument in his hands, while Watson in the cellar listened at the other. The inventor spoke into his instrument, ""Do you understand what I say?" and Mr. Watson rushed back into the upstairs and answered "Yes."" The first successful two-way telephone call was not made until March 10, 1876 when Bell spoke into his device, "Mr. Watson, come here, I want to see you." and Watson answered back and came into the room to see Bell. The first long distance telephone call was made on August 10, 1876 by Bell from the family home in Brantford, Ontario to his assistant in Paris, Ontario, some 16 km (10 mi.) away.
On March 7, 1876, the U.S. Patent Office gave him patent #174465 for the "telephone".
Bell is also credited with the invention of an improved metal detector in 1881 that made sounds when it was near metal. The device was quickly put together in an attempt to find the bullet in the body of U.S. President James Garfield. The metal detector worked, but did not find the bullet because of the metal bedframe the President was lying on. Bell gave a full description of his experiments in a paper read before the "American Association for the Advancement of Science" in August, 1882.
Bell was an active supporter of the eugenics movement in the United States. He was the honorary president of the "Second International Congress of Eugenics" held at the American Museum of Natural History in New York in 1921. 
As a teacher of the deaf, Bell did not want deaf people to teach in schools for the deaf. He was also against the use of sign language. These things mean that he is not appreciated by some deaf people in the present day.

</doc>
<doc id="4582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4582" title="Heinrich Rudolf Hertz">
Heinrich Rudolf Hertz

Heinrich Rudolf Hertz (22 February 1857 – 1 January 1894) was a German physicist. In 1888 he discovered the radio waves previously predicted by Maxwell's equations. He also proved that light is a kind of electromagnetic waves. The unit for frequency is named after him.
Hertz was born in Hamburg in 1857. He studied engineering in Frankfurt and later at the University of Munich. He completed his Phd at the University of Berlin. He taught and continued research at the University of Bonn and University of Kiel. 
He died from blood poisoning in 1894.

</doc>
<doc id="4583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4583" title="1850">
1850


</doc>
<doc id="4584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4584" title="1869">
1869


</doc>
<doc id="4586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4586" title="1621">
1621


</doc>
<doc id="4587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4587" title="1619">
1619


</doc>
<doc id="4588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4588" title="1687">
1687

Year 1687 was a common year that started on a Wednesday when using the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="4589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4589" title="1822">
1822


</doc>
<doc id="4590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4590" title="1824">
1824


</doc>
<doc id="4591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4591" title="1826">
1826


</doc>
<doc id="4592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4592" title="1827">
1827


</doc>
<doc id="4593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4593" title="1815">
1815


</doc>
<doc id="4594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4594" title="Deep house">
Deep house

Deep house is a type of house music. It has influences from disco music and jazz music. The BPM of deep house is usually 100 - 128. 

</doc>
<doc id="4596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4596" title="Cytokine">
Cytokine

Cytokines are signalling molecules made by cells. They help to control the immune system and fight disease. They are similar to hormones and, as we learn more about each, distinctions between the two are fading.
Cytokines carry signals locally between cells, and these signals have an effect on other cells. They are made of proteins, peptides, or glycoproteins. The cytokines are a large family of polypeptide regulators that are produced throughout the body by many groups of cells. 
Some well-known cytokines include interferon, prostaglandin and interleukins. Cytokines can be detected using the ELISA and ELISPOT techniques.
Cytokines work by signal transduction. Each cytokine has a matching cell-surface receptor. Then cascades of signals inside the cell changes cell functions. This may include the regulation of several genes, the production of other cytokines, or an increase in surface receptors for other molecules.

</doc>
<doc id="4597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4597" title="Bristol">
Bristol

Bristol is a city in the United Kingdom. It is home to nearly 500,000 people. The River Avon runs through it to the Severn estuary.
It is between the counties of Gloucestershire and Somerset. In 1373, King Edward III ordered that it should be a county itself forever. However, it lost county status in 1974, the year after its 600-year celebrations. It became the largest district within the new Avon county. Avon was never popular and was abolished in 1996, when county status returned to Bristol, which became a unitary council.
The Bristol name means "the place where the bridge is" in Old English. It has been a port for 800 years. Now, ships are too big to reach it. It has a new seaport at Avonmouth.
It has many historic churches and other buildings. The Clifton Suspension Bridge crosses high above the river. The University of Bristol is also in Clifton.
Bristol was a centre for the slave trade.
Bristol was badly damaged during World War II. It now has many new factories and offices. The Concorde supersonic airliner was made here.
It is also the birthplace of the music genre trip hop., with 3 trip hop bands originating there: Massive Attack, Portishead (named after a North Somerset town) and Tricky.

</doc>
<doc id="4598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4598" title="List of cities and towns in England">
List of cities and towns in England

This is a link page for towns and cities in England. In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, a town is any settlement which has received a charter of incorporation, more commonly known as a town charter, approved by the monarch. Cities are indicated in bold.
Abingdon, Accrington, Acton, Adlington, Alcester, Aldeburgh, Aldershot, Aldridge, Alford, Alfreton, Alnwick, Alsager, Alston, Alton, Altrincham, Amble, Amersham, Amesbury, Ampthill, Andover, Appleby-in-Westmorland, Arundel, Ashbourne, Ashburton, Ashby-de-la-Zouch, Ashford, Ashington, Ashton-in-Makerfield, Ashton-under-Lyne, Askern, Aspatria, Atherstone, Attleborough, Axbridge, Axminster, Aylesbury, Aylsham.
Bacup, Bakewell, Baldock, Banbury, Barking, Barnard Castle, Barnet, Barnoldswick, Barnsley, Barnstaple, Barnt Green, Barrow-in-Furness, Barton-upon-Humber, Barton-le-Clay, Basildon, Basingstoke, Bath, Batley, Battle, Bawtry, Beaconsfield, Beaminster, Bebington, Beccles, Bedale, Bedford, Bedlington, Bedworth, Beeston, Belper, Bentham, Berkhamsted, Berwick-upon-Tweed, Beverley, Bewdley, Bexhill-on-Sea, Bicester, Biddulph, Bideford, Biggleswade, Billericay, Bilston, Bingham, Birmingham, Bishop Auckland, Bishop's Castle, Bishop's Stortford, Bishop's Waltham, Blackburn, Blackpool, Blandford Forum, Bletchley, Blyth, Bodmin, Bognor Regis, Bollington, Bolsover, Bolton, Borehamwood, Boston, Bottesford, Bourne, Bournemouth, Brackley, Bracknell, Bradford, Bradford-on-Avon, Bradley Stoke, Bradninch, Braintree, Brentford, Brentwood, Bridgnorth, Bridgwater, Bridlington, Bridport, Brierley Hill, Brigg, Brighouse, Brightlingsea, Brighton, Bristol, Brixham, Broadstairs, Bromley, Bromsgrove, Bromyard, Brownhills, Buckfastleigh, Buckingham, Bude, Budleigh Salterton, Bungay, Buntingford, Burford, Burgess Hill, Burnham-on-Crouch, Burnham-on-Sea, Burnley, Burntwood, Burton Latimer, Burton-upon-Trent, Bury, Bury St Edmunds, Buxton
Caistor, Calne, Camberley, Camborne, Cambridge, Camelford, Cannock, Canterbury, Carlisle, Carnforth, Carterton, Castle Cary, Castleford, Chadderton, Chagford, Chard, Charlbury, Chatham, Chatteris, Chelmsford, Cheltenham, Chesham, Cheshunt, Chester, Chesterfield, Chester-le-Street, Chichester, Chippenham, Chipping Campden, Chipping Norton, Chipping Ongar, Chipping Sodbury, Chorley, Christchurch, Church Stretton, Cinderford, Cirencester, Clacton-on-Sea, Cleckheaton, Cleethorpes, Clevedon, Clitheroe, Clun, Coalville, Cockermouth, Coggeshall, Colchester, Coleford, Colne, Congleton, Conisbrough, Corbridge, Corby, Cotgrave, Coventry, Cowes, Cramlington, Cranfield, Crawley, Crayford, Crediton, Crewe, Crewkerne, Cromer, Crowborough, Crowle, Crowthorne, Croydon, Cuckfield, Cullompton, connor town
Dagenham, Darley Dale, Darlington, Dartford, Dartmouth, Darwen, Daventry, Dawlish, Deal, Denton, Derby, Dereham, Desborough, Devizes, Dewsbury, Didcot, 
Dinnington, Diss, Doncaster, Dorchester, Dorking, Dover, Downham Market, Driffield, Dronfield, Droitwich Spa, Droylsden, Dudley, Dukinfield, Dunstable, Durham, Dursley
Ealing, Earley, Easingwold, Eastbourne, East Grinstead, East Ham, Eastleigh, Eastwood, Edenbridge, Egham, Ellesmere, Ellesmere Port, Ely, Enfield, Epping, Epsom, Epworth, Erith, Esher, Eton, Evesham, Exeter, Exmouth, Eye
Failsworth, Fairford, Fakenham, Falmouth, Fareham, Faringdon, Farnborough, Farnham, Farnworth, Faversham, Featherstone, Felixstowe, Fenny Stratford, Ferndown, Ferryhill, Filey, Filton, Fleet, Fleetwood, Flitwick, Folkestone, Fordingbridge, Fordwich, Fowey, Framlingham, Frinton-on-Sea, Frodsham, Frome
Gainsborough, Gateshead, Gillingham, Gillingham, Glastonbury, Glossop, Gloucester, Godalming, Godmanchester, Goole, Gosport, Grange-over-Sands, Grantham, Gravesend, Grays, Great Dunmow, Great Torrington, Great Yarmouth, Grimsby, Guildford, Guisborough
Hackney, Hadleigh, Hailsham, Halesworth, Halewood, Halifax, Halstead, Haltwhistle, Harlow, Harpenden, Harrogate, Harrow, Hartlepool, Harwich, Haslemere, Hastings, Hatfield, Havant, Haverhill, Hawley, Hayle, Haywards Heath, Heanor, Heathfield, Hebden Bridge, Hedon, Helston, Hemel Hempstead, Hemsworth, Henley-in-Arden, Henley-on-Thames, Hendon, Hereford, Herne Bay, Hertford, Hessle, Heswall, Hetton-le-Hole, Heywood, Hexham, Higham Ferrers, Highworth, High Wycombe, Hinckley, Hitchin, Hoddesdon, Holmfirth, Holsworthy, Honiton, Horley, Horncastle, Hornsea, Horsham, Horwich, Houghton-le-Spring, Hounslow, Hoylake, Hove Hucknall, Huddersfield, Hugh Town, Hungerford, Hunstanton, Huntingdon, Hyde, Hythe
Ilchester, Ilford, Ilfracombe, Ilkeston, Ilkley, Ilminster, Ipswich, Irthlingborough, Ivybridge
Jarrow
Keighley, Kempston, Kendal, Kenilworth, Kesgrave, Keswick, Kettering, Keynsham, Kidderminster, Kidsgrove, Killingworth, Kimberley, Kingsbridge, King's Lynn, Kingston-upon-Hull, Kingston upon Thames, Kington, Kirkby, Kirkby Lonsdale, Kirkham, Knaresborough, Knottingley, Knutsford
Lancaster, Launceston, Leatherhead, Leamington Spa, Lechlade, Ledbury, Leeds, Leek, Leicester, Leighton Buzzard, Leiston, Leominster, Letchworth, Lewes, Lewisham, Leyland, Leyton, Lichfield, Lincoln, Liskeard, Littlehampton, Liverpool, Lizard, London, Long Eaton, Longridge, Looe, Lostwithiel, Loughborough, Loughton, Louth, Lowestoft, Ludlow, Luton, Lutterworth, Lydd, Lydney, Lyme Regis, Lymington, Lynton, Lytchett Minster, Lytham St Annes
Mablethorpe, Macclesfield, Maghull, Maidenhead, Maidstone, Maldon, Malmesbury, Maltby, Malton, Malvern, Manchester, Manningtree, Mansfield, March, Margate, Market Deeping, Market Drayton, Market Harborough, Market Rasen, Market Weighton, Marlborough, Marlow, Maryport, Marston Moretaine, Matlock, Melksham, Melton Mowbray, Mexborough, Middleham, Middlesbrough, Middleton, Middlewich, Midhurst, Midsomer Norton, Milton Keynes, Minehead, Morecambe, Moretonhampstead, Moreton-in-Marsh, Morley, Morpeth, Much Wenlock
Nailsea, Nailsworth, Nantwich, Needham Market, Neston, Newark-on-Trent, Newbiggin-by-the-Sea, Newbury, Newcastle-under-Lyme, Newcastle upon Tyne, Newent, Newhaven, Newmarket, New Mills, New Milton, Newport, Newport, Shropshire, Newport Pagnell, Newquay, New Romney, Newton Abbot, Newton Aycliffe, Newton-le-Willows, Normanton, Northallerton, Northam, Northampton, North Walsham, Northwich, Norton Radstock, Norwich, Nottingham, Nuneaton
Oakham, Okehampton, Oldbury, Oldham, Ollerton, Olney, Ormskirk, Orpington, Ossett, Oswestry, Otley, Ottery St Mary, Oundle, Oxford
Paddock Wood, Padstow, Paignton, Painswick, Peacehaven, Penistone, Penrith, Penryn, Penzance, Pershore, Perth, Peterborough, Peterlee, Petersfield, Petworth, Pickering, Plymouth, Pocklington, Pontefract, Polegate, Poltimore, Poole, Portishead, Portland, Portslade, Portsmouth, Potters Bar, Potton, Poulton-le-Fylde, Prescot, Preston, Princes Risborough, Prudhoe, Pudsey
Queenborough, Quintrell Downs
Ramsgate, Raunds, Rayleigh, Reading, Redcar, Redditch, Redhill, Redruth, Reigate, Retford, Richmond, Richmond-upon-Thames, Rickmansworth, Ringwood, Ripley, Ripon, Rochdale, Rochester, Rochford, Romford, Romsey, Ross-on-Wye, Rothbury, Rotherham, Rothwell, Rowley Regis, Royston, Rugby, Rugeley, Runcorn, Rushden, Rutland, Ryde, Rye
Saffron Walden, St Albans, St Asaph, St Austell, St Blazey, St Columb Major, St Helens, St Ives, Cambridgeshire, St Ives, Cornwall, St Neots, Salcombe, Sale, Salford, Salisbury, Saltash, Saltburn-by-the-Sea, Sandbach, Sandhurst, Sandown, Sandwich, Sandy, Sawbridgeworth, Saxmundham, Scarborough, Scunthorpe, Seaford, Seaton, Sedgefield, Selby, Selsey, Settle, Sevenoaks, Shaftesbury, Shanklin, Sheerness, Sheffield, Shepshed, Shepton Mallet, Sherborne, Sheringham, Shildon, Shipston-on-Stour, Shoreham-by-Sea, Shrewsbury, Sidmouth, Sittingbourne, Skegness, Skelmersdale, Skipton, Sleaford, Slough, Smethwick, Snodland, Soham, Solihull, Somerton, Southall, Southam, Southampton, Southborough, Southend-on-Sea, South Molton, Southport, Southsea, South Shields, Southwell, Southwold, South Woodham Ferrers, Spalding, Spennymoor, Spilsby, Stafford, Staines, Stainforth, Stalybridge, Stamford, Stanley, Stapleford, Staunton, Staveley, Stevenage, Stockport, Stocksbridge, Stockton-on-Tees, Stoke-on-Trent, Stone, Stony Stratford, Stotfield, Stourbridge, Stourport-on-Severn, Stowmarket, Stow-on-the-Wold, Stratford-upon-Avon, Streatham, Street, Strood, Stroud, Sudbury, Sunderland, Sutton, Sutton Coldfield, Sutton-in-Ashfield, Swadlincote, Swaffham, Swanage, Swanley, Swindon, Swinton
Tadcaster, Tadley, Tamworth, Taunton, Tavistock, Teignmouth, Telford, Tenbury Wells, Tenterden, Tetbury, Tewkesbury, Thame, Thatcham, Thaxted, Thetford, Thirsk, Thong, Thornaby, Thornbury, Thorne, Tickhill, Tilbury, Tipton, Tiverton, Todmorden, Tonbridge, Torpoint, Torquay, Totnes, Tottenham, Totton, Towcester, Tring, Trowbridge, Truro, Tunbridge Wells, Twickenham
Uckfield, Ulverston, Uppingham, Upton-upon-Severn, Uttoxeter, Uxbridge
Ventnor, Verwood
Wadebridge, Wadhurst, Wakefield, Wallasey, Wallingford, Walmer, Walsall, Waltham Abbey, Waltham Cross, Walthamstow, Walton-on-Thames, Walton-on-the-Naze, Wandsworth, Wantage, Ware, Wareham, Warminster, Warrington, Warwick, Washington, Watchet, Watford, Wath-upon-Dearne, Watton, Wednesbury, Wellingborough, Wellington, Wells, Wells-next-the-Sea, Welwyn Garden City, Wem, Wendover, West Bromwich, Westbury, Westerham, West Ham, Westhoughton, West Kirby, West Mersea, Westminster, Weston-super-Mare, Westward Ho!, Wetherby, Weybridge, Weymouth, Whaley Bridge, Whiston, Whitby, Whitchurch, Whitehaven, Whitley Bay, Whitnash, Whitstable, Whitworth, Wickford, Widnes, Wigan, Wigston, Willenhall, Wimbledon, Wimborne Minster, Wincanton, Winchcombe, Winchelsea, Winchester, Windermere, Winsford, Winslow, Wisbech, Witham, Withernsea, Witney, Wivenhoe, Woburn, Woking, Wokingham, Wolverhampton, Wombwell, Woodbridge, Woodstock, Wooler, Woolwich, Wootton Bassett, Worcester, Workington, Worksop, Worthing, Wotton-under-Edge, Wymondham
Yarm, Yarmouth, Yate, Yateley, Yeadon, Yeovil, York, Yoxall

</doc>
<doc id="4599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4599" title="1858">
1858


</doc>
<doc id="4600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4600" title="1899">
1899


</doc>
<doc id="4602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4602" title="Bright Eyes (band)">
Bright Eyes (band)

Bright Eyes is an American indie rock music band. The people in the band are Conor Oberst, a singer-songwriter; Mike Mogis, a musician and producer; and other friends and session musicians from Omaha, Nebraska, USA.
Oberst's singing style and the words to the songs are called desperate or on the verge of tears. Many people think his songs are always about himself, but Oberst has said that they are not. For example, one song, "Padraic My Prince", tells the fictional story of a mother drowning her son in a bathtub. In interviews, Oberst has said that he sings about such things to make rich emotions.

</doc>
<doc id="4603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4603" title="Honeycomb">
Honeycomb

A honeycomb is a container made by bees out of wax that they produce. The bees make a honeycomb as a place to keep their honey. Bees make honey from nectar that they collect from flowers. After bees collect nectar from flowers, and make it into honey, the bees then put the honey in the small six sided areas of the honeycomb. Each hexagonal section tessellates with the rest. 
Honeycomb wax can be used for making soap and candles. Some people eat honey that is still in the honeycomb. 

</doc>
<doc id="4606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4606" title="Greek language">
Greek language

The Greek language is an Indo-European language. It is the official language of Greece (Hellas) and Cyprus.
It was first spoken in Greece and was also once spoken along the coast of Asia Minor (now a part of Turkey) and in southern Italy. It was also widely used in Western Asia and Northern Africa at one time. In Greek, the language is called Ελληνικά (elliniká).
Greeks write their language using the Greek alphabet. The Latin alphabet (used to write English and many other languages) came from the Greek alphabet. Many other alphabets around the world also came from the Greek one, such as the Cyrillic alphabet. The Greeks got the idea of using an alphabet from the Phoenicians.
Greek has an unbroken history of being a written language for over 3,000 years. This is longer than any other Indo-European language spoken today. This history is often divided into three parts, ancient Greek, medieval Greek, and modern Greek. The years 330-1453 are called medieval Greek because that's the time of the Byzantine Empire. 
Over 15 million people in the world speak Greek now. These speakers mostly live in Greece and Cyprus, but there are also people in other countries around the world who speak the language. This is largely because people left Greece and emigrated, meaning they moved to other countries. Countries like the United States and Australia have a large Greek diaspora

</doc>
<doc id="4608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4608" title="Kamishibai">
Kamishibai

Kami-shibai (Japanese: 紙芝居) is a storytelling performance with picture cards, and is a traditional Japanese entertainment for children. In Japanese "Kami" means paper and "shibai" means drama or enternainment. The performer tells a story and shows pictures from scene to scene. Kami-shibai is a bidirectional media which is comprised of actions and reactions between a performer and audiences. With the spread of television, kami-shibai went out of date. 

</doc>
<doc id="4609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4609" title="Murasaki Shikibu">
Murasaki Shikibu

Murasaki Shikibu is a nickname; her real name is unknown. 
Murasaki was born in Kyoto. She was born into the Fujiwara family. Her father, Fujiwara Tametoki, was not a very nice father and when Murasaki got older he confessed that he regretted she was not a boy.
In the year 997, Murasaki married her second cousin, Fujiwara Nobutake, at age 20. In 999, they had a daughter, Kenshi, who also became a poet. Fujiwara Nobutake died about 1001.
Murasaki started as a writer soon after her husband's unexpected death. She was recognized immediately, and she was asked to the imperial court as a tutor to Empress Shoshi ( Joto Mon'in, 988–1074), daughter of the statesman Fujiwara Michinaga (966–1027). Murasaki joined the court of Empress Shōshi in 1006, probably for her skills as an author.
Murasaki started writing her diary in 1008, and finished in 1010. Her diary describes her Chinese lessons with her brother Nobunori (980?–1011), daily life and how much she missed her husband after his death.
She died in Kyoto, around the year 1020.
"The Tale of Genji" is split into 54 different books, and is made up of 795 different poems. It is one of the earliest novels in Japanese, and is often thought of as the first novel in the world. It is a classic of Japanese literature. The masterpiece was about the court life of Prince Genji, and his wife, Aoi in 10th-century Japan. Prince Genji was the illegitimate son of an emperor, and the text is about his relationships in court. "The Tale of Genji" included many beautiful scroll paintings.

</doc>
<doc id="4612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4612" title="Pepsin">
Pepsin

Pepsin is an enzyme. It acts on proteins in the stomach, which has a low pH because of the Hydrochloric acid. It works best at a pH of about 1.5. It will not work at a pH above 6. 
It was the first animal enzyme to be discovered. Theodor Schwann discovered it in 1836.
Pepsin is used to make cheese.

</doc>
<doc id="4613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4613" title="PH">
PH

pH (potential of hydrogen) is a scale of acidity from 0 to 14. It tells how acidic or alkaline a substance is. 
More acidic solutions, have lower pH. More alkaline solutions, have higher pH. Substances that aren't acidic or alkaline (that is, neutral solutions) usually have a pH of 7.
Acids have a pH that is less than 7. Alkalis have a pH that is greater than 7. 
pH is a measure of the of protons (H) in a solution. introduced this concept in the year 1909. The p stands for the German "potenz", meaning power or concentration, and the H for the hydrogen ion (H).
The formula for calculating pH is:
[H] indicates the concentration of H ions (also written [HO], the equal concentration of ions), measured in moles per litre (also known as molarity).
Most substances have a pH in the range of 0 to 14, although "extremely" acidic or alkaline substances may have pH < 0, or pH > 14.
Alkaline substances have, instead of hydrogen ions, a concentration of hydroxide ions (OH).
A pH indicator is a chemical compound added in small amounts to a solution so the pH (acidity or basicity) of the solution can be seen. The pH indicator is a chemical detector for hydronium ions (HO) or hydrogen ions (H). Normally, the indicator causes the colour of the solution to change depending on the pH. 
Typical indicators are , , , , and . They each change colour at different points on the pH scale, and can be used together as a universal indicator.
Another way is to use litmus paper, which is based on a natural pH indicators. The paper can tell you how strong the chemical is, whether it is a stronger acid or a stronger base.
Neutralisation can be summed up by the equation:

</doc>
<doc id="4614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4614" title="Tapeworm">
Tapeworm

Tapeworms are the class Cestoda of segmented flatworms (Platyhelminthes). They are parasitic, which means that they need another larger creature as a host. Tapeworms live inside the intestines of vertebrate animals. This includes humans. When a vertebrate has a tapeworm, they may lose weight and become weaker.
Tapeworms can be up to 30 or 36 feet (10–12 metres) long. They eat by absorbing material directly through their epidermis (outside layer). The head of a tapeworm has four suckers and two rings of hooks. The body of a tapeworm is in segments (pieces that are like each other). Each segment can produce eggs. Little segments of the tapeworm sometimes break off and pass out through the stool of the host, with the eggs. Little segments of its body fall off. They go out of the host body, and are eaten by the next host, which is another type of vertebrate.
Tapeworms are hermaphrodite, with both sexes. Cross-fertilization occurs between two tapeworms in the same intestine. They have a life cycle with a secondary or intermediate host. For example, human tapeworms have cows or pigs as intermediate hosts. The 'definitive' host (humans in this case) is the one where fertilization takes place.
Tapeworms don't have a gut, so they have to absorb nutrients directly across their skin. 

</doc>
<doc id="4616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4616" title="Omnivore">
Omnivore

An omnivore is an animal whose species gets its energy and nutrients from a diet made up foods that include plants, animals, algae, fungi and bacteria.
Many omnivores change their eating habits during their life cycle. They are sometimes called "life-history omnivores", because they are only omnivores if their whole life is considered.
Some species, such as grazing waterfowl like geese, are known to eat mainly animals at one stage of their lives, but plants at another. Also, many insects, such as the beatle family Meloidae, eat animal tissue when they are larvae, but eat plant matter after they mature.
All of these animals are omnivores, but have different feeding behaviors and favorite foods. Being omnivores gives these animals more food security in stressful times. It also makes it easier for them to live in less consistent environments; (those that change along with the season, for example).
Humans and apes are omnivores: they eat fruits, vegetables and some meat.

</doc>
<doc id="4618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4618" title="Herbivore">
Herbivore

Herbivores are animals that eat plants. They are "herbivorous" animals.
Humans are omnivores, because they eat meat as well as vegetable matter. People who eat mostly plants are usually called vegetarians. 
Herbivores (such as deer, elephants, horses) have teeth that are adapted to grind vegetable tissue. Many animals that eat fruit and leaves sometimes eat other parts of plants, for example roots and seeds. Usually, such animals cannot chew or digest meat. But some herbivorous animals will eat eggs and occasionally other animal protein. 
Some herbivores can be classified as "frugivores", because they eat mainly fruit; or "browsers", which eat mostly leaves. Animals that eat mostly grass are "grazing" animals.
The diets of some herbivorous animals change with the seasons. In the temperate zones of the Earth, some seasons are hot and some are cold, so different plants are available at different times of the year. 
Plant cell walls are mostly made up of cellulose. No herbivore can digest cellulose by itself. They all make use of gut flora, some of which produce an enzyme called cellulase. This is an example of symbiosis.
According to the theory of predator-prey interactions, the relationship between herbivores and plants is cyclic. When prey (plants) are numerous their predators (herbivores) increase in numbers, reducing the plant population, which in turn causes herbivore number to decline. The prey population eventually recovers, starting a new cycle. This suggests that the population of the herbivore fluctuates around the carrying capacity of the food source, in this case the plant. 
There will always be pockets of plants not found by herbivores. This is important for specialist herbivores which feed on only one species of plant: it prevents these specialists from wiping out their food source. Eating a second plant type helps herbivores’ populations stabilize. Alternating between two or more plant types provides population stability for the herbivore, while the populations of the plants oscillate. When an invasive herbivore or plant enters the system, the balance is thrown off and the diversity can change or even collapse.
In some ways it is easier to be an herbivorous animal than a carnivorous (meat-eating) animal. Carnivorous animals have to find and catch the animals that they eat, and sometimes the animals that they want to eat fight them. Herbivorous animals have to find the plants that they want to eat, but they do not have to catch them. Many plants have some defence against herbivores, such as spines, toxins (poisons), or a bad taste. There are many more herbivorous animals living in the world than carnivorous animals.

</doc>
<doc id="4624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4624" title="Hindi">
Hindi

Hindi is the most commonly spoken language in India. It is the fifth most spoken language in the world with about 182 million native speakers in 1998. The script used in writing Hindi is Devanāgarī. 
Hindi is widely written, spoken and understood in North India and most other places in India. In 1997, a survey found that 66% of Indians can speak Hindi. The most common form of Hindi is known as "Hindustani". It has taken words from the Dravidian languages of South India, many words from the Persian, Arabic, Turkish, English, and Portuguese languages. Hindustani language is almost the same as Urdu, the most commonly spoken language in Pakistan; the difference is that Urdu is written in the Arabic alphabet from right to left. Hindi and Urdu were considered the same language until Pakistan's split from India, and to this day, both languages are mutually intelligible, meaning that speakers of two different languages can understand each other without knowing the other language. 
Some other dialects of Hindi are: Avadhi, Braj, Bhojpuri, Bundeli, Bagheli, Chhattisgarhi, Dogri and Marwari. 
Hindi has developed from Sanskrit, the ancient language of India. Hindi started to develop in the 7th century as "Apabhramsha", but became stable by the 10th century. 
Some famous Hindi poets are Tulsidas and Kabir.
Hindi is also spoken with regional accents like Haryanvi, Rajasthani, and Bengali. In the past few years a new Hindi language (with unwritten grammar) has emerged from Mumbai. It is being spread by Hindi films. It is becoming very popular with younger generation. 

</doc>
<doc id="4625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4625" title="1870">
1870


</doc>
<doc id="4626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4626" title="1871">
1871


</doc>
<doc id="4627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4627" title="1882">
1882


</doc>
<doc id="4628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4628" title="1941">
1941


</doc>
<doc id="4629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4629" title="1945">
1945

Year 1945 was a year that started on a Monday. It is well known as the end of World War II and the founding of UNO and UNESCO.

</doc>
<doc id="4633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4633" title="Ludwig van Beethoven">
Ludwig van Beethoven

Ludwig van Beethoven (baptized 17 December 1770 in Bonn – 26 March 1827 in Vienna) was a German composer. He wrote classical music for the piano, orchestras and different groups of instruments. His best-known works are his third ("Eroica"), fifth, sixth ("Pastorale") and ninth ("Choral") symphonies, the eighth ("Pathetique") and fourteenth ("Moonlight") piano sonatas, two of his later piano concertos, his opera "Fidelio", and also the piano piece "Für Elise". When he was a young man, he was a talented pianist. Beethoven was popular with the rich and important people in Vienna, Austria, where he lived. 
In 1801, however, he began to lose his hearing. His deafness became worse. In 1817, he was completely deaf. Although he could no longer play in concerts, he continued to compose. During this time he composed some of his greatest works. He is said to be one of the greatest classical composers who has ever lived. When Beethoven died, he was surrounded by friends on his death bed. His funeral was held at the Church of the Holy Trinity. Between 10,000 and 30,000 people are estimated to have attended. Franz Schubert was a pall bearer at his funeral, even though the two were never close. 
Very little is known about Beethoven’s childhood. He was baptized on December 17, 1770 and was probably born a few days before that. Beethoven's parents were Johann van Beethoven (1740 in Bonn – December 18, 1792) and Maria Magdalena Keverich (1744 in Ehrenbreitstein – July 17, 1787). Magdalena's father, Johann Heinrich Keverich, had been Chef at the court of the Archbishopric of Trier at Festung Ehrenbreitstein fortress opposite to Koblenz. His father was a fairly unimportant musician who worked at the court of the Elector of Cologne. This court was in Bonn and it was here that he lived until he was a young man. His father gave him his first lessons in piano and violin. Beethoven was a child prodigy like Mozart, but while Mozart as a little boy was taken all over Europe by his father, Beethoven never traveled until he was 17. By that time, his piano teacher was a man called Neefe who had learned the piano from Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach, the son of Johann Sebastian Bach. Neefe said to the Elector that the young Beethoven should be given the chance to travel, so he was allowed to go to Vienna. There, he might have had one or two lessons from Mozart, but then Beethoven got a letter saying that his mother was dying, so he hurried back to Bonn. Soon his mother died, and Beethoven had to help to look after the family because his father had become an alcoholic. Beethoven played the viola in the orchestra of the Elector, he started to compose, and made many friends. Some of these friends were musicians and others were very important people, many of them were aristocrats who would be able to help him in his career.
In 1792, the Elector let Beethoven travel to Vienna again. They expected him to return after a while. However, Beethoven never left Vienna. He stayed there for the rest of his life. He would have loved to have had some more composition lessons from Mozart, but Mozart had just died, so he had lessons from Haydn instead. Haydn was a good teacher, but a year later he went off to England. Therefore, Beethoven took lessons from a man called Albrechtsberger who was not famous like Haydn. He was a good teacher too and he made him write lots of technical exercises. He showed him how to write advanced counterpoint and fugues. This helped him to be a great composer.
Beethoven wanted to become famous as a pianist and composer, so he started to get to know important, aristocratic people. Some of these people had already heard him in Bonn when they had traveled there, so his name was becoming known in Vienna. It also helped that he could say he was the pupil of the famous Joseph Haydn. There were a lot of aristocratic people in Vienna who liked music, and many had their own private orchestras. Some of them started to give Beethoven places to live when the Elector of Bonn stopped sending him money in 1794. Beethoven started to perform in private houses, and he became known for his improvisations. In 1795 he performed one of his piano concertos at a concert. He also had his first publication (his opus 1). This was a group of three Piano Trios. Haydn had heard them at a private concert a year before and had advised Beethoven not to publish the third one. However, he did publish it, and that was the one which became the most successful. His opus 2 was a group of three piano sonatas which he played at the court of his friend Prince Lichnowsky. When he published them he dedicated them to Haydn.
Beethoven was starting to become famous, travelling to places like Prague and Pressburg. He wrote much chamber music. He was, perhaps, a little jealous of the success that Haydn had with his latest symphonies he had written for London. In 1800 he gave his first public concert with his own music. He conducted his First Symphony as well as the Septet. By now several publishers were trying to persuade him to let them publish his new works. Beethoven was becoming famous as a composer. And during this period Beethoven produced his most famous piano sonata: No. 14, in C sharp minor, nicknamed, "Moonlight". This was written for his girlfriend, 16-year-old Giulietta Guicciardi. However, he was far from happy because he realized that he was starting to become deaf. And when he asked for Giulietta's marriage, her parents refused and married her to another 20-year-old man instead.
Beethoven seems to have tried to forget these bad thoughts by working very hard. He composed a lot more music, including his Third Symphony, called the "Eroica". Originally he gave it the title "Bonaparte" in honour of Napoleon whom he admired. But when Napoleon crowned himself emperor in 1804, Beethoven began to think that he was just a tyrant who wanted a lot of power. He went to the table where the score of the symphony was lying and tore up the title page. Beethoven stayed in Vienna that year, working hard at an opera and giving piano lessons to Josephine von Brunsvik to whom he wrote passionate letters. She was a young widow with four children. It is impossible to know quite what her feelings were for Beethoven, but socially she belonged in higher society and probably thought that a wild musician was not a suitable husband. In the end she married a Baron, but this marriage, like her first one, was not happy either.
In 1805 Beethoven wrote his only opera. The next spring it had two performances but was then not performed again for another eight years. Beethoven had made several changes to the opera which became known as "Fidelio". The overture that he had written for the 1806 performance is now known as "Leonore 3" and is usually performed separately at concerts. The opera is a “rescue” opera, a typical French kind of opera describing a man who is imprisoned and rescued by his lover who disguises herself as a man and manages to get into the prison.
Beethoven continued to write compositions: a Violin Concerto, symphonies, piano concertos, string quartets and chamber music. Two of his greatest symphonies were produced in 1806: Symphony No. 5 and Symphony No. 6 "Pastorale". The first one was known for its dark and deep tone, especially in its first movement. The second was famous for its depiction of the countryside. He also wrote Piano Concerto No. 4 and Piano Concerto No. 5 "Emperor. He earned money by pleasing the aristocrats, dedicating works to them in return for fees, and by selling his music to publishers. Occasionally he earned money from concerts. It was not a regular income. He would have liked the job of Kapellmeister to the emperor. He was not able to get this, but in 1809 three rich aristocrats: the Archduke Rodolph, Prince Lobkowitz and Prince Kinsky gave him an income for the rest of his life on condition that he stayed in Vienna. This meant that Beethoven did not have to worry so much about money. He was asked to write music for "Egmont", a play by Goethe. The overture is very often performed as a concert piece. Beethoven very much wanted to meet Goethe. The two great men met in Teplitz. Goethe later described Beethoven as a rather wild-mannered man who made life difficult for himself by his cross attitude to the world. Beethoven admired several women, including one to whom he wrote a passionate letter. She is known as the “Immortal Beloved”, but no one knows who she was. Beethoven seems to have become deeply depressed because he never found true happiness in love.
In a letter dated June 29, 1801 Beethoven told a friend in Bonn about a terrible secret he had for some time. He knew that he was becoming deaf. For some time he had spells of fever and stomach pains. A young man does not expect to become deaf, but now he was starting to admit it to himself. He was finding it hard to hear what people were saying. Just at the moment when he was starting to become known as one of the greatest of all composers, it was a terrible blow to realize that he was losing his hearing. In 1802, he stayed for a time in Heiligenstadt which is now a suburb of Vienna but at that time it was outside the city. There he wrote a famous letter which is known as the "Heiligenstadt Testament". It is dated October 6 and told about his rising frustration at his deafness. He asks people to forgive him if he cannot hear what they are saying. He said that he had often thought of suicide, but that he had so much music in his head which had to be written down that he decided to continue his life. This very emotional letter was found amongst his papers after his death. It was never sent to anyone.
By 1814, Beethoven had reached the height of his fame. He was thought of as the greatest composer by the Viennese people and he was often invited by royal people to their palaces. It was the year in which he played his famous Piano Trio Op. 97 "The Archduke". That was the last time he played the piano in public. His deafness was making it impossible to continue.
Beethoven had many problems when his brother Caspar Carl died, leaving a 9-year-old son. The boy’s mother may have been incapable of looking after him, but Beethoven had to prove this in a court of law. For several years he looked after his nephew, but it was a difficult relationship and it involved a lot of legal letters and quarrels with people. In 1826, Karl tried to shoot himself. He survived, but people persuaded Beethoven to stop being his guardian. Karl went into the army.
The last years were unhappy years for Beethoven. During this time he composed very little. Then, in 1817, he recovered and wrote his last two symphonies, a mass called "Missa Solemnis", his last five piano sonatas, and a group of string quartets which were so modern and difficult that very few people at the time understood the music. Nowadays, people think they are the greatest works ever written for string quartet.
His Ninth Symphony is called the "Choral" Symphony because there is a choir and soloists in the last movement. At the time people did not understand this either, because a symphony is normally a work for orchestra, not a work with singers. Beethoven chose the words of a poem by the German poet Friedrich Schiller: "An die Freude" ("Ode to Joy"). It is all about living together in peace and harmony, so that it sends an important message to people. This is why it has been chosen in recent years as the National Anthem for the European Union. The Ninth Symphony was performed at a concert on May 7, 1824. After the scherzo movement the audience applauded enthusiastically, but Beethoven could not hear the applause and one of the singers had to turn him round so that he could see that people were clapping.
Beethoven died on March 26, 1827. About 20,000 people came onto the streets for his funeral. The famous poet Franz Grillparzer wrote the funeral speech. One of the torchbearers was Franz Schubert. Schubert died the next year. In 1888 Beethoven’s and Schubert’s remains were moved to another cemetery in Vienna and were placed side by side.
Beethoven’s music is usually divided into three periods: Early, Middle and Late. Most composers who live a long time develop as they get older and change their way of composing. Of course, these changes in style are not sudden, but they are quite a good way of understanding the different periods of his composing life.
His first period includes the works he wrote in his youth in Bonn, and his early days in Vienna up to about 1803. His middle period starts with the Eroica Symphony and includes most of his orchestral works. His last period includes the Ninth Symphony and the late string quartets.
Beethoven is probably the most famous of all composers, and the most written about. He had a wild personality and this was something that the Romantics in the 19th century always expected from great artists. The Romantics thought that the artist was somehow a person with exaggerated qualities who was not like normal people. Beethoven had a very strong personality. He lived in the time of the French Revolution and had strong views on independence and ways of living free from tyranny. This made him a hero in many people’s eyes.
His music was so famous that many composers in the 19th century found it quite hard to compose because they thought they would be compared to him. For example, Johannes Brahms, took a long time to write his First Symphony. He thought that everyone was expecting him to be the next Beethoven. It was only towards the end of the 19th century that Gustav Mahler wrote several symphonies which include singing, although he does this very differently to Beethoven.

</doc>
<doc id="4634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4634" title="Roald Amundsen">
Roald Amundsen

Roald Amundsen (Roald Engelbregt Gravning Amundsen, 16 July 1872 c. 18 June 1928) led the Antarctic expedition (1910–12). He and his team were the first to reach the South Pole. Amundsen was also the first man known to travel the Northwest Passage.
Amundson was a Norwegian who explored the Arctic and the South Pole. On 19 December 1911, he came to the South Pole together with his men. Robert Falcon Scott and his team came 35 days later. Amundsen and his men used skis and dog sleds for transportation. Amundsen planned to kill some of his dogs on the way and use them as a source for fresh meat. 
He disappeared in June 1928 while taking part in a rescue mission. 

</doc>
<doc id="4635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4635" title="Christopher Columbus">
Christopher Columbus

Christopher Columbus (1451–1506) was a Genoese trader, explorer, and navigator. He was born in Genoa, Italy, in the year 1451. "Christopher Columbus" is the English version of Columbus's name. His real name in Italian was Cristoforo Colombo; his name in Spanish was Cristóbal Colón.
In 1492, Columbus was trying to sail to Asia. Instead he landed in the Bahamas. Because of this, people often say that Columbus discovered America. Historians know now that this is not true.
When the Spanish learned that Columbus had found a "New World," many other people, called conquistadors, went there too. This led to the Spanish colonization of the Americas.
Columbus died on May 20, 1506, in Valladolid, Spain.
Columbus is often wrongly considered the first European person to have discovered the Americas. This idea is wrong for many reasons. For example, the Caribbean is not on the American mainland and Columbus only found the mainland in 1498 Also, the first European to find America was the Viking Leif Erikson, around 1000 AD. Finally, people do not agree that either Erikson or Columbus "discovered" America. Native Americans had been living there for thousands of years before them. These earlier discoverers did not change the world as Columbus did.
Columbus wanted to find a shorter way to get to Asia. He thought he could get to Asia by sailing west from Europe. He did not know about the countries in the Western Hemisphere, so he did not realize they would block him from getting to Asia.
However, Columbus did not have enough money to pay for this voyage on his own. He was able to get the King and Queen of Spain, Ferdinand II and Isabella I of Castile, to pay for the voyage. He promised to bring back gold and spices for them.
In August of 1492, Columbus and his sailors left Spain in three ships: the "Santa María" (the Holy Mary), the "Pinta" (the Painted), and the "Santa Clara" (nicknamed the "Niña": the Little Girl).
The three ships were very small. Historians think that the largest ship, the "Santa María", was only about long, and about 16 to 19 feet (4.8 to 5.8 metres) wide.
Columbus's other ships were even smaller. Historians think they were about long. 
On October 12, 1492, after sailing for about four months, Columbus landed on a small island in the Bahamas. The natives called it Guanahani; Columbus renamed it San Salvador Island ("Holy Savior"). He met Arawak and Taíno Native Americans who lived on the island. They were friendly and peaceful towards Columbus and his crew. Not knowing where he was, and thinking that he had reached Asia, the "Indies," he called them "Indians." He claimed their land as Spain's.
Columbus then sailed to what is now Cuba, then to Hispaniola. On Hispaniola, Columbus built a fort. This was one of the first European military bases in the Western Hemisphere. He called it Navidad (Spanish for "Christmas"). He left thirty-nine crew members there, and ordered them to find and store the gold. 
On the day he landed in the Bahamas, Columbus wrote about the Arawaks and Taíno: 
Columbus noticed that some of the Arawaks had gold earrings. He took some of them as prisoners and ordered them to lead him to the gold. However, they could not.
According to Encyclopædia Britannica:
On September 24, 1493, Columbus left Spain with enough ships, supplies, and men to invade and make Spanish colonies in the New World. He had 17 ships and 1,200 men. These men included soldiers and farmers. There were also priests, whose job was to convert the natives to Christianity.
On this voyage, Columbus explored some of the islands of the Lesser Antilles. He also sailed around most of Hispaniola and explored the sides of Jamaica and Cuba he had not seen on his first voyage.
Then he went back to the Navidad fort. He found the fort burned down. Eleven of the 37 soldiers Columbus left at the fort were buried there. The rest had disappeared. Historians think this happened because of disease and fights with the Arawak people.
While Columbus was away from Navidad exploring Jamaica and Cuba, his soldiers stopped working on building a new fort and farms. They made the Arawaks give them food. They also stole things from the Arawaks and raped Arawak women. This made the Arawaks decide to fight back against the Spaniards. However, Spain had many weapons that the Arawaks had never seen, including steel swords, pikes, crossbows, dogs, and horses. This made it much easier for Spain to win fights against the Arawaks.
Columbus also took revenge against the Arawaks for killing his soldiers at Navidad. He made every native older than 14 give him a certain amount of gold every three months. If a person did not do this, Columbus's men would cut off their hands, and they would bleed to death. Historian Carl Lehrburger says that about 10,000 natives died this way. Columbus also led his soldiers to many different villages in Hispaniola to take them over and make them pay him gold also. If they could not pay the gold, people would be made into slaves or killed.
There was not much gold on the parts of the island Columbus took over. To avoid getting their hands cut off, many Arawaks tried to run away from Columbus and his men. However, Columbus's soldiers used dogs to hunt them down and kill them. Bartolomé de las Casas said that the Spanish killed two out of every three native people in the area (though he may have been exaggerating).
In February 1495, Columbus started the transatlantic slave trade. He and his soldiers captured about 1,500 Taíno. Only 500 could fit on Columbus's ships, so Columbus told his men they could take any of the rest as slaves. They took 600 and let 400 go. Of the 500 natives that Columbus shipped to Spain as slaves, about 200 died on the trip. Half of the rest were very sick when they arrived. This was the first time people had ever been shipped across the Atlantic Ocean to be sold as slaves.
Michele da Cuneo, a friend of Columbus's, helped capture natives as slaves. In a letter, da Cuneo later wrote that Columbus gave him a captured native woman to rape:
Columbus went on another voyage in 1498. King John II of Portugal had said there was a continent to the south-west of the Cape Verde islands. On his third voyage, Columbus wanted to find this continent. Before the voyage, Queen Isabella reminded Columbus that he should treat all of the native people well and make them into Christians.
On this voyage, Columbus sent three ships straight to the West Indies (the Caribbean). He led another three ships: first to two Portuguese islands, then to the Canary Islands, then Cape Verde. From Cape Verde, they sailed to the northern coast of South America and landed in Trinidad. He also explored part of South America and the islands now called Tobago and Grenada.
On August 19, 1498, Columbus returned to Hispaniola. He found that many of the Spanish settlers there were unhappy. They thought there would be more gold in the New World. Some of them had rebelled while he was gone. Columbus had five of the rebellion's leaders hanged. He also tried to make the rest of the settlers happy by giving them land in Hispaniola. However, the settlers kept sending complaints to Spain. In 1499, Queen Isabella sent a man named Francisco de Bobadilla to Hispaniola. She gave him the power to do whatever he thought he should do. When he arrived in 1500, the first thing he did was to have Columbus arrested and sent back to Spain in chains.
When he was trying to make Spanish settlers happy, Columbus started the "Encomienda" system in Hispaniola. Under this system, Columbus would give a piece of land in Hispaniola to an individual Spanish settler. Sometimes, he would give away a whole native village. Any natives that lived in that area had to work for that Spanish settler. Natives had lived on this land for centuries. Columbus was giving their land away, "and" then forcing them to work on that land.
Columbus was arrested in Hispañola, now called Santo Domingo, on August 23, 1500. He was sent to Spain in chains in October 1500. He was released on December 12, 1500, and taken to court.
Luckily, Columbus had important friends, like Dukes, other noblemen, and powerful Italian merchants. These friendships helped him get out of trouble.
Columbus died of heart failure and arthritis in Valladolid, Spain, at the possible age of 54.
Columbus's relatives said that Columbus was born in Genoa, Italy. Today, no historian can say for sure where Columbus was born. Most experts think the best evidence says he was born in Genoa. However, other historians think Columbus was born somewhere else, like Spain or Portugal. Some think he was originally a Jew who converted to Christianity.
Columbus wrote that he first went to sea when he was 14 years old.
In 1477, Columbus married Felipa Moniz Perestrelo. She was from a semi-noble family with connections to sailing. She died around 1479 or 1480 while giving birth to their son, Diego.
In 1485, while in Córdoba, Spain, Columbus met Beatriz Enríquez de Trasierra. They lived together for a while. They had one child named Fernando.
Columbus had a few different goals for his journeys to the New World. First, he believed he could find a shorter and easier route to Asia, which made things Europe did not. He believed he could find a shorter route to China. Other people had called this belief absurd. Columbus wanted to prove these people wrong.
Second, Columbus wanted to find gold. Gold was the main kind of money used in Columbus's times. In his letter to Spain's King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella, Columbus wrote: “Gold is most excellent; gold is treasure, and [the person] who [has] it does all he wishes to in this world." This means that someone with gold can do anything he wants to do. Many historians believe that Columbus wanted to become a powerful person and in order to become powerful, he needed to find gold.
When the Spanish learned about the New World, many conquistadors, or conquerors, went there. This led to the Spanish colonization of the Americas.
The Spanish conquistadors first settled on the islands of Hispaniola (now the Dominican Republic and Haiti), Cuba, and Puerto Rico. They grabbed as much gold as they could. The Spanish also brought priests and forced the Native Americans to convert to Christianity.
In the United States, Columbus Day is a holiday that celebrates Columbus's arrival in the New World on October 12, 1492. 
The World's Columbian Exposition, which happened in 1893 in Chicago, Illinois, was held to celebrate the 400th anniversary of Columbus visiting the Americas.

</doc>
<doc id="4639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4639" title="GNU General Public License">
GNU General Public License

The GNU General Public License (GPL) is a computer software copyleft license. This license lets the user of the software use a program in many of the same ways as if it were public domain. They can use it, change it, and copy it. They can also sell or give away copies of the program with or without any changes they made to it. The license lets them do this as long as they agree to follow the terms of the license. The GPL was created by Richard Stallman. The current version is version 3, created in 2007, although some software still uses version 2, created in 1991.
There are two main terms to the license. Both apply to giving the program away or selling it. 
If the user does not agree to follow the GPL, they can still use the software under copyright laws. They can use it and make copies or changes to it for themselves, but they cannot give it away or sell it. They also can not change the license.

</doc>
<doc id="4641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4641" title="Triangle (disambiguation)">
Triangle (disambiguation)

In geometry, a triangle is the flat shape formed by joining three points (not in a straight line) with straight line segments. A triangle is a three sided polygon.
In music, a triangle is a musical instrument that is made from a metal tube. It is in the shape of a triangle. It is open at one corner, and when it is hit with a metal stick, it makes a sound.

</doc>
<doc id="4642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4642" title="Square">
Square

A square is a shape with four equal sides and four corners that are all right angles (90 degrees). The diagonals of a square also cross at right angles. The angle between any diagonal and a side of a square is 45 degrees. A square has rotational symmetry of four. It has four lines of regular symmetry.
A square is a type of rectangle with all sides of equal length. However note that while a square is a type of rectangle, a rectangle does not necessarily need to be a square.
A square is also the 2-dimensional analogue of a cube.

</doc>
<doc id="4645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4645" title="Computer hardware">
Computer hardware

Computer hardware or hardware means the physical parts that make up a computer.
Some examples include:
Hardware needs software to tell it what to do. Without software, the hardware can not be used.

</doc>
<doc id="4646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4646" title="Meat">
Meat

Meat is animal tissue used as food. Most often is used to describe skeletal muscle and fat that is found with it. Types of meat include beef and veal from cattle, pork, ham and bacon from pigs, mutton from sheep, "venison" from deer and poultry from chickens, ducks and turkeys. The word meat is also used for sausages and for non-muscle organs which are used for food, for example liver, brain, and kidneys. Eggs may also be included, as may fish.
In the meat processing industry, (in some countries) the word "meat" is to mean only the flesh of mammalian species such as pigs, cattle, etc. but does not include fish, poultry, and eggs. 
Meat is an important part of the diet of many people because it contains protein. Protein helps the growth and healing of a body and gives energy. Meat is a "high-protein" food, but costs more than other foods like bread and vegetables. People who cannot afford meat, or who do not like to eat it need to find other ways to get enough protein in their diet. Beans and certain nuts are also high in protein. People that choose not to eat meat are called vegetarians, and those who do not eat any animal product are known as vegans.
Animals such as members of the cat family that mainly eat animals are called carnivores. 
Red meat is darker-coloured meat, different from white meat such as chicken or fish. Some raw meat can make people sick or even cause death.

</doc>
<doc id="4647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4647" title="Anders Celsius">
Anders Celsius

Anders Celsius (27 November 1701 – 25 April 1744) was a Swedish astronomer. Celsius was born in Uppsala in Sweden. He developed the Celsius temperature scale when he worked on meteorology (a science about weather conditions). It later became an the international standard. One of his good friends Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit invented the Fahrenheit scale for the thermometer. 

</doc>
<doc id="4648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4648" title="Tuvalu">
Tuvalu

Tuvalu is a small island country in the Pacific Ocean. In the past, it was the Ellice Islands. It was part of Gilbert and Ellice Islands. It is a monarchy.
Tuvalu is getting smaller. If the sea level keeps rising at the same rate, this country will be covered by water in about 50 years.
The most important language spoken in Tuvalu is Tuvaluan, although Nuian is spoken on the island of Nui.
The United States and Tuvalu signed a treaty of friendship in 1979, when the USA gave up its claim to the islands of Funafuti, Nukefetau, Nukulaelae, and Nurakita.
Tuvalu is made up of 9 islands: 
Tuvalu has four reef islands and five true atolls. The atolls have only 26km land. Tuvalu is the fourth smallest country in the world. The land is very low lying and the coral atolls are narrow. Funafuti is the largest atoll of the islands and atolls. It has many islets around a central lagoon. This is about 25.1 kilometres (15.6 mi) (N–S) by 18.4 kilometres (11.4 mi) (W-E), centred on 179°7’E and 8°30’S. A
The highest height is above sea level, which gives Tuvalu the second-lowest highest elevation of any country (after the Maldives). Because of this, the islands that make up Tuvalu are threatened by any sea level rise. If this happens, the people will have to go to New Zealand, Niue or the Fijian island of Kioa. Tuvalu is also affected by what is known as a king tide, which can raise the sea level higher than a normal high tide.

</doc>
<doc id="4649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4649" title="Java">
Java

Java () is one of the islands of Indonesia. 
The area is 132,000 square km. It is the world's 13th largest island. Around 140 million people live there, more than on any other island in the world. Most of them speak the Javanese language and many also speak other languages. 
The Java Sea is to the north, the Indian Ocean south. The capital city of Indonesia, Jakarta, is in Java.
Most of Java has a tropical monsoon climate (Am in the Koeppen climate classification). The northern coast of the island is low-lying. The soil is fertile. It is an important area for growing crops in Indonesia.

</doc>
<doc id="4651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4651" title="James Watt">
James Watt

James Watt (19 January 1736 19 August 1819) was a Scottish mathematician and engineer. He did not invent the first steam engine, but he did modify it to work better. There were other patented steam engines (such as the Savery and Newcomen steam engines) in use by the time Watt started his work on them. His major contribution is in developing the modern form of the steam engine. The Watt steam engine is credited for driving the Industrial Revolution of the 18th and 19th centuries. James Watt was a brilliant engineer and he also transformed the Newcomen engine.
Today, most people honor him by naming a unit of power, the watt, after him.
James Watt was born on 19 January 1736 in Greenock, Renfrewshire, a seaport on the Firth of Clyde. His father was a shipwright, ship owner and contractor, and served as the town's chief baillie, while his mother, Agnes Muirhead, came from a distinguished family and was well educated. Both were Presbyterians and strong Covenanters. Watt's grandfather, Thomas Watt, taught mathematics and was a baillie to the Baron of Cartsburn. Watt did not go to school every day. At first, he was mostly schooled at home by his mother but later he attended Greenock grammar school. He exhibited great manual dexterity and an aptitude for mathematics, although Latin and Greek failed to interest him, and he absorbed the legends and lore of the Scottish people.
One of Watt's many improvements was the invention of a "centrifugal governor" to regulate automatically the speed of the engine. This is most obvious on steam engines where it regulates the admission of steam into the cylinder(s). It is also found on internal combustion engines and variously fueled turbines, and in some modern striking clocks.
A centrifugal governor is a homeostatic device which controls the speed of an engine by regulating the amount of "intermediate substance" (steam) which drives the machine. This keeps a near constant speed whatever the load or fuel supply conditions. It uses the principle of proportional control: this means the cut-off of (in this case) steam varies according to the speed of the machine.
On Watt's fly-ball device, as the machine speeds up, the balls fly round faster. As they fly round faster, they move out from the central post. As they move out from the central post, they close the steam supply more firmly. As they do so, the machine slows down and the balls spin more slowly, and allow more steam into the cylinders. In addition, the system has a safety release valve to allow excess steam to escape without driving the wheels. 500 Boulton & Watt engines were built by the firm between 1775 and 1800.
Later, this kind of feedback loop became an important tool of cybernetics.
Watt went into partnership with a fellow member of the Midlands Lunar Society, Matthew Boulton. The firm of Boulton & Watt designed and built steam engines, and was very important to the industrial revolution.
At first the partnership made the drawing and specifications for the engines, and supervised the work to erect it on the customers property. They produced almost none of the parts themselves. Watt did most of his work at his home in Harper’s Hill in Birmingham, while Boulton worked at the Soho Manufactory.
Gradually the partners began to actually make more and more of the parts, and by 1795 they purchased a property about a mile away from the Soho manufactory, on the banks of the Birmingham Canal. There they built a new foundry for making the engines. The Soho Foundry opened in 1796 at a time when Watt’s sons, Gregory and James Jr. were heavily involved in the management of the enterprise. In 1800, the year of Watt’s retirement, the firm made a total of forty-one engines.
Watt retired in 1800, the same year that his fundamental patent and partnership with Boulton expired. The famous partnership was transferred to the men's sons, Matthew Robinson Boulton and James Watt Jr. Longtime firm engineer William Murdoch was soon made a partner and the firm prospered.

</doc>
<doc id="4652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4652" title="1267">
1267


</doc>
<doc id="4653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4653" title="Michelangelo">
Michelangelo

Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni (6 March 1475 – 18 February 1564), known as Michelangelo, was an Italian Renaissance painter, sculptor, architect, poet, and engineer. Along with Leonardo da Vinci, he is often called a "Renaissance man" which means that he had great talent in many areas.
Michelangelo lived an extremely busy life, creating a great number of artworks. Some of Michelangelo's works are among the most famous that have ever been made. They include two very famous marble statues, "the Pieta" in Saint Peter's Basilica and "David" which once stood in a piazza in Florence but is now in the Accademia Gallery. His most famous paintings are huge frescos, the Sistine Chapel Ceiling and the "Last Judgement". His most famous work of architecture is the east end and dome of Saint Peter's Basilica.
A lot is known about Michelangelo's life because he left many letters, poems and journals. Because he was so famous, he became the very first artist to have his biography (story of his life) published while he was still living. His biographer, Giorgio Vasari, said that he was the greatest artist of the Renaissance. He was sometimes called "Il Divino" ("the divine one"). 
Other artists said that he had "terribilità", (his works were so grand and full of strong emotion that they were scary). Many other artists who saw his work tried to have the same emotional quality. From this idea of "terribilità" came a style of art called Mannerism.
Michelangelo was born on 6 March 1475 in Caprese near Arezzo, Tuscany. His father was Lodovico di Leonardo di Buonarroti di Simoni, and his mother was Francesca di Neri del Miniato di Siena. The Buonarrottis were a banking family from Florence. They claimed they were descended from the noble Countess Matilda of Canossa. Michelangelo's father had lost most of the bank’s money, so he worked for the local government in the town of Chiusi. When Michelangelo was a baby, the family moved back to Florence. Because he was sickly, Michelangelo was sent to live on a small farm with a stonecutter and his wife and family. The stonecutter worked at a marble quarry owned by Michelangelo's father. Many years later Michelangelo said that the two things that had helped him to be a good artist were being born in the gentle countryside of Arezzo and being raised in a house where, along with his nurse's milk, he was given the training to use a chisel and hammer. His mother died when he was only seven.
Michelangelo’s father then brought him back to Florence and sent him to study with a tutor, Francesco da Urbino. Michelangelo was not interested in his school lessons. He explored the great churches of the city, and drew copies of the frescos that he saw there. When he was thirteen, he was apprenticed to the painter Domenico Ghirlandaio. Ghirlandaio had a large busy studio. He had rich patrons who worked for the Medici. He painted frescos in their family chapels. Michelangelo was able to learn the art of fresco painting very well, from Ghirlandaio. In a large workshop such as Ghirlandaio’s, artists would have been working in all sorts of different media, including sculpture, metalwork and painting altarpieces. Michelangelo would have learned about all these things. When Michelangelo was only fourteen, his father persuaded Ghirlandaio to pay his apprentice as an artist, which was highly unusual at the time.
The richest, most powerful family in Florence were the Medici. They had an academy where some of the most famous philosophers, poets, and artists met to share their ideas. The Medici family were important patrons of the arts. In 1489, Lorenzo de' Medici, the head of the family, asked Ghirlandaio to send his two best pupils to the academy. Michelangelo was one of the students chosen and he attended the academy from 1490 to 1492. He heard the teaching and discussion of Marsilio Ficino, Pico della Mirandola and Angelo Poliziano. The philosophy that they taught was called Humanism. It was based on the philosophy of the ancient Greek Plato. Michelangelo’s ideas and his art were influenced by these teachings. 
Michelangelo and another young sculptor called Pietro Torrigiano studied sculpture under Bertoldo di Giovanni. Michelangelo had an argument with Torrigiano, who punched him on the nose so that it was badly broken and spoilt his appearance for the rest of his life. Michelangelo sculpted some reliefs (flat panels with raised figures on them). One was ‘’the Battle of the Centaurs’’ which was made for Lorenzo de Medici.
In 1492, Michelangelo’s patron, Lorenzo de' Medici died. This brought about a big change in Michelangelo’s life. He went back to live at his father’s house. Michelangelo asked the prior at the Church of Santo Spirito to allow him to study the anatomy of the bodies of people who had died at the church’s hospital. In 1493, as a “thank-you” gift to the prior, Michelangelo carved a large wooden Crucifix which still hangs in the church. In January 1494, there were very heavy snowfalls. Lorenzo de’ Medici’s son, Piero de Medici commissioned Michelangelo to make a snow statue. So Michelangelo began to work for the Medici again.
In 1494, a new leader rose up in Florence. He was a Dominican friar called Savonarola. His strong preaching caused people to burn their books, throw away their jewellery and chase the rich families out of the city. The Medici had to go. For Michelangelo, it was a good time to travel. He stayed for a while in Venice, then moved to Bologna. In Bologna he soon got work sculpting three figures for the big marble Shrine of Saint Dominic. When things calmed down in Florence, Michelangelo returned and worked for another member of the Medici family, Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco de' Medici.
Michelangelo made a marble statue of Cupid asleep. Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco told Michelangelo that it looked just like a real Ancient Roman statue and said that if he made it dirty and knocked a few chips off, someone would pay a lot of money for it. Lorenzo sold it to a Cardinal who discovered that it was a fraud. He thought that Michelangelo’s work was so good that he told the pope about it. The pope then invited Michelangelo to go to Rome and work for him.
Michelangelo arrived in Rome 25 June 1496 at the age of 21. He lived near the church of Santa Maria di Loreto on the Gianicolo hill.
In 1496 he got an important “commission” (he was given a paid job) from Cardinal Raffaele Riario. The Cardinal wanted Michelangelo to make a marble statue, larger than life-size, of Bacchus, the Ancient Roman God of wine. Michelangelo worked hard at the statue. He carved Bacchus as a young man who was quite drunk, and looked as if he was staggering as he raised his cup to make a toast. The cardinal did not like the drunken Bacchus and would not pay for it. A banker called Jacopo Galli bought it for his garden.
Michelangelo’s next important commission was from the French Ambassador who asked him to make a statue of the Virgin Mary mourning over the dead body of her son Jesus. This type of artwork, either a painting or a statue, is called by the Italian name “Pieta” (say: “Pe-ay-ta”). Michelangelo’s Pieta is the most famous Pieta that has ever been made. It is now in Saint Peter's Basilica and is visited by thousands of people every day. Giorgio Vasari wrote: "It is a miracle that a shapeless block of stone could have been carved away to make something so perfect that even nature could hardly have made it better, using real human flesh."
In 1499 Michelangelo returned to Florence. The priest Savonarola had made so many people angry that he had been put to death in 1498. Life in Florence started to return to normal. Many years earlier the Guild of Woolworkers had commissioned some artists to make statues of the heroes of the city. A sculptor called Agostino di Duccio had started carving a huge statue of David, the hero of the Bible story of David and Goliath. For 40 years the Guild of Woolworkers owned the huge block of marble, with the statue hardly begun. In 1501 they commissioned the young Michelangelo to carve it. It took him three years to complete.
Once again Michelangelo made a statue that became world-famous. The statue shows a young man, naked in the way that statues of ancient gods were made, just pausing for a moment and looking with fierce eyes at the huge soldier Goliath that he is about to kill. The statue is 5.17 meter (17 ft) tall. It was placed in the piazza (public square) outside the Palazzo Vecchio where the town council met. After many years, the statue was put into an art gallery, the Accademia. A copy now stands in the piazza. People still go great distances to see the statue that he made.
In 1505 Michelangelo was invited to Rome by the newly elected Pope Julius II. Pope Julius was an old man. He wanted Michelangelo to design a grand tomb. It was to stand inside a church and have many carved figures which were to include several slaves to hold up part of the tomb and Old Testament prophets to sit in niches (openings in the walls). Michelangelo started work. He made a magnificent statue of Moses which is now in the Church of S. Pietro in Vincoli (St Peter in Chains) in Rome. Many people go to look at this statue. The slaves were only partly carved. Four of them are now in the Accademia in Florence. The rest of the great plan was unfinished.
The main reason that Pope Julius' tomb was not finished was that the Pope had an idea for another artwork. The Sistine Chapel near St. Peter's Basilica had its walls painted by some famous artists from Florence. The Pope decided that Michelangelo should paint the ceiling. Michelangelo did not want to. He said that he was not a painter. But the Pope bullied Michelangelo until he agreed to do it. He told the Pope that he would do it "for God" and that he would only do it if the Pope let him paint it "in his own way".
The chapel was long and wide. Its curved ceiling was held up by twelve fan-shaped pieces of wall called "pendentives". Pope Julius told Michelangelo to paint one of the twelve apostles of Jesus on each pendentive. Michelangelo started to do this. Then he got a different idea and scraped off the work that he had done. Instead of apostles he painted twelve prophets. Seven of them were men from the Old Testament but the other five were women and did not come from the Bible. They were five prophets from the Classical world. Like the prophets in the Bible, they had all told people about the birth of Jesus.
On the middle of the ceiling, instead of painting a starry sky, Michelangelo painted scenes from the Bible telling the story of Creation and the downfall of humanity. The most famous scene is the picture of God creating Adam. The ceiling was so famous that many artists tried to copy the way that Michelangelo had arranged and painted the figures.
In 1513 Pope Julius II died. The next pope was Pope Leo X, a member of the Medici family. He gave Michelangelo several jobs in Florence, including designing the Medici Chapel to hold the tombs of his family members. Although not all the tombs were built, Michelangelo finished seven large statues including a "Madonna and Child". His pupils later completed the chapel.
In 1527, the people of Florence became angry at the Medici for acting like princes. That was not the right way for a family to act, in a city that was a republic. The people threw the Medici out, but the Medici came back with an army and took over the city. Michelangelo was so upset at the behaviour of the Medici that he left his beloved city and never went back.
Pope Clement VII called Michelangelo back to the Sistine Chapel to paint the wall behind the altar with a huge scene of "The Last Judgement". He worked on it from 1534 to 1541. At the centre it shows Jesus, surrounded by saints, sitting in judgement over the people of the Earth. To the left, people are rising from their graves and many are welcomed into Heaven. To the right, other people are being sent to Hell where they are dragged down by demons. It is a huge painting with many figures in it.
Like Adam and Eve on the ceiling, all the figures were shown naked. Some of the cardinals in the church said that it was wicked to paint saints, including the Virgin Mary, with no clothes on. They called Michelangelo "the painter of rude bits". There was a long argument about this because some people said that God had created everyone naked, so clothes would not be needed in Heaven. After Michelangelo's death another artist, Daniele da Volterra was called in to paint drapes on the figures. For the rest of his life he was known as "the painter of pants".
In 1546, when Michelangelo was his seventies, he was given one of his most important jobs. The old St Peter's Basilica had been partly demolished and a new one designed by Bramante. But many architects had worked on it and it was still just at the beginning stages. Michelangelo was made the architect. He immediately improved the plan, had important parts made much stronger, and designed a huge dome, taller than any other dome in the world. He died before it was completed, but he left drawings and models so that the next architect, Giacomo della Porta, could finish what he had started. The dome of St. Peter's Basilica still stands as one of the greatest monuments of Christianity, and as a symbol of the city of Rome.
When Michelangelo died, his body was taken back to Florence and buried in the Basilica of Santa Croce (Church of the Holy Cross). On his tomb sit three mourning figures who symbolize Architecture, Painting and Sculpture.

</doc>
<doc id="4654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4654" title="Leonardo da Vinci">
Leonardo da Vinci

Leonardo da Vinci (15. April 1452 – 2. May 1519) was an Italian man who lived in the time of the Renaissance. He is famous for his paintings, but he was also a scientist, mathematician, engineer, inventor, anatomist, sculptor, architect, botanist, musician, and a writer. 
Leonardo wanted to know about everything in nature. He wanted to know how everything worked. He was very good at studying, designing and making all sorts of interesting things.
Many people think that Leonardo was one of the greatest painters of all time. Other people think that he was the most talented person ever to have lived. The art historian Helen Gardner said that no-one has ever been quite like him because he was interested in so many things that he seems to have had the mind of a giant, and yet what he was like as a person is still a mystery.
Leonardo was born at Vinci which is a small town near Florence, Italy. He was trained to be an artist by the sculptor and painter Verrocchio. He spent most of his life working for rich Italian noblemen. In his last years, he lived in a beautiful home given to him by the King of France.
Two of his pictures are among the best-known paintings in the world: the "Mona Lisa" and "The Last Supper". He did many drawings. The best-known drawing is "Vitruvian Man". Leonardo was often thinking of new inventions. He kept notebooks with notes and drawings of these ideas. Most of his inventions were never made. Some of his ideas were a helicopter, a tank, a calculator, a parachute, a robot, a telephone, evolution, and solar power.
Leonardo was born on 15 April 1452, in the Tuscan hill town of Vinci, in the valley of the Arno River. His grandfather, Antonio Meza, wrote down the details of the birth. Leonardo's parents were not married. His father was a lawyer, Messer Piero Fruosino di Antonio da Vinci. His mother, Caterina, was a servant. She may have been a slave from the Middle East. When da Vinci was three years of age his father divorced his mother. His father later on took custody of Leonardo and his mother re-married and had many more children. Leonardo's full name was "Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci", which means "Leonardo, the son of Messer (Mister) Piero from Vinci".
Leonardo spent his first five years living in a farm house with his mother. Then he lived at Vinci with his father, his father's new wife Albiera, his grandparents and uncle, Francesco. When Leonardo grew up, he only wrote down two memories from his childhood. He remembered that when he was lying outside in his cradle a large bird flew from the sky and hovered over him. Its tail feathers brushed his face. Leonardo's other important memory was how he found a cave while exploring in the mountains. He was terrified that some great monster might be hiding there. But he was also very excited and wanted to find out what was inside.
Leonardo started painting while he was still a boy. Giorgio Vasari wrote about Leonardo's life shortly after his death. He tells many interesting stories about how clever Leonardo was. He says that Leonardo painted a round wooden shield with a picture of snakes spitting fire. Messer Piero took his son's painting to Florence and sold it to an art dealer.
In 1466, when Leonardo was fourteen, his father took him to Florence, to be an apprentice to the artist Verrocchio.
Florence was a very exciting place for a young person who wanted to be an artist. Many famous artists had lived in Florence, starting with Cimabue and Giotto in the 1200s. Everywhere a person looked there were famous and beautiful artworks. The huge cathedral had an enormous new dome. The church of St John had doors that gleamed with gold and were said to be the most beautiful doors in the world. Another church had statues all around it by the most famous sculptors, including one by Leonardo's teacher Verrocchio.
If an artist was lucky, they would find a rich patron who would buy lots of their paintings. The richest family in Florence were the Medici. They had built themselves the finest palace in Florence, and liked buying paintings, statues and other beautiful things. They were also interested in the study of literature and philosophy. Many young artists hoped to get work from the Medici and their friends.
Verrocchio had a big workshop that was one of the busiest in Florence. Leonardo was learning to be an artist, so he had to learn drawing, painting, sculpting and model making. While he was at the workshop, he was able to learn all sorts of other useful skills: chemistry, metallurgy, metal working, plaster casting, leather working, mechanics and carpentry.
Leonardo was not the only young painter at Verrocchio's workshop. Many other painters were trained there, or often visited. Some of them later became famous: Ghirlandaio, Perugino and Botticelli. These artists were all just a few years older than Leonardo.
Vasari tells an interesting story from this time of Leonardo's life. Verrocchio was painting a large picture of "the Baptism of Christ". He gave Leonardo the job of painting one of the angels holding Jesus' robe on the left side of the picture. Vasari said that Leonardo painted the angel so beautifully that Verrocchio put down his brush and never painted again. When the painting is examined closely it is possible to see that many other parts of the picture, such as the rocks, the brown stream and the background may have been painted by Leonardo as well. Verrocchio made a bronze statue of "David" at this time. It is believed that he used Leonardo as his model.
In about 1472, when he was twenty, Leonardo joined the Guild of St Luke, an organisation of artists and doctors of medicine. Even after his father set him up in his own workshop, Leonardo still enjoyed working at Verrocchio's workshop. Leonardo's earliest known work is a drawing in pen and ink of the Arno River valley. It has the date 5 August 1473. It is now in the Uffizi Gallery. 
When Vasari writes about Leonardo, he uses words like "noble", "generous", "graceful" and "beautiful". Vasari tells us that as an adult Leonardo was a tall handsome man. He was so strong that he could bend horseshoes with his bare hands. His voice was so beautiful that it charmed everyone that heard it. Almost everyone wanted to be his friend. He loved animals, was a vegetarian and would buy birds at the market and set them free.
Very little is known about Leonardo's life and work between 1472 and 1481. He was probably busy in Florence. In 1478, he had an important commission to paint an altarpiece for the Monks of San Donato a Scopeto. The painting was to be the "Adoration of the Magi" ("The Three Wise Men"). The painting was never finished because Leonardo was sent away to Milan.
Leonardo was a very talented musician. In 1482, he made a silver lyre (a musical instrument) in the shape of a horse's head. At that time there was a new ruler in the city of Milan, in the north of Italy. Duke Ludovico il Moro was making other rulers nervous. Lorenzo Medici sent Leonardo to Milan as an ambassador. Lorenzo de' Medici wanted Leonardo to give Ludovico the lyre as a present from him. Leonardo wrote a letter to the Duke of Milan, telling him about all the clever and useful things that he could do, like making war machines. He wrote in the letter that he could "also paint". Leonardo did not know at the time that it was for painting that he would be mostly remembered. Leonardo stayed in Milan and worked for the Duke between 1482 and 1499. Part of his work was to design festivals and carnival processions. In Leonardo's note books are drawings of theatre costumes, amazing helmets and scenes that might be for the theatre. 
Leonardo, like most other well-known artists of his time, had servants, young students and older assistants in his workshop. One of his young students was a boy whose name was Gian Giacomo Caprotti da Oreno. He was a handsome boy with beautiful long golden curls. He looked perfect as an artist's model for an angel. But he was such a difficult and dishonest boy that Leonardo called him "Salai" or "Salaino" which means "the little devil". Leonardo wrote in his notebook that Salai was very greedy, that he was a liar and that he had stolen things from the house at least five times. Salai stayed in Leonardo's household for thirty years as a pupil and a servant.
Leonardo's most important work for Duke Ludovico was to make a huge statue of the previous ruler, Francesco Sforza, on horseback. He started with the horse. After studying horses and drawing designs, he made a huge horse of clay. It was called the "Gran Cavallo". It was going to be cast in bronze. It was going to be the biggest bronze horse that had been made for more than a thousand years. Unfortunately, the bronze horse was never made. In 1494, Ludovico gave the bronze to be made into cannons because the French army was invading Milan. The huge clay horse was still standing when the French army invaded again in 1499. This time it was used for target practice and was completely destroyed.
While Leonardo was working for Duke Ludovico, he had two important painting commissions. One was to do an oil painting to go in a big altarpiece for the Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception. Leonardo did the painting twice. He left one with the monks in Milan, and took the other painting to France where it is now in the Louvre Museum. The paintings are both called "the Virgin of the Rocks". They show a scene of the Virgin Mary and the child Jesus in a rocky mysterious landscape. Mary and Jesus are meeting with John the Baptist. There is a story (which is not in the Bible but is part of Christian tradition) about how the baby John and the baby Jesus met on the road to Egypt. In this scene John is praying and the baby Jesus raises his hand to bless John. The paintings have a strange eerie light with soft deep shadows. In the background is a lake and mountains in the mist. No painting like this had ever been done before.
Leonardo's other important painting in Milan is even more famous. It is the "Last Supper". The painting shows the last meal shared by Jesus with his disciples, before his capture and death. Leonardo chose to paint the moment when Jesus has said "one of you will betray me". Leonardo tells the story of the surprise and upset that this caused to the twelve followers of Jesus. He tells the story through the actions and faces of the people in the painting. Some of them are talking, some of them have stood up, some are raising their hands in horror.
The novelist Matteo Bandello saw Leonardo at work. Bandello wrote that on some days he would paint from morning till night without stopping to eat. Then for three or four days he would not paint at all. He would often just stand and look at the painting. Vasari said that the prior of the convent was very annoyed. He asked Ludovico to tell Leonardo to work faster. Vasari said that Leonardo was worried because he did not think that he could paint the face of Jesus well enough. Leonardo told the Duke that he might use the face of the prior as his model for Judas, the traitor.
When it was finished, everyone that saw it said that the painting was a masterpiece. But Leonardo had not used proper fresco for the painting. He had used tempera over gesso, which is not usually used for wall painting. Soon the painting started to grow mold and flake off the wall. In a hundred years it was "completely ruined".
Even though in some places the paint has fallen right off the wall, the painting is so popular that it is printed and copied more that any other religious painting in the world.
In 1499, Ludovico il Moro was overthrown. Leonardo left Milan with his servant Salai and a friend, Luca Pacioli, who was a mathematician. They went to Venice. Leonardo worked as a military architect and engineer. Because Venice is a city on many islands, Leonardo tried to think of ways to defend the city from a naval attack.
In 1500, Leonardo went back to Florence, taking his "household" of servants and apprentices with him. The monks from the monastery of "The Holy Annunciation" gave Leonardo a home and a large workshop. In 2005, some buildings which were used by the Department of Military Geography were being restored. The restorers discovered that part of the building was Leonardo's studio.
Leonardo started work on a new painting. He drew a large "cartoon". (This means a drawing that is a plan for the painting.) The cartoon showed the Virgin Mary sitting on the knee of her mother, St Anne. Mary holds the baby Jesus in her arms. Jesus stretches out his hands to his young cousin John the Baptist. Vasari says that everyone was so amazed by the beautiful drawing that "men and women, young and old" came in large groups to see it "as if they were attending a great festival". The drawing is now in the National Gallery, London. Even though it is old and faded and is kept in a dark room, people go to the gallery to sit in front of it every day. Like many of Leonardo's projects, the painting was never done.
In 1502 and 1503, Leonardo worked for Cesare Borgia, a powerful noble who was the son of Pope Alexander VI. Leonardo travelled around Italy with Borgia, as a military architect and engineer. Late in 1503, Leonardo returned to Florence. He rejoined the Guild of St Luke. 
He was given a very important commission. The Signoria (Town Council) of the City of Florence wanted two large frescos painted on the walls of the most important room of the Signoria Palace. Michelangelo was to paint "The Battle of Cascina" and Leonardo was to paint "The Battle of Anghiari". Leonardo began the project by studying and drawing the faces of angry men and fighting horses. These drawings can still be seen in his notebooks. But unfortunately, this was to be another failure for Leonardo. When he painted the picture on the wall, instead of using fresco, he mixed the paints with oil. The paint would not dry. Leonardo lit some fires to dry it, and the painting melted. Peter Paul Rubens drew a copy of the middle part. After a time, the town council covered it up and got somebody else to paint the wall. Michelangelo did not finish his painting either, because the Pope called him to Rome.
In about 1503 Leonardo began painting the a portrait of a woman known as "Mona Lisa", the most famous portrait that has ever been painted. He continued working on it for many years. It is a small picture, painted in oil on a wooden panel. It shows the face, upper body and hands of a woman. She is very plainly dressed. For a portrait, a woman would usually put on her best clothes and jewellery. Mona Lisa has a dark dress and a fine black veil over her head. Leonardo often left symbols in his paintings that give clues about the person. The unusual thing about this picture is the smile. The smile is the clue to her name: Mona Lisa Giacondo. Giacondo means "the joking one". (Mona is short for Madonna which means "My Lady".)
The reason why the painting is so famous is that it seems to be full of mystery. Mona Lisa's eyes look out at the viewer. But no-one can guess what she is thinking. Her eyes and her mouth seem to be smiling. This is very unusual in a portrait painting. Most people in portraits look very serious. It is hard to tell what Mona Lisa's exact expression is. When a person wants to read another person's feelings, they look at the corners of their mouth and eyes. But Leonardo has painted soft shadows in the corners of Mona Lisa's mouth and eyes, to disguise her expression. The soft shadows are also found on the sides of her face, her neck and hands. The way that Leonardo uses shadow is called "sfumato" (which is an Italian word for "smoke"). Vasari said that the picture was so beautifully painted that every other artist who looked at it thought that they could never paint so well.
In 1506, Leonardo went back to Milan with his pupils, and lived in his own house in Porta Orientale. Some of the pupils became painters: Bernardino Luini, Giovanni Antonio Boltraffio and Marco D'Oggione. D'Oggione made several copies of the "Last Supper". Luini made a copy of "the Virgin of the Rocks". Boltraffio (and the others) painted many Madonna and Child pictures which can still be seen in art galleries and churches. One of pupils was a young nobleman called Count Francesco Melzi. Melzi never became a very good painter, but he loved Leonardo and stayed with him until the day he died.
In September 1513 Leonardo went to Rome and lived there until 1516. He lived in the Vatican. The three greatest painters of the High Renaissance, Leonardo, Michelangelo and Raphael were all working in Rome at the same time. Even though their names are often said together as if they were friends, they were not. Leonardo at this time was in his sixties, Michelangelo was middle-aged. He was not friendly to either Leonardo or Raphael. Raphael was a very clever young painter who learnt a lot by looking at the pictures painted by Leonardo and Michelangelo. But neither of them was ever his teacher.
In October 1515, King Francis I of France captured Milan. On December 19, there was a meeting of Francis I and Pope Leo X, in Bologna. Leonardo went to the meeting with Pope Leo. 
Leonardo made an amazing toy to entertain King Francis. It was a life-sized mechanical lion that could walk. It had doors in its chest which opened, and a bunch of lilies came out. Lilies were the royal symbol of the French Kings.
In 1516, Francis I invited Leonardo to go to France with him. He gave Leonardo a beautiful house called "Clos Lucé" (sometimes called "Cloux"). It is near the king's palace, Chateau Amboise. Leonardo spent the last three years of his life at Clos Lucé, with his faithful friend and apprentice, Count Melzi. The king gave Leonardo a pension of 10,000 scudi. One of the last paintings that Leonardo did was a picture of "John the Baptist". His model was Salai, with his beautiful long curling hair.
When Leonardo was dying, he asked for a priest to come, so that he could make his confession and receive Holy Communion.
Leonardo died at Clos Lucé, on May 2, 1519. King Francis had become a close friend. Vasari says that the King held Leonardo's head in his arms as he died. In his will, he asked that sixty beggars should follow his casket in procession. He was buried in the Chapel of the Chateau Amboise.
Leonardo had never married and had no children of his own. In his will, he left his money, his books and most of his paintings to Count Melzi. Leonardo also remembered his other pupil Salai and his servant Battista di Vilussis, who each received half of Leonardo's vineyards near Milan. Leonardo's left to his serving woman a black cloak with a fur edge. Salai was the owner of Leonardo's most famous oil painting, the "Mona Lisa". He still owned it a few years later when he died, after fighting in a duel.
King Francis said: "There had never been another man born in the world who knew as much as Leonardo, not so much about painting, sculpture and architecture, as that he was a very great philosopher."
Leonardo did not paint very many pictures. But he drew hundreds of quick sketches, plans, maps and detailed drawings. This is the way that he recorded all the interesting things that he saw, studied and thought about.
Some of Leonardo's drawings are "studies" for paintings. In these drawings Leonardo planned the things he was going to paint. Some studies are plans for whole paintings. One of these paintings is the large beautiful drawing of the Madonna and Child with St Anne and St John the Baptist that is now in the National Gallery, London.
Many of the studies show "details" that Leonardo wanted to get just right. One study shows a very detailed perspective drawing of the ruined buildings in the background of the painting of the Magi. Other studies show hands, faces, drapery, plants, horses and babies.
The earliest drawing by Leonardo that has a date on it, is a "Landscape of the Arno Valley", 1473, which shows the river, the mountains, Montelupo Castle and the farmlands beyond it in great detail.
 
Leonardo studied things all his life. He did not go to university to study. He studied by looking at things in the world around him. He looked at things to see how they were made and how they worked. He drew the things that he saw and the discoveries that he made into his notebooks, and made notes about them. Many of his notebooks are now in museums. There are 13,000 pages of notes and drawings. Many of these are scientific studies.
Leonardo's notebooks are hard to read because he wrote backwards in "mirror writing". Some people think that perhaps he was trying to keep his work secret. This is not true. Leonardo wrote (and sometimes drew) with his left hand. In those days pens were made from a quill (a large feather) that was cut with a pen-knife on the end. It is hard for a left-handed person to write with a quill in the ordinary way, but quite easy to write backwards.
It is likely that Leonardo planned to publish the studies in his notebooks. He organized many pages carefully, with one study taking up the front and back of each page. There is a page with drawings and writing about the human heart and a page about the womb and the fetus. One page shows drawings of the muscles of a shoulder and another page shows how an arm works.
The notebooks were not published in Leonardo's lifetime. After he died, they were divided between different people who had known him. They are nearly all in museums or libraries such as Windsor Castle, the Louvre, and the British Library. The Biblioteca Ambrosiana (a library) in Milan has the twelve-volume "Codex Atlanticus".
Some of the things that Leonardo studied are: 
Many of the drawings and notes in Leonardo's notebooks are designs, plans and inventions.
Some of the things that Leonardo designed are: 
ISBN 978-88-96036-65-5

</doc>
<doc id="4655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4655" title="1844">
1844


</doc>
<doc id="4656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4656" title="1902">
1902

1902 (MCMII) was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="4657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4657" title="1895">
1895


</doc>
<doc id="4658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4658" title="1796">
1796


</doc>
<doc id="4659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4659" title="1879">
1879


</doc>
<doc id="4660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4660" title="1769">
1769


</doc>
<doc id="4661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4661" title="1807">
1807


</doc>
<doc id="4662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4662" title="1885">
1885


</doc>
<doc id="4663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4663" title="1837">
1837


</doc>
<doc id="4665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4665" title="Platinum">
Platinum

Platinum is a soft, heavy, white metal. It is a precious metal . It usually costs more than gold.
In chemistry, platinum is element number 78, and its atoms have an atomic weight of 195 a.m.u.. The symbol for platinum is Pt, from Spanish "platina" meaning "little silver".
Platinum is very malleable and ductile, which means it can be hammered into thin sheets and it can be pulled into wire. Platinum is very stable. Acids do not affect platinum.
The most common use of Platinum is in a vehicle's catalytic converter.

</doc>
<doc id="4666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4666" title="List of rock types">
List of rock types

Sorted by name; initial letter means Igneous, Sedimentary or Metamorphic rocks.

</doc>
<doc id="4667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4667" title="List of minerals">
List of minerals

This is a list of minerals.

</doc>
<doc id="4668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4668" title="Mineral">
Mineral

Minerals are substances that are formed naturally in the Earth. 
Minerals are usually solid, inorganic, have a crystal structure, and form naturally by geological processes. 
The study of minerals is called mineralogy.
A mineral can be made of single chemical element or more usually a compound. There are over 4,000 types of known minerals. Two common minerals are quartz and feldspar.
A mineral is a substance that usually
One recent definition is:
Alternatively, a mineral is one listed as such by the International Mineralogical Association.
Minerals are different from rocks. A mineral is a chemical compound with a given composition and a defined crystal structure. A rock is a mixture of one or several minerals, in varying proportions.
A rock has only two of the characteristics minerals have–it is a solid and it forms naturally. A rock usually contains two or more types of minerals. Two samples of the same type of rock may have different kinds of minerals in them. Minerals are always made up of the same materials in nearly the same proportions. A ruby is a mineral. Therefore, a ruby found in India has similar makeup as a ruby found in Australia.
Minerals are formed by natural processes. A few substances with the same chemical composition as minerals can be produced by living creatures as part of their shells or bones. The shells of molluscs are composed of either calcite or aragonite, or both.
Traditionally, chemicals produced by living things are not considered minerals. However, it is difficult to see why an organic substance should not be called a mineral if its chemical nature "and" its crystalline structure is identical with its inorganic twin. This issue is now under debate: see Railsback part II.
Minerals form in many ways. The mineral halite, which is used as table salt, forms when water evaporates in a hot, shallow part of the ocean, leaving behind the salt it contained. Many types of minerals are made when molten rock, or magma cools and turns into a solid. Talc, a mineral that can be used to make baby powder, forms deep in Earth as high pressure and temperature causes changes in solid rock.
The extraordinary thing is, that most minerals owe their formation to life, or at least to the Great Oxygenation Event. "Sturdy minerals rather than fragile organic remains may provide the most robust and lasting signs of biology".
A mineral is a solid—that is, it has a definite volume and a rough shape. Volume refers to the amount of space an object takes up. For example a golf ball has a smaller volume than a baseball, and a baseball has a smaller volume than a basketball.
A substance that is a liquid or a gas is not a mineral. However, in some cases its solid form is a mineral. For instance, liquid water is not a mineral, but ice is.
These properties are used most often:
The particles of ice that make up frost have smooth, flat surfaces. These flat surfaces form because of the arrangement of atoms in the ice, which is a mineral. Such an internal arrangement is a characteristic of minerals. It is the structure of a crystal, a solid in which the atoms are arranged in an orderly, repeating three-dimensional pattern. 
Each mineral has its own type of crystal structure. In some cases, two minerals have the same chemical composition but different crystal structures. For example, both diamond and graphite consist of just one element—carbon. But the arrangements of the carbon atoms in these two minerals are not the same, so they have different crystal structures and very different properties. Diamonds are extremely hard and have a brilliant sparkle. Graphite is soft, gray, and dull. 
In nature, a perfect crystal is rare. Most crystals have imperfect shapes because their growth was limited by other crystals forming next to them.
Each mineral has a definite chemical makeup: it consists of a specific combination of atoms of certain elements. An element is a substance that contains only one type of atom.
Scientists can classify minerals into groups on the basis of their chemical makeup. Though there are thousands of different minerals, only about 30 are common in Earth's crust. These 30 minerals make up most rocks in the crust. For that reason, they are called rock-forming minerals. 
There are many other mineral groups.
People use minerals for many everyday purposes. Every time people turn on a microwave oven or a TV, minerals are being used. The copper in the wires that carry electricity to the machine is made from a mineral. Table salt or halite, is another mineral that people use in their everyday life. 

</doc>
<doc id="4669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4669" title="Craft">
Craft

Craft or handicraft is about making things with one's own hands and skills. The different types of crafts can be put in groups according to the material being used. In the Middle Ages the most common materials were metal, wood or clay.
A Craftsman is a person who has the knowledge and skills of a craft. When they have a lot of experience they may be called a "master craftsman". If they are young people learning a craft they are called an "apprentice".

</doc>
<doc id="4678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4678" title="Kim Jong-il">
Kim Jong-il

Kim Jong-il, birth name Yuri Irsenovich Kim (according to Soviet records) (, 16 February 1941 – 17 December 2011) was the Supreme Leader of Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea) from the time of his father's death in 1994 until his own death in 2011. He was the son of Kim Il-Sŏng. Official North Korean propaganda said that Jong-il was born on Mount Paektu (a holy mountain in Korea); but most historians think that he was born near Chabarowsk in the Soviet Union. Inside North Korea, it was the law that no one could try to replace Jong-il as leader of the country. He was sometimes referred to as the "Dear Leader", but this was not an official title. His official title was "Chairman of the National Defense Commission of North Korea", "Supreme Commander of the Korean People's Army" and "General Secretary of the Workers' Party of Korea". Many people in North Korea were imprisoned or killed for speaking out against the Kim regime. Almost everyone in North Korea wore a small pin with a picture of Kim Jŏng-Il or Kim Il-Sŏng on it.
The North Korean government told people of his death through the state media on 19 December 2011. It was said that he had died two days earlier of "physical and mental over-work".
Jong-il was born Yuri Irsenovich Kim on 16 February 1941.
Jong-il was a Stalinist. He believed in the North Korean Communist philosophy of Juche (self-reliance). He was afraid to travel on aeroplanes and traveled only on trains. He was well known for his love of movies and luxury goods, especially caviar and Hennessey brand cognac, even though North Korea was one of the poorest countries in the world. Former United States Secretary of State Madeleine Albright once gave Jong-il a present of a basketball signed by Michael Jordan when he visited North Korea because Jong-il was a fan of the National Basketball Association and of Michael Jordan.
On the morning of 17 December 2011, at the age of 69 or 70, Jong-il died of a heart attack while traveling. His funeral was held on 28 December, and as a result, Kim Jong-un was then elected as the new leader of North Korea. On 13 April 2012, Kim Jong-il was made Eternal Chairman of the National Defence Commission and Eternal General Secretary of the Workers Party of Korea.

</doc>
<doc id="4679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4679" title="Silver">
Silver

Silver (symbol Ag) is a chemical element. In chemistry, silver is element 47, a transition metal. It has an atomic weight of 107.86 a.m.u. Its symbol is Ag, from the Latin word for silver, "argentum".
Silver is a soft metal. It is also a precious metal. When it is used in money or in jewellery, it is often mixed with gold or some other metal to make it harder. It is bluish-white. It reflects light very well. It is a very good conductor of electricity. It is considered a precious metal. Silver is very malleable, and ductile, which means it can be pulled into wire or hammered into thin sheets. Silver is one of the only words in the English language that does not rhyme with any other word. Silver coins and bars can be bought and sold at coin shops around the world.
It is not reactive. It does not dissolve in most acids. Nitric acid dissolves it, though, to make silver nitrate. It does react with strong oxidizing agents like potassium dichromate or potassium permanganate. It does not corrode easily. It only corrodes when there is hydrogen sulfide in the air. Then, it forms a black coating known as tarnish. 
Silver exists in two main oxidation states: +1 and +2. The +1 is much more common. A few compounds exist in the +2 oxidation state, but they are very strong oxidizing agents. Silver compounds can be brown, black, yellow, gray, or colorless. Silver compounds are disinfectants.
Silver(I) compounds are oxidizing agents. They are more common. Most of them are very expensive.
Silver(II) compounds are powerful oxidizing agents and rare.
Silver can be found as a native metal. Silver can be found with copper, lead, or gold in rocks. The rocks are found mostly in Canada, Mexico, Peru, and the United States. Peru produces the most silver. Silver is also in chemical compounds. Acanthite is a silver ore that is a silver compound.
Silver is extracted from the earth in several ways. It is normally extracted using electrolysis.
Silver has been used for many thousands of years by people all over the world, for jewellery, as money, and many other things. It is called a white metal even though it looks grey. The word silver is also used to talk about this color or shade of grey. Silver is also used for utensils. It may be used to fill teeth in dentistry as an amalgam. Silver is used as a catalyst.
Silver compounds are disinfectants. It can kill bacteria and has other useful properties. It is used in the silver oxide battery. They are also used in photographic film. They can also be used to reduce odors in clothes. Some silver compounds are used in creams that help burns heal. 
Silver has been around for thousands of years. It was normally considered second to gold in value. Romans used silver as money. The symbol Ag is from the Latin name for silver, "argentum". Silver was also used to prevent infections and decay.
Silver is not a large danger to humans. Silver compounds are toxic. They make the skin turn blue. Some can be carcinogens. Colloidal silver, a common homeopathic remedy, is not toxic in normal amounts, but it does not do much.
Silver, because it is depleting, is actually more valuable than gold. The silver saved up in the world is running out very quickly because more of it has been used each year than the amount mined in each year since 1990. Companies that use silver have benefited from speculators who sell promises to deliver silver that does not exist, keeping prices artificially low. This is called naked short selling. The amount owed is more than all the silver in the world. The price of silver could go very high when the stored silver runs out and investors start asking for their metal back, instead of taking more I.O.U.'s.
Silver is 18 US dollars per troy ounce as of June 2010.
Silver increased to 28 US dollars per troy ounce as of December 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="4681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4681" title="Pope">
Pope

The Pope is the head of Catholic Church. His official title is the Bishop of Rome. He is the Chief of State of Vatican City and the head of the Catholic Bishops. The current Pope is Pope Francis.
Popes are elected by Cardinals of the Catholic Church. Once they are elected they hold the position until they die or resign. Usually they do not resign, though; Pope Benedict XVI is the only Pope to resign in the last 500 years. A newly elected Pope chooses a regnal name. Everyone is told this new name when the Habemus Papam is read out. The current pope (Francis) was called Jorge Bergoglio before he became a pope.
The name "Pope" comes from the Greek word "pappas", meaning "father". Catholics believe that when making statements "ex cathedra", that is official statements teaching about faith and morals, the Pope is "infallible" - which means God will not allow his followers to be misled by allowing their leader to make a wrong statement. Only two of any Pope's statements have been "ex cathedra". 
Popes today travel to many countries around the world preaching. The Pope is the only person in the world who runs a country and a religion at the same time. Like other bishops he wears a big hat called a mitre and holds a staff called a crosier.
Some recent Popes, and the time they were Pope:
During parts of the Middle Ages, the French kings had a lot of influence in Europe. For this reason, seven popes (and two anti-popes) lived in Avignon, rather than Rome. The Avignon Papacy was from 1309 to 1377. During that time, the popes were known for their greed and corruption. These popes were allies of France; the enemies of France were also their enemies.
The Bishops of Rome who lived in Avignon were:
Two antipopes were based in Avignon as well:
Antipopes were people that were elected by small groups who did not like the official choice. 
Catherine of Siena convinced pope Gregory XI to move back to Rome. Unfortunately, he died shortly after moving. The cardinals then elected Urban VI to be the next pope. The French cardinals did not recognise this election as legitimate. They declared the papal see as vacant; which led to the Western Schism. The schism lasted until the Council of Constance in 1417. During this time, there was a pope in Rome, an Antipope in Avignon, and for some time, a second antipope. Each of the three was recognised as legitimate pope by different European powers. This led to a big split in the church as a whole. The council elected Pope Martin V as a new pope, recognised by all parties.

</doc>
<doc id="4685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4685" title="San Andreas Fault">
San Andreas Fault

The San Andreas Fault is a right-moving ('dextral') strike-slip fault. It marks the boundary between the North American Plate on the east and the Pacific Plate on the west. The fault was the cause of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. It first appeared about 20 million years ago. 
The San Andreas Fault is a zone several miles wide with multiple strands. The main active strand runs both on and off-shore between Cape Mendocino and the Sea of Cortez. From Cape Mendocino, it runs offshore to Tomales Bay. Then it goes southward through Bolinas Lagoon, just west of the San Francisco Peninsula, to come onshore again at Daly City, through the hills of the Peninsula. Crystal Springs reservoir is formed by the fault itself. 
In the Santa Cruz mountains, it bends slightly eastward. This is the site of the 1989 Loma Prieta Earthquake. The fault continues south through the historic mission at San Juan Bautista and through the town of Hollister (where active creep can be seen to offset sidewalks and even houses). The Transverse Ranges north of Santa Barbara are formed by compression. Strands of the fault snake under the Los Angeles Basin. From there it connects into the active spreading under the Sea of Cortez.
The San Andreas fault was discovered by Andrew Lawson in 1895, who climbed into the faulted serpentinite well where the south tower of the Golden Gate Bridge was being poured. In spite of the extreme deformation of the serpentinite, Lawson declared the bridge perfectly safe. The events of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake would seem to support his conclusion: the ruptured strand was not the one he observed in the footprint of the bridge.

</doc>
<doc id="4689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4689" title="Void (astronomy)">
Void (astronomy)

In astronomy, voids are the empty spaces between filaments. Both filaments and Voids are one of the largest-scale structures in the Universe. There are no or few galaxies in voids. Most voids have a diameter of 11 to 150 Mpc. 
Especially large voids are the empty spaces without many superclusters. 
These voids are sometimes called supervoids.
A 1994 official counting ("The structure of the Universe traced by rich clusters of galaxies.", see References) lists a total of 27 supervoids with a distance of up to 740 Mpc. Some of supervoids chosen from the list are given below.

</doc>
<doc id="4690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4690" title="Computer mouse">
Computer mouse

A computer mouse is an input device that is most often used with a personal computer. Moving a mouse along a flat surface can move the on-screen cursor to different items on the screen. Items can be moved or selected by pressing the mouse buttons (called clicking).
It is called a computer mouse because of the wire that connects the mouse to the computer. The people who designed the first computer mice thought that it looked like the tail on a mouse. Today, many computer mice use wireless technology and have no wire. 
In 1964 Douglas Engelbart (1925-2013), a researcher at Stanford Research Institute, wanted to find a way to make using computers easier. In those days, computers were large and expensive. Using them was very hard because everything had to be typed in by hand, and there was no way to alter things if you made a mistake.
After studying and designing for a long time, Engelbart succeeded in inventing an input device which he named 'XY index'.
At first, it needed two hands to use, but it was changed so that only one hand was needed to use it. This model was more like the mouse that we use today. Xerox Palo Alto Research introduced a GUI in 1981, using a mouse. 
The mouse was used with Macintosh of Apple Inc. when it came out in 1984. Microsoft Windows also used the mouse when it came out, so over time computer mice became used with many computers. Modern mice have three buttons: left button, right button, scroll button.
On most computers, the user can move the mouse to move the cursor in the same direction. To choose something that is on the screen, the user can move the cursor to it and "click" the left mouse button. The right mouse button is used to open menus that are different depending on where the cursor is. The other mouse buttons can do different things, depending on the software. Most mice have two buttons to click. 
Most mice also have a "scroll wheel"—a small wheel found between the two main mouse buttons. The user can move the wheel back and forth to "scroll" through things like a website or folder. "Scrolling" means moving the words or pictures up or down on the screen, so another part of the page comes into view. The wheel can also be pressed, to click it like another button.

</doc>
<doc id="4693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4693" title="Metallurgy">
Metallurgy

Metallurgy is the study of metals. Alloys (mixtures of metals) are also studied. People who study or work with metals are called "metallurgists".
Ores are rocks that have a chemical compound of a metal with oxygen, called an oxide. Separating the oxygen from the metal is called smelting. This is done with chemistry or electricity, usually at very high temperatures. This is the first step in metallurgy. A rock containing enough metal to be profitable is called "ore".
Iron is smelted from iron ore in large reactors called blast furnaces. A blast furnace is a tall vertical structure which is fed with coke, iron ore and limestone. When hot air is blown in the blast furnace, the coke will burn and reduce the oxygen off the ore, producing bare iron and carbon dioxide. The limestone will bind off any remaining bedrock. The iron melts in the hot temperature and is tapped off in liquid phase at the bottom. It is then worked into steel. The limestone and bedrock form a compound called slag. It can be used for making bricks, concrete or road topping.
Aluminum is smelted in electric ovens called electric arc furnaces. The aluminum ore is poured on the bottom of the furnace and electric current is led through the ore. The temperature rises so high that the oxygen separates, leaving metallic aluminum.
Copper is poured on naked flame which burns off sulfur and other impurities, leaving raw copper. Electrolysis uses electric current to separate the copper in big pools, which contain water solution called electrolyte. An electric current is led in the pool, and all copper will gather on the electrode called cathode.
Another part of metallurgy is making parts from metals. These parts must be made so they will not break when they are used. Metallurgists work to make the metal good when they are used. Sometimes the metal must be strong. Other times it must be tough (not easily broken). The metallurgist must follow directions when making the part to know what metal to use. Steel has a low cost, but rusts. Choosing a good metal is sometimes hard.
A metal starts as a block, called an ingot. Metallurgists must know how to make a metal part from an ingot. Parts are made from ingots different ways. When a big hammer is used, it is called forging. To make thin metals, a metal is put between two rolls and moved, called rolling.
Making metal hot makes it easier to change the shape of a metal part. For this reason, most metal parts are made using hot metal. This is hot work.
Two metal parts can be put together with much heat. This is called welding. Iron is easy to weld.
Metallurgists use many tools to know what to do to the metal. The most useful is the microscope. The microscope gives much information about the way the metal moves. Metals are sometimes pulled until they break. This is the tension test. Some useful information can be gotten from this test.

</doc>
<doc id="4700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4700" title="Fixed-wing aircraft">
Fixed-wing aircraft

A fixed-wing aircraft is a kind of aircraft. An aircraft is a machine that can fly, but is heavier than air. Fixed-wing aircraft are sometimes called airplanes, aeroplanes or sometimes just "planes". All fixed-wing aircraft have wings that use forward airspeed to generate lift. Gliders are fixed-wing aircraft that do not have engines.
A steam-powered unmanned fixed-wing aircraft, that weighed 9 lbs. (4 kg), was built by John Stringfellow, in Chard, Somerset, England in 1848. It could fly by itself without needing to be dropped from high up. There were gliders before this, but they had to fly by being pushed off a building or hill.
The first man who flew (took off, steered, and landed) a motor-powered aircraft was Orville Wright in 1903 in Kitty Hawk, North Carolina, USA.
Today, fixed-wing aircraft fly between many cities all over the world, carrying people and cargo. Big cities usually have an international airport, which is the place where fixed-wing aircraft can land and take off safely. Some large cities like New York City and London have more than one airport. Two large makers of fixed-wing aircraft are Airbus and Boeing.
Advances in technology have made fixed-wing aircraft more efficient in recent years. Things like winglets and more efficient turbofans have helped to do this.
Most fixed-wing aircraft have certain parts in common.
Fixed-wing aircraft have long been used for moving people from place to place, for things like holidays. They also carry cargo or boxes across seas and long distances to other countries.
The first aircraft for war bombing was used in Libya in 1911 by Italy against the Ottoman Empire. Some fixed-wing aircraft are used by air forces to defend countries. These fixed-wing aircraft may be fighters, using guns or missiles for combat with other aircraft, or they may be bombers, dropping bombs on ground targets.
Fixed-wing aircraft allow people to travel longer distances, and faster than ships or trains. Aircraft can fly from New York to London in about 7 hours. It would take one week or more on a ship.
Airplanes are also used by the military to see many things on the ground easily. This is called surveillance or reconnaissance. Often, fixed-wing aircraft will take photographs as well, which can be used for military planning later.
Statistics show that riding in a plane is safer than driving in a car.

</doc>
<doc id="4701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4701" title="Aircraft">
Aircraft

An aircraft is a flying machine. There are many different kinds of aircraft.
Some aircraft keep in the sky by moving air over their wings. Examples are aeroplanes, helicopters, and gliders. Some aircraft keep in the sky by floating. Examples are balloons and airships.
Most aircraft use engine power. Examples are aeroplanes, helicopters, and airships. Gliders and balloons use no power. A few aircraft use muscle power.
Big aeroplanes for transporting people are called "airliners". Airliners fly at more than 850 km/h (530 mph). Less than 100 years ago, the quickest ships needed more than seven days to travel across the Atlantic Ocean because it is 4,800 km (3,000 miles) wide. Now airliners need less than seven hours to travel across the Atlantic Ocean. Airliners are the quickest way to travel. Airliners can fly over mountains and bad weather. Airliners have complex technology to make them fly quickly, safely and for less money. 
A few fighter aircraft can fly at 3,200 km/h (2,000 mph). 
The person who drives an aircraft is called the pilot.

</doc>
<doc id="4702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4702" title="Victoria, British Columbia">
Victoria, British Columbia

Victoria is the capital city of the province of British Columbia, Canada. It is named after Queen Victoria.
Over 350,000 people live in the Victoria area. Many people work for the government or in tourism. It is warmer than other Canadian cities in the winter, so many Canadians move there when they retire.
Victoria is on Vancouver Island. Most people travel there by boat (ferry) from Vancouver, or from Washington State. Victoria has three ferry docks and an airport.
Victoria has one of the mildest climates in Canada, with gardens blooming year round.
If you visit Victoria, see the beautiful Butchart Gardens and the Royal British Columbia Museum. Some of the best-known buildings are the government buildings and the Empress Hotel; both are by the Inner Harbour.
The first people to live in the area were the Coast Salish native people. People from England built Fort Victoria in 1843. Victoria became a city in 1862.
18,000 students study at the University of Victoria. Other people study at Camosun College, Royal Roads University, University Canada West, Victoria College of Art, and the Canadian College of Performing Arts. Students from all over the world study at Pearson College, near Victoria.
The Canadian navy has ships in a part of the city called Esquimalt.
Some of the parks include Beacon Hill Park, East Sooke Park, Mount Work Park, and Mount Douglas Park.
There are many flowers in Victoria; it is called the "city of gardens." There is a lot of rain but little snow.
Some well-known people from Victoria are:
The Victoria area is made up of 13 parts. Four of them make up Greater Victoria:
Three of them make up the Saanich Peninsula:
The others make up the Western Communities:

</doc>
<doc id="4705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4705" title="Suez Canal">
Suez Canal

The Suez Canal (Arabic: قناة السويس, "Qanā al-Suways", French: "Le Canal de Suez") is a canal in Egypt. It lies west of the Sinai Peninsula. The canal is 163 km long (101 miles) and, at its narrowest point, 300 m wide (984 ft). It runs between Port Said ("Būr Sa'īd") on the Mediterranean Sea, and Suez ("al-Suways") on the Red Sea. It was built by a French company. The canal was started in 1859 and finished in 1869.
The canal allows boats/ships to travel from Europe to Asia without having to go the way around Africa. It was built to go from Egypt to the Indian Ocean.
In 1859, the Suez Canal was built by the Universal Suez Ship Canal Company, and took 10 years to build. The first ship to pass through the canal did so on 17 February 1867; Giuseppe Verdi wrote the famous opera Aida for this ceremony. 
The canal made it possible to easily transport goods across the world. The canal also allowed Europeans to travel to East Africa, and this area was soon controlled by European powers.
The success of the Suez Canal encouraged the French to try to build the Panama Canal. But they did not finish it. The Panama Canal was finished later.
After the Six Day War in 1967, the canal remained closed until June 5, 1975. A UN peacekeeping force has been stationed in the Sinai Peninsula since 1974, to avoid more wars.
About 15,000 ships pass through the canal each year, which is about 14% of world shipping. Each ship takes up to 16 hours to cross the canal. In 2015 a central part of the canal was expanded so more ships can go through and go faster. 

</doc>
<doc id="4706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4706" title="Canal">
Canal

A canal is a waterway made by humans. For many centuries, canals have been built as a way of transporting heavy goods in barges or boats. Canals usually connect lakes, rivers, or oceans. The Panama Canal is a famous canal that connects the Atlantic Ocean with the Pacific Ocean. Many canals are reinforced with clay or concrete on the sides.
Other canals are used for irrigation or hydropower.

</doc>
<doc id="4707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4707" title="Mars (mythology)">
Mars (mythology)

Mars was the god of war in Roman mythology. Mars is the son of Juno. Mars is the father of Romulus and Remus. The planet Mars, and the month March are named after him. He was the god of war, murder and bloodshed

</doc>
<doc id="4708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4708" title="Cessna">
Cessna

Cessna is a company that makes airplanes. They are in Wichita, Kansas in the United States. They make small aircraft that can hold 2 to 4 people.

</doc>
<doc id="4710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4710" title="Clothing">
Clothing

Clothing is an item or fabric which is made to cover part of the human body. Humans are the only animals which wear clothing, and almost all people do wear clothing.
The torso (body) can be covered by a shirt, arms by sleeves, legs by pants or skirt, the hands by gloves, and feet by footwear. In cold climates, people also wear heavy, thick coats such as trenchcoats.
Clothing protects the human body from the hot sun and high temperatures in warm tropical countries. Clothing such as thick wool coats and boots keeps the human body warm in very cold temperatures (such as in the arctic). To some extent, clothing protects people from damage to their body.
Clothing is also worn for decoration, as a fashion (clothing). People from different cultures wear different clothing, and have different beliefs and customs about what type of clothing should be worn.
For many people, clothing is a status symbol. It helps people project an image. Often, clothing is a form of self-expression. Adults in different social or work situations present different views of themselves by the clothes they wear. Young people have an entirely different form of dress to express their personalities. Often people will simply follow popular fashion styles so that they will fit in. Clothing is far more than just a means to protect our bodies.
There is no easy way to be sure when clothing was first developed, because it was prehistoric and clothing is perishable. Some information comes from studying lice. The body louse lives in clothing, and diverged from head lice about 107,000 years ago. This suggests that clothing existed at that time. Another theory is that modern humans are the only survivors of several species of primates who may have worn clothes, and that clothing may have been used as long ago as 650 thousand years ago. Other louse-based estimates put the introduction of clothing at around 42,000–72,000 BC.
A cloak made of the fur of squirrels, from a cave in Italy, has been dated to 23.000 years BP, and is possibly among the oldest items of clothing.
People often decorate their bodies with makeup or perfume, and they also cut or change the hair on their heads and faces. They might also go in for body modification: tattoos, scarifications, and body piercings. But makeup and tattoos are not kinds of clothing.
Things that are carried and not worn, like wallets, purses, canes, and umbrellas, are called accessories, but they are not kinds of clothing, either. Jewelry and eyeglasses are also accessories that are put on the body. Nail polish is also put on the fingertips and can be interpreted as makeup.
Clothing is often made of:

</doc>
<doc id="4711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4711" title="Shoe">
Shoe

A shoe is a type of footwear. It is an item of clothing. Shoes come in pairs, with one shoe for each foot.
There are many different types of shoes. Athletic shoes, for example, are to make running, walking or jogging easier by making the weight of the shoe lighter and the sole of the shoe softer. Leather shoes are formal shoes. There are worn for business and ceremonial functions. They are also worn for fashion. Slippers are a kind of indoor shoe. They are often worn when it is cold. Rubber boots are used on rainy days. The shoes with a high heel which women wear are called high heels.
People usually wear shoes in public. They are worn for hygiene, style, and comfort.

</doc>
<doc id="4712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4712" title="Footwear">
Footwear

Footwear is an item of clothing made by humans that covers and protects the foot, including the soles of the feet. Footwear allows people to walk on rough surfaces such as gravel roads without hurting their feet. Some types of footwear such as boots help to keep people's feet dry, or help to keep people's feet warm in cold weather.
People in many countries make their own footwear by hand, using simple tools. A simple pair of sandals can be made by hand cutting a foot-shaped sole out of a thick, flexible material such as rubber. Next, straps of fabric, rope or leather can be added with a needle and thread. A simple pair of boots can be made by hand by using animal hide with fur, and sewing it with strong thread.
Many people wear footwear that is made in a factory. The machines in shoe factories and boot factories can make footwear much more quickly than people who are making footwear by hand with a needle and thread. 

</doc>
<doc id="4713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4713" title="Café">
Café

A cafe is a type of restaurant which usually serves coffee and snacks. The term "cafe" comes from French, and means "coffee".
You can read newspapers and magazines there, or chat with other customers about current topics. It is known as a place where information can be exchanged. 
A cafe is sometimes called a coffeehouse or a coffee shop in English, a café in French, Spanish, and Portuguese and a caffè in Italian. It shares some of the characteristics of a bar, and some of the characteristics of a restaurant, but it is different from a cafeteria, which is a type of restaurant where customers can choose from many dishes on a serving line. In some countries, cafes more closely resemble restaurants, offering a range of hot meals, and possibly being licensed to serve alcohol. British cafes however, do not sell alcohol.
In the Netherlands, cannabis-selling cafes face an uncertain future under a planned new law banning smoking in public places. The cafes, which attract millions of tourists each year, allow customers to buy marijuana over the counter and openly smoke it. In the United States, donut shops are also popular places to drink coffee and hang out.
A new type of cafe, known as the Internet cafe, was introduced in the 1990s. The spread of modern-style cafes to many places, urban and rural, went hand in hand with computers. Computers and Internet access in a contemporary atmosphere created a youthful, modern public space, compared to the traditional bars, or old-fashioned diners that they replaced. Nowadays, many cafes offer wireless Internet or have computers customers can use, just as they offer telephones and newspapers.

</doc>
<doc id="4714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4714" title="Jazz">
Jazz

Jazz is a type of music which was invented in the United States. Jazz music combines African-American music with European music. Jazz first became popular in the 1910s. It is still a popular music to play and hear because of the different styles.
Some common jazz instruments include the saxophone, trumpet, piano, double bass, and drums.
It is difficult to give an exact definition for "jazz". One important part of jazz is improvisation (improv), which means the person playing is making music up as they go along. If a jazz band is playing a song, the song may have several solos where one player will improvise while the rest of the band, except for the rhythm section (such as the piano, bass, or drums), does not play. 
Jazz began in the United States in the early 20th century. Jazz music was first based on the music of African slaves who were forced to work in the plantations of the southern United States. This included call and response songs, spirituals, chants and blue notes. These characteristics are what developed blues, a sad song that slaves sung during their labor. These influences were indirect, through earlier musical forms such as ragtime. 
Jazz also has musical styles from European music, as well as the brass and stringed instruments and (sometimes) the use of musical notation.
There have been different types of jazz through time. New Orleans jazz began in the early 1910s. Dixieland jazz was also popular. In the 1930s, there was swing jazz, which was also called big band jazz. In the 1940s, bebop became a major type of jazz, with fast songs and complex harmony.
Large jazz bands, which are called big bands, were also popular in the 1940s. Big bands usually have 5 saxophone players, 4 or 5 trumpet players, 4 trombone players, a piano player or guitar player, an acoustic bass player, a drummer, and sometimes a singer. 
In the 1950s, there was jazz. In the 1960s, there was modern jazz and . In the 1970s, jazz fusion began to blend jazz music with rock music. Some jazz is still played with the same improv methods as it did at its beginning, except with modern electronic instruments.

</doc>
<doc id="4715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4715" title="Coffee">
Coffee

Coffee is a plant (Coffea) and the name of the drink that is made from this plant. The coffee plant is a bush or tree that can grow up to ten meters (about 32 feet) high, but is usually cut shorter. Coffee plants originally grew in Africa, and now also grow in South America, Central America and Southeast Asia. They are an important crop for the economies of many countries.
The drink is made from the seeds of the coffee plant, called coffee beans. Coffee is usually served hot, and is a popular drink in many countries. Coffee contains a chemical called caffeine, a mild drug that keeps people awake.
To make a drink from coffee beans, the beans must first be specially prepared by drying the beans and then roasting. The beans are dried a short time after they are picked. This preserves them and makes them ready to be packed or roasted. Before the beans are made into a drink, they must roasted are ground (crushed into tiny pieces in a coffee mill). When the ground coffee is placed into boiling water, the flavour and dark brown colour of the beans goes into the water. Making coffee is called brewing coffee. There are several different ways that coffee can be brewed.
There are two main types of coffee plants. The "Coffea Arabica", the most common. Most of the world's coffee is made from Arabica beans, and the "Coffea Robusta", which is easier to grow in places where Arabica will not grow.
Robusta is cheaper and has more caffeine than Arabica and it is used in many commercial coffee products. But Robusta tastes bitter and acidic, so people only drink it with other things. Better quality Robustas are in some espresso blends.
In the past, people gave names to new Arabica coffees from the port they came from. The two oldest Arabica coffees are "Mocha" and "Java". Today, names are more specific. They tell us the country, region, and sometimes even the property where they come from.
Some sorts of coffee taste better if the beans are "aged". This means that after they are picked, the beans are dried and then kept from three to eight years. This "aging" gives the coffee a less acidic taste. Coffee that has been aged is often mixed or "blended" with other coffee that is not aged.
"Roasting" is one of the important stages in making coffee beans into coffee. When a coffee bean is roasted, it grows nearly two times bigger and changes from green to yellow to brown.
The length of time that the coffee beans are roasted makes the coffee taste different. Some types of coffee, such as Mocha and Java, are roasted for a short time. It is easy to tell from the flavour where the coffee is from. When coffee is roasted for a long time, it is harder to tell the different types apart. Green coffee beans can be bought and roasted at home in the oven.
Before the coffee is made into a drink, it is "ground" in a small grinding machine called a "coffee mill". The coffee mill breaks the beans into very small pieces. Coffee is turned into a drink in several different ways. For some ways of making coffee, such as "espresso" it is best to have the coffee ground into fine powder but for other types of coffee-making, such as "filtered coffee", the coffee is in larger pieces to stop it going through the filter. Finely ground coffee makes a stronger taste.
Coffee is made into a drink by putting the coffee into boiling water. This is called "brewing" coffee. 
There are many ways to brew coffee. Four of the most popular are:
 
"Instant coffee" is a very quick way to make a cup of coffee to drink. It is made in a factory and sold in jars or packets. First, strong coffee is made using ground coffee and boiling water. Then, the coffee grounds are filtered out. The coffee liquid is dried out until nothing is left except granules (little crunchy pieces), or fine powder. This is then put into jars or packets. As soon as a spoonful of "instant coffee" is added to boiling water, it dissolves in the water to make coffee to drink. The taste can be very different from fresh coffee. Part of the reason for the different taste is that "Robusta" coffee beans are usually used for making instant coffee. Robusta coffee beans do not cost as much as "Arabica".
The United States buys the most coffee; Germany is next. People in Finland drink the most coffee for each person. In Canada, the United States and Europe, some restaurants sell mainly coffee; they are referred to as "cafés" or "coffeehouses". Cafés often sell food, but the type of food is different from one country to another.
In some countries, for example, those in northern Europe, people like having coffee parties. At these parties, people have coffee and cake.
In many countries, people drink coffee at work; in the United States and England, for example, people drink it in the morning. In other countries, such as Mexico, people drink it in the evening to help them stay awake.
Coffee contains the drug caffeine. Caffeine is a mild stimulant which helps to keep people awake. Caffeine, like many drugs, can be addictive and can cause health problems.
Some studies have looked at the health risks of coffee. In February 2003, there was a study in Denmark of 18,478 women to find out if coffee had an effect on pregnancy and birth. It was found that if a woman drank between four and seven cups of coffee a day, it did not seem to make a big change to the number of babies that were born dead, (stillborn). But the women in the study who drank eight or more cups of coffee a day had three times as much chance of having a stillborn baby.
For this, and other reasons, some people drink coffee substitutes instead or decaffeinated coffee .

</doc>
<doc id="4716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4716" title="Beef">
Beef

Beef is a type of meat that comes from cattle. There are different types of beef. Beef is popular in the United States. Beef derives from the German word 'beife', meaning grazing beast.
Beef can also mean a rivalry or feud between people in slang.

</doc>
<doc id="4717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4717" title="Hyaena">
Hyaena

Hyaenas (sometimes 'Hyena') are mammals. They are the family Hyaenidae, in the order Carnivora. They live in Africa, and in west and south Asia. In the past they had a much wider distribution. Now there are two subfamilies with four species.
With only four species, it is the fourth-smallest family in the Carnivora, and one of the smallest in the class Mammalia. Despite their low diversity, hyenas are unique and vital components to most African and some Asian ecosystems.
Hyaena walk much like bears because their front legs are longer than their back. Hyaenas are known to have one of the world's strongest bites. Its function is to crush bone.
Hyaenas look much like canids, but they are actually in the Feliformia, with cats and mongooses. Although related to felines and viverrids, their life style is similar to canids. Convergent evolution has taken place. Both hyaenas and canids are non-climbing, running hunters which catch prey with their teeth rather than claws. Both eat food quickly and may store it. Their calloused feet have large, blunt, nonretractable nails, good for running and making sharp turns. However, the hyaenas' grooming, scent marking, defecating habits, mating, and parental behaviour are similar to the behaviour of other feliforms.
Hyaenas were long said to be cowardly scavengers, but they kill as much as 95% of the food they eat (especially spotted hyaenas). They can drive off leopards or lionesses from their kills. Hyenas are mostly nocturnal animals, but may leave their lairs in the early morning. Except for the very social spotted hyaena, hyenas are generally not gregarious animals, though they may live in family groups and come together at kills.
Hyaenas are intelligent creatures. They work together well and are cooperative. They have strategic hunting methods and work to steal and protect it from other predators. Hyaenas main targets are zebra and wildebeest. Their main rival is the lion. Whether hyaenas do or do not chase lions off their kills is mostly a matter of numbers.

</doc>
<doc id="4718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4718" title="Table salt">
Table salt

Table salt is a mineral composed mainly of sodium chloride (NaCl). This is a chemical compound, one of a large number of salts. Salt in its natural form as a crystalline mineral is known as rock salt or halite. 
When salt (sodium chloride) is mixed with water, the salt dissolves into the water, creating a saline solution. Salt is present in vast quantities in seawater, where it is the main mineral constituent. The open ocean has about of solids per litre, a salinity of 3.5%.
Salt can be made by either evaporation or can be mined. To get sea salt, man-made holes are built then filled with sea water. The water evaporates and leaves behind salt.

</doc>
<doc id="4719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4719" title="Silk">
Silk

Silk is a natural fibre made by the silk worm larvae. Silk is often used to make cloth. The cloth can be made into clothes, rugs, bedding, or can be used to write or paint on. Silk fibres are very strong. In the past, silk was used to make parachutes.
In history, silk came from China and was very expensive. The practice of growing silkworms for silk production is called sericulture.
Most spiders make a natural fibre that is also called silk .
Silk that is made by the silk worm is made up of two main proteins, sericin and fibroin. Fibroin is the structural center of the silk. Serecin is the sticky material surrounding it. Fibroin is made up of the amino acids Gly-Ser-Gly-Ala-Gly-Ala and forms beta pleated sheets. Hydrogen bonds form between chains, and side chains form above and below the plane of the hydrogen bond network.
The high proportion (50%) of glycine (which is a small amino acid) allows tight packing. Tight packing makes the fibers strong and resistant to breaking. The tensile strength is due to the many interseeded hydrogen bonds. When silk is stretched, the force is applied to these many bonds, and they do not break.
Silk is resistant to most mineral acids, except for sulfuric acid, which dissolves it. Perspiration makes silk yellow.

</doc>
<doc id="4726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4726" title="The Beatles">
The Beatles

The Beatles were an English rock band, started in Liverpool, England in 1960. They were, and still are, one of the most successful and influential bands in the history of modern music. The Beatles drew influences from many music genres through their career, including 1950s rock and roll, rhythm and blues, classical, psychedelia, and Indian music, and their songs ranged from pop ballads to hard rock.
The members of the band were John Lennon (rhythm guitar), Paul McCartney (bass guitar), George Harrison (lead guitar) and Ringo Starr (drums).
Brian Epstein was their manager. George Martin produced all of their albums and singles except for the album "Let It Be", which was produced by the famous 1960s producer Phil Spector. Almost all of their music was recorded at Abbey Road Studios in London.
Starting in 1957, John Lennon and several of his friends played in a British band called the Quarrymen. Over the next few years, the members of the band changed, and by 1960, the band was called The Beatles. They did not have their first hit until 1962. In February 1963 their song, "Please Please Me", reached the number 1 position on the British charts. This was the first of a record 15 British number 1 singles. They first came to the United States in 1964. They were met at the airport by thousands of screaming American teenagers. The Beatles were so popular that they were attacked by screaming fans everywhere they went around the world. The effect they had on their fans was known as 'Beatlemania'. The Beatles made their first live American television appearance on The Ed Sullivan Show on 9 February 1964. About 74 million viewers — about half of the American population — watched the group perform on the show. Beatles songs soon filled the top 5 places on the American top 40 chart - a record that has never been matched.
After the Beatles became so popular in the United States, other British bands, such as The Rolling Stones, The Animals, The Kinks and Gerry and the Pacemakers had songs become hits there as well. So many British bands became popular after the Beatles' success that this time became known in America as the "British Invasion".
Towards the mid 1960s, The Beatles became bolder with their style of music. This largely started in 1965, with the release of the album "Rubber Soul", and hit a peak in 1967 with the release of "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band", which was named as the greatest album of all time by Rolling Stone Magazine. They were also named the most influential artists of all time by Rolling Stone magazine, because their music, clothing style, and attitudes shaped much of what was popular among young people in the 1960s.
The Beatles became so popular that no regular concert venue was big enough for their concerts. This led to them playing the first ever stadium rock concert at Shea Stadium in America, to around 50,000 people. The Beatles stopped touring and playing live music in 1966 because they were sick of audiences screaming so loudly that their music could not be heard. They were also tired of the pressures of touring. Among other things, they were so popular that thousands of people would gather outside the hotels they stayed in day and night meaning that they could never leave their rooms unless they were playing a concert.
The Beatles broke up in 1970 because of the pressures of fame and each member becoming more independent both in their personal lives and musically. In 1973 the two-disc sets "1962-1966" (the "Red Album") and "1967-1970" "(the "Blue Album") were released. These were both re-released on CD in 1993.
The band was still very popular all over the world after they broke up. According to the "Guinness Book of World Records", they are the highest-selling recording artists ever. They have sold more than one billion records, including albums and singles. Their music is still important and still influences many musicians. Musicians today perform cover versions of Beatles' songs, and people everywhere still listen to their music. Their song 'Yesterday' has been recorded by more artists than any other song. It is also the song that has been played the most on radio ever.
The Beatles made thirteen albums and twenty-six singles together. They also started their own record label, Apple Records. They made two movies, "A Hard Day's Night" and "Help!", where they appeared as actors. Later they made "Magical Mystery Tour", a television special. "Yellow Submarine" was a cartoon movie based on their music. "Let It Be" showed them working on a new album.
After the Beatles broke up in 1969, all four members started their own solo careers.
John Lennon became a famous peace activist in the late 1960s and early 1970s. He wrote successful songs including "Give Peace a Chance", "Imagine", and "Happy Xmas (War Is Over)". John Lennon was murdered on December 8, 1980 outside his home in New York. Part of Central Park in New York and an airport in Liverpool are named in his honor.
The other three Beatles got together in the 1990s to make two new records. They used demo recordings of two John Lennon songs and added their own new parts. Producer Jeff Lynne helped them so all four members could appear on the songs. The songs were "Free as a Bird" and "Real Love". Both were top 5 hits in the U.K. in 1995 and 1996.
Paul McCartney started the band "Wings" with his wife Linda. In 1977 his song, "Mull of Kintyre", became the biggest selling single in British history. It sold even more copies than the Beatles' singles. Paul McCartney was knighted in 1997.
George Harrison and Ringo Starr had early success as solo artists but were less successful later on. George formed the group "The Traveling Wilburys" in the 80s with other rock legends Bob Dylan, Roy Orbison, Tom Petty, and Jeff Lynne. George Harrison died of cancer on November 29, 2001. Ringo still tours the world with his "All Starr Band".
They also sold many singles (45s).

</doc>
<doc id="4727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4727" title="MediaWiki:Monobook.css">
MediaWiki:Monobook.css

/* Don't display some stuff on the main page */
body.page-Main_Page #deleteconfirm,
body.page-Main_Page #t-cite,
body.page-Main_Page #lastmod,
body.action-view.page-Main_Page #siteSub,
body.action-view.page-Main_Page #contentSub,
body.action-view.page-Main_Page h1.firstHeading {
/* Display of "From Wikipedia" line */
 display: inline;
 display:none;
/* On Special:Allpages and Watchlist: Make redirects show in green (redirect is already in italic by default) */
.allpagesredirect a,
.watchlistredir a {
color:green;
li.GA {
li.FA {
/* topicon div */
div.topicon {
 position: absolute;
/* Remove bullets when there are multiple edit page warnings */
ul.permissions-errors > li {
ul.permissions-errors {
/* Styling for updated markers on watchlist, history and recent/related changes */
li.mw-changeslist-line-watched,
li.mw-history-line-updated {

</doc>
<doc id="4733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4733" title="Reincarnation">
Reincarnation

Reincarnation is the name of the idea that people are born in another body after they die. Many Hindus, Jainists, Celtic pagans, Buddhists, and people who follow some African religions believe in reincarnation. Carnate means “of flesh”, and reincarnate means to “reenter the flesh".
The belief is held in many religions except Islam and Christianity, although 20 to 30 percent of Christians in western countries also believe in reincarnation. 
Ethnologists have documented the belief among nearly all the traditional religions of ethnic groups in Africa, North and South America, and Australia/Oceania. The tribes of north-west North America continue to believe in reincarnation despite negative attitudes towards it on the part of Christian missionaries and churches.
Hindus believe in reincarnation, the process where the soul repeatedly takes on a physical body through being born on Earth. Ancient scriptures of Hinduism teach that the soul, or immortal “self”, takes birth time and time again. The soul survives and continues its long journey until it is one with God. Hindus believe that the soul never dies, but inhabits one body after another during its evolutionary journey guided by karma. Karma (literally: action) is the sum of one's actions, and the force that determines one's next reincarnation. 
The soul evolves from immaturity to spiritual illumination. Therefore, each reincarnating soul chooses a home and a family which can best fulfill its next step of learning and maturation. Each life on Earth is similar to a class in school. Maturation of the soul on Earth means fulfilling its worldly desires, which can only be experienced through a body. 
At death the soul leaves the physical body. But the soul does not die. It lives on in a subtle body called the astral body. The astral body exists in a nonphysical dimension called the astral plane. Here the soul continues to have experiences until it is born again in another physical body as a baby.
After many lifetimes of following dharma (right way of living), the soul is fully matured in love, wisdom and knowledge of God. There is no longer a need for physical birth, for all lessons have been learned, all karmas fulfilled. When all desire has vanished, the person will not be born again anymore.
Ian Stevenson found that the best research evidence supporting the belief in reincarnation comes from the cases of young children who, typically between the ages of 2 and 5, make statements about a previous life they claim to have had before being born. Some 35 per cent of the children also have birthmarks or birth defects which often correspond to injuries or illness experienced by the deceased person who the subject remembers. Medical documents have confirmed this correspondence in more than forty cases.

</doc>
<doc id="4734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4734" title="Philosopher">
Philosopher

A philosopher is a person who works, studies, or is an expert in philosophy. The word, "philosopher", comes from the Greek language and literally means "friend of wisdom". Some famous philosophers include: Socrates, who was a Greek philosopher, Immanuel Kant, who was a German philosopher, and David Hume, who was a Scottish philosopher. One of the most famous philosophical questions is "Is there anything about which we can be absolutely certain"? A quite different question is "Do we have free will"? These, and many other questions, have a long history, and are answered differently by different philosophers.

</doc>
<doc id="4738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4738" title="EBay">
EBay

eBay is a website. It is a place for online auctions. Anybody can sell almost anything they want there. People can buy many things there as well.
People have to send what they sell themselves, usually using mail. Some items may be collected by the buyer such as items to large or heavy to post. Buyers can transfer the money in any way they want as long as the sellers accept payments made that way. A lot of people use PayPal to transfer the money. PayPal is owned by the same people as eBay. Margaret Whitman was the CEO of eBay from 1998 to 2008.
eBay was started in 1995 by Pierre Omidyar. It was first called "Auctionweb". The name 'eBay' came later when he tried to register a domain name for his planned name "EchoBay". It was already taken so he shortened the name to 'eBay'.
Millions of items are bought on eBay every day. It is often very cheap to list an item on eBay. Total costs are usually below ordinary auction house costs. Many people look at others' items because they are interested in them.

</doc>
<doc id="4739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4739" title="Gerhard Schröder">
Gerhard Schröder

"For the older CDU politician and former Minister of Defence, see Gerhard Schröder (CDU)"
Gerhard Schröder was Chancellor of Germany from 1998 to 2005.
He was born on 7 April 1944 in Mossenberg, North Rhine-Westphalia.
After school he learned retail sales in a Lemgo from 1958 to 1961.
After that he made his abitur (highest school exam in Germany) in Bielefeld. Then he studied law in Göttingen. After that he worked as a lawyer.
He joined the Social Democratic Party of Germany in 1963 and became chairman of its youth organisation in 1978.
In 1986 he became a member of the State Parliament of Lower Saxony.
In 1990 he was elected as Prime-Minister of Lower Saxony.
He became the chancellor of Germany in 1998. After elections in 2005, he was replaced by Angela Merkel. He is a member of the SPD (Social Democratic Party of Germany).

</doc>
<doc id="4740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4740" title="Melbourne">
Melbourne

Melbourne is the second largest city in Australia. It is the capital of Victoria, which is a state in the south-east of Australia. The population of Melbourne is 3,806,092.
Melbourne is a multicultural city (it welcomes people and cultures from all over the world). It is famous for its trams (small short trains). The centre of Melbourne is around a river called the Yarra River. Melbourne also has many big parks and gardens and some beaches.
There are many things to do in Melbourne. Visitors in Melbourne can go to museums, look at art, eat food at restaurants, go to shops, and go to many large sport events.
There is a lot of industry (factories) and commerce (buying and selling) in Melbourne. Many of Australia's largest companies and many large companies from other countries work there. It is home to Australia's largest seaport. There are a number of universities (the University of Melbourne, Monash University, Deakin University, Victoria University, La Trobe University, RMIT University, Swinburne University and the Australian Catholic University). Much of Australia's automotive (car) industry is there, for example the engine maker "Holden", and "Ford" and "Toyota" car builders.
Melbourne was founded in 1835 by John Batman and John Pascoe Fawkner. In 1851, some people found gold near Melbourne. Melbourne grew very quickly because people came from all over the world to look for gold. At the end of the 19th century, Melbourne was called "Marvellous Melbourne" ("marvellous" means "wonderful"). Melbourne was the biggest and most important city in Australia for many years, but now Sydney is bigger (but not more important). The first Australian government was in Melbourne from 1901 until 1927 when it moved to Canberra.
Many people from different countries live in Melbourne. In fact 43% of the people living in Melbourne were born outside Australia or have parents from another country. All together people from 233 countries live in Melbourne and people with 116 different religions.
Melbourne has six sister cities. They are:

</doc>
<doc id="4741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4741" title="Victoria">
Victoria

Victoria might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="4742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4742" title="Canberra">
Canberra

Canberra is the capital city of Australia. There are 340 800 people who live there. It doesn’t belong to a state but it is in the Australian Capital Territory (ACT).
Canberra was started in 1913 and in the middle of the city is Lake Burley-Griffin . This lake was created especially for the city. There was a competition to design the new capital city of Australia. The competition was won by an architect from Chicago in the United States of America. His name was Walter Burley Griffin. Griffin designed his triangular town as a garden town, so its size expanded over a big area. But as Canberra grew larger and larger, the lake was no longer in the middle of the town, but the people who are in charge of planning the city make sure Canberra is as close to Griffin's original plan as possible. Canberra has a size in area nearly as big as Berlin, but the number of people who live there is much smaller.
Before Canberra was founded, Australia’s two most important cities, Sydney and Melbourne, were arguing which city should be the capital of the continent. First Melbourne was elected the capital, but in 1908 there was a vote. The result: an area of 2400 square kilometers was given to the country by New South Wales to build Canberra in. This was the place, 300 kilometers away from Sydney and with a distance of 650 kilometers to Melbourne, where a few years later Canberra was built.
The name Canberra is pronounced in various ways and most commonly now as "CAN-brugh" making it sound almost an English name - Canborough ! Some say "CAN-buh-ruh" ; a small number of people may pronounce it "can-BEAR-ruh" ; at an earlier time "can-BERR-a" was very common and that form is still heard although often looked down upon as ignorant and incorrect. But while now an uncommon pronunciation it may be closest to the original name and pronunciation. In the 19th century a farming property on the Limestone Plains was named "Canberry" (or "Camberry") and some think this name is derived in turn from the name of the local tribe - the Ngambri or Kamberra or Camberri people. (Others have suggested the name is derived from an Aboriginal word meaning "meeting place").
Canberra has an oceanic climate ("Cfb" in the Koeppen climate classification). Tourists who visit Canberra come to see the many national monuments and other famous sights. Some places to visit are the Government House, Parliament House, the High Court of Australia, the Australian War Memorial, the National Gallery of Australia, the Royal Australian Mint, Telstra Tower, the National Library of Australia, and the National Museum of Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="4743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4743" title="Sydney">
Sydney

Sydney is a city on the east coast of Australia. Sydney is the capital city of New South Wales. About four million people live in Sydney which makes it the biggest city in Oceania. Sydney started in 1788, when the Captain Arthur Phillip brought the First Fleet to settle in Australia. The settlers were mostly convicts from crowded prisons in England and Ireland, with a group of soldiers to guard them. The country is home to more than 200 spoken languages with a large population of overseas-born residents.
In Sydney, there are many famous buildings: the Sydney Opera House, the Queen Victoria Building and the Sydney Harbour Bridge. Sydney has a large harbour and many beaches. The most famous beach is Bondi Beach, some other famous beaches are Coogee Beach and Manly Beach. A popular coastal walk to do is the Bondi to Coogee Coastal Walk . Famous parts of the harbour are Darling Harbour and Circular Quay.
The most famous sports ground in Sydney is ANZ Stadium (which used to be called "Stadium Australia") because it was built for the 2000 Summer Olympics. Another stadium in Sydney is the Sydney Cricket Ground (SCG).
Sydney has many things to see and do. These include visiting Taronga Zoo (a park for animals) on the northern side of the harbour, eating food, looking at art or watching sports (like cricket or rugby) or walking down George Street which has many nice shops. Sydney has some of Australia's best shopping, and the Blue Mountains are about two hours' drive away to the west. Many people go to Sydney City to watch the great fireworks display over the harbour on New Year's Eve. Sydney holds events throughout the year that attract tourists from around the world, some namely events are Vivid Sydney, Royal Easter Show, and more. 
Sydney city and its surrounding suburbs include the Central Business District, Inner City, Sydney East, Sydney North, Sydney South and Sydney West.
Sydney is home to a range of events that happen throughout the year, drawing many tourists and visitors to the city. One of Sydney's biggest event holding convention centre is the newly rebuilt International Convention Centre located by Darling Harbour, Sydney. 
Vivid Sydney is held every year in June in the winter and is a display of light shows, art installations and music from local and international artists. In 2016, Vivid Sydney will run for 23 spectacular nights from 27th May to 18th of June . 
The Royal Easter Show is held in Sydney Olympic Park throughout the Easter public holiday period in April. It is a family attraction with rides, carnival games, showbags and food tents. There are also agriculture shows where children can learn more about farm animals as well as animal feeding areas. Shows such as woodcutting and animal competitions are popular every year.
Mercedes Benz Fashion weekend runs for two days every year and features runway shows by leading Australian designers. The event is attended by fashion journalists, magazine editors, bloggers and fashion buyers. There are also Styling Sessions and VIP parties at the home of fashion week in Carriageworks in the inner city suburb of Redfern.

</doc>
<doc id="4746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4746" title="Greenhouse effect">
Greenhouse effect

The greenhouse effect occurs when certain gases in the Earth's atmosphere (the air around the Earth) entraps infrared radiation. This makes the planet become warmer, similar to the way it makes a greenhouse become warmer. 
The greenhouse effect is caused by greenhouse gases; the most important greenhouse gases in Earth's atmosphere are: water vapor, carbon dioxide, and methane. When there is more greenhouse gas in the air, the air holds more heat. This is why more greenhouse gases cause global warming. 
The greenhouse effect is natural. It is important for life on Earth. Without the greenhouse effect, the Earth's average temperature would be around -18 or -19 degrees Celsius (0 or 1 degree Fahrenheit). Earth would be locked in an ice age. Because of the greenhouse effect, the Earth's actual average temperature is 14 degrees Celsius (57 degrees Fahrenheit). 
The problem is that recently, the greenhouse effect has become stronger. This is because humans have been using large amounts of fossil fuels, which release carbon dioxide when they are burned. Since carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas, it has caused the planet to warm over the past 150 years.
About ten thousand years ago, before people started burning large amounts of fossil fuels, there was 260 to 280 parts per million (ppm) of carbon dioxide (CO2) in the atmosphere. In September 2011, the figure was 389 ppm. Most scientists say that having 350 ppm or less is safe for the environment and that species on the planet can adapt to this level. Higher levels can make severe problems for animal and marine life that are already being seen today, such as ocean acidification.
The greenhouse effect was first proposed by Joseph Fourier in 1824. Mars, Venus and other planets with atmospheres also have greenhouse effects. The effect on Venus is especially strong because Venus has so much CO2. This is why Venus is hotter than Mercury, even though Mercury is closer to the sun. The first person to predict that carbon dioxide from the burning of fossil fuels (and other combustion processes) could cause global warming was Svante Arrhenius.

</doc>
<doc id="4749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4749" title="World War">
World War

A World War is a war in which most of the countries in the world fight or help. 
There have been two World Wars so far, World War I and World War II. Several wars such as the Seven Years' War were fought in many places around the world, but they were wars among European countries.
After World War II, many people were afraid that a World War III might start, probably between the United States and the countries of Europe, on one side, and the Soviet Union, and maybe China, on the other side. After World War II, countries had many powerful weapons, including jet bomber airplanes that could carry many powerful bombs fast and far, nuclear weapons (or atomic bombs) which could destroy many buildings and kill many people instantly, and missiles which could carry nuclear weapons to other countries very fast. 
This time when many people were afraid that World War III might start was called the Cold War. After the fall of the Soviet Union, people were not as afraid that World War III might begin. However, many countries still have powerful weapons, and still could use them. 
Albert Einstein said, "I don't know what weapons countries might use to fight World War III, but wars after that will be fought with sticks and stones" -- because a third world war would probably be so big that it would destroy civilization.

</doc>
<doc id="4751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4751" title="European">
European

European may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="4753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4753" title="Ionizing radiation">
Ionizing radiation

Ionizing radiation is a process in physics where something sends out particles or waves that can ionize an atom or molecule through atomic interactions. 
The strength of ionizing radiation depends on the energy of the individual particles or waves, and not a function of the number of particles or waves present. 
Ionizing radiation can be electromagnetic radiation or subatomic particles. 
Electromagnetic:
Subatomic particle radiation includes:
Some radiation can go through the human body and other objects. Usually when people use the term radiation, they are talking specifically about potentially harmful types of ionizing radiation. If something produces this sort of radiation, we can say it is radioactive.
There is a little radiation all around us all the time, which people's bodies are used to, but larger amounts of radiation can make people sick or kill them. Natural ionizing radiation is produced by radioactive decay of some chemical elements, such as uranium. Stars and other things in outer space also make radiation. "See cosmic ray". Some isotopes that are radioactive only stay radioactive for much less than a second. Other things can stay radioactive for thousands of years. 
People and anything that lives gives off radiation naturally, because of the potassium and Carbon-14 inside. 
Some of the machines that make radiation are called particle accelerators. Scientists use these machines to make radiation so they can study it. X-ray machines also make radiation, so doctors can see the inside of the human body and help people. Nuclear weapons (atomic weapons) use a nuclear reaction to produce massive amounts of energy, in the form of heat, light, and radiation. This radiation is spread by the dust, ash, and smoke produced by the blast.
Nuclear reactors are used to make electricity. They make a lot of radiation, but the reactors are built carefully to keep the radiation inside the reactor. But many people are afraid that if there were a problem with the reactor, radioactive material could escape into the environment, harming or killing many animals and people. Also, the parts of the reactor stay radioactive, and can kill people, for hundreds or thousands of years, so people are not sure where they can keep parts of old reactors safely away from people.

</doc>
<doc id="4757" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4757" title="Click">
Click

Click is an onomatopoeia. It is sometimes used to indicate pressing the button on a computer mouse.

</doc>
<doc id="4759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4759" title="Buzz Aldrin">
Buzz Aldrin

Dr. Edwin Eugene "Buzz" Aldrin, Jr., retired Colonel (born January 20, 1930) is an American pilot and astronaut. He was born in Glen Ridge, New Jersey. He was one of the first people to walk on the Moon (with Neil Armstrong) during the Apollo 11 mission. 
The Lunar Lander Module landed on the Moon on July 20, 1969.
He was 39 when he set foot on the moon. He earned a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering from the military academy West Point in 1951. After graduate and postgraduate studies, he received a Doctorate of Science in Astronautics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in 1963. He received an honorary Doctorate of Science from Gustavus-Adolphus-College in 1967.
Aldrin left NASA in March 1972. He has been married three times: to Joan Archer, to Beverly Zile, and to his current wife, Lois Driggs Cannon. He had three children with Joan, named James, Janice and Andrew. He married Cannon on Valentine's Day, 1988. He is the oldest contestant on the television series "Dancing with the Stars". He competed in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="4760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4760" title="Tuberculosis">
Tuberculosis

Tuberculosis (TB) is an infectious disease caused by bacteria. In the past, people called it consumption. 
TB is caused by several types of mycobacteria, usually "Mycobacterium tuberculosis". The disease usually attacks the lungs, but it can also affect other parts of the body. 
The bacteria can travel through the air and spread from one person to the next. This happens when infected people cough, sneeze, or spit. 
Of every 100 people with TB, between five and ten people show symptoms. In these people, the disease is called active. Tuberculosis kills more than half of the people who are infected if they do not get treatment. 
Diagnosis of active TB relies on radiology. Doctors often look at an X-ray of the chest. In addition, they check body fluids. These fluids have microbes in them, which are grown in cell cultures. The cell cultures are then analysed to see if the person is infected with TB.
If the patient has TB but does not show symptoms, the disease is 'latent'. Doctors use a skin test, called the Mantoux test, to detect latent TB. They often do blood tests too. 
There is a vaccine against some forms of tuberculosis. It is called bacillus Calmette–Guérin vaccine.
TB used to be easily treated and cured with antibiotics. However, the bacterium is now highly resistant to most antibiotics. This resistance makes treatment difficult. Many different kinds of antibiotics need to be given over a long period of time. There is a form of tuberculosis that is resistant to "all" drugs. 
Tuberculosis can have many symptoms. The most common include:
People are also more likely to get tuberculosis if they live close to other people who have TB. For example, TB can spread easily in homeless shelters, prisons, and immigrant communities.
Experts believe that one third of the world population is infected with "M. tuberculosis". New infections occur at a rate of one per second. In 2007, about 13.7 million chronic cases were active globally. In 2010, about 8.8 million new cases developed and nearly 1.5 million people died from the disease, most of them in developing countries. The number of tuberculosis cases has been decreasing since 2006, and new cases have decreased since 2002. 
Tuberculosis does not happen at the same rate around the world. About eighty percent of the population in many Asian and African countries test positive for TB, but only five to ten percent of people in the United States do. 
People usually get tuberculosis because of a weakened immune system. Many people with HIV and AIDS can also get tuberculosis.

</doc>
<doc id="4761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4761" title="American (word)">
American (word)

The word American is used to mean a person or a thing from the United States or any country in the Americas - North America, Central America, or South America. In English, the most common use of this word is to mean a person or a thing from the United States. 
Even though the islands in the Caribbean Sea are close to the Americas, people who speak English do not usually use the word "American" for people or things from these islands. 
A Native American is someone who is mostly descended from the people who lived in the Americas before the Europeans arrived. Native Americans are also called First Nations and "Indians".
There is no language "American". Some important languages used in the Americas are English, French, Portuguese, and Spanish. Some people still use Native American languages. Quechua is the largest.

</doc>
<doc id="4772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4772" title="Grain">
Grain

Grain is the seeds of some special kinds of grass. The main types of commercial grain crops are cereals. People grow different kinds of grain as food. The different kinds of grain are perhaps one of the most important foods in the world. 
Some kinds of grain are:
87% of all grain grown by farmers around the world is maize. Grains contain carbohydrates that people can eat. In poorer countries, grains are a large part of the food supply. In richer countries, they are still important as food, but not as important as in poorer countries. Growing grain uses a lot of water. About 1,000 tons of water is needed to grow one ton of grain.
Many different foods are made from different types of grain. Grain is often ground into a powder called flour. Flour can be made into breads, cakes, or noodles.
Different kinds of beer are made from barley malt, wheat, and other grains.
Tortillas are made from a special flour of maize (corn) called "masa".

</doc>
<doc id="4774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4774" title="Clause">
Clause

A clause is a part of a sentence. Each clause has only one main verb. "I love you" is a sentence which has only one clause. "I love you and I will always love you" is a sentence which has two clauses. The two clauses are "I love you" and "I will always love you". These clauses are joined together by the word "and" (a conjunction). Clauses may be independent or dependent.
Two clauses can be joined with a pronoun. For example: "I live in London, which is in England". Here, "I live in London" is the first clause, and "which is in England" is the second clause. The word "which" is a pronoun which takes the place of "London". It joins the two clauses. A sentence can contain many clauses. But sentences with fewer clauses are easier to understand.
A simple sentence may also be called an independent clause. It may be a part of a compound or complex sentence, but it can also stand on its own as a simple sentence (or independent clause). 
A subordinate clause also called a dependent clause is one which cannot stand by itself. This is because it does not express a complete thought. It contains both a subject and a verb. A subordinate clause always depends on a main clause. The main clause makes sense and can stand on its own. However, the subordinating clause does not. For example, "I love you" makes perfect sense left on its own. However, "and always will", does not.

</doc>
<doc id="4775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4775" title="Marxism">
Marxism

Marxism is the name for a set of political and economic ideas. The base of these ideas comes from the works of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels. They have had a lot of influence in many countries.
Marxism influenced other political views, such as social democracy and reformist socialism. Both believe that the ideas of Marx and Engels can be achieved through what Marx called 'bourgeois democracy'.
Opinions about how a Marxist society should be organised are extremely varied: "Marxist political economists differ over their definitions of capitalism, socialism and communism. These differences are so fundamental, the arguments among... Marxist political economists have sometimes been as intense as their oppositions to... capitalism".
Many Marxists say that modern "communism" is not communism at all. They say that "communist" countries like the Soviet Union, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, and Vietnam are really using different forms of capitalism, often with heavily "nationalized" industries. A thinker named Tony Cliff was one of the biggest supporters of these ideas. He wrote that states like the Soviet Union and Communist China (before 1980) were "State-Capitalist."
Not all communists, socialists, or Marxists agree on this question. However, many strong supporters of Marxism agree that: 
Marxism says that people in the world are organized into different groups, or classes, based on what they do for work.
Most people are called "workers" because they work in factories, offices, or farms for money. They belong to the "working class" (or "proletariat").
Another group, who are not as big as the working class, are "capitalists" (or "bourgeoisie"). They own the factories, land, and buildings that the workers have to work in. They also own all of the tools the workers have to use. Marx calls capitalists the "Ruling Class" because they live off of the work of all the workers. He also says that the capitalists own the government, army, and courts.
In Marxist views, Capital is the "means of production" and money which the capitalist can invest in different places of business, so that they can "profit" or gain more Capital.
Most workers work for companies owned by capitalists or "petit-bourgeois" (small business owners). The capitalist pays the worker in exchange for the worker's time. The capitalist has bought a period of time from the worker, which the worker must then use to labor for the capitalist. According to Marxist thinking, this is the only way that a capitalist can create extra money from a commodity (a piece of merchandise). The capitalist exploits the worker's time as much as they can. The capitalist receives a certain price for the commodity the worker made. The capitalist builds up capital by paying the worker less than that price. In this way, the capitalist exploits the worker's labor by:
Here is an example of exploitation of labor. Jane is a shoemaker. She works for Michael, who owns a shoe factory that can make 60 pairs of shoes in a day. Jane makes 60 pairs of shoes every day. Michael pays Jane $20 a day. However, Michael sells each pair of shoes for $2 each. This means he makes $120 in a day. After he pays Jane her $20 wage, Michael has $100 left over. However he then has to pay for materials which cost $1 for each shoe so that's $60 each day. Then running expense's of the factory cost him $10 a day. So he only gets $30 at the end of the day for managing the business. This remaining wealth is called "Profit" or "Surplus [extra] Value." In other words, even though Jane makes 60 shoes every day, she only gets paid the value of 10 pairs of shoes. The rest of the day, while she is making the other 50 shoes, she is creating money for her boss. Her labor is making him richer and helping her earn money.
It is this Surplus Value, or Profit, which Marxism thinks as an exploitation of labor. This exploitation allows the smaller class (capitalists) to live without working, while the bigger class (the workers) have to work for the capitalists to survive.
Marxism says that factories, tools, and work places cannot create new value on their own. They are like a blueberry bush: it has no value on its own. People have to create that value by laboring. For example, someone spends a day picking blueberries. Those blueberries can now be traded or eaten because of the labor that was put in to pick them.
Marxist thinking claims that capitalists and workers are constantly struggling. They call this "Dialectical Materialism." This is the idea that the history of humans is the history of conflict between classes. Different classes with different interests argue or fight each other. Social change is the result.
Marxism says that capitalists have to exploit the workers as much as possible, and make their pay as low as they can. The capitalists have to do this so they can create as much profit as possible for themselves, as quickly as possible. Workers, on the other hand, have to struggle to keep their wages up, and to keep the "rate of exploitation" low, so that they can live more peaceful lives. This is what Marxism calls "Class Struggle": where workers and their bosses fight against each other to gain for themselves.
Marxists think that all of written human history has been divided by economic classes. One example is feudal society (a medieval society controlled by feudal Lords and Nobles). The ruling class got their power and wealth from the labor of peasants (farmers). But, as peasants demanded more and more for themselves, small shopkeepers and tradespeople began to appear. Many of these people formed guilds as well, and eventually began to employ workers. These workers were able to gain wealth for themselves at these jobs. These historical events created capitalism.
In this way, Marxists think that history has been pushed forward by class struggle. They think that communism (or socialism) will be born from this struggle, just like capitalism was. However, they also think that capitalism will give way to communism, as the workers' struggle becomes more and more revolutionary.
The core of Marxist thinking is called Materialism. Materialism is a philosophical view that says that communities develop from the "ground up". It says that the "higher" qualities of culture (like art, manners, customs, and religions) are actually founded on the "lower" or simpler qualities of life. These qualities include having enough of what people need to survive, like food and shelter; who has money and what they have to do to get it; who is allowed to work, and who is forced to work.
Changes in the higher qualities of culture (sometimes called the "Superstructure") are often linked to changes in the lower qualities of life (sometimes called the "Base"). One example is that in medieval times, people thought "honor" or duty to people with more power than them was very important. Today, in Western countries, many people see ambition (being someone who works hard for their own goals) as more important. This is because in medieval times, people worked their entire lives under lords who depended on them not only for work but for war. Today, people work by themselves more, and our society lets some people move up from being poor to being rich. In this case, what people see as good and important depends on how the rulers get value out of their workers.
Marxism recognizes that in earlier time periods, we lived first under rulers who owned everything. Then we lived under lords who owned land with workers who lived on that land. In Marx's time, people lived under governments that allowed many people to own property. Eventually, Marxists believe that we will move to a society where everyone owns everything in common. This will be called socialism.
In other words, human society has always been based on the economic forces that human beings can control. For Marxism, this means that each society takes its form based on its "mode of production." Marxists believe that humans' ability to produce goods and services today means people can move beyond the conflicts of a society that is divided into classes.
Many Marxists believe that there will always be revolts and, with the right conditions, revolutions. In these revolutions, the workers will fight the capitalists and will (eventually) win. During this process, they will set up a socialist "workers' state" (a form of government where the workers are the rulers of society). This state will only be temporary. Its job will be to take power away from the capitalists, until all the capitalist countries in the world are defeated, and social classes no longer exist.
Marxists believe that if the working class makes itself the ruling class and destroys the basis for class society (private property, or what Marx called "Bourgeois Property"), there will be a "classless society." In this society, no social classes are in conflict, and there is no government anymore. The state will no longer be needed, and the world will have no borders. There will be communes around the world. Workers will organize production of goods and services based on what people need, not based on profits.

</doc>
<doc id="4779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4779" title="Sacred">
Sacred

People use the word sacred or the word holy for something that is special or important.
Most religions have sacred books that tell about their religion. For Christians this book is called the Bible. Muslim peoples have another book, they call the Qur'an. Jews call their book the Torah.
Most religions have sacred places that are important to their religion. Jerusalem is seen as sacred by Judaism, Christianity and Islam. Mecca is sacred in Islam, and Ise Grand Shrine in Mie Prefecture is sacred in Japanese Shinto. In Hinduism the river Ganges is seen as holy.

</doc>
<doc id="4781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4781" title="Zürich">
Zürich

Zürich or Zurich ( ; Swiss German: "Züri" ) is a city in Switzerland. Zürich is also a canton in Switzerland.
Zürich is the biggest city in Switzerland. The city has about 366,000 people living in it. It is at the north end of the Lake of Zürich. The city of Zürich is placed in the "canton Zürich". The canton of Zürich is the biggest canton of Switzerland, by the number of people living in it. Over 1,220,000 people live there. (About 1 million people live in the agglomeration of the city). The city was founded (first built) by the Romans. The Canton joined Switzerland in 1351.
In the city of Zürich, most of the people work in the commerce part of the economy. There are many banks in Zürich. The headquarters of FIFA (Fédération Internationale de Football Association) is also in Zürich.
The airport of Zürich is located about to the north, in a town called Kloten. Zürich Airport ("Flughafen Zürich", IATA:ZRH) is the biggest airport in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="4782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4782" title="Translation">
Translation

Translation means to copy writing or speech from one language into a different language.
The people who do translation are called translators. A translator who is copying a book into another language may use a language dictionary to find out how a word is written in another language. A translator who works with the spoken word is also called an interpreter.
In computer technology translation from a programming language to a machine language is called compiling. There are free translators on the internet.

</doc>
<doc id="4783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4783" title="Astronaut">
Astronaut

An astronaut or cosmonaut is a person who goes into outer space. The Soviet Union and countries that it was friends with used the word cosmonaut. Western countries including the United States said astronaut. Astronauts are also called "taikonauts" in China or "spationaute" in France.
The first person to go into space was a Russian from the Soviet Union. His name was Yuri Gagarin. This happened on April 12, 1961. The first and second people to walk on the Moon were the Americans Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin. This happened on July 20, 1969. No astronauts have gone to the moon since 1972. No people have visited any other planets yet.
Astronauts used to go into space using many different ways, but now they only go on the Soyuz and Shenzhou. Several countries have worked together to build an International Space Station where people stay and work in space for long periods of time.
A few countries and companies are trying to make more ways to get people into space. The United States is building a very big rocket called the SLS. Some American companies, like Boeing and SpaceX, are being paid by the United States to make ways for people to go to space.

</doc>
<doc id="4788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4788" title="Hacker">
Hacker

A hacker originally meant someone who likes to do new things with computers. Now "hacker" is used to mean "someone who tries to get into another person's computer using computer software such as Trojan horse programs, computer viruses, and worms that can hurt other people's computers". The correct name for a person doing these illegal things was "cracker", but many news stories used the word "hacker" even though it was in error. Another meaning of "hacker" is someone who can change or program something, like how people can change or program a Furby to say something insulting or humorous.
A person doing something illegal with a computer belonging to someone else without asking a permission of the owner is also called a hacker.
In the recent years computers were becoming increasingly more complex. This also means that people with bad intentions have more opportunities to use them for criminal purposes. Computer engineers aren't always able to find vulnerable places in the computer code. Hackers find such places, and use them.
There are also hackers who use the same skills for good purposes. Such hackers are called "gray hat" hackers. They help computer engineers to find vulnerable places and correct problems.
A lot of skills are often required to be a hacker. A hacker should be able to find problems or solutions that most other people cannot find.

</doc>
<doc id="4790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4790" title="Broadcasting">
Broadcasting

In communications, such as radio and television, broadcasting means sending information such as television shows or music electronically to a large audience. The information is sent through the air in radio waves, through a wire, or by a communications satellite, and then the television viewers or radio listeners pick up the signal using their television sets and radio receivers. Gugliemo Marconi invented wireless telegraphy, in December 1901 he transmitted first radio signals across the Atlantic Ocean. This was point to point. Experiments with voice broadcasting began a few years later, and it grew rapidly in the 1920s.
Different broadcasters use different radio waves and different modulating methods. amplitude modulation on medium waves was the first to be much used. 
Some television networks are said to be broadcasting, even if they are only or mainly on cable TV rather than by radio waves. 
Many countries have public broadcasingrs, using money from the government to broadcast television shows and radio programs. Examples include the BBC in Britain, NHK in Japan, and the CBC in Canada. 
In the United States, public broadcast radio and television stations are owned by the public. Most are run by educational groups (such as colleges or universities) or by a state's educational department. Public broadcasters, by law, cannot accept or display commercial advertising. However, businesses can make donations to a public broadcaster. Most are part of the Public Broadcasting System.
PBS is different than the other public broadcasters such as BBC, NHK and CBC, because the PBS gets a lot of its funding (money) from donations by viewers and listeners. Public broadcasters make programs that the private companies are not interested in making, such as educational children's shows, documentaries, and public affairs shows about current issues.
As well, there are private broadcasting companies. These are companies that broadcast television and radio programs. To make money, private broadcasting companies sell advertisements called commercials.
A third type of broadcaster is community broadcasters. There are community television stations and community radio stations.
Community television stations are often provided on cable networks. Community television stations usually have shows about local issues and community events. Some community television stations film and broadcast community cultural activities, such as musical performances or town hall meetings. 
Community radio stations play music and have public affairs shows about community issues. Community radio stations are usually small organizations that are run by volunteers. Community radio stations often get their funding (money) from local governments, local universities, and from donations by listeners. Some community radio stations also have poetry readings by local poets, or performances by local musicians or singers.
Broadcasting can also mean sending a message to many users on a computer network at exactly the same time, or sending a message from one computer to many other computers, giving information about itself, such as its name and location.
Sending information to a small selected group is called "narrowcasting".

</doc>
<doc id="4793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4793" title="Socialism">
Socialism

Socialism is an economic system where the ways of making money (factories, offices, etc.) are owned by a society as a whole, meaning the value made belongs to everyone in that society, instead of a small group of private owners. People who agree with this type of system are called socialists. There are two ways socialists think that society can own the means of making wealth: either the state (government of the country) is used or worker-owned cooperatives are used. Another important belief is that management and sharing are supposed to be based on public interests. Socialists believe that everything in society is made by the cooperative efforts of the people. 
There are many kinds of socialism, so no one definition can apply to all of them; however, in all types, the workers own the means of production. The major differences between the different varieties are the role of the free market or planning, how the means of production are controlled, the role of management of workers and the government's role in the economy.
Some socialists believe that socialism will over time turn into what they see as a more advanced system with no state, money, or social classes. Because the tools for making and distributing things are owned by everyone in socialism, more jobs will be replaced by machines until the amount of human work needed is made as low as possible, so they say that this will let everyone get what they want without using money. This is called Communism and these socialists are called communists. 
Socialism is an economic theory of social organization that believes that the means of making, moving, and trading wealth should be owned or controlled by the community as a whole. In Marxist theory, it is a transitional (temporary, in between) social state between capitalism and communism. 
Social democracy is a kind of socialism that tries to mix parts of socialism with capitalism. In this system, the government takes wealth (money) from the rich and gives it to the poor like in a Communist state, but despite there being more government control and less chance to make a very large amount of money, people can still run their own businesses and own private property. Unlike communism, where all private property is taken to be owned publicly, people and businesses pay taxes on their property, and this money is spent on public services (see below), after taking out the costs of running the government and collecting the taxes. The main method of democratic socialism is changing society through slow reform rather than a quick revolution.
In many countries that use social democracy, some services and industries are subsidized (given money to help them run) and/or partly controlled by the government. For example, education, health care, housing, utility companies and public transportation are some industries that might be owned/supported by the government in a socialist system. For the most part, people working in these industries are paid by the government, with money paid by the people as taxes. Welfare is also likely offered under socialism.
Another kind of Socialism is "Collectivization." In this system, money and goods are shared more equally among the people, with the government in control. In theory, this system results in the gap between classes getting smaller, with the poorest of a nation's people being helped by the state while the richest agree to higher taxes and economic controls/restrictions. Of course, Socialism as it is commonly used is different in many ways from communism (See "The History of Socialism and Communism", later in the article.)
Today, many democratic socialists, especially in Western Europe, want industries to be guided jointly (together) by representatives of shareholders (people who own part of the business) as well as the workers working together in what is known as an industrial democracy because both groups want the business to do well. This would be a more direct democratic way of organizing rather than control by central government. Trade unions and/or workers councils would represent the interests of the employees. 
Many countries see Socialism differently. Socialist International is an organization dedicated to the cause of promoting socialist ideals, and has ties with many Socialist parties, especially Social Democratic parties.
Most non-communist people say "communism" when they mean the Marxist and Leninist ideas of Russia's Bolshevik party. Marx believed that capitalism followed the economic and political system of feudalism. He also believed that capitalism would oppress (treat unfairly) many people, and those people would eventually revolt and change to socialism. Then he thought that socialism can be another bridge, but to communism. However, many people incorrectly use the term "Communist" to refer to a socialist state. Others call this 'State Socialism,' to distinguish it from the communist goal that does not need a state or any form of government. To non-communists, the word 'socialism' is now mostly used for attempts to come close to this goal in a democratic state.
A Welshman, Robert Owen, was the first socialist. His followers began calling themselves socialists in 1841. He is still regarded as a pioneer of the Co-operative Movement in Britain. He said that workers should own the companies they worked for. The workers would then share the profits among themselves. He set up a new model factory in New Lanark, Scotland. 
Karl Marx is the most well-known creator of the theory of socialism, and of communism. He wrote a book about capitalism, socialism, and communism, called "The Communist Manifesto". Friedrich Engels co-wrote the book, and paid for much of Marx's work and research. 
Many socialist political parties were formed during the 19th century and early part of the 20th century. Left-wing political parties are mostly newer than right-wing ones.
Socialism with Chinese characteristics combines the basic principles of scientific socialism with the facts of building socialistic China. Socialism is the common rule and essential feature of the practice, and Chinese characteristics are what the basic principles of socialism really represent in China. And the scientific socialism theory is raised by Deng Xiaoping, the chief designer of opening up and economic reform in China.
1. For the economic aspect, China insists on the economy with different types of ownership basic system of market economy with the public ownership in the leading role.
2. For its political aspect, China sticks to a system of the People's Congress, a system of multiparty cooperation and political consultation, and a system of regional ethnic autonomy.
3. For its cultural aspect, China keeps its socialist value system at the core of social trends, while respecting differences and expanding common grounds.

</doc>
<doc id="4794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4794" title="Leninism">
Leninism

Vladimir Lenin was a Russian Marxist. He had a set of political ideas based on Marxism. Lenin's development of Marxism has become known as Leninism.
These ideas include:

</doc>
<doc id="4796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4796" title="Bolshevik">
Bolshevik

A Bolshevik was a Russian Communist. They are also called the Bolshevik Communists.
The majority of the Russian Social Democratic Workers Party was a Marxist political party. In 1903 at the Party Congress members disagreed with each other. The Party ended up dividing into two groups, the Bolsheviks and the Mensheviks. They were called Bolsheviks because it means "those who are more." Vladimir Ilyich Lenin was the leader of the Bolshevik group. The more moderate group, the Mensheviks (meaning "those of the minority") were led by Julius Martov. Although the Bolsheviks were called "those who are more", before 1917 there were more Mensheviks. Many of Lenin's opponents were afraid that he liked to control things too much.
In 1905 the Bolshevik group became a separate political party, the RSDLP(b) the 'b' in brackets standing for 'Bolshevik'. 
After the February Revolution, some of the Mensheviks took positions in the Provisional Government. Lenin said socialists must oppose the Provisional Government. The government began to falter and Lenin started to have more authority. Because of this, many Mensheviks joined the Bolsheviks.
The Bolsheviks led the October Revolution in Russia in 1917. They said they created the world's first Workers' State. Soon, however, the government started to control what people could say and killed many people who opposed them. The Mensheviks opposed the government led by the Bolsheviks. Many ended up in prison or were killed. After that, they opposed the Bolsheviks from outside Russia, in exile. 
After the Revolution, the Bolshevik Party was called the Russian Communist Party.

</doc>
<doc id="4797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4797" title="Saddam Hussein">
Saddam Hussein

Saddam Hussein Abd al-Majid al-Tikriti (28 April 1937 - 30 December 2006) was the President of Iraq, from July 16, 1979 to April 9, 2003, when he was removed from his position during the War in Iraq led by the United States. During his time as President, he killed 5 million people through war and genocide.
Saddam Hussein was born in the village of Al-Awja, in the Tikrit in Iraq. He never knew his father, Hussein 'Abd al-Majid, who disappeared five months before Saddam was born. Shortly before Saddam was born, Saddam's twelve-year-old brother died of cancer, leaving his mother very depressed in the final months of the pregnancy. She tried to kill herself near the end of the pregnancy and did not want to care for Saddam when he was born. Saddam was sent to the family of an uncle, Khairallah Tulfah, until he was three.
At 10, Saddam ran away from the family to return to live with his uncle, who was a devout Sunni Muslim, in Baghdad. According to Saddam, in 1957, at the age of 20, Saddam became part of the Ba'ath Party. The Ba'ath party is an Arab political party that supports socialism.
In 1958, Hussein was arrested for killing his brother-in-law because he was a communist activist. He spent six months in prison.
A year after Saddam had joined the Ba'ath party, army officers led by General Abdul Karim Qassim got rid of Faisal II of Iraq. The Baathists were against the new regime, and in 1959, Saddam was involved in the attempted murder of Prime Minister Qassim. Saddam was shot in the leg, but managed to get away to Syria. Later, he moved to Egypt. He was sentenced to death. In exile, he attended the University of Cairo law school.
Army officers, including some with the Ba'ath party, came to power in Iraq in a military coup in 1963. However, the new regime was kicked out quickly. Saddam returned to Iraq, but was imprisoned in 1964 when an anti-Ba'ath group led by Abdul Rahman Arif took power. He escaped from jail in 1967 and became one of the leading members of the party.
In 1976, Saddam was made a general in the Iraqi army. He quickly became the most important person of the regime. He slowly began to gain more power over Iraq's government and the Ba'ath party. As Iraq's weak, old President, Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr, became more unable to do the duties of his office, Saddam began to take on an more important role as the head of the Iraqi government. He soon became the creator of Iraq's foreign policy and represented the nation in all diplomatic situations. 
In 1979, Iran's Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi was overthrown by the Islamic Revolution, giving way to an Islamic republic led by the Ayatollah Khomeini. The influence of revolutionary Shi'ite Islam grew in the region, particularly in countries with large Shi'ite populations, especially Iraq. Saddam was afraid that radical Islamic ideas were quickly spreading inside his country among most of the Shi'ite people. He worried that these ideas would go against his leadership.
There had also been a rivalry between Saddam and Khomeini since the 1970s. Khomeini was exiled from Iran in 1964. He began living in Iraq, at the Shi'ite holy city of An Najaf. There, he became involved with Iraqi Shi'ites and gained many religious and political followers throughout the world. Under pressure from the Shah, who had agreed to a rapprochement between Iraq and Iran in 1975, Saddam agreed to kick Khomeini out in 1978. After the Islamic Revolution, Khomeini thought defeating Saddam's government may have been the second most important thing to do, only behind keeping his power in Iran.
After Khomeini gained power, small battles between Iraq and revolutionary Iran happened for ten months. The two countries were fighting over who controlled the Shatt al-Arab waterway, which divides Iran and Iraq. 
Iraq and Iran officially went to war with each other on September 22, 1980. Saddam used the disagreement over the waterway as an excuse to go to war with Iran. However, the war was more likely an attempt by Saddam - supported by both the United States and the Soviet Union - to have Iraq stop radical revolutions like the one in Iran from spreading any further.
In the first days of the war, there was heavy ground fighting around major ports as Iraq launched an attack on Iran's oil-rich, Arab-populated province of Khuzestan. After making some gains, Iraq's troops began to suffer losses from human-wave attacks by Iran. By 1982, Iraq was looking to end the war.
During the war, Iraq used chemical warfare against Iranian forces and Kurdish separatists. On March 16, 1988, Saddam ordered Iraqi troops to stop a Kurdish uprising. Iraq attacked the Kurdish town of Halabjah with a mix of poison gas and nerve agents, killing 5000 people, mostly women and children. 
Saddam reached out to other Arab governments for cash and political help. The Iranians, hoping to bring down Saddam's non-religious government and start a Shi'ite rebellion in Iraq, refused a cease-fire until 1988.
The eight-year war ended in a tie. There were hundreds of thousands of casualties. Perhaps 1.7 million died on both sides. Both economies, previously healthy and growing, were left in ruins.
Saddam was also stuck with a debt of roughly $75 billion. Borrowing money from the U.S. was making Iraq into its client state, embarrassing a strongman who had sought to define and dominate Arab nationalism. Saddam also borrowed a large amount of money from other Arab states during the 1980s to fight Iran. Faced with rebuilding Iraq's infrastructure, Saddam desperately sought out cash once again, this time for postwar reconstruction.
Saddam was pressuring Kuwait to forgive its share of his debt, some $30 billion. (This would mean Iraq would not have to pay back Kuwait's $30 million.) Saddam argued that the struggle with Iran had been fought for the benefit of the other Persian Gulf Arab states as much as for Iraq. Because of this, he said, a share of Iraqi debt should be forgiven. 
Saddam had pushed oil-exporting countries to raise oil prices and cut back production. Not only did Kuwait refuse to do this; they also helped support OPEC's opposition to the production cuts that Saddam had requested. Kuwait was pumping large amounts of oil, and keeping prices low, when Iraq needed to sell high-priced oil from its wells to pay off a huge debt.
The fact that Kuwait had so much oil made the region even more tense. Even though Kuwait had fewer people, it had about as much oil in reserve as Iraq. Together, Iraq and Kuwait had 20 percent of the world's known oil reserves.
The Kuwaiti monarchy made Saddam even angrier by drilling oil out of Iraqi wells. At the time, Saddam's regime was not disliked by most of the world. Saddam complained about the drilling to the United States State Department. Although this had gone on for years, Saddam now needed oil money to get rid of a looming economic crisis. Saddam still had an experienced and well-equipped army, which he used to influence regional affairs. He later ordered troops to the Iraqi-Kuwaiti border.
As Iraqi-Kuwaiti relations rapidly grew worse, Saddam was getting different information about how the United States would respond to an invasion. The United States had been working on starting a good relationship with Iraq for roughly a decade. The Reagan administration gave Saddam roughly $40 billion worth of arms in the 1980s to fight Iran, nearly all of it on credit. The U.S. also sent billions of dollars of food and arms to Saddam to keep him from forming a strong alliance with the Soviets.
The U.S. ambassador to Iraq, April Glaspie, met with Saddam in a meeting on July 25. Saddam said he wanted to keep talks going. U.S. officials tried to take a calm, relaxing tone with Iraq. They explained that neither President George H.W. Bush or Secretary of State James Baker wanted military force to be used. However, they also said that they would not take any position on the Iraqi-Kuwaiti dispute and did not want to become involved. 
Later, Iraq and Kuwait met for a final negotiation session, which failed. Saddam then sent his troops into Kuwait.
In August 2, 1990, Saddam invaded Kuwait, causing an international crisis. The invasion of Kuwait gave Iraq, with its own substantial oil fields, control of 20 percent of the Persian Gulf oil. The U.S. helped Saddam Hussein in the war with Iran, but with Iraq's take over of the oil-rich emirate of Kuwait in August of 1990, the United States led a United Nations force that drove Saddam from Kuwait in February 1991.
Because the United States and the Soviet Union were cooperating in the United Nations Security Council, the Security Council was able to pass resolutions. These resolutions gave Iraq a deadline to leave Kuwait.
Saddam ignored the Security Council deadline. On January 16, 1991, coalition of U.S. and Security Council troops launched missile attacks on Iraq. The United States and a group of allies it had quickly gathered, including Egypt, Syria, and Saudi Arabia, made Saddam's army move from Kuwait in January 1991.
Israel, though it was attacked by Iraqi missiles, did not fight back. It did not want to anger Arab states into leaving the coalition. But Saddam had focused attention on the Palestinian problem by promising to make his forces leave from Kuwait if Israel would leave the occupied territories in the West Bank, the Golan Heights, and the Gaza Strip. Saddam's proposal further split the Arab world, pitting U.S.- and Western-supported Arab states against the Palestinians.
175,000 Iraqis were taken prisoner and about 85,000 died. As part of the cease-fire agreement, Iraq agreed to get rid of all poison gas and germ weapons, and to allow UN observers to inspect the sites. Saddam publicly claimed victory at the end of the war.
All of the different religions and the violence the war had created caused after-war rebellions. After the war, fighting between Shi'ite Muslims, Kurds, and dissident military units was bad. This was a problem to Saddam's rule. Saddam acted by stopping all rebellions in their tracks, especially in the North.
Before the war ended, the United States had encouraged Iraqis to rise up against Saddam. However, when the Shi'ites, Kurds, and dissidents did rise up against Saddam, the United States did not support them.
Without United States support for these rebellions, Saddam survived them. He was then left completely in control of Iraq. The country's economy and armed forces never recovered from the Gulf War. However, Saddam often claimed that Iraq had won the Gulf War, and the United States had lost. This made Saddam popular in many parts of the Arab world.
Saddam liked to show himself as a strict Muslim. This was to calm down the religious parts of the society. He brought back some parts of Sharia law. This included the 2001 law that said homosexuality could be punished by the death penalty. The phrase "Allahu Akbar" ("God is great"), in Saddam's handwriting, was added to the Iraq national flag.
Relations between the United States and Iraq remained tense after the Gulf War. In 1993, the United States decided to attack Iraq, because it thought evidence showed Iraq had sponsored a plan to kill former President George H.W. Bush. On June 26, 1993, the United States launched a missile attack aimed at Iraq's intelligence headquarters in Baghdad.
The United Nations placed a trade embargo on Iraq, blocking Iraqi oil exports. This caused hardship in Iraq and almost destroyed the Iraqi economy and state infrastructure. Only smuggling across the Syrian border, and humanitarian aid kept Iraq from crisis. Later, limited amounts of income from the United Nations oil-for-food program started flowing into Iraq. On December 9, 1996, the United Nations allowed Baghdad to begin selling limited amounts of oil for food and medicine.
U.S. officials continued to accuse Saddam of violating the Gulf War's cease-fire agreement, by developing weapons of mass destruction and other banned weapons, and by violating the UN-imposed sanctions and "no-fly zones." Isolated military strikes by U.S. and British forces continued on Iraq, the largest being Operation Desert Fox in 1998.
After two years of intermittent activity, U.S. and British warplanes struck harder at sites near Baghdad in February 2001.
Saddam's base of Tikriti tribesmen, family members, and other supporters was divided after the war and in the following years. This added to the regime's increasingly repressive and arbitrary nature. Domestic repression inside Iraq grew worse, and Saddam's sons, Uday Hussein and Qusay Hussein, became increasingly powerful and carried out a private reign of terror. They likely had a leading hand when, in August 1995, two of Saddam Hussein's sons-in-law, who held high positions in the Iraqi military, defected to Jordan. Both were killed after returning to Iraq the following February.
In 2003, the United States led an invasion of Iraq. The main reason for the invasion was President George W. Bush's claim that Saddam had weapons of mass destruction. Bush argued that this made Saddam a major threat to Western allies, such as oil-rich Saudi Arabia and Israel; to Western oil supplies from the Persian Gulf states; and to Middle East stability in general. The President before Bush, Bill Clinton (1993-2001), maintained sanctions and made occasional air strikes in the "Iraqi no-fly zones" or other restrictions, in the hope that Saddam would be overthrown by his many political enemies. However, this never happened.
Things changed in the United States after the September 11, 2001 attacks. In his January 2002 State of the Union Address to the United States Congress, President Bush said that Iraq, Iran, and North Korea were an "axis of evil." Bush also argued that Iraq had supported Al-Qaeda, the terrorists who attacked the United States on September 11.
As the war was looming on February 24, 2003, Saddam Hussein talked with CBS News anchor Dan Rather for more than three hours—his first interview with a U.S. reporter in over ten years. CBS aired the taped interview later that week.
The Iraqi government and military collapsed within three weeks after the beginning of the U.S.-led invasion on March 20. The United States tried at least twice to kill Saddam with targeted air strikes, but both failed to hit their target. By the beginning of April, Coalition forces controlled much of Iraq. The resistance of the much-weakened Iraqi Army either crumbled or shifted to guerrilla tactics, and it appeared that Saddam had lost control of Iraq. He was last seen in a video which showed him in the Baghdad suburbs surrounded by supporters. When Baghdad fell to the Coalition on April 9, Saddam was nowhere to be found.
Even when Baghdad was taken over, and most of the fighting had stopped, people still did not know where Saddam was. For a few weeks, some people said they saw Saddam, and some videotapes of Saddam talking came out, but still nobody knows if they were true or not.
Although Saddam was placed at the top of the "most-wanted list," he could not be found, even when the other leaders of the Iraqi regime were arrested. His sons and political heirs, Uday and Qusay, were killed in July 2003 in a clash with U.S. forces after a tip from an Iraqi.
On 14 December 2003, the Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA) of Iran first reported that Saddam Hussein had been arrested. These reports were soon confirmed by other members of the Governing Council, by U.S. military sources, and by British Prime Minister Tony Blair. 
Shortly afterwards, the U.S. Civil Administrator in Iraq, Paul Bremer, held a press conference in Baghdad. He officially announced Saddam's capture by saying, "Ladies and gentlemen, we got him!" United States soldiers found Saddam around 8:30 PM Iraqi time on 13 December, in what was called Operation Red Dawn. Saddam was hiding in an underground "spider hole" at a farmhouse in ad-Dawr, near his hometown of Tikrit.
The first photos taken of Saddam after the soldiers found him did not look like the photos taken when he was President of Iraq. He had grown long hair and a long beard. Later on, he shaved his beard to confirm his identity. DNA tests proved that he really was Saddam Hussein. People who talked with him after the soldiers found him said he was healthy, and wanted to talk to people and do what they told him to do. Paul Bremer said that Saddam would have a trial, but that he did not know yet what kind of trial. 
The Iraqi Special Tribunal was in charge of Saddam Hussein's trial, and the trials of some people that helped him to be President of Iraq.
In November 2006, Saddam Hussein was found guilty of 148 murders. On December 30, 2006, he was put to death. The hanging was recorded by officials of the government. A witness also secretly recorded the hanging with a cell phone camera, which included sound. The recording showed Saddam being calm as he was prepared for his final moments. Witnesses and executioners could be heard teasing Saddam as the rope was placed on his head, and he was put on the trap door. He was in the middle of a prayer when the trap door beneath him opened, and he was killed. Later, pictures and live video of Saddam's taunting and execution, and of his dead corpse were shown on many Internet sites. 
Saddam was buried in his hometown, Al-Awja, Iraq, the next day.
Saddam had been married three times. His first marriage was to his first cousin, Sajida Talfah. She was the oldest daughter of Saddam's uncle, Khairallah Talfah. Together, Saddam and Sajida had two sons, Uday Saddam Hussein and Qusay Hussein, and three daughters, Rana, Raghad and Hala. 
In early 1997, Sajida was put under house arrest, along with her daughters Raghad and Rana, because they were suspected of being involved in an attempted assassination on Uday on 12 December 1996. General Adnan Khairallah Tuffah, who was Sajida's brother and Saddam Hussein's boyhood friend, was allegedly executed because of his growing popularity.
Saddam Hussein also married two other women. The second was Samira Shahbandar, whom he married in 1986 after forcing her husband to divorce her. She was said to have been his favorite wife. His third wife was Nidal al-Hamdani, the general manager of the Solar Energy Research Center in the Council of Scientific Research, whose husband apparently was also persuaded to divorce his wife. 
In August 1995, Rana; her husband, Hussein Kamel al Majid; Raghad; her husband, Saddam Kamel Majid; and their children defected to Jordan. They returned to Iraq when they were promised that Saddam Hussein would pardon them. Within three days of their return in February 1996, both of the Majid brothers were executed.
Saddam's daughter Hala is married to Jamal Mustafa, the deputy head of Iraq's Tribal Affairs Office. Neither has been known to be involved in politics. Another cousin was Ali Hassan al-Majid, also known in the United States as "Chemical Ali," who was accused of ordering the use of poison gas in 1988.
Saddam was scheduled to die on Thursday night, 28 December 2006. Because of last-minute legal appeals in Iraq's Supreme Court of Appeals, Saddam's execution came about 40 hours later. Saddam Hussein was hanged on 30 December 2006 at 6:05 AM, Iraqi time. Saddam refused to wear a hood. He was pronounced dead at 6:10 AM Baghdad time. Baghdad had curfews on those days, which required people to be off the streets by evening.

</doc>
<doc id="4804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4804" title="List of traditional star names">
List of traditional star names

This is a list of traditional names for stars, mostly from Arabic and Latin.
To find out more about any of these stars, look them up in the SIMBAD international database:

</doc>
<doc id="4805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4805" title="List of tectonic plates">
List of tectonic plates

This is a list of the biggest tectonic plates on Earth.
These seven plates make up most of the seven continents and the Pacific Ocean.
These plates are generally shown on major plate maps, with the exception of the Arabian and Indian plates, which are smaller than the others.
These are parts of major plates, and bits and pieces of ancient plates that became broken up.

</doc>
<doc id="4806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4806" title="List of oil fields">
List of oil fields

This list of oil fields includes major fields of the past and present.

</doc>
<doc id="4807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4807" title="Anarchism">
Anarchism

Anarchism is a political belief that no government is supposed to exist. Anarchists also believe that participation should never be forced by other people. A major question in Anarchism is, "What is consent"? Anarchists often do not believe in the consent of the governed.
Anarchism is "a cluster of doctrines and attitudes centered on the belief that government is both harmful and unnecessary." The word "anarchism" is from the Greek αναρχία, which means "without rulers", not "without rule"; it is also occasionally translated as "without government".
In the common language, the word "anarchy" is often used to describe chaos or anomie. However, anarchists usually do not want this. Rather, they define "anarchy" as a way of relations between people. They believe that, once put into place, these relations work on their own.
Individual freedom, voluntary association, and opposition to the state are important beliefs of anarchism. There are also big differences between anarchist philosophies on things like whether violence can be used to bring anarchy; the best type of economy; the relationship between technology and hierarchy; the idea of equality; and the usefulness of some organization. The word "authority" is not clear, but anarchists are not against some types of authority (e.g. the authority of someone skilled in self-defence over someone that wants to learn self-defence), they are only against human domination.
There are many anarchists who reject capitalism and support socialism or communism (but in another sense, without a totalitarian state or power), they are called anarcho-socialists and anarcho-communists. Also, there are some people called anarcho-capitalists who oppose government, but support capitalism (but in another sense, neither corporatist government nor state capitalism), although many of them are okay with socialism between consenting participants, as long as they don't force them into the socialist system. Other anarchists say that they are not really anarchists, because anarchism is traditionally a socialist philosophy. Finally, there are "anarchists without adjectives" who hold that because people will be free in an anarchy to pursue voluntarily any economic structures they want (including communes, worker co-ops, and capitalist-owned firms). Anarcho-socialists and anarcho-communists believe that people can voluntarily participate in socialist/communist systems without having to be forced to, unlike their authoritarian counterparts that believe everyone should be forced into their system whether they like it or not.

</doc>
<doc id="4809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4809" title="List of countries by area">
List of countries by area

This is a list of countries by total area. Total area is the sum of all land and Inland water bodies (lakes, reservoirs, rivers).
The list includes the world and the oceans (rank nrs. 1,2,3,4,5,7), Antarctica (nr. 8), the Spratly Islands (claimed by various countries; nr 256) and the 259 countries and dependencies which are also listed above.

</doc>
<doc id="4810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4810" title="List of countries by continents">
List of countries by continents

Countries listed by continent and their capitals:
Eurafrasia is a continent in the three-continent system and includes Africa, Asia and Europe. 
Africa is a continent in the systems with 5 or more continents, consisting of 52 countries (including 2 disputed).
Asia is a continent in the 5 continent systems (but includes Europe in one of them) and those with 6 or more continents. The 48 countries within it are as follows:
Europe is a continent in one of the 6 continent systems and the 7 continent system. In other systems it is part of Asia, Eurasia or Eurafrasia. 47 countries are listed 
America is a continent in the 4, 5 and one of the 6 continent systems.
North America is a continent in the 7 continent system, consisting of 4 countries.
Central America is a continent in the 6 continent system, consisting of 23 countries
South America is a continent in the seven continent system. In other systems it is part of America. The 13 countries belonging to it are as follows:
Several terms are in use to describe the region comprising Australia and the nations of the Pacific Ocean. The term "Oceania" is usually preferred, and this is the term in use by the United Nations. The term "Pacific Islands" generally excludes the islands of New Zealand, and the continent of Australia. The indigenous Māori of New Zealand are a Polynesian people.
Historically, the region was called Australasia. This term is based more on natural history (geology, living things, geography) than on politics. This means Australia, New Zealand and the whole of New Guinea, plus those islands which are geologically connected. 
The countries (14 total) are listed below according to their UN classification:
Australasia is not a politically designated region. It is a natural region of "islands" designated by its geology, geography, botany and zoology. It is also an ecozone. 

</doc>
<doc id="4811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4811" title="List of countries by official languages">
List of countries by official languages

Afrikaans:
Albanian:
Arabic:
Armenian:
Assamese:
Azeri: 
Bahasa Indonesia:
Bulgarian:
Bengali:
Catalan:
Cree
Chipewyan
Croatian
Danish
Dari:
Dogrib/Tli Cho
Dutch:
Dzongkha:
English:
Fijian
Filipino:
Finnish:
French:
German:
Greek (Hellenic): 
Gwich'in:
Haitian Creole is an official language of:
Hebrew:
Hindi
Hungarian:
Inuktitut:
Inuvialuktun
Irish is the first official language of:
Italian:
Japanese:
Kazakh:
Khmer:
Korean:
Lao:
Latin:
Latvian:
Lithuanian:
Malay:
Maltese:
Māori:
Mandarin Chinese:
Moldovan "(asserted by nationalists to be distinct from Romanian; most linguists remain skeptical):"
Motu:
Ndebele:
Nepali:
Northern Sotho:
Occitan:
Pashtu:
Persian:
Polish:
Portuguese:
Romanian:
Rhaeto-Romansh:
Russian:
Sardinian is a partially official language of:
Serbian:
Sinhala:
Slavey:
Slovene:
Sotho:
Spanish:
Swahili:
Swazi:
Swedish:
Tamil:
Tok Pisin:
Tsonga:
Tswana:
Turkish:
Ukrainian:
Urdu:
Venda:
Vietnamese:
Welsh:
Xhosa:
Zulu:
Aranese:
Assamese:
Basque:
Bengali:
Chipewyan:
Cree:
Dhivehi:
Dogrib:
Frisian:
Galician:
" NOTE: Whether Galician is in fact a language, or a dialect of Portuguese, is a matter of debate among linguists.
Gwich'in:
Gujarati:
Hawaiian is an official language in:
Inuvialuktun:
Kannada:
Kashmiri:
Kurdish:
Malayalam:
Marathi:
Oriya:
Punjabi:
Rusyn
Sanskrit:
Sindhi:
Slavey:
Telugu:
Xhosa:
Zulu:

</doc>
<doc id="4812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4812" title="List of countries by population">
List of countries by population

This is a list of countries by population. This page has the name of almost every country in the world. There is a number to the right of every country's name. This number shows how many people live in the country. Countries with the most people are at the top. Countries with the least people are at the bottom.
This list comes from a book called "CIA World Factbook 2005".
Also see: List of countries, List of countries by area, List of countries by population density.

</doc>
<doc id="4813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4813" title="List of oil-producing nations">
List of oil-producing nations

This is a partial list of states that extract crude oil from oil wells.

</doc>
<doc id="4817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4817" title="Forests in the United Kingdom">
Forests in the United Kingdom

This is a list of forests in the United Kingdom.

</doc>
<doc id="4818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4818" title="List of prime numbers">
List of prime numbers

This page contains a list of the first 120 prime numbers. It also contains lists of the first few prime numbers of different kinds.
3, 7, 31, 127, 8191, 131071, 524287, 2147483647, 2305843009213693951
As of 2003, these are the only known Fermat primes.
3, 5, 17, 257, 65537
2, 3, 5, 11, 23, 29, 41, 53, 83, 89, 113, 131, 173, 179, 191, 233, 239, 251, 281, 293, 359, 419, 431, 443, 491, 509, 593, 641, 653, 659, 683, 719, 743, 761, 809, 911, 953
As of 2003, these are the only known Wilson primes.
5, 13, 563
As of 2003, these are the only known Wolstenholme primes.
16843, 2124679
2, 3, 5, 7, 23, 719, 5039, 39916801, 479001599, 87178291199
5, 7, 29, 31, 211, 2309, 2311, 30029
2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 101, 131, 151, 181, 191, 313, 353, 373, 383, 727, 757, 787, 797, 919, 929, 10301, 10501, 10601, 11311, 11411, 12421, 12721, 12821, 13331, 13831, 13931, 14341, 14741, 15451, 15551, 16061, 16361, 16561, 16661, 17471, 17971, 18181, 18481, 19391, 19891, 19991, 30103, 30203, 30403, 30703, 30803, 31013, 31513, 32323, 32423, 33533, 34543, 34843, 35053, 35153, 35353, 35753, 36263, 36563, 37273, 37573, 38083, 38183, 38783, 39293, 70207, 70507, 70607, 71317, 71917, 72227, 72727, 73037, 73237, 73637, 74047, 74747, 75557, 76367, 76667, 77377, 77477, 77977, 78487, 78787, 78887, 79397, 79697, 79997, 90709, 91019, 93139, 93239, 93739, 94049, 94349, 94649, 94849, 94949, 95959, 96269, 96469, 96769, 97379, 97579, 97879, 98389, 98689.
Cuban primes of the form (x - y) / (x - y), x is y + 1:
Cuban primes of the form (x - y) / (x - y), x is y + 2:
5, 13, 41, 61, 113, 181
3 7 13 31 37 43 67 73 79 127 151 163 193 211 223 241 283 307 331 349 367 409 421 433 463 487 541 577 601 613 619 631 643 673 727 739 769 787 823 883 937 991 997 1009 1021 1039 1087 1093 1117 1123 1201 1231 1249 1291 1303 1459 1471 1543 1567 1579 1597 1663 1693 1723 1777 1801 1831 1879 1933 1987 2053 2083 2113 2221 2239 2251 2281 2311 2467 2473 2557 2593 2647 2671 2689 2797 2851 2887 2953 2971 3037 3049 3109 3121 3163 3187 3229 3259 3301 3307 3313 86743

</doc>
<doc id="4819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4819" title="List of publishers">
List of publishers

This is a list of publishers in English.

</doc>
<doc id="4821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4821" title="ΜCLinux">
ΜCLinux

µCLinux is an operating system for small computers inside integrated circuits (chips). The system is based on the Linux operating system in many ways. Apart from the rather big size of Linux, µCLinux is much smaller and not as packed with features as Linux. It finds uses in many places, mostly dealing with sensor and data-gathering of different sorts.
Thanks to its compact nature, it can easily be transferred over slow connections. Yet it is a stable and robust system distributed as an open source program.

</doc>
<doc id="4822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4822" title="UNIX">
UNIX

UNIX, often spelled "Unix" when the product trademark is not important, is a multi-user multi-processing operating system. It was developed beginning in 1969 at Bell Labs. It was created by Ken Thompson, Dennis Ritchie, Douglas McIlroy, and others, using the newly invented C programming language. The Unix operating system is a multiuser and multiprocessing system - this lets it run several applications at one time, and support a large number of users at the same time. It also is network oriented; which means that it is able to operate well in a network of computers. Security is also emphasized in Unix, because many people can have access to it, both by using it directly or over a network.
Many ideas found in Unix were new. Other operating systems copied them. Today, there are many operating systems that have some of the ideas of Unix in them. For this reason, some people talk about a "Unix philosophy" of doing things. One of these systems with many of the Unix ideas in it, is called Linux. Linux does not use code from UNIX, it only shares some of the ideas and the names of commands. Therefore, Linux is not a UNIX operating system. Instead it is called "Unix-like".
There can be many different users in a Unix and Unix-like operating system. Most of them have a personal area where they can put things. This is called a user account.
The main method of using a Unix system is with the command line interface. Users run commands and programs by typing text characters (the "command lines"). This takes time to learn, but it is a very powerful and flexible way of working, because it allows things to be combined and done automatically, and it is still used by most Unix users and administrators. These commands are run in a shell, which can change slightly between one system and another.
A graphical user interface (GUI) is the other method. The GUI usually used by Unix systems is the X Window System. The X Window System is only a shell of a graphical interface. It is made of many protocols. The X Window System itself does not provide a way for the user to move and resize windows. This is handled by a window manager or desktop manager.
Some of the popular desktop environments and window managers are:
Like most other graphical user interfaces, they use windows, dialog boxes, support the use of a computer mouse and are designed to be easy to use.
There are many thousands of programs available for the X Window System. Programs like word processors and spreadsheets are available including free and open-source software.
Today, there are two kinds of operating systems that look like Unix. The first group contains all those that have common kernel code with the original, developed at Bell Labs of AT&T. This includes the commercial UNIX variants, like Solaris, or AIX . The other group includes free ones that usually have BSD in their name, like FreeBSD, OpenBSD ,NetBSD and Mac OS X. These are based on free BSD.
There are also free systems based on the Linux kernel. These do not have common code with the original UNIX. Even with the BSD systems, the amount of code from the original Unix is relatively small as much of the code has been rewritten over the years. To avoid confusion, many people speak about "Unix and Unix-like systems".
As to the applications, most can be made to run on any modern Unix or Unix-like system. KDE and GNOME were developed for Linux, and later ported to the commercial Unix variants.

</doc>
<doc id="4826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4826" title="Signature">
Signature

A signature is a special way that people write their name to imply that they agree to something which is written. 
A signature is usually used by people to sign letters they have written, cheques to show that they agree to the payment of some money, petitions to show their support for views, and contracts. The way people sign things are different in different countries. In the UK most people have a signature which is just made from writing their name in their own handwriting, but in Côte d'Ivoire for example, young adults spend many months practicing fancy signatures which are hard to copy and not readable.
People who cannot write often mark a signature of a cross. d their "seal", which is where the term "seal of approval" comes from. Some formal documents f arms]] is registered with the College of Heralds the registration document carries a wax seal.
Sometimes one finds a form where the person is asked to both 

</doc>
<doc id="4828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4828" title="Cocoa">
Cocoa

Cocoa is the seed of the cacao tree. 
The seed contains a lot of fat, and is used to produce cocoa butter. Cocoa butter is then used to produce chocolate.
Most people will know "Cocoa" as a ground powder they use to produce chocolate.
Cocoa is also a hot drink made from it.
Chocolate and cocoa are made from the beans of the cacao tree. The tree might have first come from the foothills of the Andes Mountains near the Amazon River and the Orinoco River in South America. The tree was brought to Central America by the ancient Mayas, and was grown in Mexico by the Toltecs and later by the Aztecs.
Cocoa was an important product in Pre-Columbian Mesoamerica. People who told the story of the conquest of Mexico by Hernán Cortés said that when Moctezuma II, emperor of the Aztecs, ate dinner he took no other drink than chocolate, served in a golden goblet and eaten with a golden spoon. Flavored with vanilla and spices, his chocolate was whipped into a froth that dissolved in the mouth. No less than 50 pitchers of the drink were prepared for the emperor each day, and 2000 more for nobles of his court.
Chocolate was brought to Europe by the Spaniards and became a popular drink by 1700. They also brought the cacao tree to the West Indies and the Philippines. It was used in alchemical processes, where it was known as Black Bean.
The cacao plant was first given its name by Swedish natural scientist Carl von Linné (1707-1778), who called it "theobroma cacao" or "food of the gods".
A pod has a rough leathery rind about 3 cm (1¼ inch) thick. It is filled with slimy pinkish pulp, sweet but inedible, enclosing from 30 to 50 large almond-like seeds or "beans" that are fairly soft and pinkish or purplish in color. As soon as they ripen, the pods are removed with a curved knife on a long pole, opened with a machete, and left to dry until taken to fermentation.
Then the beans are removed and piled in heaps, bins, or on grates where, during several days of "sweating", the thick pulp ferments until it thins and trickles off. The quality of the beans, which originally have a strong bitter taste, depends upon this sweating. If it is overdone they may be ruined; if underdone they have a flavor like raw potatoes and are susceptible to mildew.
Then the beans are spread out, constantly raked over, and dried. On large plantations this is done on huge trays, either outdoors by sunshine or in sheds by artificial heat. However, thousands of tons from smaller producers are dried on small trays or on cowhides. Finally, the beans are trodden and shuffled about (often using bare human feet) and sometimes, during this process red clay mixed with water is sprinkled over the beans to obtain a finer color, polish, and protection against molds during shipment to factories in the United States, the Netherlands, United Kingdom, and other countries. About 3,000,000 tonnes of cocoa are grown each year. The Netherlands is the leading cocoa processing country, followed by the U.S.
Uses of cocoa are numerous. It may be used in cakes, creams, drinks, toppings.
Besides its use as a food, by use of the scientific process it has been determined that cocoa is beneficial for health. Cocoa has nearly twice the anti-cancer antioxidants of red wine, and up to three times those found in green tea.

</doc>
<doc id="4831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4831" title="Côte d'Ivoire">
Côte d'Ivoire

The Republic of (; ), commonly known in English as Ivory Coast, is a country in West Africa. People who live there speak French. Some also speak Abé. The country used to be called the Ivory Coast. Some people in the USA still call it this, but it is not the official name.
Coffee, cocoa, bananas, and rubber are all sold from here.
From the 1960s to the mid-1980s, Côte d'Ivoire was managed well by the government. There was one president for this time. The economic growth and development of the country were among the best in the world.
After the mid-1980s the country became hard to live in. The cost of coffee and cocoa went down so people could not make as much money. The first president died, and a civil war took place. Today it relies on smaller crops.
The capital of Côte d'Ivoire is Yamoussoukro; its biggest city is Abidjan. Other cities can be found at List of cities in Côte d'Ivoire.
The Ivory Coast is shaped like a square. It borders the Gulf of Guinea to the south and five other African nations. Liberia is to the southwest, Guinea to the northwest, Mali to the north-northwest, Burkina Faso to the north-northeast, and Ghana to the east.
Ivory Coast is divided into nineteen regions. The regions are further divided into 81 departments.

</doc>
<doc id="4834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4834" title="Luke McCormick">
Luke McCormick

Luke McCormick (b. 15 August 1983) is an English football player. He was born August 15, 1983 in Coventry, England. He is a goalkeeper. He plays for the English football team Plymouth Argyle.
In the 2003/04 season, McCormick played when Romain Larrieu could not. Larrieu injured his knee. McCormick played instead. Plymouth Argyle beat Stockport County on 24 January 2004. The score was 2-0. In this match McCormick set a new club record of seven "clean sheets" in a row. A clean sheet is a game where the other side gets no goals.
McCormick was voted the most promising player of the 2003/04 season by Plymouth Argyle fans.
On 7 June 2008. McCormick was arrested on suspicion for killing two people by dangerous driving. Subsequently he was released by Plymouth Arygle and was jailed for seven years on 6 October 2008 but could be out in three and a half years.
140||0||8||0||7||0||155||0
140||0||8||0||7||0||155||0

</doc>
<doc id="4841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4841" title="God paradox">
God paradox

The God paradox is an idea in philosophy. This idea is explained here:
People say this question is a paradox because:
If either outcome were considered true, then it is argued that God Almighty is actually not Almighty.
The God paradox is a good example of a philosophical problem. This section has some answers to this paradox.
This answer says God is able to do only things less than God. If you say there exists a mountain that is "more heavy than anybody is able to lift," then what you say is funny: it means nothing, because God is able to lift any mountain. This is because saying a mountain is "too heavy to lift" means this mountain cannot be lifted by anybody. This does not mean that God is too weak to lift very heavy mountains. God cannot lift an "unliftable" mountain because that would not make sense. He also cannot create an "unliftable" mountain because that also would not make sense, if God can lift everything. God could still lift any mountain that is not defined as "cannot be lifted." For example, God can make a mountain as heavy as he wants, but he cannot make a round square.
Some people think, "Yes, God is able to do things that make Him not able." They think God is able to do things that are funny to think, "Because", they say, "there is nothing God is not able to do." (See Gospel of Matthew 19:26)
God is beyond limitation. His strength is infinite. If He chooses to create a mountain that is too heavy for Him to lift he would simultaneously become strong enough to lift it (which actually means he's not omnipotent, because if he can gradually become stronger, then he can't be all powerful). To ask if the creation of such a mountain is possible is to attempt putting a limitation on the limitless.
In logic, problems can often be solved by breaking them into smaller pieces. One solves each of the small problems.
Let us see how one can use this for the God Paradox. The paradox is:
If one changes this question to a sentence, it becomes:
We can make this even more simple. First we must see that because God can do anything: 
Now we can write the sentence as these facts:
Facts 1, 2 and 3 must always be true. Now we must see if fact 4 is true or false:
At the end of the Book of Job, God 'answered Job out of the whirlwind' and asks him:
'Who is this that darkens council by words without knowledge?..where were you when I laid the foundations of the Earth?' (Job chapter 38, 1-4)
In other words, God's powers are beyond human understanding, as human reason itself is part of God's creation in the Book of Genesis.
These references may not be simple to understand.

</doc>
<doc id="4843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4843" title="Libertarianism">
Libertarianism

"This page is about free-market individualism. Some people (especially in Europe and Latin America) use the word" libertarianism "to refer to "libertarian socialism" (see anarchism)"
Libertarianism is an idea in ethics and politics. The word comes from the word "liberty". Simply put, libertarians believe that people should be able to do whatever they desire as long as their actions do not harm others. As a result, Libertarians want to limit the government's power so people can have as much freedom as possible. 
Libertarianism grew out of liberalism as a movement in the 1800s. Many of the beliefs of libertarianism are similar to the beliefs in classical liberalism. It also has roots in anarchism and the Austrian School of economics.
Like other people, libertarians oppose slavery, rape, theft, murder, and all other examples of initiated violence.
Libertarians believe that no person can justly own or control the body of another person, what they call "self-ownership" or "individual sovereignty." In simple words, every person has a right to control her or his own body.
In the 19th century, United States libertarians like William Lloyd Garrison, Frederick Douglass, and Lysander Spooner were all abolitionists. Abolitionists were people who wanted to end slavery right away.
Garrison based his opposition to slavery on the idea of self-ownership. Since you have a natural right to control your own body, no one else has any right to steal that control from you. Garrison and Douglass both called slave masters "man stealers."
If you have a right to control your own body, then no one has a right to start violence (or force) against you.
Some libertarians believe that all violence is unjust. These libertarians are often called "anarcho-pacifists". Robert LeFevre was a libertarian who rejected all violence. However, most libertarians believe that there are some ways violence can be justified.
One thing that justifies violence is self defense. If someone is violent towards you, you have a right to defend yourself with equal force.
The libertarian Murray N. Rothbard said that it would be wrong to kill someone for stealing a pack of gum. If you steal gum, this is an act of violence against the property owner. The owner has a right to use defensive violence to get the gum back, but killing the thief goes too far. That is too much force because it is not equal to the force used by the thief. Punishment must be equal to the crime. A student and colleague of his, Walter Block, said that a punishment shouldn't be equal to the crime, but rather enough to make up for the damage the crime caused plus how much it cost to catch the criminal.
Some libertarians believe that it is your moral duty to defend yourself and your property if you can. This belief is usually held by Objectivists. These people believe that pacifism is immoral. Most libertarians reject this view.
All libertarians believe that it is wrong to start violence against any person or against what he or she owns. They call this the "non-aggression principle."
Ownership is the right to control something. Property is the thing that you control.
Libertarians believe that property rights come from self-ownership. This means that because you have a right to control your own body, you also have a right to control what you make with it.
The English philosopher John Locke said that a person comes to own something by using it. So, if you turn an area that no-one else owns into a farm and use it, that area becomes your property. This is called the "homestead principle."
Libertarians also say that you can become a legitimate owner by receiving something as a gift or by trading it with someone for something they own. You do not become a legitimate owner by stealing. You also do not become a legitimate owner by simply "saying" you own something. If you have not "homesteaded" the thing or received it through trade or gift, you do not own it.
Libertarians are opposed to states (or governments) creating any "laws" that tell people what they can and cannot do with their own bodies. The only legitimate laws are laws that say a person may not start violence against other people or their legitimate property. All "laws" stopping people from doing nonviolent things should be repealed, according to libertarians. (These "laws" are usually called "victimless crimes" because there is no victim if there is no theft.)
In most countries, the state (or government) takes tax money from the people. All libertarians support cutting taxes back, and some libertarians believe the state should not take tax money at all. Libertarians think people can take care of the poor without the government. They believe that people should pay for the things that they want to use, but not have to pay for other things that they do not want. Tax evasion (refusal to pay taxes to the state) is a victimless crime. Libertarians would prefer to see taxation replaced with lotteries, user fees, and endowments.
Libertarians think everyone should be allowed to decide what is good or bad for her/his own body. Libertarians think if people want to drive cars without wearing seat belts, it is their own choice. They should not be forcibly stopped from doing that, not even by the state. If a person wants to donate all of her/his money to a charity, or waste it all gambling, that is also something she/he should decide for herself/himself. No one should be forcibly stopped from doing that, not even by the state. Libertarians even say that if adults want to use harmful drugs, they should be allowed to do that, even if it spoils their lives. It is the drug user's own choice because it is the drug user's own body. As long as the drug user does not start using violence against other people or their legitimate property, no one should use violence against the drug user or the drug user's legitimate property, not even the government.
Many libertarians also believe that families and friends should look after people so that they will not use drugs, drive without seat belts, or do other things that are dangerous for them. But no one can force others to do things that they do not want to do, or to stop them from doing nonviolent things that they want to do.
There are two basic types of libertarians. All libertarians fall into one of these two broad types.
Minarchists are libertarians who believe that society should have a state with very limited power. They typically believe that the only things the state should have are police and judges to make sure that people obey the laws. Some also believe in having a military to make sure that no one attacks the country. Some minarchists believe in having a small amount of taxation.
Two famous minarchist libertarians are Robert Nozick and Ayn Rand. Nozick believed that the only legitimate thing a state can do is have a police force. He called his legitimate state a "night-watchman state." Rand believed that the state should have a police force and a court system.
Libertarian anarchists usually call themselves anarcho-capitalists, free-market anarchists, individualist anarchists, or just anarchists.
Libertarian anarchists do not believe the state is needed. They believe that people can organise their own lives and businesses. They want to replace the state with voluntary organisations, including charities, private companies, voluntary unions, and mutual aid societies. They also want to end all forced taxation.
They say that state police can be replaced with "DROs" (Dispute Resolution Organisations) or "private protection agencies." They also say that state judges can be replaced with "private arbitration."
The most famous libertarian anarchist was Murray N. Rothbard. Others include Lysander Spooner, Benjamin R. Tucker, and Linda & Morris Tannehill.
Most libertarians fall under one of the two types of libertarians listed above. But there are other types, too.

</doc>
<doc id="4853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4853" title="Auction">
Auction

An auction is a place where people can buy or sell things. People say how much they will pay for something and the person who is willing to pay the most gets the item.
The amount people will pay is called a bid. The person in charge of the auction is the auctioneer. He or she usually has a hammer, which they will knock when a bid is accepted.
Some auctions only let you place one bid. Some let you change your bid if someone else bids higher. There is also another kind called a Dutch auction. In a Dutch auction, the auctioneer starts off with a price that is much too high and then makes it lower until somebody makes a bid. That person will then buy the item. 
Recently, people have also started to do auctions online. The most popular online auction place is EBay.
A common prank is to fake bid, where a person bids an amount and they do not actually pay it. This usually happens when people bid simply to force others to bid higher, forcing them to lose more money in the process. Occasionally, the fake bidder is actually the highest bidder at which point they will promptly leave. Although generally frowned upon, fake biding is not thought to be illegall in many countries; however, legal action may be pursued against the fake bidder. 
Advantages of online auctions:
Disadvantages/Criticisms of online auctions:
Auction sites, like garage sales, flea markets, classified ads and other independent sales venues, sometimes draw criminals wishing to sell stolen products.

</doc>
<doc id="4860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4860" title="Hong Kong">
Hong Kong

The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (, literally "Fragrant Port") is one of two Special Administrative Regions (SARs) of the People's Republic of China (the other is Macau). It is one of the richest and most highly developed places in China and even the world. Hong Kong grew quickly in the decades after World War II. It is now a famous world class financial center.
The population of Hong Kong is more than seven million. The economy has rapidly grown from a trading port to a very rich city.
Hong Kong is divided into 3 main parts:
Hong Kong was a British colony from 1842 to 1997 because China lost the Second Opium War. After the Handover, Hong Kong became a part of China.
Hong Kong is in a tropical area, and has monsoon winds. It is cool and wet in winter (Jan-Mar), hot and rainy from spring through summer (Apr-Sep), and warm, sunny and dry in the autumn (Oct-Dec). The rainy season is from May until September. In summer and early autumn, there is a frequent threat of typhoons.
The population of Hong Kong reached 7 million in 2009. Most of the people in Hong Kong are Chinese. Hong Kong is one of the most densely populated countries in the world. It has an overall density of 6,300 people per square kilometre.
Hong Kong has one of the world’s lowest birth rates—1.11 per woman of child-bearing age as of 2012. This is far below the rate needed to replace each person, 2.1.
People from Hong Kong mainly speak Cantonese. Many learn English as an additional language. Ever since Hong Kong became a part of China, the number of people who speak Mandarin has increased because Mandarin is the official language of the PRC. Some schools have a different track for each of the three languages, depending on the language the student is most comfortable with, and teach all of the subjects of the school in the language of the track.
17 days of the year are public holidays in Hong Kong:
There are coins from 10 cents to 10 Hong Kong dollars; and bank-notes (paper money bills) from $10 to $1000. One American dollar is equal to about $7.75 in Hong Kong dollars, at the official bank exchange rate.
Here is a brief history of Hong Kong:
Around 4000 BC 
Around 3500 BC
Around 2000 BC
Around 500 BC
221 BC
220
1555 
1799
1800 
1839 
1841 
 January 26th, 1841- 
August 1841 
1860 
1888
1898 
1900s
1920s-1930s
1933-1934
1941
December 8th, 1941-
December 25, 1941
August 1945
1949
1950
1953
1955
1983
1984
1990
1997
July 1st, 1997
1998
June 2002
2003 
March 10th, 2005
March 2012
Sometime in 2014
Sometime in 2015
Sometime in 2016
Hong Kong has two media companies, Television Broadcasts Limited (TVB) and Asia Television Limited (ATV). They are business rivals.

</doc>
<doc id="4862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4862" title="Blitzkrieg">
Blitzkrieg

Blitzkrieg is a German word which means "lightning war", referring to the high velocity of a lightning bolt.
In a "blitzkrieg" the attacking armies move very quickly, and are helped by tanks and by aircraft. Enemy slower moving units are overrun or surrounded. They are often captured with little fighting. Often the slower units might not be ready to fight when they are captured.
It was used by the German army in World War II during the invasions of Poland, France, and the Soviet Union.
The Blitz refers to the German bombing of Britain, particularly London, during World War II, which destroyed over a million homes and killed over 40,000 people. The bombing was supposed to quickly destroy industry and morale (happiness). The Blitz was in response to the bombing of German cities by the British Royal Air Force (RAF). The Blitz began in September 1940 and continued until May 1941.
Towards the end of the war, the Allies learned to defeat German blitzkrieg attacks by attacking the sides of the attackers with reserve forces.

</doc>
<doc id="4863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4863" title="Tank">
Tank

A tank is an armoured combat vehicle, typically armed with a large cannon and a few machine guns.
The first tanks were used by the British during World War I as a way of attacking enemy trenches. They were called tanks to trick the Germans into thinking they were water carriers for areas where water was hard to move or find in large amounts.
A tank is covered in thick armour to protect it from enemy weapons. Tanks have tracks that wrap around its wheels to spread out its weight and let it cross rough ground. Most tanks have a powerful gun and one or more machine guns. 
A tank's crew is normally 3-5 men. A driver, commander and gunner are always present. There may also be a loader, who handles the ammunition for the main gun (so the gunner doesn't have to take his eye off the sights and lose the target). Some WWII tanks also had a man responsible for the radio.
Tanks became a main weapon during World War II, where battles between great numbers of tanks were fought, especially between the Germans and the Soviet Union. Well-known World War II tanks were the German Panzer IV, Panther and Tigers, Soviet T-34 (produced in the largest numbers of any tank of the war and second most ever), British Matilda, Churchill and Cromwell, and American M4 Sherman (second most produced tank of the war) and Stuart tanks. There had also been plans for very big and more heavily armoured tanks, but these were deemed to be of little use due to their huge weight, which would have made moving them very hard, and due to their size, which would had made them easy targets for heavy artillery.
Old tanks are often modified for other uses like carrying soldiers or bridges. Combat engineers use special tank-based vehicles, for example minesweeper tanks or bridge-layer tanks.
The tank is a major part of all large armies today. Tanks have replaced cavalry everywhere and do the things that horsemen did in the old days. Most modern tanks are of the heavy or 'Main Battle Tank' type, able to fight other tanks. Compared to older types MBTs are very heavy (Russian MBTS being about 40 tonnes and Western around 60t) with a 120 mm (Western) or 125 mm (Russian) calibre cannon and 2-3 machine guns. Marines and other specialized forces use some light tanks. 

</doc>
<doc id="4864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4864" title="Edinburgh">
Edinburgh

Edinburgh (Scottish Gaelic: "Dùn Èideann") is the capital city and second largest city in Scotland. Edinburgh lies on the east coast, where the River Forth flows into the sea. 
The central part is Edinburgh Castle, at the top of a steep hill. The castle has a military display every year, called a "tattoo", where soldiers show their skills at marching and competitions, and there are brass bands and bands of bagpipes.
Edinburgh has a very large festival every year, where thousands of performers come to put on shows. The Edinburgh International Festival takes place in August and September. At the same time there is the Edinburgh Fringe. The shows are of all kinds, and range from large ones with famous people, to very small ones by new or unknown actors.
The city is served by Edinburgh Airport, and Haymarket and Waverley railway stations.
The Old Town of Edinburgh is the oldest part of the city, and with the 18th-century New Town, it is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It has preserved its mediaeval plan and many Reformation-era buildings.
The city's main football teams are Heart of Midlothian F.C. and Hibernian F.C. Murrayfield stadium in the city is the home of the Scottish national rugby team. The nearby Murrayfield Ice Rink is home to the city's ice hockey team, the Edinburgh Capitals. See also Leith Athletic F.C.
Edinburgh is twinned with: Florence
Edinburgh has lots of important buildings. The Balmoral Hotel was opened in 1902 and designed by W. Hamilton Beattie. Saint Giles' Cathedral was built in Mediaeval times. There was a big fire there in 1385. The Royal Museum was designed by architect Francis Fowke and built between 1861 and 1888. Its sister museum, the Museum of Scotland, was designed by Benson and Forsyth in 1998. Holyrood Palace was once the home of the Scottish kings, and is open to the public.
Alexander Graham Bell, who invented the telephone, was born in Edinburgh.

</doc>
<doc id="4866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4866" title="Head of state">
Head of state

The head of state of a country is its highest leader. However, the head of state may not have very much real power.
In a modern republic, the head of state is a president, usually elected by the people or by a parliament. In a monarchy, the head of state is the king or queen. Some countries have different systems - for example the head of state of the Vatican City is the Pope.
In a modern monarchy, the head of state usually has little real power. Instead, the most powerful person is the head of government. This is usually the leader of the political party that wins the most seats in an election. In these cases the king is considered to be the leader of the country, but must always take the decisions that the head of government advises them to make. The king or queen carries out national ceremonies. The United Kingdom works like this, with the Prime Minister heading the government.
A president may be the most powerful person in the country. This is true in the United States. However, sometimes there is a head of government, as well as a president. The president then acts very much like a king or queen, leaving the real decisions to the head of government. The Republic of Ireland works like this. 
In older times, and in some modern countries, the head of state has absolute power, this called an absolute monarchy.

</doc>
<doc id="4868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4868" title="Vladimir Lenin">
Vladimir Lenin

Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov, better known as (22 April 1870 – 21 January 1924) was a Russian lawyer, revolutionary, and the leader of the Bolshevik party and of the October Revolution. He was the first leader of the USSR and the government that took over Russia in 1917. Lenin's ideas became known as Leninism.
Early 1870 in the town of Simbirsk in the Russian Empire. His mother was a schoolteacher and his father was an education official (technically, his father's job made him and his family noblemen).
He began studying politics in high school. Lenin was good in school and learned the Latin and Greek languages. In 1887, he was thrown out of Kazan State University because he protested against the Tsar who was the king of the Russian Empire. He continued to read books and study ideas by himself, and in 1891 he got a license to become a lawyer.
In the same year that Lenin was expelled from University, his brother Alexander was hanged for his part in a bomb plot to kill Tsar Alexander III, and their sister Anna was sent to Tatarstan. This made Lenin furious, and he promised to get revenge for his brother's death.
While he studied law in St. Petersburg he learned about the writings of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, who were both philosophers from Germany. Karl Marx's thoughts were called Marxism. To talk or write about Marxism like it was a good thing was illegal in Russia, and Lenin was arrested for that and sent to prison in Siberia. This punishment was harsh because Siberia is known for being very cold and isolated, and almost impossible to escape.
In July 1898, when he was still in Siberia, Lenin married Nadezhda Krupskaya. In 1899 he wrote a book he called "The Development of Capitalism in Russia". In 1900, Lenin was set free from prison and allowed to go back home. He then traveled around Europe. He began to publish a Marxist newspaper called "Iskra", the Russian word for "spark" or "lightning". He also became an important member of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party, or RSDLP.
In 1903, Lenin had a major argument with another leader of the party, Julius Martov, which divided the party in two. Lenin wanted to establish socialism right away, rather than establishing capitalism first and then making the transition to socialism. Martov disagreed, he wanted to clinge to the Classical Marxist idea that in order to achieve socialism, you must go through capitalism first. People who agreed with Martov were called Mensheviks (meaning "the minority"). The people who agreed with Lenin were called Bolsheviks ("the majority").
In 1907 he travelled around Europe again, and visited many socialist meetings and events. During World War I he lived in big European cities like London, Paris and Geneva. At the beginning of the war, a big left-wing meeting called the Second International included the Bolsheviks. The meeting shut down when a lot of the groups argued whether or not to support the war. Lenin and the Bolsheviks were one of only a few groups who were against the war because of their Marxist ideas.
After Tsar Nicholas II gave up his throne during the February Revolution, Lenin went back to Russia where he was still a very important Bolshevik leader. He wrote that he wanted a revolution by ordinary workers to overthrow the government that had replaced Nicholas II.
In 1917, The Kadets, a right-wing party, and elements of the Okhrana (secret police) started rumors that Lenin had got money from the Germans because he had traveled through Germany in order to reach Russia. That may have made him look bad because a lot of Russians had died fighting Germany in the war. After the July Days, a popular uprising in Petrograd which was crushed by the Provisional Government, he left Russia and went to Finland, where he could hide from and carry on with his work on Communism.
In October 1917, the Bolsheviks, led by Lenin and Trotsky, headed the Petrograd Soviet and other Soviets all over Russia in a revolution against Kerensky's government, which was known as the October Revolution. They won, and announced that Russia was a socialist country. In November, Lenin was chosen as its leader.
Because Lenin wanted an end to World War I in Russia, he signed the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk with Germany in February 1918. While the treaty ended the attack by Germany, Russia lost a lot of land that it used for farming.
The treaty also made Germany's other enemies angry, and together with Russian people who supported the Tsar or Kerensky's government, they attacked Russia. Lenin made rules that as much food as possible was to be given to Bolshevik soldiers in Russia's new Red Army. This meant that they won the war, but ordinary people were starving, and many died of hunger or disease.
After the war, Lenin brought in the New Economic Policy to try and make things better for the country and move from capitalism towards socialism. Some private enterprise was still allowed, but not much. Businessmen, known as nepmen, could only own small industries, not factories. Factories and large industry became public property to be owned by the workers.
After a woman named Fanni Kaplan shot Lenin in 1918, he started having strokes in May and December 1922 (both of which he recovered from). In March 1923 a stroke paralyzed him and left him unable to speak, and in January 1924 a stroke killed him. Just before he died, Lenin had wanted to get rid of Stalin because he thought he was dangerous to the country and the government.
The city of St. Petersburg had been renamed Petrograd by the Tsar in 1914, but was renamed Leningrad in memory of Lenin in 1924. When the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991 Leningrad was again named St. Petersburg, which it remains to this today.
Before Lenin died, he said he wished to be buried beside his mother. When he died, Stalin let the people in Russia look at his body. Because people kept coming they decided not to bury him, and preserved his body instead. A building was built in Red Square, Moscow over the body so that people could see it. It is called the Lenin Mausoleum. Many Russians and tourists still go there to see his body today.

</doc>
<doc id="4874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4874" title="Disease">
Disease

A disease or medical condition is an unhealthy thing happening to the body or mind. Diseases can cause pain, feeling bad, or death to the person who has the disease. The word "disease" is sometimes used to include:
A disease can be caused by many things. Sometimes germs enter our body through food, water or air. A person can be infected by infectious agents like bacteria, viruses or fungus. Disease can also be caused by eating bad or old foods. There are small germs in old foods that can cause diseases. Sometimes the germs produce chemicals or toxins which causes the disease. 
One of the most common causes of disease is poor sanitation and lack of clean water. Some deadly diseases like malaria in tropical parts of the world are spread by a mosquito. Animals that spread disease are called "vectors". There are many vectors, including snails, ticks, and fleas. 
Some people are born with 'genetic diseases'. These are diseases because of an error or mutation in a person's DNA. An example of a mutation is cancer. Living or working in an unhealthy environment can also be a cause for diseases. Diseases are more common in older people.
Some diseases can be helped with medicine. Infections can often be cured by antibiotics, though resistance to antibiotics is a problem. Some disease may be helped by surgery. Not every disease can be helped with medicine or surgery, though. Some diseases must be treated during the whole life; they are "chronic" (long-lasting) diseases. An example of a chronic disease is diabetes mellitus. Diabetes can be treated (made better) but it can not yet be cured (made to totally go away). People who usually treat diseases are called doctors or physicians.
Some diseases that are common or very bad are tested for even in people who are healthy. If these diseases are found early they can be treated before they cause problems. An example would be checking a woman for cervical cancer with a test called a pap smear. If cervical cancer is found early it can be cured. If it is found later it usually causes death. Another example is immunization. The basic of it is to make the body ready for a disease. The body has its own defense against disease called the immune system. One special characteristic of the immune system is its ability to remember. If a person had been sick before and had recovered, the immune system produce a substance called antibodies which fight the disease if it comes back to the person. The antibody is specific to a particular disease or antigen. An example of this is measles which is a virus. A person usually a child who had never been sick with measles is given a milder form of the virus, this cause the immune system to produce antibodies against the virus. If this person is exposed to the same virus in the future, the person's immune system will remember and will fight the virus.
For general prevention to be useful:
Epidemiology is the study of the cause of disease. Some diseases are more popular for people with common characteristics, like similar origins, sociological background, food or nationality. Without good epidemiological research some diseases can be hard to track and to name. Some diseases can be taken for something else. This is why epidemiology takes a huge part in understanding how to protect ourselves against viruses, toxins and bacteria.

</doc>
<doc id="4887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4887" title="Carbon">
Carbon

Carbon is a very important chemical element, with a chemical symbol of C. All known life on Earth is made from it. Carbon has atomic mass 12 and atomic number 6. It is a nonmetal, meaning that it is not a metal.
Carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, and some other elements like sulfur and phosphorus together form most life on earth (see Organic chemistry and List of biologically important elements). Carbon forms a very large number of organic compounds because it can form strong bonds with itself and with other elements. Because of the amounts of carbon living things have, all organic things are considered "carbon-based". Also, each carbon atom can form 4 single covalent bonds. Many carbon atoms linked together with hydrogen atoms form plastic. Carbon is the only element that can form long chain-shaped molecules. When iron is heated up with carbon, hard steel is formed.
The name of carbon comes from Latin "carbo", meaning charcoal. In many foreign languages the words for carbon, coal and charcoal are synonyms.
Carbon in nature is found in three forms called allotropes: diamond, graphite, and fullerenes. Graphite, with clay, is in pencils. It is very soft. The carbon atoms in it make rings, which are on top of each other and slide very easily. Diamonds are the hardest natural mineral. Fullerenes are a "soccer ball" shape of carbon. They are mostly of interest to science. A special, man-made, tube-shaped allotrope of carbon is the carbon nanotube. Carbon nanotubes are very hard, so they might be used in armor. Nanotubes might be useful in nanotechnology. There are 10 million known carbon compounds.
A whole type of Chemistry, organic chemistry, is about carbon and its compounds. Carbon makes many types of compounds. "Hydrocarbons" are molecules with carbon and hydrogen. Methane, Propane, and many other fuels are hydrocarbons. Many of the substances that people use daily are organic compounds.
A radioactive isotope of carbon, carbon-14, can be used to figure out how old some objects are or when something died. As long as something is on the surface of the earth and taking in carbon, the amount of carbon-14 stays the same. When an object stops taking in carbon, the carbon-14 amount goes down. Because the "half-life" (how long it takes for half of a radioactive isotope to go away) of carbon-14 is 5730 years, scientists can see how old the object is by how much carbon-14 is left.
Carbon is in many places in the universe. It was first made in old stars. Carbon is the fourth most common element in the sun. The atmospheres of Venus and Mars are mostly Carbon dioxide.
Carbon is important to the human body and other living things, and it is the second most common element in the human body, at 23% of all body weight. It is also a key part of many biological molecules (molecules used in life).
Most of the carbon on Earth is coal. Graphite is in many (typically desert) areas, including Sri Lanka, Madagascar, and Russia. Diamonds are rare and are found largely in Africa. Carbon is also in some meteorites.

</doc>
<doc id="4889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4889" title="Zazaki">
Zazaki

Zazaki is an Indo-European language spoken in eastern Anatolia above the rivers Euphrates and Tigris. It belongs to the northwest-Iranian group of Iranian language. The Zaza language is related to Sangsarī, Māzandarānī, Tātī (Herzendī), Semnānī, Tāleshī, Kurdish, Persian and Balōchi. The number of Zaza speakers is not known wxactly. 
Zaza is also a name that appears in the Bible, meaning "belonging to all" or "plenty". 

</doc>
<doc id="4891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4891" title="Chemical reaction">
Chemical reaction

A chemical reaction happens when one or more chemicals are changed into one or more other chemicals. Examples:
Some reactions are fast, and others are slow. Some happen at different speeds, depending on temperature or other things. For example, wood does not react with air when it is cold, but if it is made hot enough, it will start to burn. Some reactions give out energy. These are exothermic reactions. In other reactions, energy is taken in. These are endothermic reactions.
Nuclear reactions are "not" chemical reactions. Chemical reactions involve only the electrons of atoms; nuclear reactions involve the protons and neutrons in the atomic nuclei.
In a synthesis reaction, two or more simple substances combine to form a more complex substance. 
"Two or more reactants giving one product" is another way to identify a synthesis reaction. One example of a synthesis reaction is the combination of iron and sulfur to form iron(II) sulfide:
Another example is simple hydrogen gas combined with simple oxygen gas to produce a more complex substance, such as water.
A decomposition reaction is when a more complex substance breaks down into its more simple parts. It is thus the opposite of a synthesis reaction, and can be written as:
One example of a decomposition reaction is the electrolysis of water to make oxygen and hydrogen gas:
In a single replacement reaction, a single uncombined element replaces another in a compound; in other words, one element trades places with another element in a compound These reactions come in the general form of:
One example of a single displacement reaction is when magnesium replaces hydrogen in water to make magnesium hydroxide and hydrogen gas:
In a double replacement reaction, the anions and cations of two compounds switch places and form two entirely different compounds. These reactions are in the general form:
For example, when barium chloride (BaCl) and magnesium sulfate (MgSO) react, the SO anion switches places with the 2Cl anion, giving the compounds BaSO and MgCl.
Another example of a double displacement reaction is the reaction of lead(II) nitrate with potassium iodide to form lead(II) iodide and potassium nitrate:
A chemical reaction is being displayed by an equation:
formula_10 

</doc>
<doc id="4892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4892" title="Rectangle">
Rectangle

A rectangle is a shape with four sides and four corners. The corners are all right angles. It follows that the lengths of the pairs of sides opposite each other must be equal.
People make many rectangular things, including most tables, boxes, books, and papers.
A rectangle with all four sides equal in length is called a square.
If a rectangle has length formula_1 and width "w"

</doc>
<doc id="4893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4893" title="Trafalgar Square">
Trafalgar Square

Trafalgar Square is in the heart of London. It is a large pedestrian square, bounded on three sides by roads. It serves as a refuge, and a major traffic intersection. Important roads go from the square: Whitehall goes to Parliament, the Mall goes to Buckingham Palace, and the Strand goes to the City of London. The square is also close to Covent Garden and Charing Cross station.
More than 15 million people go to visit there every year. It contains a large statue of Admiral Lord Nelson. The square celebrates the Battle of Trafalgar, fought in 1805. It contains Nelson's Column, a statue of Nelson mounted on a tall column, with four statues of lions around it. The column is 56 meters tall while the statue is 5 meters tall. The National Art Gallery is one of several important buildings facing the square.
The square is visited by many tourists. Mainly, it is used for pleasure and relaxation, but sometimes there are meetings and demonstrations in Trafalgar Square. 
When the square was first built, demonstrations were banned. The ban lasted until the 1880s, when the new Labour movement start to hold demonstrations. One group that did this was the Social Democratic Federation. On "Black Monday", 6 February 1886, there was a major demonstration about unemployment which led to a riot in Pall Mall. There were demonstrations in the 1980s against South African apartheid. In 1990 there were riots against the Poll tax. In the 2000s there have been demonstrations against the Iraq war.
In recent years the square has become a gathering place for celebrations. When England won the Rugby World Cup in 2003 thousands of fans gathered in the square. This public festivities again happened when London won its bid to hold the 2012 Summer Olympic Games.
The square was also the scene of a large gathering after the terrorist bombings in London on 7 July 2005. 

</doc>
<doc id="4898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4898" title="Official language">
Official language

An official language is a language that has special status in a country or other organization. Usually the government does its business in the official language. They are sometimes named in a country's constitution. Some countries, like Canada, have more than one. Other countries may not have an official language. An official language does not have to be a written language. It can be a pidgin language (like in Papua New Guinea), or a sign language (like in New Zealand).

</doc>
<doc id="4899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4899" title="Cake">
Cake

A cake is a type of (usually) sweet dessert which is baked. Originally, it was a bread-like food, but no longer. Cakes are often made to celebrate special occasions like birthdays. There are many kinds of cakes. It can be baked in an oven. Some savory cakes are made on a griddle or a frying pan.
Cakes are baked from a batter. Batter is made by mixing wet ingredients (like milk and eggs) with dry ingredients (like sugar and flour). The batter is baked in an oven. This way of baking is known as the muffin method, because muffins are made this way.
Just like bread, cakes rise in the oven because they contain many small air bubbles. As cakes rise, the air bubbles expand. This is why the cake batter expands in the pan (often to twice its original size). There are two ways of forming the air bubbles, which create different types of cakes. Almost every kind of cake belongs to one of these families.
These cakes are made with butter or another fat, like vegetable shortening. The common way is to mix the fat and sugar, then add eggs, and then add flour. The fat should be soft. It should not be hard or liquid. Mixing sugar with fat creates many very small air bubbles. Most birthday cakes are made this way. Cupcakes are also made this way. 
These cakes are not made with solid butter or vegetable shortening. Some of these cakes are made with melted butter or vegetable oil. The common way is to mix the eggs and sugar, and then add flour. These cakes are often much taller, lighter and often spongier than creamed fat cakes. Angelfood cake and chiffon cakes are egg foam cakes. Most grocery stores with bakeries sell angelfood cakes. Angelfood cakes are made by beating egg whites with sugar. This traps a lot of tiny air bubbles. The eggs and sugar are mixed with other ingredients. Then, the cake is baked.
A cake can be decorated with icing (also called "frosting"), chocolate, fruit, and much more. A layer cake is made by stacking cakes with icing or filling between the layers. Birthday cakes are sometimes decorated with candles. Cakes can be served with berries or other kinds of fruit.
A large, rich cake is often called by the French word for "cake": "gâteau" (plural: "gâteaux", both singular and plural pronounced "GA-toe"). It may have a lot of cream. Some cakes can have edible paper on the top.

</doc>
<doc id="4900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4900" title="House">
House

A house is a building that is made for people to live in. It is a "permanent" building that is meant to stay standing. It is not a place to live that can be easily packed up and carried away like a tent, or moved like a caravan. If people live in the same house for more than a short stay, then they call it their "home".
Houses come in many different shapes and sizes. They may be as small as just one room, or they may have hundreds of rooms. They also come in many different shapes, and may have just one level or several different levels. A house is sometimes joined to other houses at the sides to make a "terrace" (a connected row of houses). A big building with lots of levels and apartments is called "a block of flats" (British) or an apartment block. One of the differences between a house and an apartment is that a house has a front door to the outside world, whereas the main door of an apartment usually opens onto a passage or landing that can be used by other people in the building.
Houses have a roof to keep off the rain and sun, and walls to keep out the wind and cold. They have window openings to let in light, and a floor. Houses of different countries look different to each other, because of different materials and different styles. 
A house is a building for people to live in. It is usually built for a family (parents and their children) to live in. Most modern houses have special areas or rooms for a person, or a family group to do the things that they need to live comfortably. A modern house has a place to cook food, a place to eat, places to sleep and a place to wash. These things are usually done in separate rooms, which are called the kitchen, the sitting room, the bedrooms, the bathroom, and the toilet (or lavatory). Many houses have a separate dining room for eating meals and a separate laundry. In some houses the toilet is in the bathroom, and in other houses it is separate. Many houses may also have a "study" or computer room and a "family room" where the children can play games and watch television. 
In some countries such as the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand many families live in a "detached house" which is separate from other buildings and surrounded by its own yard, but is close enough to town to have shops, good transport and entertainment nearby. In many other countries, including most of Europe, owning a house like this is something that only the richer families can afford, and is just a dream for most people. 
In many very poor countries, a lot of people live crowded in houses with only one room. They often have to share a toilet with many other families, and have to do the cooking outside. The house might be made of materials that can be found nearby like mud bricks and grass or from second-hand materials like corrugated iron and cardboard boxes. In many cities there are thousands of small houses crowded together with narrow alleys between them. 
A small house is often called a cottage. In England, where this word comes from, it is used to mean a house that has one main storey, with a second, lower storey of bedrooms which fit under the roof upstairs. Cottages are usually found in villages or in the countryside. They are nearly always built from material that can be found nearby. In many places the word cottage is used to mean a small old-fashioned house. In the United States the word cottage is often used to mean a small holiday home.
A semi-detached house is a building that has two houses side by side and covered over by just one big roof. Each house has a pathway to one side, leading from the front to the backyard. Semi-detached houses are very common in some cities, and can be single storey or several storeys high.
A row or terraced house (see the picture in the introduction) is a house that is part of a row of houses joined at the side walls. Many cities and towns have thousands of row houses because they are a good way to build lots of houses close together. Many row houses have two rooms downstairs and two rooms upstairs, with a kitchen or wash area at the back. Houses like this were built for poor factory workers and coal miners in many cities and towns. "Terrace houses" are a type of row house where each house has a similar front to its neighbours.
Row houses are not always small. Some cities have large beautiful row houses, such as the Royal Crescent, which was built 200 years ago at Bath in England and is a famous example of Georgian architecture.
In some places, the word "bungalow" is used for any house that is all on one level. The word came from India and for a long time was used for a house that is built all on one level and has a verandah where people can sit or work outdoors, but under a shady roof. A bungalow often has a hall down the middle of the house to let the breeze blow through. Bungalows are often seen in countries with hot summers, in India, South East Asia, South Africa, parts of the United States, South America, Australia and New Zealand. In regions with flooding, a bungalow is often built up on wooden "stilts" or a high basement. In the 1800s, bungalows were nearly always built of wood, but from the 1920s it became fashionable to build them of brick as well. 
A farmhouse may look like a cottage, a bungalow or a mansion, but in many countries a farmhouse can look quite different to a house in a town, because, as well as having a place for people to live, it also has a place for animals. Three typical types of farmhouses are found. Many farm houses are long and have two doors. One door leads to the rooms used by the family. The other door opens into a stable for the cows, sheep and chickens. The stable part often has a loft where hay can be kept to feed the animals in the winter. Another type of farmhouse has two storeys with a big stable and storeroom underneath, with the rooms for the family on the upper floor. Another type of farmhouse has buildings such as the family house, the barn and the stable all joined together around a central courtyard. Old farmhouses of these three types can be found in many parts of Europe and Great Britain.
A mansion is a big grand house, usually with two storeys and sometimes more. A mansion often has beautiful architecture, and shows that the person for whom it was designed and built was rich. Mansions often have beautiful gardens. Sometimes a mansion does not belong to a private family, but to a town council, to a big business company, to a church or college and is a place for a person with an important job to live and to entertain guests. A mansion often has rooms which are not found in ordinary houses, such as a drawing room, a ballroom, a library and a music room. Mansions often need servants to help keep them in order and there are often special rooms where the servants do particular jobs such as cleaning the silver tableware. Well-known mansions are the White House in Washington, D.C. where the President of the United States lives and Mansion House in London where the Lord Mayor of London lives. 
A palace is a house that is very grand. Palaces are some of the most famous and beautiful houses in the world. 
They have often been built by people who were extremely rich, and who wanted to leave behind them a sign that their family was important. Some palaces have taken a long time to build. They have been changed and added to by different family members or changed by people from different families that have owned them over many hundreds of years. 
One of the best-known palaces in the world is Buckingham Palace where the monarch of England, who is currently Queen Elizabeth II, lives. The largest palace in the world is the Louvre which was built in Paris for the Kings of France. It now holds a famous art gallery.
Houses are usually built from types of material that can easily be made or bought near the place where the house is built. Because of this, old houses in different towns and different villages look quite different to each other, even in the same country. In modern times building materials can be transported easily and this means that a builder has much more choice about the types of material to use for a house. 
In many parts of the world, mud or clay are the main building materials. Clay is a type of soil that sticks together more strongly than most other types of soil. There are three main ways of building walls with mud and clay. 
It was discovered that if clay was used, rather than mud, very strong bricks could be made by "firing" (or baking) them in a "kiln" (a special oven). "Fired" bricks were like pottery; they did not wash away easily in rain and would sometimes last for thousands of years. The bricks were joined to each other with a type of cement called "mortar". Some houses built by the Ancient Romans are still standing 2000 years later. 
Bricks became one of the most common building materials. In most cities, nearly all the houses are built of bricks because they are long lasting, they do not need repairing very often. Brick houses are generally made strong by having all the main walls two bricks thick. Two walls are built side by side which are "bonded" (or joined to each other) by having some bricks set so they make a bridge between the two layers. The pattern of the bonded bricks can be seen from the outside. The two main patterns are called "Flemish Bond" and "British Bond". 
Houses made of timber are found wherever there are, or there has once been big forests. Timber houses are also often found in seaside towns where the sea air makes brick and stone houses feel cold and damp. 
A well-known type of old-fashioned house is the "half-timbered" house. These are seen in the British Isles, France, and across northern Europe and the Alps. These houses date mainly from about 1200 to about 1800. 
In places where there is lots of stone, many houses are built of it. In many parts of the world, little cottages are built of stone. Many mansions and palaces are also built of stone. 
Modern houses are often made of "pre-fabricated" parts that are partly built in a factory, and are easy to put together at the site of the building.
Many different types of materials for making houses have been developed in the 20th century. 

</doc>
<doc id="4904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4904" title="Gigabyte">
Gigabyte

A gigabyte (GB), sometimes abbreviated as a "gig", is a unit of measurement in computers and similar electronic devices. At first it meant exactly 1 billion bytes, usually referring to the number of bytes in a computer hard drive. Its meaning gradually changed over time, so that today it is often used to mean 1,073,741,824 (2) bytes, especially when referring to the random access memory (RAM) of a modern computer. Now international standards bodies say a gigabyte should only be used to mean exactly 1 billion bytes, and that gibibyte is a better name for 1,073,741,824 bytes. In everyday use, people use "gigabyte" to mean 1,073,741,824 bytes when talking about computer memory and 1,000,000,000 bytes when talking about computer disk space.
One thousand gigabytes make one terabyte.
This measurement is often used when measuring the capacity of computer memory, hard drives, or other storage devices.

</doc>
<doc id="4911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4911" title="Sailor">
Sailor

A sailor (or seaman) is a person who works at sea on a boat or ship. The sailor works under a captain. The term is only used when the person is working professionally (earning money or make a living).
Sailor is also the lowest rank in a navy.

</doc>
<doc id="4912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4912" title="Farmer">
Farmer

A farmer is a person who grows crops and raises animals to be used as food. This has been a common job for people since the beginning of civilization.
The word "farmer" usually refers to a person who has a field, orchard, vineyard, or garden where food is grown. This food is eaten or sold after it is harvested. Farmers may also grow raw materials for industrial purposes. Some examples of raw materials that are used in this way are:
Some farmers also raise animals to be used for meat, milk, eggs or other things.

</doc>
<doc id="4913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4913" title="Constellation">
Constellation

A constellation is a group of stars, usually in a recognizable shape or pattern. When watched together at the same time, the stars look like a picture. The word constellation comes from Latin: "con-", meaning together and "stella-" meaning stars.
Some examples of constellations are Ursa Major, Orion, and Andromeda.
There are only 88 constellations discovered so far by astronomers.
People used constellations to tell the difference in the colors. Constellations were also used to group stars. Different places in the world may have different constellations, but today astronomy has a fixed set of 88 constellations. This set is based on the Greek set and later some southern constellations were added, for example Antlia - the air pump. Most constellations have names that come from Greek mythology, like Orion or Andromeda.
There are 12 constellations in the Zodiac. The Sun travels through the Zodiac once each year. There is also a thirteenth constellation Ophiuchus - the carrier of a serpent, which the Sun goes through. However, most people do not think that it is in the Zodiac.

</doc>
<doc id="4914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4914" title="Flood">
Flood

A flood is an overflow of water on land which is usually dry. 
Sometimes a river receives too much extra water, either from heavy rain or other natural disasters. When this happens, the water overflows from its normal path in the river bed and onto dry land. This is called a flood. Flash floods happen quickly. Extreme flooding can also be caused by a tsunami or a large storm that will cause a storm surge.
The most deadly flooding was in 1931 in China and killed about 2,500,000 people. 
During a flood, people should move themselves and their most precious belongings to higher ground quickly. The process of leaving homes in search of a safe place is called "evacuation".
During a flood there is plenty of water, but it is mostly polluted and not safe to drink. If people drink the dirty water, they may suffer from diseases such as typhoid and cholera. People can get ready to survive a flood by filling many containers with fresh and clean drinking water and storing other emergency supplies.
Flooding is usually caused by a volume of water within a body of water, such as a lake, overflowing. The result is that some of the water travels to land, and 'floods' the area. Floods can also occur in rivers, when the strength of the river is so high it flows out of the river channel, particularly at bends or meanders and causes damage to homes and businesses alongside the river. While flood damage can be prevented by moving away from rivers and other lakes, people have lived and worked by the water to seek sustenance, and capitalize on the gains of cheap and easy travel and commerce easily, by being near water.
In 2010 and 2011, Queensland floods hurt Australia's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by wiping as much as $9 billion off export revenues.
Operations at about 40 coal mines in central Queensland's Bowen Basin were disrupted because of the floods. Crops were damaged and grazing lands were underwater.

</doc>
<doc id="4923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4923" title="Hell">
Hell

In many mythologies and religions, Hell is a place where souls (minds, separated from material body) of wicked people go after their lives on Earth end. It is a virutalized reality which accommodates the quantum mind which is administered by either God, the creator of all Life and Heaven (which is like Hell a virtual reality place where souls go, but is pleasant has human beauty truth and honor), and Earth, or by some underling deity, assigned to being the warden for beings in Hell. It is often thought of as the opposite of Heaven, and a place where no love is. In many religions, Hell is the place where the souls of dead people go if they have done evil things in life. It is used in the Old Testament to translate the Hebrew "", and in the New Testament the Greek , "Hades", and , Hebrew "Gehenna".
Many believe that Jews do not believe in Hell, but Jews really do believe. But it does not consist of eternal torture. Rather, there are lower levels of Heaven that a person can descend to considering the number of mitzvot (commandments) that they have obeyed. Gemorah writings tell the Jews of devil beliefs, but these are stories and are taken lightly. Jews also believe that Satan did exist, but he was an angel that quarreled with God, such as the story of Job.
In Hebrew the word for "the grave" is used for the place where people go when they die.
In Christianity, Hell is usually the place where the souls of people go who broke important rules set forth by God. In Hell, souls suffer and wait for the Last Judgement, a time when the souls of the dead will be judged by God. The concept of Hell in Christianity comes from the Bible and the "casting out" of Lucifer. In being cast out, he was removed from the presence of God. Therefore, if taken in its most literal sense, Hell is separation from God. Stated another way, to the Christian mind being separated from God is to be in Hell. Some Christians believe that Hell has real fire and flames, but others do not.
Many Christian groups believe that once a soul goes to Hell, it stays there forever and cannot leave. However, some Christian groups do not believe this. Mormons, for example, think Hell is only a temporary place, and that souls may leave Hell at some point. Other Christians believe that those who do not go to Heaven simply stop existing and do not go to Hell. These Christians are called "annihilationists".

</doc>
<doc id="4931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4931" title="October 21">
October 21


</doc>
<doc id="4932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4932" title="1-1-2">
1-1-2

The telephone number 1-1-2 (or 112) is also the standard European Union (EU) emergency telephone number, it works in every country of the EU, for land lines and mobile phones. It is also used in some other countries as the emergency telephone number for both mobile and fixed-line telephones.
112 is also the international emergency telephone number for all GSM mobile phone networks. It does not necessarily work on other mobile phone technologies, outside the EU.
Countries which use the 112 number for emergencies include:

</doc>
<doc id="4933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4933" title="Government-in-exile">
Government-in-exile

A government-in-exile is a group of people who claim they are the real government of a country, but who live in another country. These were common during World War II. The Germans took over several countries, and the leaders of those countries went to England for refuge.
Today, there are some governments-in-exile. They include:
Few countries recognize (accept) these groups.

</doc>
<doc id="4939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4939" title="Stonehenge">
Stonehenge

Stonehenge is a prehistoric World Heritage Site north of Salisbury in Wiltshire, England. It is made of a henge, with standing stones in circles.
There were three main building phases, each between about 3100 BC and 1950 BC. The first circle, ~3000 BC, was made of timber. The post holes for the timber have been found. Around 2600 BC, the builders gave up timber in favour of stone. Most of the construction took place between 2640 and 2480 BC.
The first stone circle was a set of 'bluestones'. The holes held up to 80 standing stones (shown blue on the plan), only 43 of which can be traced today. The bluestones (made of dolerite, an igneous rock), were thought for much of the 20th century to have been brought from the Preseli Hills, away in modern-day Pembrokeshire, Wales. Another theory is that they were brought much nearer to the site as glacial erratics by the Irish Sea Glacier.
Later, ~2400 BC, 30 huge grey sarsen stones were brought to the site. They were erected in a circle 33 metres in diameter, with lintels on top of the standing stones. The remaining blue circles were placed as an inner circle. The site was in use until the Bronze Age. The modern Stonehenge consists entirely of original stones, some of which have been replaced in upright position.
There are also several passage tombs and many tumuli nearby.
No one knows who built Stonehenge or why they built it. During the summer solstice, the sunrise lines up with some of the stones in a particular way. This suggests that the arrangement of stones may work as a calendar. In Egypt and South America, similar ancient buildings can be found. They also show the time of the solstice.
Stonehenge itself is owned by the Crown and managed by English Heritage while the surrounding land is owned by the National Trust.
The World Heritage Site includes Avebury and Stonhenge together, though they are quite distinct sites. Stonehenge, however, does have a number of satellite structures which are part of the 'ritual landscape':

</doc>
<doc id="4940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4940" title="Granite">
Granite

Granite is a kind of igneous rock, found on Earth but nowhere else in the Solar System. It is formed from hot, molten magma. Its colour ranges from pink to grey, according to the proportions of its minerals.
The magma is forced between other layers of rock by the pressure under the Earth's surface. The magma cools and turns slowly into solid stone. Granite has many different types of minerals in it. These include quartz, feldspar, hornblende, and sometimes mica. As the magma cools, these minerals form crystals. The crystals can be seen easily if the granite is cut and polished. 
Granite is a common stone on Earth, and makes up a big part of the crust (the Earth's outer layer). It is usually found in the continental plates of the Earth's crust. Although it forms under the surface of the Earth, there are many places where it has been forced upwards by tectonic movement. When plates in the Earth's crust move together, they get bent and pushed upwards. When this happens, granite mountains can be formed.
A worldwide average of the chemical composition of granite, by weight percent, based on 2485 analyses:
Granite is dense, and can be cut, carved and shaped. It is resistant to water and pollution, and has a range of different colours.
Kitchen benches are often made of polished granite. Granite is found in many countries of the world. Some countries have beautifully patterned granite which is quarried (cut in open mines) and sold for building material. 

</doc>
<doc id="4941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4941" title="1970">
1970

1970 (MCMLXX) was a common year starting on Thursday. It was also the first year of the 1970s.

</doc>
<doc id="4943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4943" title="Syracuse, New York">
Syracuse, New York

Syracuse is a city in the U.S. state of New York with a population of 147,306 in 2000, and a metropolitan area population of 732,117. It is often called the "Salt City" because salt used to be the main industry. Today, Syracuse is mostly known as a university city, but many companies have offices there, also.

</doc>
<doc id="4944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4944" title="Syracuse">
Syracuse

Syracuse might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="4945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4945" title="Soap opera">
Soap opera

A soap opera is a television or radio program that airs in episodic series. This means that each episode continues telling a story, which, in turn, tells more of the last episode's story. A single story on a soap opera can be told for weeks, months, or sometimes even years.
In America, each soap opera airs every day, Monday through Friday, in the afternoon. Because they air at this time, they are sometimes called daytime serials. In the U.K. and other countries, the soap operas air in the evening, twice or three times a week.
This is a list of soap operas that air in America, in their current order of popularity:
There are still two soaps that air in Australia, Network Ten's "Neighbours" and the Seven Network's "Home and Away". Strangely, "Neighbours" is more popular in England than it is in Australia.
In the U.K., the most popular soap operas are "Coronation Street" and "EastEnders". "Coronation Street" is about people who live in Manchester, in the northern part of England. "EastEnders" is about people who live in an imaginary place called Albert Square in the East End of London. Another popular soap opera is "Emmerdale", and it is about people who live in a small village in Yorkshire, also in the northern part of England.

</doc>
<doc id="4948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4948" title="The Young and the Restless">
The Young and the Restless

The Young and the Restless is a very popular American soap opera. The show is the highest-rated soap opera, which means that more people watch it than any other soap opera. It aired its first episode on March 26, 1973. It is set in fictional Genoa City, Wisconsin. In the beginning, the show was about the Brooks family, who were very rich, and the Foster family, who were poor. Today, very few members of either family are still on the show.
Today, the show tells stories about two cosmetics companies: Newman Enterprises and Jabot Cosmetics. Newman's president is Victor Newman (played by the actor Eric Braeden) and Jabot's president is Jack Abbott (played by Peter Bergman). These two men hate each other very much and would like to see the other fail. This hatred is the root of much of the story on the show.

</doc>
<doc id="4951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4951" title="Georgia (U.S. state)">
Georgia (U.S. state)

Georgia is a state in the southeastern part of the United States. It is bordered by Florida to the south, Alabama to the west, Tennessee and North Carolina to the north, and South Carolina to the east. All of Georgia's coastline is on the Atlantic Ocean. The ocean borders Georgia to the southeast.
Georgia was established in 1732 and became a state in 1788. It was the last of the original 13 colonies and eventually joined in the growing rebellion against Britain. Georgia was named after George II of Great Britain.
There are 5 regional habitats of Georgia. They are the Georgia mountains, Okeefenokee marsh/swamp area, the Georgia coastal region, the Georgia Piedmont, and Atlantic Coastal region .
The capital and largest city in Georgia is Atlanta. The 1996 Olympic Games took place there, and the book and movie "Gone with the Wind" was set in and around Atlanta in the 1860s. Other big cities in the state include Augusta, Columbus, Savannah, and Macon. Georgia has a total of 159 counties.

</doc>
<doc id="4954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4954" title="Prem Rawat">
Prem Rawat

Prem Pal Singh Rawat (now called Maharaji and in the past called Guru Maharaj Ji and Balyogeshwar) was born in India on December 10, 1957. He teaches inner peace by the use of what he calls "Knowledge". Groups that have helped him are the Divine Light Mission, Elan Vital (1983), and The Prem Rawat Foundation (2001).
His father was a guru (or teacher of religious matters) in India for three million people. Prem Rawat took over at the age of eight when his father died. Prem Rawat went to England and the United States when he was 13 years old, in 1971. He got married when he was 16 years old. In 1975, he had a fight with his mother and brother. They took over in India while Prem Rawat took over in America and the West. Now he lives in California and flies all over the world to share his "Knowledge" with people.
People who like him say that he teaches them how to feel peace by looking within. 

</doc>
<doc id="4955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4955" title="Immanuel Kant">
Immanuel Kant

Immanuel Kant (22 April 1724 – 12 February 1804) was a German philosopher. He was born in Königsberg, Prussia, and also died there. Kant studied philosophy in the university there, and later became a professor of philosophy. He called his system "transcendental idealism".
Today the town Königsberg is part of Russia, and is renamed Kaliningrad. When Kant was alive, it was the second largest city in the kingdom of Prussia. 
Immanuel Kant was born on April 22, 1724. In 1740 he entered the University of Königsberg and studied the philosophy of Gottfried Leibniz and his follower Christian Wolff. He studied there until 1746 when his father died, then left Königsberg to take up a job as tutor. He became the tutor of Count Kayserling and his family. In 1755 Kant became a lecturer and stayed in this position until 1770. He was made the second librarian of the Royal Library in 1766. Kant was eventually given the Chair of Logic and Metaphysics at the University of Königsberg. In his entire life Kant never travelled more than seventy miles from the city of Königsberg. Kant died on February 12, 1804 with the final words "Es ist gut" ("It is good").
After finishing his study in the university, Kant hoped to be a teacher of philosophy, but it was very difficult. He could have lived a life of private lecturer for a long time. He was offered a job as professor of poetry in Königsberg university, but he turned it down. Later in 1770 he became a full professor of philosophy in Königsberg University.
The young Kant was interested in physics, both astronomical objects (such as planets and stars) and the earth. He wrote some papers about this, but he became more interested in metaphysics. He wanted to learn the nature of human experience: how humans could know something, and what their knowledge was based on.
Under the strong influence of the philosophical system of Leibniz and Wolff, Kant began to doubt the basic answers of past philosophers. Then, Kant read a Scottish philosopher, David Hume. Hume had tried to make clear what our experience had been, and had reached a very strong opinion called "skepticism", that there was nothing to make our experience sure. Kant was very shocked by Hume, and saw the theory he had learned in a new point of view. He began to try finding a third way other than the two that Kant called "skepticism" and "dogmaticism".
Kant read another thinker, named Jean-Jacques Rousseau. His thought on human beings, especially on moral, human freedom and perpetual peace, impressed Kant.
Some scholars like to include Kant as one of the German idealists, but Kant himself did not belong to that group.
The most known work of Kant is the book "Critique of Pure Reason" ("Kritik der reinen Vernunft") that Kant published in 1781. Kant called his way of thought "critique", not philosophy. Kant said that critique was a preparation for establishment of real philosophy. According to Kant, people should know what human reason can do and which limits it has. In the "Critique of Pure Reason" Kant wrote several limits of human reason, to both feeling and thinking something. For sensation, there are two limits inside of human perception: space and time. There are no physical objects, but the limitations of our mind that work whenever we feel something through our senses. For thinking, he said there are twelve categories or pure rational concepts, divided into four fields: quantity, quality, relation and modality. Kant thought human reason applied those ideas to everything.
Is what we think only our fantasy? Kant said "No", although without those sensual and rational limitations, we can think nothing, then Kant was convinced there would be something we could not know directly behind our limitations, and even with limitations we could know something. It can not be a personal fantasy either, since those limitations were common to all human reason before our particular experience. Kant called what we could not know directly "Ding an sich" -- "thing itself". We can think "thing itself" but cannot have any experience about it, nor know it. God, the eternity of soul, life after death, such things belong to "thing itself", so they were not right objects of philosophy according to Kant, although people had liked to discuss them from ancient times.
Kant wrote two other books named "Critique": "Critique of the practical reason" (1788) and "Critique of the Judgement" (1790). In "Critique of the practical reason" Kant wrote about the problem of freedom and God. It was his main work of ethics. In "Critique of the Judgement" Kant wrote about beauty and teleology, or the problem if there was a purpose in general, if the world, a living creature had a reason to exist, and so on. In both books, Kant said we could not answer those problems, because they were concerned with "thing itself".
Kant had a great influence on other thinkers. In the 19th century, German philosophers like Fichte, Schelling, Hegel, Schopenhauer and writers like Herder, Schiller, and Goethe were influenced by Kant. 
In the early 20th century Kant's ideas were very influential on one group of German philosophers. They became known as the new-Kantians. One of them, Windelband, said, "every philosophy before Kant poured into Kant, and every philosophy after Kant pours from Kant". 
Kant has influenced many modern thinkers, including Hannah Arendt, and John Rawls.

</doc>
<doc id="4962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4962" title="Aunt">
Aunt

An aunt is a name used in an extended family. An aunt is either a sister of someone's mother or father, or a wife of your uncle. That person is the aunt's nephew (male) or niece (female). An aunt's child is that person's cousin. A grandaunt (or great-aunt) is the sister or sister-in-law of a grandparent.
In many cultures no single word (such as aunt) describes both their parents' sisters. Instead there are two different words to describe a person's relation to their mother's sister and a person's relation to their father's sister. In Latin, for example, a mother's sister is "matertera" while a father's sister is "amita".
An aunt can also be someone not related by blood or marriage as in a term of endearment or respect.

</doc>
<doc id="4964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4964" title="Homer">
Homer

Homer is the name of the Greek poet who wrote the epic poems the "Iliad" and the "Odyssey". These are the earliest works of Greek literature which have survived to the present day, and are among the greatest treasures of the ancient world. They are a product of Mycenaean culture. The Iliad tells the story of the Trojan war, which took place around 1190 BC. The manuscripts of Homer were written much later, probably later than 800 BC.
What makes the history of this period so difficult is that the Mycenaean civilization was followed by several hundred years of decline, from which little or no writing has survived. This period, the Greek Dark Age, ended around 800 BC, when once again we find Greek writing, though this time in their newly developed alphabetic script. Therefore, there is a distinct possibility that the Homeric epics had a life, perhaps a long life, as oral literature, spoken by story-tellers.
We know little about Homer, and the later Greeks also knew little about him. Some have doubted he was a real person; others think he was a woman. 
A legend, has it that he was a blind poet who lived in Ionia. There is no definite evidence for any of these ideas.
There is archaeological evidence that Troy existed. The site of Troy has been discovered, and excavated. Therefore, it is a fair guess that the epic began as a long oral poem based on the siege of Troy, but with details added and changed as time went on. Virtually every feature of Homer's poetry is due to the economy forced on it by oral methods of composition.
The date of Homer's existence is not known. Herodotus said that Homer lived 400 years before his own time, which would place him at around 850 BC; but other ancient sources gave dates much closer to the time of the Trojan War. The date of the Trojan War was given as 1194–1184 BC by Eratosthenes.
Today, "the date of Homer" means the date of the writing down the oral poems, rather than the life of Homer. This is called the "transcription date". The language suggests that the earliest possible date for the transcription is 800 BC, and the latest possible date is 600 AD.

</doc>
<doc id="4966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4966" title="Marquis de Sade">
Marquis de Sade

Donatien Alphonse François, Comte de Sade, (2 June 1740 – 2 December 1814), better known as the Marquis de Sade) was a French nobleman, writer and philosopher who was born in Paris. The de Sade family were French nobility, who came from Provence. Different members of the house held positions in the Church, and the French state at different times.
Once Donatien had grown up, he had troubles with the authorities several times. He was bisexual. He spent many years in prison and at a mental asylum.
The main points he was accused of were:
On one of his escapades, he "accidentally" raped a close relative of his, who was a nun. This caused his family to drop him, and to hand him over to the authorities.
For this, he was sentenced to death (while being absent). He later escaped the death penalty by moving to Italy. The death penalty against him was later changed to a prison sentence.
In prison, he started to read about philosophy. He also started to write down his ideas. He tried to hide his writing, and also wrote in a very small print, so that the consumption of paper would not be noticed.
In later years, he was moved to an asylum (for the mentally ill), and gave his wife the possibility of a divorce.
After the French Revolution, he got out of the asylum, but in 1803 was declared mentally ill (and again was sent to the asylum). He died in the asylum in Val-de-Marne in 1814 at the age of 74.
The term 'sadism' was named after him. It refers to the habit of getting pleasure from giving pain.

</doc>
<doc id="4972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4972" title="Eurozone">
Eurozone

The Eurozone (also called Euro area or Euroland) is the set of countries in the European Union which have adopted the Euro (€) currency. The European Central Bank is responsible for managing the supply of money within the eurozone and political decisions are taken by the "euro group", which is a meeting of the politicians from each euro country in charge of that country's economy.
EU members that are not part of the Eurozone are the UK, Denmark, Sweden, Poland, Czech Republic, Croatia, Hungary, Bulgaria, and Romania.
There are 19 members in the Eurozone 
Made the area on 1 January 1999
1 Austria
2 Belgium
3 Finland
4 France
5 Germany
6 Ireland
7 Italy
8 Luxembourg
9 Netherlands
10 Portugal
11 Spain
Joined on 1 January 2001
12 Greece
Joined on 1 January 2007
13 Slovenia
Joined on 1 January 2008
14 Cyprus
15 Malta
Joined on 1 January 2009
16 Slovakia
Joined on 1 January 2011
17 Estonia
Joined on 1 January 2014
18 Latvia
Joined on 1 January 2015
19 Lithuania
There are other countries outside the European Union which use the euro as well, but these are not officially in the eurozone.

</doc>
<doc id="4973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4973" title="Ordinal number">
Ordinal number

Ordinal numbers (or ordinals) are numbers that show something's order, for example: 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th. In set theory, ordinals are ordinal numbers people use to order infinite sets.
Suppose a person has four different T-shirts, and then lays them in front of the person, from left to right.
If the person then starts counting the shirts from the left, he would first see the red shirt. So the red shirt is the first T-shirt. The blue shirt is the second T-shirt. The yellow shirt is the third one, and the orange T-shirt is the fourth one.
The "first", "second", "third", and "fourth" in this case are ordinal numbers. They result from the fact that the person has many objects, and they give them an order (hence 'ordinal'). The person then simply counts those objects, and gives the ordinal numbers to them.

</doc>
<doc id="4974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4974" title="File:Wiki.png">
File:Wiki.png

The Simple English Wikipedia logo.

</doc>
<doc id="4977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4977" title="Gnome">
Gnome

The word Gnome can mean different things:

</doc>
<doc id="4978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4978" title="Republic">
Republic

A republic is a type of government that has no king, queen, or other monarch and where the people are sovereign. This means that people can choose leaders to represent them and make the laws. The word republic comes from the Latin language words "res publica", which means "public thing". However, in practice some nominal republics are actually dictatorships, such as the Russian Soviet Republic and the other republics of the USSR from 1922 before it was dissolved in 1991.
Countries with a king or other monarch and free elections is called a constitutional monarchy. This includes the United Kingdom and the other Commonwealth realms. What makes a republic different, is that the people do not need the permission of a king, or other higher power, to choose leaders and the type of government they want. Laws are made and enforced in the name of the people. The best known republic in the world is the United States of America.
The Head of State in a republic is generally a person who has been chosen by the citizens, either by direct election or by a group of elected representatives to act as the top representative of the people. In most republics, the Head of State is called the president. In some countries, the president is elected and has a lot of political power. In others, the president does not hold a lot of direct power, but is important in the legal system for other reasons.
Licchavi in India was the first republic in the 6th and 5th century BCE. The other earliest republics were Greek settlements in the Mediterranean sea. The biggest difference from other city-states that were around then was that people could choose their leaders by voting for them. The votes were then counted, and the person with the most votes won.

</doc>
<doc id="4980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4980" title="Martin Luther">
Martin Luther

Martin Luther (10 November 1483 in Eisleben - 18 February 1546 in Eisleben) was a German monk and theologian of Christianity. He is credited with starting the Protestant Reformation. As this happened, what are now called Protestant churches split from the Roman Catholic church. He started the Lutheran Church, the first Protestant church.
Luther studied philosophy at the University of Erfurt. In 1505, he entered into the Augustinian Order as a monk. Luther studied theology and ancient languages in Erfurt. In 1512 he became a doctor of theology in Wittenberg and began his lectures on the Psalms and Letters of Paul.
In October 1517, Luther wrote his 95 Theses. Many people think that he put them on the door of a church in Wittenberg, but this is not sure. Instead, he published a copy. He presented these to church officials at Worms Cathedral. Luther called them "The Disputation of Doctor Martin Luther on the Power and Efficacy of Indulgences". It questioned the teaching of the western Church and its ideas about penance, the authority of the Pope and the usefulness of "indulgences". At that time, the Catholic Church was selling indulgences to get out of purgatory, and go right to Heaven after death. They were selling indulgences for money for the dead so they could go to Heaven faster. If that was true, it would mean that poor people would not be able to go to Heaven as quickly, but that the priests in the church would be rich from selling these things. Luther thought that this was all wrong, and was against the Bible.
After studying the Letters of Paul, especially the Letter to Romans, Luther came up with an idea called "sola fide". This means that faith is the only way that people can get salvation from God. According to sola fide, this would mean that many church customs were useless, and should be cast away.
First, Luther believed that he could reform (change) the Roman Church from the inside (while still being a part of the Church) with his Theses, but the Papacy took his attitude as heresy and excommunicated him on June 15 1520 with a paper saying he did not have their permission to go to Heaven. In October, Luther burned the paper in public, and showed he would not obey the Church unless they accepted his words.
Emperor Charles V Opened the imperial Diet of Worms on 22 January 1521 to hear the case. For Luther, it was the last chance to say he had been wrong. But he did not change his mind. The Diet declared Luther an outlaw.
With the help of a friend, Luther hid in Wartburg Castle, near Erfurt. In the castle, he translated the Bible. First, he wrote the New Testament in German instead of the original Greek. Later, he translated the Old Testament into German, too. Until then, the Holy Mass and the Bible were in Latin. Very few people understood it. Most people went to Mass, and did not understand what the priest said because they did not speak Latin. Luther translated the Bible so that more people could read and understand it. That way they were no longer depending on the priest to tell them what was in the Bible, but could read it themselves.
Luther started his own church, called the Lutheran Church, with his friend Philip Melanchton. Luther died in 1546.
From the Bible, Luther formed firm ideas about families. Luther knew that what a child learned at home would greatly influence his life. He said in "Table Talks", "Sermons very little edify children, who learn little thereby; it is more needful they be taught and well instructed in schools, and at home, and that they be learned and examined what they have learned; this way profits much; 'tis very wearisome, but very necessary". Luther also preached against the Catholic Church's demands that ministers cannot marry. After hearing his preaching, many nuns wrote to him to ask for help in escaping their convents. Luther helped nine nuns escape from a convent. On April 4, 1524, Luther had a friend help the nuns sneak over the wall and then hid them in barrels on a wagon until they were out of the city. One of these nuns was Katherine von Bora.
After finding husbands for the nuns whose families would not accept them, Luther had to find a husband for Katherine von Bora. Katherine, however, not only rejected a match Luther arranged for her, but said she would accept only Luther or another pastor named Amsdorf as her husband.
At first Luther did not really like Katherine and thought "she was proud and haughty." His feelings changed, though, and they married on June 13, 1525. Luther later said, "And thank God it hath turned out well; for I have a pious (holy, God-loving) and faithful wife, to whom one may safely commit (give) his heart".
They had six children. On June 6, 1526, Luther wrote, "I am a happy husband...for from the most precious woman, my best of wives, I have received, by the blessing of God, a little son, John Luther, and, by God's wonderful grace, I have become a father." 
The firstborn was John Luther. The next was a daughter, Elizabeth; but Elizabeth died when she was just eight months old, and Luther wrote in a letter, "My little daughter Elizabeth is taken from me, and hath left me with a bleeding and almost womanly heart, so sad am I on her account. I never thought the heart of a father was so tender towards his children. Pray the Lord for me." A third child, Magdalene, also died young. After Magdalene came Martin, then Paul, and finally Margaret. It was for his children that Luther wrote the Small Catechism - a book showing the basics of Lutheran beliefs.
Since the time of the silent movies 28 movies about Martin Luther have been made. The newest movie is titled Luther, released in 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="4982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4982" title="Noh">
Noh

Noh or No (Japanese:能 Nō) is a major form of classical Japanese musical drama. It started in the 14th century and continues today. Noh is made up of "mai" (dances), "hayashi" (music) and "utai" (words usually in songs). The performers use masks and dance slowly. Zeami and his father Kan'ami brought Noh to its present-day form during the Muromachi period. 
Theater pieces of Noh are classified into 5 groups.
All Noh players are men. They have been taught their skills by their fathers. When a woman or girl appears in the drama, a male actor plays her role with a woman mask.
There are three types of Noh players: "shite", "waki" and "kyogen". "Shite" plays the hero or the heroine. He talks, sings and dances. "Waki" (meaning "Side") and plays the sidekick of "Shite". The Waki usually plays the role of a traveller role. He introduces us into the world in the drama. "Kyogen" appears in the middle of the drama if it has two parts, and plays the role of the local citizen. He talks to "Waki" and makes him notice something new or realize what has happened.
"Hayashi" means musical instrumentals. Two kinds of drum ("Tuzumi", "Taiko") and a flute ("Fue") are used in the theater.

</doc>
<doc id="4984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4984" title="Manga">
Manga

A manga is a Japanese comic book. 
Manga is drawn by a "mangaka" (Japanese for cartoonist: an artist of comics). Manga is usually read from right to left. 
The word manga can be both singular and plural, and mean both the medium of comics or a single comic. It is a form of art that is used to draw comics and develop Anime (animated cartoons of manga art). Colors and symbols are important.

</doc>
<doc id="4985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4985" title="Category:Computer science">
Category:Computer science


</doc>
<doc id="4988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4988" title="Spree">
Spree

The Spree is a river in the north-east of Germany.
It runs through the centre of Berlin. The river is long.

</doc>
<doc id="4990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4990" title="Liberalism">
Liberalism

Liberalism is a way of thinking about politics and government. 
Some liberals believe that freedom is impossible without equality, and that governments should promote equality by providing education and health care supported by taxes. Other liberals believe that taxes are bad, and that people should provide their own education and health care; these people are usually called libertarians today. Most liberal governments today do provide at least some education and health care, though not necessarily equally for all citizens.
Other concepts important to some liberals include:
In the old days, kings or queens told people what to do (a form of government called a Monarchy), and there was very little freedom. A few hundred years ago, philosophers such as Simón Bolívar, John Stuart Mill and Jeremy Bentham began to write about freedom. Earlier writers, such as Marcus Aurelius, had written about freedom, but this time the idea caught on. The United States of America was the first country to have a constitution which was based on the ideas of Mill and Bentham, and which guaranteed certain rights to all citizens, including freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of religion, the right to assemble (get together in groups), the right to bear arms (weapons), and the right to ask their government to take action (right of petition) or to remove from office rulers they did not like (right of referendum).
Another idea that became popular around this time was the idea of free trade. A leading philosopher who promoted free trade was Adam Smith.
Most of the wealthy countries in the world today are liberal democracies with more or less free trade. An exception to this rule are the oil-rich countries, not all of which are liberal or democratic. Most of the poor countries in the world are dictatorships, with heavy restrictions on trade. China is a poor country which is rapidly becoming rich, and is trying the experiment of combining dictatorship with free trade. Whether it is possible to have the advantages of free trade without other freedoms remains to be seen.
While all liberal governments support free elections, other ideas of liberal government vary a great deal from country to country. For information about liberalism in a particular country, look for an article called "Liberalism in..." and then the name of the country.
The government of the United States was created based on a belief in Democracy and personal freedom. However the word "liberalism" has taken on a different meaning in modern times. Liberals in the United States still believe in supporting democracy and freedom, however many liberals also support other ideas. While not all liberals agree on everything, most liberals in the United States agree:
Liberals in the United States are also sometimes called "Progressives". The biggest liberal political party in the United States is the Democratic Party. But the Green Party is seen to be more 'left', or liberal than the Democrats.
Liberals in Australia have many different ideas about government than liberals in the United States. Most liberals in Australia believe that government should not increase taxes, and would like a government that has lower taxes and less power over the economy. The main liberal political party in Australia is the Liberal Party of Australia. The Liberal Party also believes that government should support traditional values and morals, something which many conservatives believe as well.

</doc>
<doc id="4991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4991" title="Zeno's paradoxes">
Zeno's paradoxes

Zeno's Paradoxes are a famous set of thought-provoking stories or puzzles. They were created by Zeno of Elea in the mid-5th century BC. Philosophers, physicists, and mathematicians have argued over how to answer the questions raised by Zeno's Paradoxes for 25 centuries. Nine paradoxes have been attributed to him. Zeno constructed them to answer those who thought the idea of Parmenides that "all is one and unchanging" was absurd. Three of Zeno's paradoxes are the most famous and most problematic; two are presented below. Although the specifics of each paradox differ from one another, they all deal with the tension between the apparent continuous nature of space and time and the discrete or incremental nature of physics.
In the paradox of Achilles and the Tortoise, Achilles is in a footrace with the tortoise. Achilles allows the tortoise a head start of 100 metres, for example. Suppose that each racer starts running at some constant speed (one very fast and one very slow). After some finite time, Achilles will have run 100 metres, bringing him to the tortoise's starting point. During this time, the slower tortoise has run a much shorter distance, say, 10 metres. It will then take Achilles some further time to run that 10 metre distance, by which time the tortoise will have advanced farther. It will then take still more time for Achilles to reach this third point, while the tortoise again moves ahead. Thus, whenever Achilles reaches somewhere the tortoise has been, he still has farther to go. Therefore, because there are an infinite number of points Achilles must reach where the tortoise has already been, he can never overtake the tortoise.
Suppose someone wishes to get from point "A" to point "B". Well, first they must move halfway. Then, they must go half of the remaining way. Continuing in this manner, there will always be some small distance remaining, and the goal would never actually be reached. There will always be another number to add in a series such as 1 +1/2 + 1/4 + 1/8 + 1/16 + ... So, motion from any point "A" to any different point "B" is seen as an impossibility.
This then is where Zeno's paradox lies: both pictures of reality cannot be true at the same time. Hence, either:
1. There is something wrong with the way we perceive the continuous nature of time,
2. In reality there is no such thing as a discrete, or incremental, amounts of time, distance, or perhaps anything else for that matter, or
3. There is a third picture of reality that unifies the two pictures--the mathematical one and the common sense or philosophical one--that we do not yet have the tools to fully understand.
Few people would bet that the tortoise would win the race against an athlete. But, what is wrong with the argument? 
As one begins adding the terms in the series 1/2 + 1/4 + 1/8 + 1/16 + 1/32 + 1/64 + ..., one may notice that the sum gets closer and closer to 1, and will never exceed 1. Aristotle (who is the source for much of what we know about Zeno) noted that as the distance (in the dichotomy paradox) decreases, the time to travel each distance gets exceedingly smaller and smaller. Before 212 BCE, Archimedes had developed a method to derive a finite answer for the sum of infinitely many terms that get progressively smaller (such as 1/2 + 1/4 + 1/8 + 1/16 + 1/32 + ...).
Modern calculus achieves the same result, using more rigorous methods.
Some mathematicians, such as w:Carl Boyer, hold that Zeno's paradoxes are simply mathematical problems, for which modern calculus provides a mathematical solution.
However, Zeno's questions remain problematic if one approaches an infinite series of steps, one step at a time. This is known as a supertask. Calculus does not actually involve adding numbers one at a time. Instead, it determines the value (called a "limit") that the addition is approaching.

</doc>
<doc id="4993" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4993" title="Mandrake">
Mandrake

Mandrake is the common name of a number of plants in the Nightshade family, genus Mandragora. The roots often look like man or woman, or can be easily made to resemble them. The plant has been used in witchcraft for a long time. 
According to this literature, the plant shrieks in pain, when it is pulled from the ground. This shriek is able to make a person deaf. He might also lose his mind, or even be killed, if he is unprotected. 
Mandrake (Mandragora officinalis) has been used as an anaestethic for a long time. For this, it was usually prepared in an alcoholic solution.

</doc>
<doc id="4994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4994" title="Debian">
Debian

Debian is a free operating system. It is a distribution of an operating system known as the GNU operating system, which can be used with various kernels, including Linux, kFreeBSD, and Hurd. In combination with these kernels, the operating system can be referred to as Debian GNU/Linux, Debian GNU/kFreeBSD, and Debian GNU/Hurd, respectively. Debian GNU/Linux is one of the most complete and popular GNU/Linux distributions, on which many others, like Ubuntu, are based.
The Debian Project officially started on August 16th, 1993, led by Ian Murdock. He was a computer programmer. Today, in this project, Debian is developed by more than 1,000 computer specialists all over the world. 
The name "Debian" was taken after Ian Murdock and his wife Debra. Some people say or pronounce 'deb-ee-n' but others also say 'de-bi-an' or 'de-bai-an' and in Japan 'de-bi-a-n' and so on.
Software packages in development are either uploaded to the project distribution named "unstable" (also known as "sid"), or to the "experimental" repository. Software packages uploaded to "unstable" are normally versions stable enough to be released by the original upstream developer, but with the added Debian-specific packaging and other modifications introduced by Debian developers. These additions may be new and untested. Software not ready yet for the "unstable" distribution is typically placed in the "experimental" repository.
After a version of a software package has remained in "unstable" for a certain length of time (depending on how urgent the changes are), that package is automatically moved to the "testing" distribution. The package's move to testing happens only if no serious ("release-critical") bugs in the package are reported and if other software needed for package functionality qualifies for inclusion in "testing".
Since updates to Debian software packages between official releases do not contain new features, some choose to use the "testing" and "unstable" distributions for their newer packages. However, these distributions are less tested than "stable", and "unstable" does not receive timely security updates. In particular, incautious upgrades to working "unstable" packages can sometimes seriously break software functionality. Since September 9, 2005 the "testing" distributions security updates have been provided by the "testing" security team.
After the packages in "testing" have matured and the goals for the next release are met, the "testing" distribution becomes the next stable release. The latest stable release of Debian ("Squeeze") is 6.0, released on February 6, 2011. The next release is codenamed "Wheezy".
Debian has made ten major stable releases:
Due to an incident involving a CD vendor who made an unofficial and broken release labeled "1.0", an official 1.0 release was never made.
Debian's official software package repository includes, for example, UNetbootin.

</doc>
<doc id="4995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4995" title="GNU">
GNU

GNU is the name of a computer operating system. The name is short for "GNU's Not Unix". Richard Stallman leads the project working on GNU, known as the GNU Project. It was created to replace the UNIX operating system with all free and open source software. The popular Linux operating systems made using Linux kernel consist large number of GNU tools. Due to this reason, many projects and developers call the linux based operating systems "GNU/Linux"
The GNU project was started by Richard Stallman in 1983. His aim was to create a computer system fully free to modify, share and publish modified work. He and a group of developers started with creating copies, of each piece of Unix software, which are free to modify and share. The remaining part of GNU was the kernel, called the GNU Hurd, which is not yet completely built. The more popular Linux kernel is used instead. 

</doc>
<doc id="5000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5000" title="Serbia">
Serbia

The Republic of Serbia (Serbian: Република Србија / "Repbulika Srbija") is a country in Southeastern Europe. The capital city is Belgrade. To the north of Serbia is the country Hungary. To the east of Serbia are the countries Bulgaria and Romania. To the south of Serbia are countries Macedonia and Albania. To the west of Serbia are the countries Montenegro (the country that was once united with Serbia), Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia.
The oldest form of writing comes from an ancient civilization which inhabited Serbia called the Vinča culture and the symbols are called the Vinča script. Serbia is also home to the earliest known copper smelting sites and the birth of the Copper Age which lead humanity out of the Stone Age and into regular use of metallurgy. The same culture contains the earliest evidence of tin alloy bronze which replaced the much weaker arsenic bronze.
Serbia is found in the Balkan peninsula and the Pannonian Plain. The Danube passes through Serbia. The Šar Mountains of Kosovo form the border with Albania. Over 31% of Serbia is covered by forest. National parks take up 10% of the country's territory. Serbia has 5 national parks and 22 nature reserves.
Serbia is classed as an upper-middle income economy.
The major processed vegetable crops in Serbia are potatoes, tomatoes and pepper. Serbia is one of the biggest world producers and exporters of raspberries. They are a leading exporter of frozen fruit.
There are four international airports in Serbia: Belgrade Nikola Tesla Airport, Niš Constantine the Great Airport, Vršac International Airport and Pristina International Airport.
89% of households in Serbia have fixed telephone lines. There are over 9.60 million cell-phones users. This is larger than the number of the total population of Serbia itself by 30%.
Serbia has a total of eight sites on the UNESCO World Heritage list: The Early Medieval capital Stari Ras and the 13th-century monastery Sopoćani, and the 12th-century monastery Studenica, and the endangered Medieval Monuments in Kosovo group, comprising the monasteries of Visoki Dečani, Our Lady of Ljeviš, Gračanica and Patriarchate of Peć (former seat of the Serbian Church, mausoleum of Serbian royalty) and finally the Roman estate of Gamzigrad–Felix Romuliana. There are two literary memorials on UNESCO's Memory of the World Programme: The 12th-century Miroslav Gospel, and scientist Nikola Tesla's valuable archive.
The most prominent museum in Serbia is the National Museum of Serbia. It was founded in 1844. It houses a collection of more than 400,000 exhibits, over 5,600 paintings and 8,400 drawings and prints, and includes many foreign masterpiece collections, including Miroslav Gospel. 
The official language, Serbian, is written in both the Cyrillic and Latin alphabets.
Composer and musicologist Stevan Stojanović Mokranjac is said to be one of the most important founders of modern Serbian music. 
In the 1990s and the 2000s, many pop music performers rose to fame. Željko Joksimović won second place at the 2004 Eurovision Song Contest. Marija Šerifović won the 2007 Eurovision Song Contest. Serbia was the host of the Eurovision Song Contest 2008.
The most popular sports in Serbia are football, basketball, volleyball, handball, water polo and tennis.
The three main football clubs in Serbia are Red Star and Partizan, both from the capital city of Belgrade, and Vojvodina from Novi Sad.
Novak Djokovic, a multiple Grand Slam-winning tennis player and current number one, is from Serbia. Other tennis players from Serbia include Ana Ivanovic and Jelena Jankovic.

</doc>
<doc id="5001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5001" title="Cancer">
Cancer

Cancer is a type of disease where cells grow out of control, divide and invade other tissues. In a person without cancer, cell division is under control. In most tissues, healthy cells divide in a controlled way and copy themselves to create new healthy cells. With cancer, this normal process of cell division goes out of control. Cells change their nature because mutations have occurred in their genes. All the daughter cells of cancer cells are also cancerous.
If the abnormal cells do not invade, but just divide and swell up their original tissue, this is not called "cancer". It is called a tumour. Tumours are usually not a threat to life because they can be cut out. However, some tumours occur in places where they cannot be cut out, and they can be fatal. Some brain tumours are of this type.
The symptoms of cancer are caused by the cancerous cells invading other tissues. This is called metastasis. Metastasis is a process in which cancer cells move through the bloodstream or lymphatic system. When this happens, a person's cancer can be spread throughout his body. Eventually those other tissues cannot work as well, and the whole body begins to get worse, and may die.
Cancer can affect anybody at any age. Most types of cancer are more likely to affect people as they get older. This is because as a person's DNA gets older, their DNA may become damaged, or damage that happened in the past may get worse. One type of cancer that is more common in young men, rather than older people, is testicular cancer (cancer of the testicles). 
Cancer is one of the biggest and most researched causes of death in developed countries.
Cancer is one of the most common causes of death around the world. It causes about 12.5% (or one out of every eight) of all deaths worldwide, according to the World Health Organization. 
Different types of cancer have different causes. Some things are known to cause cancer in a specific body part; other things are known to be able to cause many different types of cancer. For example, using tobacco (smoked or smokeless) can cause many types of cancers, such as lung, mouth, tongue, and throat cancers. Other things that are known to be able to cause cancer - or make a person more likely to get cancer - include: radiation (including sunlight and X-rays in large or many doses, and exposure to radiation in a nuclear power plant); chemicals and materials used in building and manufacturing (for example, asbestos and benzene); high-fat or low-fiber diets; air and water pollution; eating very little fruits and vegetables; obesity; not enough physical activity; drinking too much alcohol; and certain chemicals commonly used at home. Some cancers can also be caused by viruses. Many people who are exposed to these things do not get cancer - but some do.
There are many different kinds of cancers. Some of the most common are: 
There is no sure cure for cancer. It can only be cured if all of the cancerous cells are cut out or killed in place. This means that the earlier the cancer is treated, the better the chances are for a cure (because the cancer cells may not have had enough time to copy themselves and spread so much that the person cannot be cured). 
There are a few different types of treatments that are used to try to kill cancer cells. These treatments are:
There are a few reasons why treating cancer is complicated. For example:
Many, many people in many countries study cancer and work on finding treatments. There has been some good progress in finding treatments, and many cancers are treated with success. Along with looking for different medical treatments to treat cancer, some studies also look for things that people with cancer can do themselves to try to make themselves healthier. For example, one study showed that if a person with lymphedema (a swelling of the arm linked to breast cancer) lifts weights, he may be able to fight his cancer better than somebody who does not lift weights.
Cancer has been around for many thousands of years. Today, a lot of the medical terms used to describe cancer come from ancient Greek and Latin. For example, the Latinized Greek word carcinoma is used to describe a malignant tumor - a tumor made up of cancer cells. The Greeks also used the word "karkinos", which would be translated by Aulus Cornelius Celsus into the Latin word "cancer". (The prefix (or beginning of a word) 'carcino' is still used in medicine, in words like carcinoma or carcinogenic, which means cancer-causing.) A famous Greek doctor, Galen, helped create another word that is very important to medicine today by using the word "onkos" to describe "all" tumours. This is where the word oncology (the branch of medicine that deals with cancer) comes from. 
Hippocrates (a very famous ancient doctor who is often called the father of modern medicine) named many kinds of cancer. He called benign tumours (tumors that are not made up of cancer cells) "oncos". In Greek, "onkos" means 'swelling'. He called malignant tumours "karkinos". This means crab or crayfish in Greek. He used this term because he thought that if a solid malignant tumor was cut into, its veins looked like a crab: "the veins stretched on all sides as the animal the crab has its feet, whence it derives (gets) its name". Hippocrates later added "-oma" (Greek for 'swelling') after the word 'carcinos'. This is how the word "carcinoma" came about. 
Because the ancient Greeks did not believe in opening up dead bodies to study them, Hippocrates was only able to describe and make drawings of tumors he saw from the outside of the body. He drew tumors that had been on the skin, nose, and breasts. 
Hippocrates and other doctors at that time treated people based on the humor theory. This theory said that there were four types of fluid in the body (black, yellow bile, blood, and phlegm). Doctors tried to figure out whether these four "humors" (or body fluids) were in balance. They would then use treatments like blood-letting (cutting the patient and letting him bleed so that he would lose blood); laxatives (giving the patient foods or herbs to make him go to the bathroom), and/or changing the patient's diet. The doctors thought that these treatments would work to get the patient's four humors back into the right balance. The humor theory treatment was popular until the 19th century (the 1800s), when cells were discovered. By this time, people had realized that cancer can happen anywhere in the body.
The oldest known document that talks about cancer was discovered in Egypt and is thought to be from about 1600 B.C. The document talks about using surgery to treat eight cases of ulcers of the breast. These were treated by cauterization - by burning them - using a tool called "the fire drill". The document also says about cancer, "There is no treatment".
Another very early type of surgery used to treat cancer was written about in the 1020s. In "The Canon of Medicine", Avicenna (Ibn Sina) said that treatment should involve cutting out all diseased tissue. This included the use of amputation (removing a part of the body completely) or removing veins that ran in the direction of the tumor. Avicenna also suggested that the area that had been treated should be cauterized (or burned) if needed.
In the 16th and 17th centuries (the 1500s and 1600s), doctors started to be allowed to dissect bodies (or cut them open after death) in order to figure out the cause of death. Around this time, there were many different ideas about what caused cancer. The German professor Wilhelm Fabry believed that breast cancer was caused by a clot of milk in the part of a woman's breast that produces milk. The Dutch professor Francois de la Boe Sylvius believed that all disease was caused by chemical processes. He thought that cancer, in particular, was caused by acidic lymph. Nicolaes Tulp, who lived at the same time as Sylvius, believed that cancer was a poison that slowly spreads and was contagious.
A British surgeon named Percivall Pott was the first person to figure out one of the real causes of cancer. In 1775, he discovered that cancer of the scrotum was a common disease among chimney sweeps (people who cleaned out chimneys). Other doctors started studying this topic and coming up with other ideas about what causes cancer. Doctors then started working together and coming up with better ideas.
In the 18th century (the 1700s), many people started to use the microscope, and this made a big difference in helping doctors and scientists understand more about cancer. Using the microscope, scientists were able to see that the 'cancer poison' spread from one tumor through the lymph nodes to other sites ("metastasis"). This was first made clear by the English surgeon Campbell De Morgan, between 1871 and 1874. 
Before the 19th century (the 1800s), using surgery to treat cancer usually had bad results. Doctors did not understand how important hygiene (or keeping things clean) is for preventing disease, especially after surgery. Because things were not kept clean during or after surgery, patients often got infections and died. For example, one well-known Scottish surgeon, Alexander Monro, kept records and found that 58 patients out of every 60 who had surgery for breast tumors died within the next two years. 
In the 19th century, surgical hygiene got better because of asepsis (doctors realized that dirtiness and germs cause infection, and they started to keep things cleaner and do things to kill germs in order to prevent their patients from getting infections). As it became more common for people to survive after having surgery, surgical removal of the tumor (taking the tumor out of the body by doing surgery) became the first-choice treatment for cancer. For this kind of treatment to work, the surgeon doing the operation had to be very good at removing tumors. (This meant that even if people had the same kind of cancer, they could get very different results, with some getting good treatment that worked and others getting treatment that did not work, because of differences in how good different surgeons were.) 
In the late 1800s, doctors and scientists started to realize that the body is made up of many kinds of tissues, which in turn are made up of millions of cells. This discovery made it clear once and for all that the old theories about body humors causing diseases were not correct. The discovery also started the age of cellular pathology (studying cells to learn about diseases and figure out what is wrong with the body).
In the 1890s, French scientists discovered radioactive decay. Radiation therapy became the first cancer treatment that worked and did not involve surgery. It required a new multi-disciplinary approach to cancer treatment (meaning that people doing different jobs were working together to treat patients). The surgeon was no longer working by himself - he worked together with hospital radiologists (people who gave and read X-rays) to help patients. This team approach meant changes in how they worked. The different people on the team had to communicate with each other and work together, which they were not used to doing. It also meant that treatment had to be done in a hospital rather than at the patient's home. Because of this, patients' information had to be put together into files kept at the hospital (called "medical records"). Because this information was now being kept and written down, scientists were able to do the first statistical patient studies using numbers to study questions like how many people who have a certain type of cancer or get a certain treatment survive.
Another important step forward in understanding cancer happened in 1926, when Janet Lane-Claypon published a paper on cancer epidemiology. (Epidemiology is a field of study which looks at how common a disease is, what patterns the disease takes in different kinds of people, and what this means for understanding and treating the disease.) This historic paper was a comparative study, which tries to find out what causes a disease by looking at a group of people who have the disease and figuring out how they are different from another group that does not have the disease. Lane-Clayton's study looked at 1000 people who all had the same background and lifestyle (or way of living): 500 people with breast cancer and 500 control patients (people without breast cancer). These people were the same in many ways, but some got breast cancer and some did not. To figure out what might be causing certain people to get breast cancer, the study looked at what was different about these people when they were compared to (or looked at alongside) the people who did not get cancer.
Lane-Clayton's study was published by the British Ministry of Health. Her work on cancer epidemiology was continued by Richard Doll and Austin Bradford Hill. They used the same ways of studying cancer as Lane-Clayton, but they looked at a different kind of cancer: lung cancer. In 1956, they published their results in a paper called "Lung Cancer and Other Causes of Death In Relation to Smoking. A Second Report on the Mortality of British Doctors" (also called the British doctors study). Later, Richard Doll left the London Medical Research Center (MRC), and started the Oxford unit for Cancer epidemiology in 1968. By using computers, this unit was able to do something new and very important: it brought together large amounts of cancer data (pieces of information about cancer). This way of studying cancer is very important to cancer epidemiology today, and it has also been very important in shaping what we now know about cancer and what the rules and laws about the disease and public health are today. Over the past 50 years, many different people have done a lot of work to collect data from different doctors, hospitals, areas, states, and even countries. This data is used to study whether different kinds of cancer are more or less common in different areas, environments (for example, in big cities compared to the countryside), or cultures. This helps people who study cancer to figure out what makes people more or less likeky to get different kinds of cancer. 
Before World War II, doctors and hospitals were getting better at collecting (or getting and keeping) data about their patients who had cancer, but it was not very common for this data to be shared with other doctors or hospitals. This changed after WWII, when medical research centers found out that different countries had very different incidences of cancer - meaning that cancer was much more common in some countries than in others. Because of this, many countries created national public health organizations (which studied public health issues in an entire country). These national public health organizations began to bring together health data from many different doctors and hospitals. This helped them figure out some of the reasons why cancer was so much more common in certain places. For example, in Japan, people studying cancer found out that people who had survived the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki had bone marrow that was completely destroyed. This helped them realize that diseased bone marrow could also be destroyed with radiation, which was a very important step in figuring out that leukemia (a blood cancer) can be treated with bone marrow transplants. 
Since World War II, scientists have kept finding better cancer treatments. However, there are some things that still need to get better. For example, while there are good treatments for many kinds of cancer, there are still no treatments for certain kinds of cancer, or for some cancers once they progress (or get worse) to a certain stage of the disease. Also, the cancer treatments that do exist are not all standardized (there is not one agreed-upon way of giving every treatment which is used each time the treatment is given). Cancer treatments are also not available everywhere in the world. People need to keep studying cancer epidemiology and forming international partnerships (where different countries work together) to find cures and make cancer treatments available everywhere.

</doc>
<doc id="5007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5007" title="Photography">
Photography

Photography is a way of making a picture using a camera. A person who makes pictures using a camera is called a "photographer". A picture made using a camera is called a photograph or photo.
A "camera" is, in its simplest form, like a box with a hole in front of it. There is a special piece of glass in front of the hole called a lens. To take a photograph of something, the lens makes a small picture of the object inside the camera. The lens does this by focusing light. A lens in a camera works like a lens in glasses (spectacles) or a magnifying glass. One type of camera called the Pinhole camera has no lens but uses a very small hole to focus light.
To make a photograph with a camera the "shutter release" button is pressed. Pressing the button opens the "shutter". The shutter is like a door. It covers the hole in the camera box. The shutter is behind the lens. When the shutter is closed no light can enter the camera box. When the shutter is open light can enter the camera. When the button is pressed the shutter opens and then closes. This happens very fast. The amount of time the shutter stays open for is called the "shutter speed". The shutter speed can change between 1/1000th of a second (0.001 s) to a few seconds. Normally the time taken for the shutter to open and close is far less than 1 second. 
Some cameras have an "aperture ring". It controls how much light enters the camera box.
The photograph in a camera may be made on film or, if it is a digital camera, using an electronic sensor.
The picture the lens makes is recorded on photographic film. Film is placed inside the camera box. Light coming through the lens, aperture and open shutter shines on the film. Photographic film is coated with chemicals that react when light shines on it. Letting light shine on the film is called "exposing" the film. 
There are many different types of photographic film. There are films for taking colour photographs and films for taking black and white photographs. There are different sizes of film. The most common size is "35 mm". It is called 35 mm because the width of the film is 35 millimetres. Most cameras use 35 mm film.
Another difference between films is how sensitive they are to light. Films have a code number, called an "ISO number". The ISO number tells how fast a film reacts when light shines on it. Examples of ISO numbers are ISO 50, ISO 100, IS0 200, ISO 400, ISO 800, and ISO 1600. The ISO number is sometimes called the "ASA number" or the "film speed". When the ISO number is low, for example ISO 50, the film takes a long time to record the picture. This is called a slow film. This means the shutter has to stay open for a long time. When the ISO number is high, for example ISO 800, the picture is made in a very short time. This is a fast film. This means the shutter has to open and close quickly.
Once the film has been exposed it is "processed". Processing has to be done in total darkness or the film will be exposed too much and the picture will be lost. Processing stops the film reacting to light any more. After the film has been processed the picture can be seen on the film. 
A photographic "print" is a photograph made on paper. A light sensitive paper is used. The picture on the film is placed in an "enlarger". An enlarger is a machine that shines light through the film and makes a bigger picture on the light sensitive paper. A chemical reaction happens in the paper, which turns the areas hit with light black when the paper is 'developed'. (The more light, the darker the area.) "Developing" makes the picture appear on the paper – now it is a photograph. Then the paper is put into other chemicals that make it not sensitive to light any more. This is called "fixing". Last, the paper is washed so that there are no more chemicals on it and then dried. Then it is finished.
Digital photography uses a digital camera. Sometimes it is called "digital imaging". Like other cameras a digital camera has a lens, aperture, and shutter. The picture the lens makes is recorded by a light-sensitive electronic sensor. A digital camera does not use photographic film to record a picture. Digital photographs are stored in storage devices such as SD cards. They can later be transferred to a computer. Paper prints can also be made from digital pictures. Digital cameras are also not expensive to use, as there is no film to buy.
One of the most important things when taking a photograph is focusing the lens. If the lens is not focused well, the photograph will be blurry. Autofocus cameras focus automatically when the shutter release is pressed. There are also "manual" focus cameras (usually older ones).
Three other things are important when taking a photograph. These control how bright or dark the photograph will be. 
A slower shutter speed, a bigger aperture, and faster film/higher ISO sensor all make a brighter picture. A faster shutter speed, a smaller aperture, and a slower film/lower ISO sensor all make a darker picture. A good picture is not too bright and not too dark. When it is too bright it would s called "overexposed"". An automatic camera changes these things by itself when the shutter release is pressed.

</doc>
<doc id="5008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5008" title="Acronym">
Acronym

An acronym is a word whose letters are the first letters of other words. People often create a short acronym that means the same thing as a much longer phrase (set of words). This is faster and shorter to say then the long phrase. 
Examples of acronyms are:
An acronym usually must be able to be spoken as word. Other abbreviations such as USA, ECU, FBI, NBA, and NRA have combinations of letters that are not pronounced as a single word. People just say the letters, one after another. These are sometimes called acronyms, but are more often called initialisms.
The word "acronym" comes from the Greek acro ‘extreme’ and onymus ‘name’.
The world's longest acronym, according to the "Guinness Book of World Records" is NIIOMTPLABOPARMBETZHELBETRABSBOMONIMONKONOTDTEKHSTROMONT (). It is 56 letters long (54 in Cyrillic). It is from the "Concise Dictionary of Soviet Terminology" and means "the Laboratory for Shuttering, Reinforcement, Concrete and Ferroconcrete Operations for Composite-monolithic and Monolithic Constructions of the Department of Technology of Building Assembly Operations of the Scientific Research Institute of the Organization for Building Mechanization and Technical Aid of the Academy of Building and Architecture of the USSR."

</doc>
<doc id="5009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5009" title="Radio wave">
Radio wave

Radio waves make up part of the electromagnetic spectrum. These waves are packets of energy with differing wavelengths, similar to visible light waves, X-rays or gamma rays, except longer.
A radio wave, like other electromagnetic waves, is similar to an ocean wave or any other type of wave. Both types of wave have a hill and valley shape, repeating over and over. A wavelength is measured as the distance from the top of one crest to the top of its neighboring crest. While the wavelength of visible light is very very small, less than one micrometer and much less than the thickness of a human hair, radio waves can have a wavelength from a couple centimeters to several meters. They also have a radio frequency.
The smallest radio waves are called microwaves. Shortwaves are not quite so small. There are also medium and long waves. Antennas designed to send and receive radio waves are usually similar in size to the wavelength they are to use. Many radio antennas (like those on cars) are made long because they receive signals of FM radio (a few meters, several feet) or AM radio (hundreds of meters, about a thousand feet). 
Manmade radio waves have been used for a long time for communication, and to 'see' objects. Radar uses radio waves to 'see' distant objects by bouncing waves off an object and seeing how long it takes for the waves to return. Radar can even be used to find oil or see what chemicals are in soil. Radios also use these waves to send and receive information.
Natural radio waves were first discovered in the 1930s by Karl Guthe Jansky, working for Bell Laboratories. Before his discovery, everyone thought only people could generate radio waves. Bell was detecting static on radio channels, and had Jansky try to figure out where this static, or interference was coming from. Surprisingly, the interference was coming from space! This discovery eventually led astronomers to look at radio waves along with light waves to find things in the sky. These radio astronomers use giant Radio telescopes, shaped like satellite dishes, to gather and study the waves.
Radio waves are used for many things today. Broadcasting and communications satellites and mobile phones and many computers communicate by radio waves. 

</doc>
<doc id="5010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5010" title="Bridge">
Bridge

A bridge is a structure to cross an open space or gap. Bridges are mostly useful for crossing rivers, valleys, or roads by vehicles but people have also used bridges for a long time for walking. Bridges called highway overpasses are used to avoid traffic control.
Bridges also have uses in the military. Military bridges have to be portable, so that they may be easily moved to the front lines, and so they are much more complex than regular civilian bridges.
The first man-made bridges were probably made from cut wood or stones.
There are five major structural types of bridges: 

</doc>
<doc id="5011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5011" title="Mysticism">
Mysticism

Mysticism is the belief that people can "directly" experience God or true reality, rather than through books, ritual or other people. People who practice this are called "mystics".
Mystics exist within most religions, though not all people who practice religions are mystics. Mystics may experience visions or dreams, or hear God as a voice.
Some examples of Hindu mystics:
Some examples of Christian mystics:
Islamic Mysticism is known as "Tassawuf" (or Sufism) and a detailed list of Muslim Sufi mystics is given on the Sufism page.
Some examples of Jewish mystics:
Some examples of Buddhist mystics:

</doc>
<doc id="5012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5012" title="Ontario">
Ontario

Ontario is a province of Canada. It is in the eastern half of Canada, between Manitoba and Quebec. Ontario has the most people of any province, with 13,150,000 in 2009, and is home to the biggest city in Canada, Toronto, which is also the capital of the province. In the eastern part of the province, near the border with Quebec, is Ottawa, the capital of Canada, located on the Ottawa River.
Ontario also has the second largest land area, with 1,076,395 km²; only Quebec is larger by size. (Nunavut and Northwest Territories are also larger, but are called "territories" and not "provinces"). The province has one of the longest borders with the United States and there are several border crossings including the one at Niagara Falls. Along this border are 4 large lakes called Lake Ontario, Lake Erie, Lake Huron, and Lake Superior. They each are partly in Ontario and partly in the United States, and the border runs through them, but not Lake Michigan, which is entirely in the United States. These five lakes are together are called the Great Lakes.
Ontario became part of Canada when it was created in 1867. Before 1840, it was known as Upper Canada, which was a colony in the British Empire. Between 1840 and 1867 it was known as Canada West. The government of Ontario sits at Queen's Park in Toronto. The leader of the government is called the "Premier", and the current Premier is Kathleen Wynne. There is also a Lieutenant Governor who represents the Queen, and the current Lieutenant Governor is Elizabeth Dowdeswell.
Ontario is very big, so sometimes people break it into two. The two parts are called Northern Ontario and Southern Ontario. Most of the people in Ontario live in the south, and that is where the big cities are. The big cities in Southern Ontario are Toronto and the rest of the Greater Toronto Area, Ottawa and the National Capital Region, Hamilton, London, Windsor, and Sarnia. The cities in the north are smaller. In the far north of Ontario hardly any people live at all, and there are no roads or railways making it difficult to even get to those places.
Much of Ontario gets lots of snow in the winter. In the summer, it can get very hot in the south parts. In some big cities, there is smog in the summer.
There are a number of symbols that represent the province of Ontario. The flag is red with the British Union Jack in the top left corner and the provincial shield is on the right hand side of the flag. The provincial bird is the loon, and the provincial flower is the trillium. It has three flower petals and it is usually white but some times is pink or purple.

</doc>
<doc id="5013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5013" title="Manitoba">
Manitoba

Manitoba is a province of Canada. It lies roughly in the centre of Canada.
Manitoba is the 6th largest province with 647,797 km² area. It has the fifth largest number of people, with 1,150,000 in 2001. People from Manitoba are called "Manitobans".
The capital of Manitoba is the City of Winnipeg. Other big cities in Manitoba include Steinbach and Brandon.
The people of Manitoba elected a legislature. The leader of the government, who is called the "Premier", is the leader of the largest party in the legislature. There is also a Lieutenant Governor, who represents the Queen. Right now, the premier of Manitoba is Greg Selinger and the Lieutenant Governor is Philip S. Lee.
The main political parties in Manitoba are the New Democratic Party, the Progressive Conservative Party of Manitoba, and the Liberal Party.
People have been living in Manitoba for thousands of years. Both the Hudson's Bay Company from England and many people from France moved to Manitoba during the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries. It became part of the Northwest Territories in 1869. The Red River Rebellion, which was started by Louis Riel, began in Manitoba.
Manitoba became part of Canada on 12 May 1870. It included only the southern part which is nearest to the United States. But parts of the Northwest Territories were added to Manitoba later on. 

</doc>
<doc id="5014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5014" title="Head of government">
Head of government

The head of government of a country is the person who runs it. This is not always the same person as the head of state. Official titles for heads of government include Premier or Prime Minister.
For example, in the United States, the president is both the head of state and the head of government. In the Republic of Ireland the president is the head of state but the Taoiseach is the head of government. In most modern monarchies the king (or queen) is the head of state but not the head of government.
The head of state of some countries has no power over law and justice, for example, the Bundespresident of Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="5017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5017" title="Saskatchewan">
Saskatchewan

Saskatchewan is a province of Canada. About 1 million people live in Saskatchewan. Most of its population lives in the southern part of the province. The primary industry in Saskatchewan is agriculture (farming).
Saskatchewan is known for its wide horizons. The land is very flat in the south, so you can sometimes see far away. Not all the land is flat prairie. There are beautiful scenic woodlands and forests in the central and northern regions and parklands with lakes for fishing. The province is marked by the North and South Saskatchewan rivers that run through it. The province is nicknamed "The Land of Living Skies". 
The largest city in Saskatchewan is Saskatoon, followed by the province's capital, Regina. Saskatchewan is (approximately) a quadrilateral (four-sided object) bounded on the west by Alberta, on the north by the Northwest Territories, on the east by Manitoba, and on the south by the American states of Montana and North Dakota. 
Saskatchewan was founded on September 1, 1905, the same date that Alberta was founded. The province's colors are gold, red, green, white, brown, yellow, and black. Gold for the wheat, red for the Prairie Lily which is the provincial flower, green for the forests, white for the snow, brown for the fresh cut fields, yellow for the canola and sunflowers, and black for the coal and oil.

</doc>
<doc id="5022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5022" title="Classical music">
Classical music

Classical music is a very general term which normally refers to the standard music of countries in the Western world. It is music that has been composed by musicians who are trained in the art of writing music (composing) and written down in music notation so that other musicians can play it. Classical music may also be described as "art music" though it was not good in classical period that term also includes types of serious modern music which are not classical. Classical music differs from pop music because it is not made just in order to be popular for a short time or just to be a commercial success. It is different from folk music which is generally made up by ordinary members of society and learned by future generations by listening, dancing and copying.
The word “classic” tends to mean: an art which is so good that it will always be enjoyed by future generations. It is something that has become a model for future artists. The period of Ancient Greece and Rome is known as the Classical Period because, many centuries later, people looked back to those ancient civilizations and thought they were perfect. In recent European history the 18th century was known as the Classical Period because musicians, artists, writers and philosophers were inspired by the art forms of the Classical Period of Ancient Greece and Rome. Something that is a “classic” is therefore something that will always be remembered as something great. Famous books such as the novels of Charles Dickens are called "classics". “Classical music” therefore tends to mean music that will not be forgotten soon after it is written, but is likely to be enjoyed by many future generations.
Although people sometimes think of classical music as the opposite of pop music, it can still be very popular. Like all kinds of music, classical music can be in many different moods: happy, sad, scary, peaceful, thoughtful, simple etc. Mozart wrote his serenades and divertimentos to entertain people at parties. Classical pieces of music can be quite short, but they can also be very long, like a big, musical story. A symphony by Mahler or Shostakovich can last for nearly an hour, and an opera is a whole evening’s entertainment.
Classical music is also different from jazz because true jazz is improvised. However, the differences are not always obvious. Classical music has often been inspired by jazz, and jazz by classical music. George Gershwin wrote music which is both jazz and classical. Classical music, too, can be improvised. The great composers Bach, Mozart and Beethoven often improvised long pieces of music on the organ, harpsichord or piano. Sometimes they wrote these improvisations down. They were, in effect, compositions which were composed in one go.
In Western countries a vast amount of music was written for Christian worship in churches and cathedrals. This is called “sacred” (religious) music. All other music is “secular” music. The word “secular” means things that are not sacred. Sacred and secular music have influenced one another in many ways during the course of music history. Secular music was largely influenced by dance, and this in turn changed the style of sacred music. For example: the church music of the 16th century composer Giovanni da Palestrina has nothing to do with dance music, but both the sacred and secular music of Johann Sebastian Bach two centuries later is full of dance rhythms. At some times in music history there have been different styles of composing for sacred and for secular music. Claudio Monteverdi uses two different styles for his church and for his non-church music. When composers were experimenting with new ways of writing music they usually did this with secular music, and sacred music caught up later.
The term "classical music" was not used until the early 19th century. People then started talking about classical music in order to praise the great composers such as Bach, Mozart and Beethoven. In the 20th century many different ways of composing were used, including music played by electronic instruments or very modern music using strange sounds (experimental or "avant garde" music), for example the music of John Cage. Some people feel that this kind of music cannot really be described as "classical music".
Classical music can be for instruments or for the voice. The symphony orchestra is the most common group of instruments for the playing of classical music. It has four families of instruments: the string instruments which include the violins, violas, cellos and piano, the woodwind instruments which include flutes, oboes,clarinets and bassoons together with related instruments of different sizes, the brass instruments: trumpet, trombone, tuba and French horn, and percussion instruments which nearly always includes timpani as well as many other possible instruments which are hit or shaken. This is very different from a typical rock band which has a drummer, a guitarist, one or two singers and an electric bass and keyboard. Instruments that play classical music are not normally amplified electronically.
The same applies to the voice. Singers may be sopranos, altos, tenors or basses, depending on their vocal range. Their voices are not amplified. Opera singers, in particular, have to develop very powerful voices which will be heard over the orchestra and project right to the back of an opera house.
The instruments used in classical music developed at different times. Some of the earliest were known in Medieval music. The trombone and the triangle have hardly changed for hundreds of years, but the violin family developed from folk instruments such as fiddles and gradually replaced the viols to form the basis of the modern orchestra. This was happening by the beginning of the 17th century, which was the time when opera was invented.
In general, musical instruments have become louder as concert halls have become bigger. Violins are louder than viols. Modern violins are louder than the early 17th century violins, largely because of they have metal strings instead of gut strings. The piano developed from the clavichord which was very quiet indeed. Woodwind instruments developed from Renaissance instruments, while the clarinet was invented in the middle of the 18th century, and the saxophone and tuba came even later. Modern trumpets sound much brighter than the straight trumpets of the 18th century.
Most popular music is based on song form, but classical music has many different forms, some of which can be used over a long time span to make big compositions. Classical music can have many forms, including the symphony, concerto, oratorio, opera, sonata, fugue or any combination of dance movements such as suites. In many of the longer compositions, short tunes are developed and changed during the course of the piece. Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony is a good example of a piece which develops from just four notes into a large piece lasting about half an hour.
People who want to be good at performing classical music have to practice hard for many years. They normally have formal training at a music college or conservatoire and have lessons from well-known music teachers.
Classical musicians often spend a lot of time thinking carefully about pieces of music, especially about pieces of music that they perform. They study such things as harmony and counterpoint to help them understand the way that the composers were thinking when they put the piece together. When they look at pieces of music in this way this is called “musical analysis”. People who specialize in thinking and writing about music may become professors or lecturers of music at universities.
Classical music is often heard in popular culture. It is used as background music for movies, television programs, advertisements and even for mobile phone ringing tones. Most people in the Western world recognize many classical tunes, possibly without even realizing it. Some classical pieces of music have become enormously popular, e.g. the song "Nessun dorma" from Giacomo Puccini's opera "Turandot" which was sung by the three tenors Luciano Pavarotti, Placido Domingo and José Carreras, and used as the theme tune for the 1990 Soccer World Cup. This made many people who had never been interested in opera start to become curious about it.
The history of classical music really started in the late Middle Ages. Music written for the church was almost always vocal (singing), because instruments were thought to be wicked. This is because the devil played them, and because they were used for dancing. There was a lot of dance music, but most of it is lost because it was never written down.
Medieval composers who are remembered today include Léonin, Pérotin and Guillaume de Machaut
The Renaissance was from the 15th century until the 17th century. This period saw a massive increase in the composition of music, both sacred and secular. Many great cathedrals had been built in Europe and composers wrote music for them, mostly vocal music. Secular music also became extremely popular, especially songs and madrigals, which would sometimes be accompanied by instruments.
The greatest composers of this period include: Giovanni da Palestrina, Orlando di Lasso, Thomas Tallis and William Byrd.
The Baroque period was from about the 17th century until the mid-18th century. This was the time when the modern orchestra was formed, more or less as we know it. It was also the time when opera was invented. Most musicians worked either for the church or for rich people who had their own orchestras. Many of them also started to work for opera houses.
The greatest composers of this time include: Claudio Monteverdi, Heinrich Schütz, Henry Purcell, Antonio Vivaldi, George Frideric Handel, Johann Sebastian Bach, Domenico Scarlatti and Georg Philipp Telemann
The mid-18th century until around 1820 was known as the Classical period. Composers thought a lot about the forms of their pieces and were influenced by the classical art of the Ancient Greeks and Romans. The symphony was invented and various forms of chamber music including the string quartet.
The greatest composers include: Joseph Haydn, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and Ludwig van Beethoven
From 1820 to 1910 was known as the Romantic period. Composers continued to use the forms that had been invented in the 18th century, but they also thought that personal feeling and emotion were very important. Music for orchestra sometimes told a story (programme music). Musicians who played their instruments brilliantly (such as Paganini) were worshipped like heroes. Beethoven and Schubert belong, in many ways, to this period as well as to the Classical period. It was a time when there were a lot of changes in society. After the wars that Napoleon had waged, there were not so many ruling aristocratic families. There was a lot of feeling of nationalism as countries united. 19th century music is often nationalistic: composers wrote music that was typical of their own country.
Some of the greatest composers include: Ludwig van Beethoven, Franz Schubert, Hector Berlioz, Frédéric Chopin, Robert Schumann, Felix Mendelssohn, Anton Bruckner, Johannes Brahms, Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, Edward Elgar, Gustav Mahler and Richard Strauss.
What is known as 20th century classical music (or “modern music”) is music from about 1910 onwards. At this time many composers felt that everything had already been done by the composers of the past, so they wanted to find new ways of composing. Claude Debussy, Arnold Schoenberg and Igor Stravinsky, in particular, found new ways of writing music which was not necessarily tonal (in any particular key). Classical music was influenced by jazz, especially with American composers. Later in the century people such as Pierre Boulez and Karlheinz Stockhausen experimented in many other ways, including with electronic music (tape recorders etc.). Today’s composers have combined some of these ideas to develop their own styles.
Some of the most important composers are: Claude Debussy, Jean Sibelius, Maurice Ravel, Arnold Schoenberg, Igor Stravinsky, Béla Bartók, Aaron Copland, Benjamin Britten, Dmitri Shostakovich, Leonard Bernstein, Philip Glass, Dmitri Kabalevsky, James MacMillan, Judith Weir, Peter Maxwell Davies
It has never been possible to say exactly what is meant by “classical music”. Many different kinds of music influence one another. Since 1970 it has been even harder to make clear dividing lines between rock, pop, classical, folk, jazz and world music. This shows that classical music, like other kinds of music, continues to develop and reflect the society from which it comes.
The New Grove Dictionary of Music & Musicians, ed. Stanley Sadie; 1980; ISBN 1-56159-174-2

</doc>
<doc id="5026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5026" title="SNAFU">
SNAFU

SNAFU or snafu is an acronym that the United States Military first used. Civilians now use it as well. It stands for Situation Normal: All (Fucked/Fouled/Francis) Up.
In modern times, it means a situation that was occurring normally but then suddenly began to go wrong. For example:
"The general's visit this week-end went well until we hit a snafu. Everything went wrong after that."
Snafu is used mostly as a noun. It can also be used as a verb but usually in the passive sense. For instance, someone would say:
"The general's visit this week-end went well until it snafued. Everything went wrong after that."
But they would probably not say:
"The general's visit this week-end went well until we snafued it."

</doc>
<doc id="5031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5031" title="Atlanta">
Atlanta

Atlanta is the capital and largest city of the U.S. state of Georgia. It is one of the South's largest cities. Atlanta is known as a major business city. It is the home of Coca-Cola Company, CNN, AT&T, and Home Depot, as well as many other Fortune 500 companies. Coca-Cola, which is made in Atlanta, is drunk all over the world and its factory is a favorite tourist destination. CNN is also a big tourist attraction. Atlanta's airport, called Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport, is the busiest airport in the world. Atlanta is near the center of Georgia and is on the Chattahoochee River.
Atlanta was built on Cherokee Native American land. It was called Terminus until 1843, when the name was changed to Marthasville. In 1845 the name was changed again to Atlanta.
During the American Civil War, Atlanta was where several battles happened. Some of the battles were the Battle of Peachtree Creek, the Battle of Atlanta, and the Battle of Ezra Church. The city was burnt down and almost entirely destroyed. After the war, the city was built again, and got a nickname because it was built so fast: "the Phoenix City", after the bird which burns itself then rises from the ashes in old myths. A picture of the bird is on the city seal.
Atlanta became the state capital in 1868.
There have been racial problems in Atlanta. During riots in 1906, at least 12 people died and more than 70 other people were hurt. In 1913, a Jewish man named Leo Frank was tried in court for raping and killing a girl in a factory where he worked. He was found guilty, but then the government decided not to execute him because not everyone was convinced he had done it. This upset people who thought he had killed the girl, and there were more riots in 1915 and Frank was lynched (hanged with a rope until he died).
In the 1930s, the Great Depression came to Atlanta. Many people did not have jobs and were hungry. The city government was almost out of money and the Coca-Cola company gave the city some money to help. In 1935, the government built the first federal housing project in the United States.
Atlanta's airport is named Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. It is the busiest airport in the world. Delta Air Lines is an airline that has its main office in Atlanta, and it uses Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport for many of its flights.
Turner Broadcasting, which broadcasts CNN, has their main office in Atlanta. The Coca Cola Company also has their main office in Atlanta.
Atlanta's public school system has about 100 schools and 48,000 students. It tests the academic performance of students. The job performance of teachers and administrators are based on the results of these tests. In 2009, 178 teachers and administrators seem to have cheated to raise their student's test scores. Of the 178, 82 admitted to cheating. As a result, several area superintendents and school principals lost their jobs. The school board hired Erroll Davis Jr., a retired energy executive, as an interim school superintendent in July 2011. The Atlanta cheating scandal is one of the biggest in the nation.

</doc>
<doc id="5032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5032" title="Niccolò Machiavelli">
Niccolò Machiavelli

Niccolò Machiavelli (Florence, Italy, 3 May 1469 – 21 June 1527) was a Florentine official at the time of the Medicis.
He was a diplomat, political philosopher, playwright, and a civil servant of the Florentine Republic. He also wrote comedies, carnival songs, poetry, and some of the best-known personal correspondence in the Italian language.
Machiavelli is known today as the author of "The Prince". This book has influenced politics.
In his best known book, "The Prince", he describes the way that a Prince (by which Machiavelli means a ruler) can control the people he rules. He looks especially at what he calls the "new prince", saying that a prince from a royal family has an easier job because the people are used to his family and the way of life. All that such a hereditary prince needs to do is carefully stick to the traditional ways of working that the people are used to. A new prince has a much more difficult job because he must get people used to his new power and build up new ways of working that people can get used to. This job means that the new prince has to act in a way people would not quickly criticize, but Machiavelli says this may mean doing bad but necessary things which people do not see or remember. Otherwise a new prince will find it difficult to get anything important done, or even to keep ruling.

</doc>
<doc id="5033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5033" title="Supply line">
Supply line

A supply line is a large line of military supply vehicles, usually in convoy format. The line is useful for transporting needed supplies (food, medical supplies, ammo) to the front line. Without the supply line, a deployed army far from home would not be able to fight for long, as supplies would soon run out. 
The enemy is most likely to target the supply line if not heavily ed, since once the supplies are cut off, the army will soon be unable to fight, and unable to reinforce, and so they will be forced to surrender or die. 

</doc>
<doc id="5034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5034" title="Michigan">
Michigan

Michigan is the 11th largest state in the United States. It is made up of two peninsulas (connected by the Mackinac Bridge). It borders the U.S. states of Wisconsin, Indiana, Ohio, Minnesota, and Illinois. Its borders with Minnesota and Illinois are only by water. It also borders Canada by water. It was the 26th state to join the union on January 26, 1837. In 1847, Michigan became the first U.S. state to abolish the death penalty.
Michigan is noted as the place where many automobiles were made, and it still shows today. Michigan is 50% forest, which makes it very useful to the lumber industry. It also borders four of the Great Lakes, which are some of the largest reservoirs of fresh water in the world. Lake Superior is the largest body of freshwater in the world.
The state experiences four seasons, with the winter being predominant and severe in the north, while the south has more mild, equally long seasons. The northern areas are very popular for skiing in the winter. The National Ski Hall of Fame can be found in Ishpeming in the Upper Peninsula. It is surrounded by four of the five great lakes. It is also home to the largest mosque in North America, the Islamic Center of America in Dearborn.
Due to the large amount of water surrounding the state, boating is very popular in the warmer months. There are more private boats registered in Michigan than in any other state.
Many famous people have come from Michigan. They include the singer Madonna, the comedian Andy Richter, singer Stevie Wonder, Anthony Kiedis, former president Gerald Ford, singer Kid Rock, rapper Eminem, the former Reverend Jim Bakker, basketball legend Magic Johnson, Diana Ross, and Aretha Franklin. Also it was the home of Henry Ford, the founder of Ford Motor Company.
The capital city of Michigan is Lansing, and large cities include Detroit, Ann Arbor, Flint, Grand Rapids, and Saginaw. Marquette is the largest city in the Upper Peninsula.
Michigan has several state universities including the University of Michigan, Michigan State University, Grand Valley State University and Western Michigan University. The state also has many private colleges.
The current governor is Rick Snyder, a Republican who took office in January 2011, and its two national senators are Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters, both Democrats.

</doc>
<doc id="5059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5059" title="Caenorhabditis elegans">
Caenorhabditis elegans

Caenorhabditis elegans is a species of roundworm or nematode. It is important because much research has been done on its genetics and development.
"C. elegans" is about 1 mm long. The worms are not parasites, they are free-living. They live in soil and feed on bacteria. "C. elegans" is a model organism, used to study animal development and behavior. It is the first multicellular organism for which scientists have been able to sequence its whole genome.
"C. elegans" has two types of sex: hermaphrodite and male. A hermaphrodite makes sperms when its in a larval stage and makes ova in an adult stage. A male can only make sperm. Males are a little smaller than hermaphrodites.
Study using "C. elegans" was begun in 1965 by Sydney Brenner. In laboratories, they are easy to keep alive. At 25ºC, they spend 14 hours as an embryo. Animals like "C. elegans" that do not take long to grow and are easy to feed are usually good organisms for research.
In 2002, the Nobel Prize for Medicine was awarded to Sydney Brenner, Robert Horvitz, and John Sulston for their work on how "C. elegans's" genes cause it to grow and cause some of its cells to die.

</doc>
<doc id="5060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5060" title="Saxe-Weimar">
Saxe-Weimar

Saxe-Weimar () was a duchy in Thuringia, Germany. The chief town and capital was Weimar.
Saxe-Weimar and Saxe-Gotha were the two original Ernestine Duchies. They both gradually shrank in size as land in Thuringia was divided among sons..
In 1741 Duke Ernest Augustus I of Saxe-Weimar inheritated the Duchy of Saxe-Eisenach. Ernest Augustus II, who succeeded in 1748, died in 1758, and his young widow, Anna Amalia, became regent for her infant son, Charles Augustus. The regency of Anna Amalia and the reign of Charles Augustus were important in the history of Saxe-Weimar. Both intelligent patrons of literature and art, Anna Amalia and Charles Augustus attracted to their court the leading scholars in Germany, including Goethe, Schiller and Herder, and made Weimar an important cultural centre.
Charles Augustus joined Prussia in the wars against France. After France won the Battle of Jena, Saxe Weimar was forced to join the Confederation of the Rhine in 1806. In 1809 Saxe-Weimar and Saxe-Eisenach, which had been separate duchies with the same duke became one country as the Duchy of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach.
Merged with Saxe-Eisenach to form Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach

</doc>
<doc id="5064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5064" title="Oldham">
Oldham

Oldham is a town in the North West of England. It is to the north-east of Manchester. It is part of Greater Manchester. Oldham was part of Lancashire until 1 April 1974.
There were riots in Oldham in May 2001. It is the centre of the Borough of Oldham. 
Oldham Council achieved dubious notoriety in 2009 when in ran up a bill of £8 million carrying out a failed prosecution of kitchen tycoon Vance Miller. The Judge threw out the case and lambasted the Council for the frivolity of the prosecution.
The town has an association football team, called Oldham Athletic. It also has a cricket club, called Oldham Cricket Club.
The composer, William Walton was born in Oldham.
The first test tube baby, Louise Joy Brown, was born in Oldham General Hospital on 25 July 1978.

</doc>
<doc id="5066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5066" title="Category:Sports">
Category:Sports


</doc>
<doc id="5067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5067" title="Category:Athletics">
Category:Athletics


</doc>
<doc id="5071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5071" title="Pakistan">
Pakistan

Pakistan is a country in southern Asia. It is next to India, Iran, Afghanistan, and China. It is officially called the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. It has a long coastline along the Arabian Sea in the south. Pakistan has the sixth largest population in the world. Pakistan has a total land area of (including the Pakistani-administered territories of Azad Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan). This makes Pakistan the 34th largest country in the world. Pakistan has the seventh largest army in the world. The capital of Pakistan is Islamabad.
The name Pākistān means "Land of the Pure" in Persian and Urdu.
The name "Pakistan" ( or ;  ) means "Land of (the) Spiritually Pure" in both Urdu and Persian languages. Many South-central Asian states and regions end with the element -"stan," such as "Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "Baluchistan", "Kurdistan", and "Turkistan." This -"stan" is formed from the Iranian root *STA "to stand, stay," and means "place (where one stays), home, country".
Pakistan has a federal parliamentary system. The head of state is an indirectly-elected President. The president is also the Commander in Chief of the Joint Armed Forces. The head of government is the Prime Minister, who is also indirectly elected.
The President's appointment and term are constitutionally independent of the Prime Minister’s term. The Electoral college of the country, (composed of the Senate, the National Assembly, and the four Provincial Assemblies) chooses a leadership representing the President of Pakistan for a five-year term. The Prime Minister is usually the leader of the largest party in the National Assembly and is assisted by a cabinet of ministers drawn from both chambers of the federal legislature. 
Pakistan is officially a federal republic, but during a long period in its history it changed to a democratic state and a military dictatorship. Military dictators include Ayub Khan in the 1960s, General Zia-ul-Haq in the 1980s.
Pakistan's two largest political parties are the Pakistan Peoples Party and the government party Muslim League (Pakistan)(Q) (which have military support). The Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf has also gained prominence in the past years.
On 27 December 2007, the leader of the Pakistan Peoples Party, Benazir Bhutto, was assassinated. The reason is yet to be determined.
Pakistan is made up of four provinces, two territories and two special areas. Both special areas are in Kashmir. The provinces and territories were divided into 26 divisions with now 147 districts directly divided from the provinces. Each district is divided into several tehsils and each tehsil is divided into several union councils. There are around 596 tehsils and over 6,000 union councils of Pakistan.
Provinces:
Among the four provinces, Punjab has the most people but Balochistan is the largest province by area.
Territories:
Administrative Areas (Pakistan-administered Kashmir)
India, Pakistan and China separately control parts of the Kashmir region. India and Pakistan's parts are divided by a Line of Control. The Pakistan–China border is internationally known. Trade is common between the 2 countries.
Pakistan has a semi-industrialized economy. The growth poles of the Pakistani economy are situated along the Indus River. Diversified economies of Karachi and Punjab's urban centres, coexist with lesser developed areas in other parts of the country. Despite being a very poor country in 1947, Pakistan's economic growth rate has been better than the global average during the subsequent four decades, but imprudent policies led to a slowdown in the late 1990s.
Recently, wide-ranging economic reforms have resulted in a stronger economic outlook and accelerated growth especially in the manufacturing and financial services sectors. Since the 1990s, there has been great improvement in the foreign exchange market position and rapid growth in hard currency reserves.
The 2005 estimate of foreign debt was close to US$40 billion. However, this decreased with help from the International Monetary Fund and significant debt-relief from the United States. Pakistan's gross domestic product, as measured by purchasing power parity, is estimated to be $475.4 billion while its per capita income stands at $2,942. The poverty rate in Pakistan is estimated to be between 23% and 28%.
Pakistan became independent in 1946 from the Indian empire of British Raj. The first people in ancient Pakistan lived 9000 years ago. These people were the ones who made up the Indus Valley Civilization, which is one of the oldest civilizations on Earth. After that, the Vedic period came. This also included parts of north-western India. Until 1971, Pakistan also included an area in the North-east India region. This is now called Bangladesh. It lost that area after a war with the Indian Army and the joint militant group of Indo-Bangladeshi alliance of Mitro Bahini of West Bengal. During recent times Pakistan has been in the centre of world politics. This is first because of its support to guerillas in Afghanistan, following Soviet invasion 1979, and later during the 1990s because of its cooperation with and support for the Taliban regime in Afghanistan. However, since 2000 Pakistan has basically supported the West in their war against fundamentalist terrorism, including the removal of the Taliban regime in Afghanistan.
Pakistan is a member of the Commonwealth. However, after the war in East Pakistan the country was excluded (between 1972-1989). It was also a member between 1999 and 2007, it was excluded in 2007 for a time but again became a member in 2008.
There are many earthquakes in the area. The earthquake in 2005 with its earthquake center in Kashmir is the strongest so far. Over 100,000 people were killed or wounded on October 8, 2005.
Pakistan covers , approximately equalling the combined land areas of France and the United Kingdom. Its eastern regions are located on the Indian plate and the western and northern regions on the Iranian plateau and Eurasian landplate. Apart from the Arabian Sea coastline, Pakistan's land borders total — with Afghanistan to the northwest, with China to the northeast, with India to the south and east, and with Iran to the southwest.
The northern and western highlands of Pakistan contain the towering Karakoram and Pamir mountain ranges, which incorporate some of the world's highest peaks, including K2 and Nanga Parbat . The Balochistan Plateau lies to the west, and the Thar Desert and an expanse of alluvial plains, the Punjab and Sindh, lie to the east. The Indus River and its tributaries flow through the country from the disputed territory of Occupied Kashmir to the Arabian Sea.
Pakistan has four seasons: a cool, dry winter from December through February; a hot, dry spring from March through May; the summer rainy season, or southwest monsoon period, from June through September; and the retreating monsoon period of October and November. The beginning and length of these seasons vary somewhat according to location. Rainfall can vary radically from year to year, and successive patterns of flooding and drought are also not uncommon.
Urdu is replacing English as the national language of the country. English is still spoken among the Pakistani elite and in most government ministries. Many people also speak Saraiki, Punjabi, Hindko, Pushto, Sindhi , Balochi, Brahui and Khowar. 
Shina is also one of the regional languages of Pakistan. It is spoken in Gilgit-Baltistan.
Most (97%) of the people are Muslim. Most of the Muslims in Pakistan are Sunni Muslims (>75%) and Shia Muslims (20%). However a few minority groups exist. Pakistan also has some Christian, Hindu, Sikh, Zoroastrians and animist minority groups in the northern parts of the country.
After the separation from British India, Hinduism had much less importance in the newly created state of Pakistan, but has played an important role in its culture and politics as well as the history of its regions. In fact, Pakistan has the 5th largest population of Hindus, after Sri Lanka.
The word "Hindu" comes from the Sindhu (Indus River) of Pakistan. The Sindhu is one of the holy rivers of Hinduism. Thus, in many ways, the land which is today's heavily Muslim Pakistan has played an important part in the origin of Hinduism. There are about 3 million Hindus living in Pakistan.
Poverty in Pakistan is a growing concern. Although the middle-class has grown in Pakistan, nearly one-quarter of the population is classified poor as of October 2006.
The national sport of Pakistan is field hockey, although cricket is the most popular game across the country. The national cricket team has won the Cricket World Cup once (in 1992), were runners-up once (in 1999), and co-hosted the games twice (in 1987 and 1996). Pakistan were runners-up in the inaugural 2007 ICC World Twenty20 held in South Africa and were the champions at the 2009 ICC World Twenty20 held in England. Lately however, Pakistani cricket has suffered heavily due to teams refusing to tour Pakistan because of terrorism fears. No teams have toured Pakistan since March 2009, when militants attacked the touring Sri Lankan cricket players.
In addition to sports like field hockey, cricket, squash rackets, soccer and others, Pakistanis are also very keen on equestrianism of various types,and equestrian sports such as Polo and the traditional Tent pegging are played by many. Other traditional rural sports include two types of Wrestling, Kabbadi and a martial art called Gatka.

</doc>
<doc id="5072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5072" title="New Zealand">
New Zealand

New Zealand (Aotearoa) is an Oceanian country in the South-western Pacific Ocean. It is made up of two large islands (the North Island and the South Island) and many much smaller islands. In 2010, it was ranked as the 8th happiest country in the world.
The official languages are English, Māori and New Zealand sign language.
The name "New Zealand" comes from “Zeeland” in Dutch. Zeeland is a province of the Netherlands.
New Zealand is called “Aotearoa” in the Māori language. It means "Land of the Long White Cloud". "Ao" means “cloud”, "tea" means “white”, and "roa" means “long”.
New Zealand is a constitutional monarchy and parliamentary democracy. The head of state is Queen Elizabeth II. The Prime Minister is Mr. Bill English.
New Zealand has made itself a "Nuclear Free Zone": They do not use nuclear power and do not allow nuclear weapons or nuclear powered vessels in their territory.
As of the 2006 census, 4,143,279 people lived in New Zealand. Most of them have European ancestors. The indigenous people of New Zealand, the Māori, had a population of 565,329, or 14.6%. 
The people of New Zealand call themselves Kiwis, representing their national native although flightless bird. 
The North Island is smaller than the South Island, but most people (more than 3 million) live there.
The main religion in New Zealand is Christianity. Just over 2 million New Zealanders are Christian.
Farming represents a large community in both the North and South Islands. Most New Zealanders, however, choose to live in more urban areas. Wellington is the capital of New Zealand. Auckland is the largest city, with around 1 million people.
Other cities in the North Island include Hamilton, Tauranga, Napier/Hastings, New Plymouth, Wanganui, and Palmerston North. South Island cities include Christchurch, Dunedin, Nelson, Invercargill and Timaru.
New Zealand sits at the boundary between two continental plates. They are the Australian and Pacific plates. When these two plates moved together ('collided'), one (the Pacific) moved under the other (the Australian) north of the South Island. As a result, there was a great deal of volcanic activity. South of the South Island, the Australian plate moves under the Pacific plate instead. The plates slide past each other in the South Island, where they have pushed up the Southern Alps. Because of these two colliding plates, New Zealand often has earthquakes. One of the best known is the 2010-2011 group of earthquakes that hit the Christchurch area.
The diagram shows that the North Island is on the Australian plate, but most of the South Island is on the Pacific plate. New Zealand is still geologically active, and will remain so as long as the islands are sitting above the plate boundary.
The oldest rocks in New Zealand date from the Cambrian period, 510 million years ago. New Zealand became part of the global super continent Pangaea. When that split (End-Triassic/early Jurassic), New Zealand became part of the southern supercontinent Gondwana. Finally Gondwana broke up, leaving the continents rather as they are today. New Zealand (like Britain) is a remnant of these great events.
New Zealand was isolated from the rest of the world for a long time. It split from Australia 83 million years ago. Because of this, there are many plants and animals that only live in New Zealand. Before humans came to New Zealand, there were no mammals, except three species of bat and marine mammals such as seals, dolphins, and whales. Instead, New Zealand has many different kinds of bird. New Zealand has several species of flightless bird, including the kiwi. Especially important is the Tuatara, the only living member of a whole order of reptiles.
New Zealand used to have more rare species, but some, mostly birds, were hunted to extinction early in its history. The giant Moa, "Dinornis", is a famous example. The group of birds to which the Moa belongs had been in existence since the Cretaceous period. Humans arrived in New Zealand about a thousand years ago, when a large number of moas lived, especially on South Island. Archaeological sites with evidence of Moa hunting are all over New Zealand. The moas became extinct about five hundred years ago. Extinctions closer to today have been caused by habitat change and introduced species like rats and dogs, which can kill the native species.
New Zealand , is famous due to Sir Edmund Hillary, the first man set foot on Mount Everest. 

</doc>
<doc id="5073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5073" title="South Korea">
South Korea

South Korea is a country in the southern part of the Korean peninsula, in the north east region of Asia. The capital city is Seoul. The official name of South Korea is the Republic of Korea in English, 대한민국 (Daehanminguk) in Korean writing (Hangeul), and 大韓民國 in Chinese characters (Hanja). About half of the country's people live in its capital city, Seoul, or near the city in the metropolitan area. Korea's Seoul metropolitan area is one of the most populous metropolitan areas in the world. In fact, some sources say it is the second most populous after Tokyo, Japan.
South Korea's history began with Dangunwanggeom's Gojoseon. Gojoseon was conquered by Han China. After Gojoseon collapsed, there were a lot of countries such as Buyeo, Okjeo, Dongyae and Samhan. But Baekje, Goguryeo and Silla were the strongest. So their period began, and it is called the Three Kingdoms Period. Goguryeo and Baekje were conquered by Silla and Dang China's allied forces, and Silla unified the three kingdoms. There was another country, Balhae. Balhae was founded by Dae Jo-Young. Later Silla and Balhae's period is called South and North Countries Period. A rebellion in Later Silla caused the birth of a new nation: Goryeo, which was founded by Wanggeon. Mongolia's invaded Goryeo. Near the end of the Goryeo period, there was a great general Lee Seong-Gye. The king of Goryeo directed him to occupy Yodong, but he opposed. However, Lee Seong-Gye went to Yodong to occupy it, but he returned to Goryeo and he revolted. His revolt succeeded, and he founded the country Joseon. Joseon's first king, Taejo, moved the capital to Hanyang (Seoul). Joseon's fourth king, Sejong, made the Korean alphabet, "Hangeul". Joseon's twenty-second king, Jeongjo, built Hwaseong Fortress in Suwon. Joseon's twenty-sixth king, Gojong, changed the country's name to Daehanjeguk. When Daehanjaeguk's power weakened, Japan occupied it for 35 years until Japan's defeat in World War II in 1945. In 1950, there was a big war, the Korean War. As a result, Korea was split into two countries, North and South.
South Korea is in East Asia, bordering North Korea, and is surrounded by water on three sides, as it makes up the southern part of the Korean peninsula. It is separated from Japan by the East Sea. South Korea is mainly mountainous, and there are many islands off the south coast. The capital city, Seoul, is quite close to the North Korean border. The largest island is Jeju Island and the highest mountain is Hallasan, on Jeju. The country is slightly smaller than Iceland and Virginia.
South Korea is a democracy, meaning that people can vote for their government. The President of South Korea is elected to a five-year term, and cannot stand in a Presidential Election for a second time. The current President is Park Geunhye, the first female President of South Korea, and is in this position since February 25, 2013, when she succeeded Lee Myung-bak.
On December 9, 2016, the South Korean parliament voted to impeach Park Geunhye, or to accuse an official of doing illegal things, after an investigation of her being involved in a corruption scandal.
South Korea is a very rich country and is known for a lot of technology. This includes the car-makers Hyundai and Kia. The well-known global brand Samsung, which makes mobile phones, semi-conductors and electric devices, is also South Korean. 
South Korea has been affected by both continental culture and marine culture because it is located on a peninsula. Ancient South Korean culture has developed with the culture of Siberia, the northern part of Central Asia, the southern part of Southeast Asia and neighboring countries like China.
South Korea's customary and official language is Korean. Many linguists says that it is linked with Altaic languages. Hangul, the alphabet which is used to write Korean, was published by King Sejong the Great of Joseon in 1446. It is the only alphabet in the word whose creator, invention day and invention principle is known.
A customary South Korean regular meal is made up of rice, Korean soup, kimchi and other various dishes. Generally, Korean dishes are seasoned with sesame oil, soy bean paste, soy sauce, salt, ginger and chilli pepper paste. The most famous traditional food of Korea, kimchi, is eaten with nearly every meal. There are a lot of popular South Korean typical foods such as bibimbap, tteokbokki, and bulgogi. 
In South Korea, 19.7% of people are Protestant, 6.6% are Catholic, 23.2% are Buddhist, 49.3% have no religion, and 1.3% either are a part of other religions or have beliefs that are unknown.
The most representative traditional music of Korea is Arirang and every region has its own folk song. Many South Korean singers are well known in world as K-pop is steadily developing. There are lots of K-pop singers like Boa, TVXQ, Super Junior, Girls' Generation, Shinee, Beast, etc.
South Korea has 1 special city ("Teukbyeolsi"; 특별시; 特別市), 1 special self-governing city ("Teukbyeol-Jachisi"; 특별자치시; 特別自治市) 6 metropolitan cities ("Gwangyeoksi"; 광역시; 廣域市), and 9 provinces ("do"; 도; 道). The names below are given in English, Revised Romanization, Hangeul, and Hanja.

</doc>
<doc id="5074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5074" title="Republic of Ireland">
Republic of Ireland

Ireland is a European country on the island of Ireland. It is a member of the European Union. The country is sometimes called the "Republic of Ireland" in order to distinguish between the territory of the Irish state and island proper, but Ireland is its official name. It covers about five-sixths of the island of Ireland. The other sixth is called Northern Ireland, which is still part of the United Kingdom. The republic's capital is Dublin. Cork is the second largest city in the country and the third largest on the island of Ireland. The population of Ireland is 4.6 million. English is the main language spoken. The Irish language is widely taught in all schools, and it is still spoken as a first language in some areas of the country, known as the Gaeltacht. Irish is the first official language, followed by English.
Several hundred years ago, the English took over the country and made it part of the United Kingdom in 1801. Ireland left the United Kingdom in 1922 and has been an independent country since then.
The head of State, the President, is elected for seven years by the adult citizens. The same president can only be elected twice (14 years). Most of the president's tasks are representing and ceremonial ones. The president has little power over the government.
Ireland is a democracy and people vote for their representatives. The Taoiseach (equivalent to a prime minister) is selected by the parliament. The Taoiseach is usually the head of the biggest party.
The Oireachtas (equivalent to the parliament) consists of the Dáil Éireann (the lower House) and the Seanad (the 'upper House'). The system is similar to that of France or the United States, except that the President is not an executive.
The main political parties in Ireland are Fine Gael 25%, Sinn Féin 22%, Fianna Fail 18%, the Labour Party 7% and others, ref RED C poll 29 th June 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="5075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5075" title="Vietnam">
Vietnam

Vietnam is a country in Southeast Asia. The long-form name of the country is the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. The neighboring countries of Vietnam are China, Laos, and Cambodia. Vietnam is the world's only country today that is officially titled as a 'Socialist Republic'.
The capital of Vietnam is Hanoi. The biggest city is Ho Chi Minh City (formerly Saigon). There are about 94,444,200 people living in Vietnam. Today, Vietnam is an important political and cultural center in Southeast Asia.
In Vietnam, the approximate population is 90,549,390. 25.2% of these people are aged between 0-14, with 11,954,354 being male and 10,868,610 female. 69.3% of the population are between the ages of 15-64. The male-to-female ratio is almost evenly split with 31,301,879 being male and 31,419,306 being female. 5.5% are 65 and over and the ratio is 1,921,652 are male and 3,092,589 are female. So with the older two categories women are more populated. 
The population is not from one origin. There are many ethnic tribes that developed in the history of Vietnam. This makes Vietnam's history and culture very diverse. It's not the same as a country where every family landed on the country's shores in the same century. French and Chinese colonization didn't involve an excessive migration of people to Vietnam. 
Nowadays, the blend of cultures has been increasing with the influence of globalization and world interest. Many Vietnamese that have been living overseas are described as the Viet Kieu. The Viet Kieu population has several communities in many countries around the world.
Vietnam is a long, narrow country, much like Chile. The country is covered in rainforests that are currently going under rapid deforestation. It borders the South China Sea to the east, Laos and Cambodia to the west, and China to the north. The country is slightly larger than Malaysia.
Vietnam is famous for its ancient civilization and some of the world's most ancient and important monuments, including the Huế's Forbidden City and the Hội An Ancient Town; the southern part of the country contains a particularly large number of ancient artifacts such as the Mỹ Sơn Holy Land and the Óc Eo Citadel.
About 5000 years ago, the two ethnic tribes of the Lac Viet and Au Viet lived together in many areas with other inhabitants. Due to increasing needs to control floods, fights against invaders, and culture and trade exchanges, these tribes living near each other tended to gather together and integrate into a larger mixed group.
Among these Lac Viet tribes was the Van Lang, which was the most powerful tribe. The leader of this tribe later joined all the tribes together to found Van Lang Nation in 2897 BC, addressing himself as the King Hung. The next generations followed in their father's footsteps and kept this appellation. Based on historical documents, researchers correlatively delineated the location of Van Lang Nation to the present day regions of North and north of Central Vietnam, as well as the south of present-day Kwangsi (China).
The Van Lang Nation lasted to the 3rd century B.C. The Dong Son civilization that covered much of Southeast Asia was also the beginning of Vietnam's history. In 221 BC, the Qins invaded the land of the Viet tribes. Thuc Phan, leader of the alliance of Au-Viet tribes managed to expel the enemies and declared himself King An Duong Vuong and his territory Au Lac Nation (257-207 BC). In 208 BC, a Qin Dynasty general named Triệu Đà invaded Au Lac. An Duong Vuong failed this time. As a result, the northern feudalist took turns dominating the country over the next eleven centuries, establishing their harsh regime in the country and dividing the country into administrative regions and districts with unfamiliar names. However, the country's name of Au Lac could not be erased from the people's minds in their everyday life.
In 207 BC Triệu Đà established a state called Nam Việt which encompassed southern China and the Red River Delta. The historical significance of the original Nam Việt remains controversial because some historians consider it a Chinese occupation while others believe it was an independent era. For most of the period from 111 BCE to the early 10th century, Vietnam was under the rule of successive Chinese dynasties. Sporadic independence movements were attempted, but were quickly suppressed by Chinese forces.
When it was ruled by the Chinese Empire for many centuries, it was called Annam ("peaceful south").
In September 1858, France occupied Đà Nẵng. Cochinchina was a French colony from 1862 to 1948.
In 1930 Nguyễn Ái Quốc established the Vietnamese Independence League ("Việt Nam Ðộc Lập Ðồng Minh Hội") which is also known as the Việt Minh.
The Japanese took over Vietnam in World War II. The Việt Minh fought against both the Japanese and the Vichy French.
When the Japanese were defeated, the Vietnamese people, led by the Việt Minh started the August Revolution.
On September 2, 1945, Nguyễn Ái Quốc (who was now calling himself Hồ Chí Minh, meaning 'Hồ (a common last name) with the will of light') read the Declaration of Independence of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in Ba Ðình Square, in Hànội. It was based on the American Declaration of Independence.
Hồ Chí Minh led the Việt Minh in a war for independence from France.
The "Autonomous Republic of Cochinchina" ("République Autonome de Cochinchine") was proclaimed June 1, 1946 to frustrate the Việt Minh's desire to rule all of Vietnam.
The War between France and the Việt Minh lasted from 1946 to 1954. The French were defeated in 1954 after the Battle of Dien Bien Phu.
The nation was then divided into North Vietnam and South Vietnam. After independence was achieved, the French gave the land of the Mekong delta that was part of Cambodia to South Vietnam. The anti-communist United States had a lot of influence in the South, and the communist and nationalist Việt Minh controlled the North. Hồ Chí Minh was extremely popular in the whole nation, as he was the only remaining leader after years of fighting, so he became President of the Democratic Republic of (North) Việtnam. It was agreed that the nation would be reunited by elections in 1956. But, the Americans and the Southern government stopped the elections from happening because they expected Hồ Chí Minh to win because communist North Vietnam refused to hold free elections. Dwight Eisenhower said he thought Hồ would win with around 80% of the vote if elections were held because of the majority of the population being in the north added with Ho's few supporters in the South.
Soon, the USA was at war with Vietnam. This war was known as the American War, the Vietnam War, or the Second Indochinese War. Soon, South Vietnam became a military dictatorship with some basic freedoms. The Southern army removed the controversial Ngo Dinh Diem from power and killed him.
On September 2, 1969, Independence Day, President Hồ Chí Minh died of heart failure. People all across the nation cried for him. Even the Sàigòn newspaper said, "Việt Nam loses a unique politician" since this man had fought for freedom from their Japanese and French rulers.
On April 30, 1975, the National Liberation Front with the help of the N.V.A. overtook Sàigòn and quickly renamed it Hồ Chí Minh City. The nation was fully reunified as Socialist Republic of Vietnam on July 2, 1976.
Vietnam is divided into 58 provinces. There are also five city municipalities which have province authority.
The provinces of Vietnam are divided (by the government) into provincial cities and provinces.

</doc>
<doc id="5077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5077" title="Lance Armstrong">
Lance Armstrong

Lance Edward Armstrong (born September 18, 1971 in Plano, Texas, USA) is an American former bicycle rider. He used drugs which helped him in competition. In 2012 the US Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) took away all his titles from 1998 to 2006. In 2012, he was also banned forever from cycling competitions. 
Before his titles were taken away, he won the Tour de France seven times in a row, from 1999 to 2005. He did this several years after having brain surgery, testicular surgery, and a long course of chemotherapy in 1996. The chemotherapy was to treat testicular cancer that spread to his brain and lungs. Armstrong used to race for the Discovery Channel Pro Cycling Team, but was only team leader during the Tour de France. 
Armstrong retired from professional cycling in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="5084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5084" title="Category:Body parts">
Category:Body parts

This category is for parts of the body.

</doc>
<doc id="5085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5085" title="Ton">
Ton

Ton might refer to

</doc>
<doc id="5086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5086" title="Category:Tools">
Category:Tools

Tools assist people during the course of their work or everyday life.

</doc>
<doc id="5093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5093" title="Phoebe (moon)">
Phoebe (moon)

Phoebe is a moon which goes around (orbits) the planet called Saturn. It takes eighteen months for Phoebe to go all the way around Saturn. It is half made out of rock, and half made out of ice. The ground on Phoebe is black, which means that it is very dark when seen from Earth. Phoebe does not have any air, and there is no water on its surface.
There are many craters on Phoebe. These are from asteroids and other things crashing into it, and leaving round marks on the surface.
Phoebe is slightly irregular, which means that it is not perfectly round like a ball. It has an average diameter of 213 km. This means that the Earth's moon is 15 times bigger than Phoebe. The duration between two sunrises (rotation period) is only 9 hours and 16.5 minutes long. 

</doc>
<doc id="5098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5098" title="Three Peaks Challenge">
Three Peaks Challenge

The Three Peaks Challenge is a challenge (a hard task or job) which involves climbing three British mountains (a peak is the top of a mountain) in less than 24 hours. The three mountains are the highest of each of the three countries in the island of Great Britain.
Each year many people attempt (try) to do the challenge to raise money for charity. They do this by getting their friends and family to sponsor them (give them money). Many people do not do the challenge for charity. They do it simply because they enjoy walking in the mountains and they want to try something hard. These people usually do it in small groups. Some of them will do the walking, and others will do the driving and the cooking for them. Some people have completed the challenge very quickly. The record is fifteen hours.
Recently, the challenge has become more popular. People who live near the mountains often do not like having cars around in the middle of the night. Conservation groups blame people doing the challenge for dropping litter and damaging the landscape. Some people park their cars in inconsiderate places. Thousands of people attempt the challenge each year. Supporters of the challenge say that only a few people cause these problems, and most behave well.
Most attempts are made in the summer, because the days are long and the weather is good. In the winter it is dark for most of the day and can be very cold. The weather up the mountains can change very quickly, and some people die in blizzards (storms of snow) in the winter. Most people who attempt the challenge use the same route, because it is the easiest way of doing the challenge in 24 hours.
They start with Ben Nevis at about five o'clock. It takes about three hours to climb this mountain, so they reach the summit (the top) at about eight o'clock, and return to the bottom at about ten o'clock. In the summer it is still light in Britain at this time. If people start climbing Ben Nevis too early they will arrive at Scafell Pike too early the next morning and it will still be dark. It is important to be quick at the bottom of the mountains. There is not much time so food is usually prepared by others waiting at the bottom. When the climbers arrive they usually leave immediately and eat while they are on the road.
The next mountain is Scafell Pike, in the Lake District of northern England. The journey between Ben Nevis and Scafell Pike is longer than the journey between Scafell Pike and Snowdon. This is why it is done at night, when it is too dark to climb. The journey takes six or seven hours, and the walkers usually go to sleep. The next morning they arrive at Scafell Pike at about half past four. In the summer it is light by this time. Scafell Pike is not as high as the other mountains, but is harder.
If it is climbed quickly enough and the walkers do not get lost they can return to the bottom by about nine o'clock. It takes several hours to get to Snowdon in Wales. The walkers are usually very tired and worried that there is not enough time. If they arrive at the bottom of Snowdon at half past one in the afternoon they can climb it in two hours. This leaves them an hour and a half to get back to the bottom. If they were too slow on the other mountains or the journeys in between they might have to run!
You need to be quite fit to do the challenge in 24 hours, but people who are young and active, and people who are used to hillwalking, can do it. Compared to some mountains in the world, all the mountains in Britain are small. If the weather is bad or the drivers are slow it is very hard.

</doc>
<doc id="5099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5099" title="Pennsylvania">
Pennsylvania

Pennsylvania is one of the 50 states in the United States of America. It is in the northeastern part of the country. It has a border with Ohio on the west, West Virginia on the south and west, Maryland and Delaware on the south, New Jersey on the east, and New York and Lake Erie on the north.
The state capital of Pennsylvania is Harrisburg. The largest city in Pennsylvania is Philadelphia. The state nickname of Pennsylvania is "The Keystone State". The current governor of Pennsylvania is Tom Wolf.
Pennsylvania is well known for its role in the American Revolution, its large communities of Amish, and its heavy industry.
Pennsylvania was home to many Native American groups before Europeans settled there. These include the Delaware, Susquehanna, and Iroquois.
The first European settlers in Pennsylvania were from Sweden. They arrived in 1643. The area was later ruled by the Netherlands and Great Britain. In 1681, Charles II of England, gave the land to William Penn. Penn used the land to create a home for Quakers. The land became known as "Penn's Woods", as Pennsylvania has many forests. In Latin this is "Pennsylvania". This became adopted as the name of the colony.
Meanwhile, in the western part of the state, armies from France and Great Britain fought for control of the source of the Ohio River. This conflict was part of the French and Indian War. Great Britain eventually won the conflict for this location and built a fort called Fort Pitt. The fort grew into a city which is now called Pittsburgh. 
The state of Delaware was once part of Pennsylvania. In 1704, Delaware formed when three Pennsylvania counties left the colony and created their own government.
Pennsylvania was one of the 13 colonies that fought Great Britain in the American Revolution. The United States Declaration of Independence was signed in Philadelphia. Benjamin Franklin, an important figure in the Revolution, was also from Philadelphia. Pennsylvania was the second state to join the United States. Philadelphia was capital of the United States before Washington, D.C..
Later, Pennsylvania became an important center of industry. Kerosene was discovered in Titusville in the 19th century. This was the start of the oil industry in the United States. Large deposits of coal were found in and around Pittsburgh. This caused Pittsburgh to become a major industrial city.
Industry began leaving Pennsylvania in the late 20th century, because most heavy industry was being transferred to other nations. Many people left, too. It also caused many of its cities and towns to decay.
Most of Pennsylvania is part of the Appalachian Mountains, including the south central and northeastern areas of the state. Much of the rest of the state is very hilly, partly due to the closeness to mountains and partly due to the steep river valleys in the state. The Monongahela, Allegheny, and Ohio rivers are in the western part of the state, and the Susquehanna is in the central part of the state. The northwestern and southeastern parts of the state are mostly flat and low-lying.
Pennsylvania is the 33rd largest states in the United States, with a land area of 44,817 square miles. The highest point in the state is Mount Davis, at 3,213 feet above sea level. The lowest point is the Delaware River, which is at sea level.
Pennsylvania is the 6th most populated state. In 2000, there were 12,281,054 people. 
More than half of the people live in the areas of Pittsburgh and Philadelphia. Few people live in the north central area of the state. Towns and cities tend to be small in size and densely populated, more so than in other states. This is because many of the towns and cities in Pennsylvania were built around a specific factory or factories.
Pennsylvania has many colleges and universities. Officially, the state's public university is Pennsylvania State University. Best known are a few private university systems which are partially (around 10%) funded by the state, like University of Pittsburgh. The state's most well-known private university is the University of Pennsylvania, an Ivy League institution. Pennsylvania also has a number of state run colleges in Bloomsburg, California, Cheyney, Clarion, East Stroudsburg, Edinboro, Indiana, Kutztown, Lock Haven, Mansfield, Millersville, Shippensburg, Slippery Rock, and West Chester. Those fourteen schools make up one of the largest state run higher education systems in the country. Other significant private universities are Carnegie-Mellon University, known for its computer science research, and Bucknell University.

</doc>
<doc id="5102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5102" title="Box">
Box

A box is a container used to put things in. It is mainly a cuboid (square) shape, but it can be other shapes too. Boxes are usually made out of cardboard, wood, plastic or metal.
Many boxes are made of cardboard, and a lot of them are made. They are primarily used for packaging commercial goods or storing goods and materials. They can be made from bent or wrinkled cardboard. In their most obvious life stage they are popularly used as a cheap material to hold a range of projects, among them being science experiments, children's toys, costumes and other things.
A box also means a rectangle, "e.g. userbox". But rectangles are mainly referred to as rectangles, the term box is the outline, or perimeter of the rectangle.

</doc>
<doc id="5103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5103" title="Philippines">
Philippines

The Philippines is an Island country in Southeast Asia in the Pacific Ocean. It has about 7,600 islands. Spain (1521-1898) and the United States (1898-1946), colonized (controlled) the country. The capital city of the Philippines is Manila.
The Philippines and East Timor are the only nations in East Asia where most people practice Christianity. The Philippines achieved independence after the United States left in 1946.
The Philippine Islands are surrounded on the east by the Philippine Sea, on the west by the South China Sea, and on the south by the Celebes Sea. Borneo island is a few hundred kilometers to the southwest, Vietnam is to the west, and Taiwan is directly north. On the eastern side of the Philippine Sea is Palau.
Human fossils were found proving that many people settled in the Philippines for thousands of years. The Negritos crossed prehistoric land or ice to settle in the islands' land. Many groups of Austronesian people began to come to the Philippines in the first millennium, pushing the aboriginal population into the interior or perhaps absorbing them through intermarriage.
Chinese merchants arrived in the 8th century. The rise of powerful Buddhist kingdoms enabled trade with the Indonesian archipelago, India, Japan and Southeast Asia. Factional fighting among the kingdoms of Southeast Asia weakened their strength. In the meantime, the spread of Islam through commerce and proselytism, much like Christianity, brought traders and missionaries into the region; Arabs set foot in Mindanao in the 14th century. When the first Europeans arrived, led by Ferdinand Magellan in 1521, there were rajahs as far north as Manila, who historically were tributaries of the kingdoms of Southeast Asia. However, the islands were essentially self-sufficient and self-ruling.
The Spanish led by Conquistador Miguel Lopez de Legazpi claimed and colonized the islands in the 16th century and named it "Filipinas" after King Philip II of Spain. Roman Catholicism was immediately introduced. The Philippines was ruled from New Spain (Mexico) and a trade began in the 18th century began using galleons across the Pacific Ocean. Some rebellions and violence started in the towns near the ocean and during the next three centuries because of some unfairness of the government.
In 1781, Governor José Basco y Vargas founded the Economic Society of Friends of the Country to make the Philippines independent of New Spain.
The country opened up during the 19th century. The rise of an ambitious, more nationalistic Filipino middle class and the Chinese mestizo community, signaled the end of Spanish colonialism in the islands. Enlightened by the Propaganda Movement to the injustices of the Spanish colonial government, they asked for independence. Jose Rizal, the most famous propagandist, was arrested and put to death in 1896 for acts of subversion. Soon after, the Philippine Revolution broke out, led by the Katipunan, a secret revolutionary society founded by Andres Bonifacio and later led by Emilio Aguinaldo. The revolution nearly succeeded in ousting the Spanish by 1898.
That same year Spain and the United States fought the Spanish-American War, after which Spain gave up the Philippines to the United States for US$20 million. The Filipinos had declared independence by that time and the assertion of American control led to the Philippine-American War that officially ended in 1901, but fighting continued well into 1913. Between 1899 and 1913 the American-Philippines war waged, about one million Philippines and well over 5500 American soldiers (including missionaries& private contractors, military families) lost their lives, tens of thousands more were wounded. Most of the Philippine's casualties came from starvation, injuries, diseases, lack of clean living. Hostilities continued until 1914 when Philippines was promised future independence.
President William McKinley was killed by anarchist Leon Czolgosz because Czolgosz believed president McKinley was against good working people, he considered McKinley responsible for falsifying the reasons for the war, and approving and waging an illegal, devastating Philippines war.
The American regime imposed the English language as the "lingua franca" in the islands through free public education. The status of the country was turned into that of a US commonwealth in 1935, which provided for more self-governance.
Independence was finally given in 1946, after the World War II. The years right after that had many post-war problems. People were also not happy during the unpopular dictatorship of Ferdinand Marcos, who was made to leave the presidency in 1986. Later, the continuing problem of communist insurgency and Moro separatism.
The government of the Philippines, is similar to the Government of the United States of America. The President of the Philippines works as the head of state, the head of government, and the commander in chief of the Military of the Philippines and the armed forces. The president is elected by voting just as in America. He stays as the president for 6 years. He is the leader of the cabinet.
The bicameral Philippine legislature, the Congress of the Philippines, consists of the Senate of the Philippines and the House of Representatives of the Philippines; members of both are elected by popular vote. There are 24 senators serving 6 years in the Senate while the House of Representatives consists of no more than 250 congressmen each serving 3-year terms.
The judiciary branch of the government is headed by the Supreme Court of the Philippines, which has a Chief Justice as its head and 14 Associate Justices, all appointed by the president.
The Philippines is a founding and prominent member of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). It is also an active participant of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), a member of the Group of 24 and one of the 51 founding members of the United Nations on October 24, 1945.
Local Government. The parts of Philippines are "local government units" (LGUs). The province is the top unit. There are 79 provinces in the country (2002). In the provinces there are cities and municipalities (towns). In these municipalities there are smaller "barangays" (villages). The "barangay" is the smallest local government unit.
All provinces are in 17 regions for administration (organisation). Most government offices have regional offices for the provinces. The regions do not have a separate local government, except for the Muslim Mindanao and Cordillera regions, which have their own power (autonomous government).
¹ Names are capitalized because they are acronyms, containing the names of the constituent provinces or cities.
The Philippines has 7,107 islands. Together there are about 300,000 square kilometers of land. The islands are in three groups: Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao. Luzon is the largest island and Mindanao is the second largest. The Visayas are the group of islands in the central part of the Philippines. The busy port of Manila, on Luzon, is the country's capital and it is the second-largest city after Quezon City. In the Visayas, Cebu City is the largest city. In Mindanao, Davao City is the largest city.
The climate is hot, humid (there is a lot of water in the air), and tropical. The average temperature all year is around 26.5 °Celsius. Filipinos usually say there are three seasons: "Tag-init" or "Tag-araw" (the hot season or summer from March to May), "Tag-ulan" (the rainy season from June to November), and "Tag-lamig" (the cold season from December to February).
The Philippines is in the Pacific Ring of Fire (zone of frequent earthquakes and volcanic eruptions). Most of the mountainous islands had a lot of tropical rainforests a long time ago. They started as volcanoes. The highest place is Mount Apo on Mindanao at 2,954 m. Many volcanoes in the country, for example Mount Mayon, are active. The country also has about 19 typhoons per year.
Taal Volcano is an island in Taal Lake. It is in an ancient caldera in Batangas Province. It is about 2 hours by bus going south from Manila. The jump-off point in Talisay is suitable for day trips and overnighters.
There are many environmental problems in the Philippines. One of them is overfishing in many areas, which lead to pitiful catches. Another problem is that only ten percent of sewage is treated and cleaned, while the other 90% is dumped back to nature and the ocean, which leads to pollution. Deforestation is a serious problem, and after decades of cutting down forests, illegal logging and forest fires, there is only 3% left of original forest cover. Forest losses have also affected the Philippines with serious soil erosion, which is threatening the Philippines biodiversity.
The Philippines is a developing country. In 1998 the Philippine economy — a mixture of agriculture, light industry, and support services — deteriorated because of the effects of the Asian financial crisis and poor weather conditions. The economy's growth fell to 0.6% in 1998 from 5% in 1997, but recovered to about 3% in 1999 and 4% in 2000. As of 2012, it's estimated at 6.6%.
The government has promised to continue its economic reforms to help the Philippines match the pace of development in the newly industrialized countries of Southeast Asia. The strategies are improving infrastructure, fixing the tax system to help the government income, supporting deregulation (to remove government control) and privatization of the economy, and increasing trade within the region. Future prospects depend heavily on the economic performance of the three major trading partners, China, the United States and Japan.
Around 94 million people live in the Philippines as of 2010. Most people in the Philippines are of Austronesian stock. The ethnic Chinese, who have helped run businesses since the 9th century, also live in the country. The Negritos live in the mountains of Luzon and Visayas. Luzon has a lot of mestizo people, a Spanish term for someone of mixed Hispanic and native blood. 
The people of the Philippines are known as "Filipinos". Filipinos are divided into many groups, the three largest are the Tagalogs, Cebuanos, and the Ilocanos. When the Philippines was a colony, the term "Filipino" used to mean the Spanish and Spanish-mixed minority. But now everyone who is a citizen/national of the Philippines is called "Filipino". Even then, it is still has the most diverse ethnic groups in Asia, the other being Indonesia. People also call Filipinos "Pinoy" for short.
Filipino and English are the official languages. Filipino is based largely on Tagalog, a native language spoken in Metro Manila and neighboring provinces. The Filipino language, is a cousin of the Malay language. Other local languages and dialects are Cebuano and Ilocano and many others. English is used in government, schools and business. Other languages are Chinese which is spoken by the ethnic Chinese population and the Chinese-Filipinos. Most of the Muslims living deep in southern Mindanao and the smaller islands off of the southern Philippine mainland near Malaysia's northeastern tip. They also speak Arabic as a second language but to a very small extent. Spanish, once the official language of the Philippines in the 1970s is also spoken by a notable minority by Filipinos.
Before the Spanish arrived, the Filipinos did not think of themselves as one culture. Most of the Philippines were Buddhist, Muslim and Hindu empires. The Spaniards came in 1565, and brought with them Spanish culture. They soon spread to the islands making forts and schools, preaching Christianity, and converting most of the native people to the Catholic religion. When the United States colonized the islands in 1898, the Americans brought with them their own culture, which has the strongest influence up to now. This makes the Philippines the most Westernized country in eastern Asia. The Spanish culture in the Philippines though, is not directly from Spain but from Mexico. Since the Philippines was ruled by Spain, through Mexico. It was governed from Mexico City which explains much of the Spanish influence in the Philippines that one could only find in Mexico and not in Spain. Also, the Spanish that was spoken in the Philippines was Mexican Spanish, not European Spanish. A lot of the foods in the Philippines can also be found in Mexico. Filipinos, as a tradition, usually eat with hands, like that of Malay tradition. And most of Filipino cuisine is also of Malay influence for the most part.
Each year major festivities called "barrio fiestas" are held. They commemorate the Patron saints of the towns, villages and regional districts. The festivities includes church services, street parades, fireworks displays, feasts, dance/music contests, and cockfights.
Most of the people in the Philippines are Christians. About 92% of the people are Christians. Most people in the Philippines belong to the Roman Catholic faith (70%). A sizable percentage of the people are Protestants (many diverse Christian denominations) (17%), Members Church of God International (3%), Iglesia ni Cristo (2%), Muslims (5-10%), Buddhists (2%). There are also some Hindus and some other minor religions with fewer adherents (6.6%).

</doc>
<doc id="5108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5108" title="Fawlty Towers">
Fawlty Towers

Fawlty Towers is a British television sitcom. It was broadcast by the BBC in two series, one in 1975, the other in 1979. Only twelve episodes were ever broadcast. However the show is still very popular with people. "Fawlty Towers" has influenced other comedies.
It is set in a hotel in the coastal Devon town of Torquay. 
The owners of the hotel are Basil Fawlty (played by John Cleese) and his wife Sybil (Prunella Scales). 
They are helped by Polly, a young British maid (Connie Booth) and Manuel, a clumsy waiter from Barcelona in Spain (Andrew Sachs). 
In later episodes (from series two onwards) there is also a chef, Terry (Brian Hall).
Basil is a rude, angry man, who fought in the Korean War. He has been married to Sybil for fifteen years. Sybil and Basil do not love each other. Polly has a talent for painting, and this is shown in some episodes when her artwork is laid upon the front desk, annoying Basil. Manuel speaks only a little English and he often makes mistakes. When he makes a mistake Basil usually apologises to the guests by saying, "I'm so sorry, he's from Barcelona."
The Major (Ballard Berkeley) is a regular guest; he's old and forgetful. The aged and easily shocked Miss Tibbs (Gilly Flower) and Miss Gatsby (Renee Roberts) are also regular guests.
There were twelve episodes of "Fawlty Towers" made. 
The first six episodes were made in 1975, the last six in 1979. "Fawlty Towers" still has many fans, and many people regard it as the best comedy series made by the BBC. It was voted 5th in a poll in Britain to find "Britain's Best Sitcom" 2004.
One of the most famous episodes is "The Germans". In that episode, people from Germany are visiting the Hotel. Basil dislikes Germans, because he blames them for starting World War II. He tells his staff not to mention the war ("Don't mention the war!"). He himself continually mentions the war, and even imitates Adolf Hitler.
The episodes, in order with date of first showing, are:

</doc>
<doc id="5110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5110" title="Custom">
Custom

A custom (also called a tradition) is a law or right or usual way, which is not written and is in practice since a long time. It is any thing which lots of people do, and have done for a long time. Usually, the people come from the same country, culture, time or religion. If something is usually done the same way, you might say that is the "customary way" of doing things. This is also called "conventional".
The meaning of "culture" is similar to the meaning of custom. A custom is more about practices, while culture is more about ideas or a group of customs. A custom overall is just similar to culture and culture means the way of life of a people.
Custom can also have a second meaning, as in "custom made" or made for a particular customer. This is also called "bespoke". A thing already made may be "customized" as in a "custom paint job" on a car, or other modification or adaptation for a user or purpose.
a customs are things that people do that are handed down from the past.
Examples of it are: 

</doc>
<doc id="5111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5111" title="Fort Ouiatenon">
Fort Ouiatenon

Fort Ouiatenon was the first fortified European settlement in what is now the U.S. state of Indiana. It is approximately three miles southwest of modern-day West Lafayette.
Fort Ouiatenon was originally constructed by the French government in 1717 as a military outpost to protect against Great Britain's western expansion. Its location among the unsettled woodlands of the Wabash River valley also made it a key center of trade for fur trappers. French merchants and trappers from Quebec would arrive at Fort Ouiatenon in search of beaver pelts and to take advantage of trade relations with the native Wea Native American tribes.
At its peak level of activity during the mid-18th century Fort Ouiatenon was home to over 2,000 residents. In 1761, during the French and Indian War, a contingent of British soldiers led by Lieutenant Edward Jenkins captured and occupied the fort. In 1763 an uprising led by Chief Pontiac of the Ottawa Native American tribe surprised Lieutenant Jenkins and his men and captured Fort Ouiatenon without firing a shot. Seven similar posts were also captured in what became known as Pontiac's Uprising.
The British made little use of Fort Ouiatenon after the French and Indian War; it was never garrisoned. During the 1780s, local Indian tribes used it as a base of operations to stage raids against American settlers pushing westward. Consequently President George Washington ordered the fort to be destroyed in 1791.
In 1930 a replica of Fort Ouiatenon was built near its original site by a local physician named Richard Wetherill. In 1970 the site was placed on the National Register of Historic Places by the U.S. Department of the Interior. Today Fort Ouiatenon is open to tourists and is the location of the annual Feast of the Hunters' Moon.

</doc>
<doc id="5113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5113" title="Chennai">
Chennai

Chennai (formerly known as Madras) is the capital city of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It has a population of about 7 million people. Almost 10% of all of the people in the state live in Chennai. The city is the fourth largest city of India. It was founded in 1661 by the British East India Company. The city is on the Coromandel Coast of the Bay of Bengal.
Chennai is the automobile capital of India. It is also referred as the Detroit of South Asia. The long Marina Beach in Chennai, is one of the longest beaches in the world. The city is separated into three parts by two rivers. The Cooum River divides the city into almost half and the Adyar River divides the southern half of the city into two parts. The historic Buckingham Canal runs through the city. It is almost parallel to the coast. The 350 year old city still has much of its old charm. Today, it is a big commercial and industrial centre. The city has much cultural heritage. The temples, shrines, forts and palaces of the city combine its past with the present.
Chennai and its nearby area has been an important administrative, military and economic centre back to the 1st century. Many South India kingdoms like the Pallava, the Chola, the Pandya and Vijayanagara Empires have ruled over the area. The British controlled the town in 1749. Under British control, the city grew into a major urban centre and naval base. The city grew up around the English settlement of Fort Saint George. It slowly grew in the nearby towns and villages. Chennai became the capital of Madras state the India became independent in 1947. The state was later renamed as Tamil Nadu is 1968.
Chennai is connected by airways, railways and roads with all the major towns of the country.
Chennai is linked with roads from rest of the country. The distance of major cities and towns from Chennai are: 
Chennai railway station is connected with all the major railway stations of the country. These include Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta, Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Cochin, Hyderabad, Lucknow, and Varanasi.
The airport in Chennai is directly linked to airports of Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta, Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Goa, Bhubaneswar, Cochin, Hyderabad, Port Blair and Pune.
The international terminal is connected with other overseas airports including London, Tokyo, Brussels, Singapore, Dubai, Frankfurt, Kuala Lumpur and New York.
It is one of the busiest airports in Asia.

</doc>
<doc id="5114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5114" title="Mumbai">
Mumbai

Mumbai (previously known as Bombay until 1996) is a natural harbor on the west coast of India, and is the capital city of Maharashtra state. It is India's largest city, and one of the world's most populous cities. It is the financial capital of India. The city is the second most-populous in the world. It has approximately 14 million people. Along with the neighboring cities of Navi Mumbai and Thane, it forms the world's 4th largest urban agglomeration. They have around 19.1 million people.
The seven islands that form Bombay were home to fishing colonies. The islands were ruled by successive kingdoms and indigenous empires before Portuguese settlers took it. Then, it went to the British East India Company. During the mid-18th century, Bombay became a major trading town. It became a strongplace for the Indian independence movement during the early 20th century. When India became independent in 1947, the city was incorporated into Bombay State. In 1960, following the Samyukta Maharashtra movement, a new state of Maharashtra was created with Bombay as the capital. It was renamed Mumbai in 1996.
Mumbai generates 5% of India's GDP. It accounts for 25% of industrial output, 40% of sea trade, and 70% of capital to India's economy. The Reserve Bank of India, the Bombay Stock Exchange, the National Stock Exchange of India and the many Indian companies and multinational corporations are in the city. It also has the Hindi film and television industry, known as Bollywood. 

</doc>
<doc id="5115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5115" title="Bangalore">
Bangalore

Former Bangalore (English Pronunciation:ˈbæŋɡəlɔər, bæŋɡəˈlɔər), today again and offically known as Bengaluru () is the capital city of the Indian state of Karnataka. It is famous for its Information technology industry and so it is called the Silicon Valley of India. Today as a large and growing city, Bangalore has many of the most well-recognized colleges and research institutions in India. 

</doc>
<doc id="5116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5116" title="Akbar the Great">
Akbar the Great

Akbar (Abu'l-Fath Jalal ud-din Muhammad Akbar, 15 October 1542 – 1605) was the third Mughal Emperor. He was born in Umerkot, India. He was the son of Emperor Humayun. He became emperor at age 14. He is considered to be one of the greatest rulers of India. He was known as much for his inclusive leadership style as for his war mongering. He began a time of religious tolerance and appreciation for the arts. Akbar had great respect for the Rajputs.He realized that with their support,he could consolidate his empire.
Akbar became the king in 1556 at the age of 13. Bairam Khan was appointed as Akbar's regent. Soon after coming to power Akbar defeated Hemu, the general of the Afghan forces, in the Second Battle of Panipat. After a few years he ended the regency of Bairam Khan and took charge of the kingdom. He offered a hand of friendship to the Rajputs. However, he fought against Rajputs who opposed him. In 1576 he defeated Rana Pratap of Mewar in the Battle of Haldighati. Akbar formed a vast empire covering a large part of India.
Akbar's system of central government was based on the system that had evolved since the Delhi Sultanate, but the functions of various departments were carefully reorganised by laying down detailed regulations for their functioning
Akbar was a Muslim. He realized that to establish a strong empire, he had to gain the confidence of his Hindu people who were the majority in India.
Din-i-ilahi was a religious path suggested by Akbar. It was a code of moral conduct which reflected Akbar's secular ideas and his desire to achieve peace, unity, tolerance in his empire. Belief in one god, worship of source of light, non-killing of animals, Having peace with all were some features of Din-i-ilahi. It didn't have any rituals, holy books, temples or priests
Male circumcision was not to be done before the boy was 12 years old, and after that it was optional. It was a Jewish custom adopted by Islam. Akbar's rule was that it should be made optional and should be done, if at all, at an age when boys could understand what it was. Here Akbar gave every man a choice and opportunity to have a play of his reason. Indeed, the boy of reason as he was, he could not deny it to others.
Akbar's reign was chronicled by his court historian Abul Fazal in the books "Akbarnama" and "Ain-i-akbari" Other sources of Akbar's reign include the works of Badayuni, Shaikhzada Rashidi and Shaikh Ahmed Sirhindi. Akbar was an artisan, warrior, artist, armourer, blacksmith, carpenter, emperor, general, inventor, animal trainer , lacemaker, technologist. Believed to be dyslexic, he was read to everyday and had a remarkable memory.
The Akbarnāma  means the  "Book of Akbar. "It is the official biographical account of Akbar written in Persian. It includes vivid and detailed descriptions of his life and times.
The work was commissioned by Akbar, and written by Abul Fazl, one of the Navratnas(Nine Jewels) of Akbar's royal court. the book took seven years to complete. Illustration was done in the Mughal school of painting. A part of this is "Ain-i-Akbari."
On 3 October 1605, Akbar fell ill with an attack of dysentery, from which he never recovered. Twelve days after his sixty third year he died on 27 October 1605, after which his body was buried at a mausoleum in Sikandra, Agra.

</doc>
<doc id="5117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5117" title="New Delhi">
New Delhi

New Delhi () is the capital city of the modern Republic of India. It has a very old history. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the North Indian zone. The city has an area of about 42.7 km. New Delhi has a population of about 9.4 mio. people.

</doc>
<doc id="5118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5118" title="Edmund Hillary">
Edmund Hillary

Sir Edmund Hillary, (born 20 July 1919, died 11 January 2008) was a New Zealand mountaineer and explorer. He and Sherpa guide Tenzing Norgay were the first people to climb Mount Everest. They got to the top on 29 May 1953. Mount Everest is the tallest mountain on Earth. During his teenage years, Hillary had attended Auckland Grammar School.
Sir Edmund Hillary's fame came as a result of being the first New Zealander in the world to conquer Mt. Everest in Nepal. He is on the New Zealand five dollar note. He also climbed ten other mountains after Mount Everest, all of which are also in the Himalayas. 
Hillary was born to Percival Augustus Hillary and Gertrude Hillary, née Clark, in Auckland, New Zealand, on 20 July 1919. His family moved to Tuakau (south of Auckland) in 1920, after his father (who served at Gallipoli) had gotten land there. His grandparents were early settlers in northern Wairoa in the mid 19th century after moving from Yorkshire, England.
Hillary learned at Tuakau Primary School and then Auckland Grammar School. He finished primary school two years early, but he did not do very well at high school. At first, he was smaller than other students there and very shy so he felt safe with his books and often thought of a life filled with adventure. Every day, he rode a train to and from high school, and he often used this time to read. Learning how to box helped him become more confident. At age 16 his interest in climbing started during a school trip to Mount Ruapehu. Although very tall at 6 ft 5 in (195 cm), he was stronger than many of his fellow hikers.
He learned about mathematics and science at The University of Auckland, and in 1939 he completed his first important climb, which was reaching the top of a mountain called Mount Ollivier. With his brother Rex, Hillary became a beekeeper during summertime, which allowed him to do climbing in the winter.
Hillary married Louise Mary Rose in 1953, by whom he had a son and two daughters. In 1975, his wife and their younger daughter were killed in a plane crash. Hillary married June Mulgrew in 1989; they remained married until he died.
Hillary died of a heart attack in Auckland, at the age of 88.

</doc>
<doc id="5119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5119" title="Wright brothers">
Wright brothers

The Wright brothers, Orville Wright (August 19, 1871 – January 30, 1948) and Wilbur Wright (April 16, 1867 – May 30, 1912), designed, built, and flew the first controlled, powered, heavier-than-air airplane on December 17, 1903. They had been experimenting for many years with gliders and other vehicles before their first powered flight. They are also known for making the first way to steer an airplane. They designed the aircraft in Dayton, Ohio, and their first test flight was in Kitty Hawk Heights, North Carolina. 
The Wrights both grew up in Dayton, Ohio. They were sons of a minister. There were a lot of books in their house, and they were encouraged to ask questions and find out about whatever they thought was interesting. Sometimes their father would ask them to argue for a topic, then switch sides and argue for the opposite point of view.
They went to high school, but did not go to college; they started a newspaper instead. After that, they started a shop to build and repair bicycles.
By the 1890s, the Wrights were interested in flight, especially the gliders of Otto Lilienthal. They started working on making airplanes in their bicycle shop. They thought controlling a plane was one of the big problems of flight. Lilienthal and others had been killed when they could not control their aircraft. The Wright brothers fixed the problem by building wings that could be twisted a little and moved up and down slightly. 
From 1900 to 1902, they built gliders in Dayton and tested them in Kitty Hawk, where there were strong and steady winds. During these years, they also made small versions of the wings, and built a wind tunnel to test how well different wing shapes would lift an airplane. 
In 1903, they built a powered airplane that had a propeller and a light but powerful engine. The "Wright Flyer" airplane first flew successfully on December 17, 1903, in Kitty Hawk, North Carolina. This was the first time people ever flew a powered airplane they could control. Before that, people flew in balloons or gliders, or for a very short time in planes they could not control. The two brothers continued to make changes to their design, and had a very good plane by 1905.
The Wright Brothers kept their discovery largely secret for a couple of years until they showed it to the world in 1908 (They had filed a patent on the airplane Mar 23, 1903.) 
After that, they started a company to build airplanes and had a “patent war” with Glenn Curtiss over who could make money from the invention of the airplane. During the patent war, Wilbur died. Orville continued working to keep his reputation as the first man to fly. Later he sold the airplane company, and became an “elder statesman” of aviation. He died in 1948.<br><br><br><br>

</doc>
<doc id="5121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5121" title="Charles Darwin">
Charles Darwin

Charles Robert Darwin (12 February 1809– 19 April 1876) was an English naturalist. He was born in Shrewsbury, Shropshire. He is famous for his work on the theory of evolution. His book "On the Origin of Species" (1859) did two things. First, it provided a great deal of evidence that evolution has taken place. Second, it proposed a theory to explain "how" evolution works. That theory is natural selection. Evolution by natural selection is the key to understanding biology, and the diversity of life on Earth.
Darwin spent almost five years on board a Royal Navy exploring ship, the HMS "Beagle". He was the guest naturalist, which meant that he was responsible for making collections and notes about the animals, plants, and the geology of the countries they visited. The ship's crew made charts of all the coastal areas, which could be used by the navy wherever it went in the world. At the time, Britain had by far the largest navy in the world, and an empire which was global.
Darwin collected everywhere the ship weighed anchor. He found huge fossils of recently extinct mammals, experienced an earthquake in Chile, and noticed the land had been raised. He knew of raised beaches elsewhere, high in the Andes, with fossil seashells and trees which had once grown on a sandy beach. Obviously the earth was constantly changing, with land rising in some places, and sinking in others. He collected birds and insects, and sent shipments back to Cambridge for experts to identify. 
Darwin was the first dedicated naturalist to visit the Galapagos Islands, off the west coast of Ecuador. He noticed that some of the birds were like mockingbirds on the mainland, but different enough to be placed in separate species. He began to wonder how so many new species came to be on these islands.
When Darwin got back to England, he edited a series of scientific reviews of the voyage, and wrote a personal journal which we know as "The Voyage of the Beagle". It is one of the great natural history travel diaries.
In 1843 Darwin, who already had two children with his wife Emma, bought Down House in the village of Downe, Kent. He lived there for the rest of his life, and today the house and contents are open to the public.
While on H.M.S. "Beagle", and later back home in London, Darwin had come across the ideas of the Rev. T.R. Malthus. Malthus had realised that, although humans could double their population every 25 years, it did not happen in practice. He thought the reason was that a struggle for existence (or resources) limited their numbers. If numbers increased, then famine, wars and diseases caused more deaths. Darwin, who knew that all living things could, in principle, increase their numbers, began to think about why some survived, while others did not. His answer took years to develop.
The theory of evolution says that all living things on Earth, including plants, animals and microbes, come from a common ancestor by slowly changing throughout the generations. Darwin suggested that the way living things changed over time is through "natural selection". This is the better survival and reproduction of those that best fit their environment. Fitting into the place where you live is called adapting. Those who fit best into the place where they live, the best adapted, have the best chance to survive and breed. Those who are less well-adapted tend not to survive. If they do not survive well enough to raise young, this means they do not pass on their genes. In this way, the species gradually changes.
The first chapter of the "Origin" deals with domesticated animals, such as cattle and dogs. Darwin reminded readers of the huge changes mankind had made in its domestic animals, which were once wild species. The changes were brought about by "selective breeding" – choosing animals with desirable characters to breed from. This had been done generation after generation, until our modern breeds were produced. Perhaps what man had done deliberately, might happen in nature, where some would leave more offspring than others. 
Darwin noticed that although young plants or animals are very similar to their parents, no two are exactly the same and there is always a range of shape, size, colour, and so on. Some of these differences the plant or animal may have got from their own ancestors, but some are new and caused by mutations. When such differences made an organism more able to live in the wild, it would have a better chance to survive, and would pass on its genes to its offspring, and they to their offspring. Any difference that would cause the plant or animal to have less of a chance to live would be less likely to be passed on, and would eventually die out altogether. In this way groups of similar plants or animals (called species) slowly change in shape and form so that they can live more successfully and have more offspring who will survive them. So, natural selection had similarities to selective breeding, except that it would happen by itself, over a much longer time.
He first started thinking about this in 1838, but it took a full twenty years before his ideas became public. By 1844 he was able to write a draft of the main ideas in his notebook. Historians think that he did not talk about his theory because he was afraid of public criticism. He knew his theory, which did not discuss religion, raised questions about the literal truth of the Book of Genesis. Whatever the reason, he did not publish his theory in a book until 1859. In 1858 he heard that another biologist, Alfred Russel Wallace, had the same ideas about natural selection. Darwin and Wallace's ideas were first published in the "Journal of the Linnaean Society" in London, 1858. Then, Darwin published his book the next year. The name of the book was "On the Origin of Species by means of Natural Selection, or the preservation of favoured races in the struggle for life". This is usually called "The Origin of Species". 
Darwin wrote a number of other books, most of which are also very important.

</doc>
<doc id="5122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5122" title="Adam Smith">
Adam Smith

Adam Smith (16 June 1723 – 17 July 1790) was a Scottish economist, who is called the Father of Modern Economics.
His book, "An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations", published in 1776, was very important. People call the book just "The Wealth of Nations". It stated some of the ideas on which modern economics is based off, especially market economics.
In the "Wealth of Nations" Adam Smith asks 'what can a person do that is best for his country?' He decides that if every person does what is best for themself and their little circle of family and friends, then the country will do better. This is because every person knows a lot about their own situation (what they need and what they want, what works and what does not work), much more than the government knows. This sort of thinking is called "liberal theory", a main part of liberalism.
He was also a philosopher who wanted to know why people thought (felt) that some things are good and others bad. 
He wrote an earlier book, in 1759, called "The Theory of Moral Sentiments". He thought that empathy was very important in ethics. Empathy is when you see how someone else is feeling, imagine what it feels like, and then end up feeling the same way: for Smith, empathy is like "putting yourself in someone else's shoes". For example, empathy makes us feel happy to see someone else who is happy, or feel sorry for someone who is sad. Empathy may even make "us" feel pain when we see someone in pain (as if "we" had been hurt or affected). Both Smith and his friend David Hume, who was another Scottish philosopher, wrote about the importance of sympathy in ethics.

</doc>
<doc id="5123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5123" title="Isaac Newton">
Isaac Newton

Sir Isaac Newton ; 25 December 164220 March 1726/7; was an English physicist and mathematician. 
He is famous for his work on the laws of motion, optics, gravity, and calculus. In 1687, Newton published a book called the "Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica" in which he presents his theory of universal gravitation and three laws of motion.
Newton built the first practical reflecting telescope in 1668; he also developed a theory of light based on the observation that a prism decomposes white light into the colors of the rainbow. Newton also shares credit with Gottfried Leibniz for the development of calculus.
Newton's ideas on light, motion, and gravity dominated physics for the next three centuries, until modified by Albert Einstein's theory of relativity.
Isaac Newton was born on 25 December 1642, in a manor house in Lincolnshire, England. His father died three months before his birth. When Isaac was three his mother remarried, and Isaac remained with his grandmother. He was not interested in the family farm, so he was sent to the University of Cambridge to study. It is sometimes told that Isaac Newton was reading a book under a tree when an apple from the tree fell on his head. This led to his calculations of gravity.
Newton explained the workings of the universe through mathematics. He described laws of motion and gravitation. These laws are math formulas that explain how objects move when a force acts on them. Isaac published his most famous book, Principia, in 1687 while he was a mathematics professor at Trinity College, Cambridge. In the Principia, Isaac explained three basic laws that govern the way objects move. He then described his idea, or theory, about gravity. Gravity is the force that causes things to fall down. If a pencil fell off a desk, it will land on the floor, not the ceiling. In his book Isaac also used his laws to show that the planets revolve around the suns in orbits that are oval, not round. 
Following are the three laws of motion.
When most people think of Isaac Newton, they think of him sitting under an apple tree watching an apple fall. Some people even believe the apple fell onto his head. Newton understood that what makes things like apples fall to the ground is a specific kind of force — the force we call gravity. Newton thought that gravity was the force of attraction between two objects, such as an apple and the earth. He also thought that an object with more matter exerted the same force on smaller objects as they exerted on it. That meant that the large mass of the earth pulled objects toward it. That is why the apple fell down instead of up, and why people do not float in the air.
Isaac Newton went on thinking about gravity. Before Newton, people thought that only objects near to the earth would fall down. But Newton thought that gravity should not just be limited to the earth and the objects on it. What if gravity went to the moon and beyond?
Newton invented a formula for calculating the force of attraction between two bodies. He used it to calculate the force needed to keep the moon moving around the earth. Then he compared it with the force that made the apple fall downward. After allowing for the fact that the moon is much farther from the earth, and has a much greater mass, he discovered that the forces were the same. The moon is held in an orbit around the earth by the pull of earth’s gravity.
The formula invented by Newton is called the "Law of gravitation".
Isaac Newton’s calculations changed the way people understood the universe. No one had been able to explain why the planets stayed in their orbits. What held them up? Less than 50 years before Isaac Newton was born it was thought that the planets were held in place by an invisible shield. Isaac proved that they were held in place by the sun’s gravity. He also showed that the force of gravity was affected by distance and by mass. He was not the first to understand that the orbit of a planet was not circular, but more elongated, like an oval. What he did was to explain how it worked.
Sir Isaac Newton was the first to discover the laws of gravitation and the laws of motion. He also established a new field in mathematics known as calculus, though the German Gottfried Leibniz had developed the ideas at the same time. His work has greatly contributed in the areas of science and mathematics making him one of the most influential scientists in human history.
The great physicist, Albert Einstein, thought that Newton's idea of gravity was not completely accurate. He corrected many of the things that Newton did.
Isaac Newton died on 31 March 1727, in London, England. After his death, mercury was found in his hair. This may have meant that he had suffered from mercury poisoning.
He is buried in Westminster Abbey. He set the stage for many famous physicists to come, such as Albert Einstein, James Chadwick, and Stephen Hawking.

</doc>
<doc id="5125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5125" title="Johann Wolfgang von Goethe">
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe

Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (August 28, 1749 – March 22, 1832) was a German writer, poet, novelist, and playwright. He also worked as an actor, administrator, scientist, geologist, botanist, and philosopher. He influenced many 19th century writers and thinkers. His contributions to science include his work in botany and his "Theory of Colours". Famous lines from his books are often quoted, and some of his phrases have become part of the German language. His poems were set to music by composers like Schubert, Schumann, Brahms, Wolf, and Strauss. Most of his scientific work now seems old-fashioned. 
Goethe was born in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. His father was well-educated and very strict. His mother was only eighteen when he was born. When Goethe was a young boy, he began to write stories and plays for his friends. In his youth, he learned Greek, Latin and French. He studied law in Leipzig from 1765 to 1768. He also wrote some letters that are seen as beautiful, and that showed his promise as a writer. He continued his studies in Strasbourg from 1770 to 1771. He joined other young men who wanted to change the way that Germans were writing. He thought that people like Johann Christoph Gottsched were too strict about writing poetry. Instead of the ideas of the Enlightenment, he wanted poets to be creative and make their own rules.
One man who had many new ideas was a poet named Johann Gottfried von Herder. Herder liked the plays of Shakespeare (which he had learned in German) as well as folk poetry. These ideas were exciting for Goethe, and he helped Herder to collect folk poetry. Both men believed that poetry should always come from the heart, and that it should be based on the poet’s experiences instead of on an old-fashioned idea of what a good poem should be. Some of Goethe's best known poems were written during this time, like "Heidenröslein", "Der König in Thule", and "Erlkönig."
Goethe fell in love with several women during his lifetime. During the early period of his life, he was in love with a girl named Friederike Brion, the daughter of a pastor. Several of his poems are inspired by her. He felt extremely sad when they split up. The feeling of desertion by a lover is found in a lot of Goethe’s works. They are all based on his own experience. His disappointment in love inspired him when writing about Werther in "Die Leiden des jungen Werthers" and Gretchen in his great play "Faust". His poems also show his ideas about science and philosophy.
"Die Leiden des jungen Werthers" ("The Sufferings of Young Werther") is a book written in the form of letters. Werther is a young man who falls passionately in love with a girl called Lotte who is married to someone else. Werther kills himself in the end. The book was very successful all over Europe. People talked about “Werther fever.” Many young men who were disappointed in love copied Werther and killed themselves.
Goethe’s most famous work is a very long play called "Faust". He spent most of his life working at it. He was writing the first version of "Faust" at this time. Based on a legendary character, it tells of a man called Faust who is tired of studying and wants to have the greatest possible happiness. The devil (called Mephistopheles in the play) tells Faust he can help him to do this, but that in the end Faust must give him his soul and go with him to hell. Faust uses magic in the hope that it will tell him everything about life.
Along with writing, Goethe was developing a career in law. In 1772, he spent four months in Wetzlar at the Imperial Law Courts. Here he made new friends, including a young girl who was already engaged to someone else.
Goethe had been well-educated and was good at organizing and getting on with important people. For eleven years he worked at the court of Weimar for a young Duke called Karl August. He became a member and later the president of the Duke’s cabinet. He had to organize road-building projects, and look after parks and buildings. He studied geology, mineralogy, botany and anatomy. He fell in love with a woman called Charlotte von Stein who was married and had several children. He wrote love letters to her, and she inspired him to write many poems. At this time he felt that a man’s task in life was to be useful. The heroes of his books at this time were often ordinary people instead of geniuses. 
After a time he realized that all his work on governmental duties were not giving him time for his writing, so he went to Italy for 18 months. He loved the landscape and made lots of sketches, and he read the ancient poets and books on the history of art. He wrote a play in rhyme called "Iphigenie auf Tauris" which combines the beauty of Classicism with great poetry.
When he returned from Italy he settled once more in Weimar. He visited Italy a second time. He became great friends with the famous poet and playwright Friedrich Schiller. The two men talked about many of their ideas and helped one another by offering criticism of their works. He wrote short works such as "Hermann und Dorothea" which is about life in a small German town at the time of the French Revolution. 
Two works of the greatest importance works occupied him at this time. One is the novel "Wilhelm Meisters Lehrjahre". This is an example of what is called in German a “Bildungsroman” which means something like “Education novel”. It means a novel which shows a person growing up and developing his character and learning about the world. This book was a very important influence on the 19th century Romantic novel and on all German autobiographical novels ever since. Goethe spent many years working on this book.
The second work of enormous importance was his play "Faust". He made changes to the original version, putting all the small bits together into one great play. Schiller gave him advice while he was writing it. Faust enters into a pact with the devil, Mephistopheles who promises him all his soul can wish for: fine living, gold, women and honour. He signs the pact with his blood.
Napoleon was fighting wars all over Europe at this time. Germany, which was still made up of lots of small countries, was an enemy of France. Goethe always thought of Napoleon as a hero. His ideas about politics were still based on 18th century ideas. He hated war and so he did not take part in politics but concentrated on science and literature. He wrote a book called "Die Wahlverwandtschaften" ("Elective Affinities") which is about a divorce problem. Some of his scientific ideas are used in the story as he talks about the way that two chemical compounds can break up and form new unions. He compares this to the people in his story. His poems in "Westöstlicher Divan" are some of his greatest. He uses ideas from Persia and other Eastern countries together with ideas from the West. It has a lot of parables about human life.
Many interesting things that Goethe said were written down in a book by his friend Eckermann, who published them in a book called "Conversations with Goethe". Goethe also wrote about his own life in his autobiography which he called "Dichtung und Wahrheit" ("Poetry and Truth"). The book tells us about his youth up to the time of his arrival in Weimar. It is in four parts. The fourth part was published after his death. He chose the title to show that he was telling us the truth about his life, but that he had changed the order of some events to make it into a poetic book.
Goethe wrote a sequel (a part which follows on) to "Wilhelm Meister" called "Wilhelm Meisters Wanderjahre" ("The Years of Wilhelm Meister’s Wanderings"). It consists of several sections which are like separate stories. They tell us about Wilhelm Meister’s relationship with society and how he has to change his ways to fit in with other people.
Goethe’s "Faust" had made him the greatest person in European literature. At the end of his life he finished a second part of "Faust". It is quite hard to read, and is more of a long poem than a dramatic play. It talks of his ideas about allegory, science and philosophy.
Goethe died in Weimar on March 22, 1832. He had started as a great Classical writer of the 18th century and finished as a young Romantic of the 19th century. No one else had such a big influence on art and literature of that time.

</doc>
<doc id="5127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5127" title="Pythagoras">
Pythagoras

Pythagoras of Samos was a famous Greek mathematician and philosopher ( ). He is known best for the proof of the important Pythagorean theorem, which is about right triangles. He started a group of mathematicians, called the Pythagoreans, who worshiped numbers and lived like monks. He was an influence for Plato.
He had a great impact on mathematics, theory of music and astronomy. His theories are still used in mathematics today. He was one of the greatest thinkers of his time.
Pythagoras was born in Samos, a little island off the western coast of Asia Minor. There is not much information about his life. He was said to have had a good childhood. Growing up with two or three brothers, he was well educated. He did not agree with the government and their schooling, so he moved to Croton and set up his own cult (little society) of followers under his rule. His followers did not have any personal possessions, and they were all vegetarians. Pythagoras taught them all, and they had to obey strict rules.
Some say he was the first person to use the term philosophy. Since he worked very closely with his group, the Pythagoreans, it is sometimes hard to tell his works from those of his followers.
Religion was important to the Pythagoreans. They swore their oaths by "1+2+3+4" (which equals 10). They also believed the soul is immortal and goes through a cycle of rebirths until it can become pure. They believed that these souls were in both animal and plant life.
Pythagoras' most important belief was that the physical world was mathematical and that numbers were the real reality.
Pythagoras is most famous for his theorem to do with right triangles. He said that the length of the longest side of the right angled triangle called the hypotenuse (C) squared would equal the area of the other sides squared. And so (a x a) + (b x b) = (c x c) was born. There are many different proofs for this Pythagorean theorem.

</doc>
<doc id="5128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5128" title="Socrates">
Socrates

Socrates (469 BC – 399 BC) was one of the greatest Greek philosophers. He did not propose any specific knowledge or policy. He showed how argument, debate, and discussion could help men to understand difficult issues. Most of the issues he dealt with were only political on the surface. Underneath, they were moral questions about how life should be lived. Such is the influence of Socrates that philosophers before him are called the Presocratic philosophers.
Socrates made enemies, three of whom brought charges against him. Socrates was tried for his life in 399 BC, found guilty, and put to death by drinking hemlock (a herbal poison). The story of his trial and death is the subject of a tract by Plato which is called the "Apologia".
Most of what we know about Socrates comes from the works of Plato, who was his pupil. Socrates lived in the Greek city of Athens. His method of teaching was to have a dialogue with individual students. They would propose some point of view, and Socrates would question them, asking what they meant. He would pretend "I don't know anything; I'm just trying to understand what it is you are saying", or words to that effect. This is now called the Socratic method of teaching.
Socrates is sometimes called the "father of Western philosophy". This is because in the discussions he uncovered some of the most basic questions in philosophy, questions which are still discussed today. Some of the people he taught came to be important and successful, like Plato and Alcibiades.
Socrates never wrote anything. All of what we know about Socrates is from what other people wrote about him. Our main source of what we know about Socrates is from the writings of his student, Plato. Some of Plato's dialogues, such as the "Crito" and the "Phaedo", are loosely based on fact. They are not written records, but artistic re-creation of Socrates in action.
Another of Socrates' students, Xenophon also wrote about Socrates. Aristophanes, a person who wrote brilliant satirical comedies, wrote about him in play called "The Clouds". Socrates was an easy target for satire. He walked barefoot, and with a swagger. Sometimes he stood in a trance for hours. In "The Clouds" Socrates is a crazy person who tries to scam people out of their money. Plato wrote that Socrates taught for free.
We do not know if Plato's description of Socrates is accurate or not. That is called the 'Socratic problem'. While a lot of what Plato wrote about Socrates is accepted by historians, some believe that Plato (who saw Socrates as a hero) portrayed Socrates as a greater man than he actually was. Some think that Plato was using the character of Socrates as a tool to express his own opinions rather than to accurately write about Socrates. This is what makes Socrates such a mysterious historical figure. Plato's dialogues are works of art, finely written. The general view is that they are based on reality, but no doubt adjusted for the purpose of writing.
Socrates' father was a sculptor, and his mother was a midwife who helped women give birth to children. He may have been a stonemason like his father, and Plato wrote that he served in the Athenian army as a hoplite (heavy infantry). We know he was influenced by an older philosopher, Archelaus, and that he talked with anyone who had interesting ideas in Athens, but beyond that nothing is known.
Socrates was about 50 when he married a much younger woman, Xanthippe. They had three children together. Socrates made complaints about his wife, but no one knew if he was telling the truth.
It is said that one of Socrates' friends went to ask the oracle at Delphi if there was anyone wiser than Socrates in Athens. The oracle said that there was no wiser person. The oracle was well known for saying things that were ambiguous or unclear. It did not say that Socrates was the wisest, just that there was no person wiser.
After being puzzled by this, Socrates finally decided that his wisdom lay in knowing that he was ignorant. His attempts to show the citizens that some of their ideas were nonsense might help explain his unpopularity. In Plato's works, Socrates says he knows nothing, but can draw out other people's ideas just as his mother helped other women to give birth.
In 399 BC, when Socrates was an old man, three citizens—Meletus, Anytus and Lycon—brought charges against Socrates. A trial was held. In ancient Athens the procedure was quite different from the present day. There was a jury of 500 men drawn from the citizens. Both the accusers and the defendant had to make speeches in person to the jury. Guilt or innocence was by majority vote. There was no preset penalty if the verdict was 'guilty'. Both the accuser and the defendant would make speeches proposing what the penalty should be. Again, a vote was taken.
There were two charges against him. The general theme was that Socrates was a menace to society. The first charge was of heresy, disbelief in the Gods. It was probably meant to cause prejudice amongst the jurymen. Actually, Socrates observed all the correct procedures of the religion of his times. The charge had been used successfully against another philosopher, Anaxagoras.
The second charge was that he corrupted the youth with his teachings. What was meant by this? Apparently, this was not about his personal relationship with his pupils. It was about the way he was thought to influence their political views. His circle had included a number of right-wing aristocrats whose ideas were now rejected by most citizens. The brilliant Alcibiades, once a great leader of Athens, was now seen as a traitor.
Crito, a friend of Socrates, illegally paid the prison guards to allow Socrates to escape. Socrates, however, decided not to escape. When Socrates was put on trial, he gave a long speech to defend himself against the claims made by the Athens government.
We have Plato's version of how Socrates defended himself, in the "Apologia". It starts:
When Socrates was asked to propose his punishment, Socrates said that the government should give him free dinners for the rest of his life for all the good that he did for society. The court held a vote between giving Socrates a fine to pay or putting him to death. The verdict was that Socrates was to be put to death.
Socrates did not fear death. He did not try to avoid death by apologizing for his actions because he thought it was morally right to stand by his principles. Socrates was ordered to drink a cup of hemlock (a poisonous liquid got from the plant). He drank it and died soon after.
There are several dialogues by Plato which deal directly with the trial of Socrates and the period up to his death. They are, in order of the events:
Socrates helped people to see what was wrong with their ideas. Sometimes they liked this, sometimes they were not happy or grateful. He said that he, Socrates, was not wise, but that he "knew that he knew nothing." Since other people think they know something, but no one really knows anything, Socrates claimed he knew more than anyone else. He said that people who do bad things do so because they do not know any better.
People think that Socrates was a good man because he did no harm, except he asked questions about everything. However, during his life many people thought he was a bad person, because he asked those questions and because he made young people unhappy about their lives.
Someone once wrote that Socrates said that "A life that was not examined was not worth living". This means that someone must think about their own life and its purpose. Some people believe that most humans are happier if they do not think too much about their life.
Socrates also taught that many people can look at something and not truly see it. He asked questions about the meaning of life and goodness. These are still very important questions. Much of philosophy (love of wisdom) is about these things.
Socrates is seen by some people as a martyr, since he willingly died to support the idea that knowledge and wisdom are very important to our lives.
Socrates is known as one of the most important philosophers in history. He is often described as the father of Western philosophy. He did not start Western philosophy, but he had a big influence on it. Before Socrates, philosophy was mainly about mathematics and answering questions about our natural world. Socrates expanded on that and added questions about ethics, politics, and epistemology to philosophy.

</doc>
<doc id="5129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5129" title="Dante Alighieri">
Dante Alighieri

Dante Alighieri, or simply Dante ( May 14/ June 13, 1265 – September 14, 1321), was an Italian poet from Florence. His central work, the "Commedia" ("Divine Comedy"), is considered the greatest literary work composed in the Italian language and a masterpiece of world literature. In Italian he is known as "the Supreme Poet" ("il Sommo Poeta"). Dante and the "Divine Comedy" have been a source of inspiration for artists for almost seven centuries. Dante, with Petrarch and Boccaccio are also known as "the three fountains". Dante is also called "the Father of the Italian language". The first biography written on him was by his contemporary Giovanni Villani. The most famous section in "La Divina Commedia" is the first third of it, the first 34 cantos of the poem, called "Inferno", which is Dante's vision of hell.
Dante Alighieri was born in 1265, between May 14 and June 13, under the name "Durante Alighieri." ca. 1450 (Uffizi Gallery). His family was important in Florence, and supported the Papacy.
The poet's mother was Bella degli Abati. She died when Dante was seven years old, and Alighiero soon married again, to Lapa di Chiarissimo Cialuffi. Lapa had two children, Dante's brother Francesco and sister "Tana" ( short version of "Gaetana").
Dante fought in the front of the Guelph troops in the battle of Campaldino (June 11, 1289). After the victory Dante gained an important part in public life.
When Dante was 12, in 1277, he married Gemma di Manetto Donati. Dante had already fallen in love with another girl, Beatrice Portinari that is mentioned same in "Divine Comedy", (known also as Bice). Years after Dante's marriage to Gemma he met Beatrice again. He had become interested in writing poems.
Dante had six children with Gemma: Jacopo, Pietro, Giovanni, Gabrielle Alighieri, and Antonia.
Not much is known about Dante's education, and it is presumed he studied at home. It is known that he studied Tuscan poetry. His interests brought him to discover the Occitan poetry of the troubadours and the Latin poetry of classical antiquity (with a particular devotion to Virgil).
At 18, Dante met Guido Cavalcanti, Lapo Gianni, Cino da Pistoia, and soon after Brunetto Latini; together they became the leaders of "Dolce Stil Novo" ("The Sweet New Style"). Brunetto later received a special mention in the "Divine Comedy" ("Inferno", XV, 28), for what he had taught Dante.
According to his work, "La Vita Nuova", when he was nine years old he met Beatrice Portinari, daughter of Folco Portinari, with whom he fell in love "at first sight", and apparently without even having spoken to her. He saw her frequently after age 18, often exchanging greetings in the street, but he never knew her well—he effectively set the example for the so-called "courtly love". Dante gave his imprint to the Stil Novo. Love for Beatrice (as in a different manner Petrarch would show for his Laura) would apparently be the reason for poetry and for living, together with political passions. In many of his poems, she appears such as semi-divine, watching over him constantly.
When Beatrice died in 1290, Dante tried to find "help" in Latin literature.
He then dedicated himself to philosophical studies at religious schools like the Dominican one in Santa Maria Novella. This "excessive" passion for philosophy would later be criticized by the character Beatrice, in "Purgatorio", the second book of the "Divine Comedy".
Boniface quickly dismissed the other delegates and asked Dante alone to remain in Rome. At the same time (November 1, 1301), Charles de Valois entered Florence with Black Guelphs, who in the next six days destroyed much of the city and killed many of their enemies. A new Black Guelph government was installed and Messer Cante dei Gabrielli di Gubbio was appointed "Podestà" of Florence. Dante was put in exile for two years, and ordered to pay a large hill of money. 
Dante did not pay the money, in part because he believed he was not guilty, and in part because all his needs in Florence had been stolen by the Black Guelphs. He was condemned to exile for life, and if he returned to Florence without paying the money, he could be burned at the stake.
In exile he began searching the foundation for the "Divine Comedy", a work in 100 cantos, divided into three books of thirty-three cantos each, with a single introductory canto.
He went to Verona as a guest of Bartolomeo I della Scala, then moved to Sarzana in Liguria. Later, he is supposed to have lived in Lucca with Madame Gentucca. Some not sure sources say that he was also in Paris between 1308 and 1310. 
In 1310, the Holy Roman Emperor Henry VII of Luxembourg, marched 5,000 troops into Italy. Dante saw in him a new Charlemagne who would restore the office of the Holy Roman Emperor for re-take Florence from the Black Guelphs. He wrote to Henry and several Italian princes, demanding that they destroy the Black Guelphs. Mixing religion and private concerns, he invoked the worst anger of God against his city, suggesting several particular targets that coincided with his personal enemies. It was during this time that he wrote the first two books of the "Divine Comedy".
When Dante died at Ravenna, the custodians of the body at Ravenna put the bones in a false wall of the monastery. Nevertheless, in 1829, a tomb was built for him in Florence in the basilica of Santa Croce. That tomb has been empty ever since, with Dante's body remaining in Ravenna, far from the land he loved so dearly. The front of his tomb in Florence reads "Onorate l'altissimo poeta" – which roughly translates as "Honour the most exalted poet". 

</doc>
<doc id="5130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5130" title="Virginia Woolf">
Virginia Woolf

Virginia Woolf (25 January 1882 – 28 March 1941) was an English writer, essayist and feminist.
She was born into a well-known family. Her father, Leslie Stephen, was a Victorian scholar. Her mother, born in India, was a favourite model of the Preraphaelite artists. Her sister, Vanessa Bell, was a painter. She had two brothers; one of them, Thoby, died in 1906.
Her mother died when she was thirteen and four years later her half-sister Stella died. In these times Virginia started to have her psychological problems. She had bipolar disorder in the time when few people knew this illness and most thought she was strange.
After the death of her mother, Leslie Stephen was not able to keep good relations in the family. Virginia and her sister Vanessa were sexually abused by their half-brothers George and Gerald. It affected Virginia for the rest of her life.
In their childhood, all the Stephens children were writing their diaries, but only Virginia kept write it for the whole life (and after her death, lots of them were published). It was important for her when she was sexually abused, because there was no one with whom she could talk about it. In the diary, she could write everything.
After her father's death, Virginia and her brothers and sister moved to Bloomsbury, London and there they became members of the famous group of the artists called Bloomsbury Group. Here Virginia met writer Leonard Woolf (1880-1969), whom she was married to from 1912 until her death. Together, they moved to Richmond, where they opened a publishing office called Hogarth House Press, which later published all Virginia's novels and essays.
She was bisexual. When she was a teenager, she fell in love with Violet Dickinson and she wrote her lots of love letters. Violet probably never loved her. Later, Virginia had a sexual relationship with Vita Sackville-West, a writer and a poet. Their letters, which have been published, are showing us how deeply they were in love.
Her most famous novels are "Mrs Dalloway" and "To the Lighthouse". She completed "Mrs Dalloway" in 1925. It is about one day of an English woman called Clarissa Dalloway. Clarissa is making a party and all the day she is preparing it. The story can seem stupid, but it is not so important in the book. More important are the feelings, the colours or the mood of it.
"To the Lighthouse" was published in 1927 for the first time. It is about a family of Ramsays and its friends. These people are altogether spending a summer in Ramsay's house on an island. The youngest of Ramsays children, James, wants to go to the lighthouse, but they can't go there because of bad weather. In the next part of the book, James is ten years older and his father is taking him to the lighthouse, although he doesn't want to go there anymore.
Virginia Woolf is also an author of these novels: "Jacob's Room" (1923), "Orlando" (1928) and "The Waves" (1931). She was a feminist and she wrote a few essays about women's position in the society, for example "The Room of One's Own" and "Three Guineas".
She died on 28 March 1941. She committed suicide by drowning in the river Ouse in Sussex.
In 1998, American writer Michael Cunningham wrote a novel in which she appeared, called "The Hours" (a winner of the Pulitzer award), which is best known because of the "same named movie", in which the role of Virginia was played by actress Nicole Kidman. Kidman won an Oscar for her performance.
Rather better known is "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf", in which her name is used as a catch-phrase by the lead couple. This was a play, and then a film starring Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton. The film won five Academy Awards.

</doc>
<doc id="5131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5131" title="March 28">
March 28


</doc>
<doc id="5132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5132" title="January 25">
January 25


</doc>
<doc id="5133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5133" title="Jane Austen">
Jane Austen

Jane Austen (16 December 1775 – 18 July 1817) was an English novelist. She wrote many books of romantic fiction about the gentry. Her works made her one of the most famous and beloved writers in English literature. She is one of the great masters of the English novel.
Austen's works criticized sentimental novels in the late 18th century, and are part of the change to nineteenth-century realism. She wrote about typical people in everyday life. This gave the English novel its first distinctly modern character. Austen's stories are often comic, but they also show how women depended on marriage for social standing and economic security. Her works are also about moral problems.
Jane Austen was born on 16 December 1775 at Steventon, near Basingstoke. Educated mostly by her father and older brothers, and also by her own reading, she lived with her family at Steventon. They moved to Bath when her father retired in 1801. After he died in 1805, she moved around with her mother. In 1809, they settled in Chawton, near Alton, Hampshire. In May 1817 she moved to Winchester to be near her doctor. She died there on 18 July 1817.
Jane Austen was very modest about her own genius. She once famously described her work as "the little bit (two Inches wide) of Ivory, on which I work with so fine a brush, as produces little effect after much labor". When she was a girl she wrote stories. Her works were printed only after much revision. Only four of her novels were printed while she was alive. They were "Sense and Sensibility" (1811), "Pride and Prejudice" (1813), "Mansfield Park" (1814) and "Emma" (1816). Two other novels, "Northanger Abbey" and "Persuasion", were printed in 1817 with a biographical notice by her brother, Henry Austen. "Persuasion" was written shortly before her death. She also wrote two earlier works, "Lady Susan", and an unfinished novel, "The Watsons". She had been working on a new novel, "Sanditon", but she died before she could finish it.
Biographical facts about Jane Austen are "famously scarce" (few). Only a few letters remain (it is estimated that only 160 out of Austen's 3,000 letters survive). Her sister Cassandra (to whom most of the letters were written) burned "the greater part" of the ones she kept. The letters she did not destroy she censored. Other letters were destroyed by the heirs of Admiral Francis Austen, Jane's brother. Most of the biographies written about her for 50 years after she died was by her relatives, who often described her as "good quiet Aunt Jane". Scholars have not been able to find much information after that.
Austen's parents, George Austen (1731–1805), and his wife, Cassandra (1739–1827), were both part of the gentry. Cassandra was a part of the important Leigh family. George Austen, however, was of a lower class of society. He had first met Cassandra at Oxford, while she was meeting her uncle Theophilus. George and Cassandra married on 26 April 1764 at Walcot Church in Bath.
Austen had a large family. She had six brothers—James (1765–1819), George (1766–1838), Edward (1767–1852), Henry Thomas (1771–1850), Francis William (Frank) (1774–1865), Charles John (1779–1852)—and one sister, Cassandra Elizabeth (1773–1845), who died without marrying. Jane deeply loved Cassandra, and they were both best friends. Of her brothers, Austen was most close to Henry, who helped spread and influence her writing. "Oh, what a Henry!" she once wrote. George was almost ten years older than Jane. He suffered from fits and was not able to develop normally. His father wrote of him, "We have this comfort, he cannot be a bad or a wicked child". He may also have been deaf and mute. Jane knew sign language (she mentioned talking "with my fingers" in a letter) and could have communicated with him. Charles and Frank served in the navy. Edward was adopted by his fourth cousin, Thomas Knight. He became "Edward Knight" instead of Edward Austen in 1812.
Austen was born on 16 December 1775 at Steventon rectory. She was christened in public on 5 April 1776. A few months after she was born, her mother hired a woman named Elizabeth Littlewood to nurse her. Littlewood took care of Austen for about a year. According to family tradition, Jane and Cassandra were sent to Oxford to be educated by Mrs. Ann Crawley in 1783. They moved with her to Southampton later in the year. Both girls caught typhus and Jane almost died. After that, Austen was educated at home until she went to boarding school with Cassandra early in 1785. She learned some French, spelling, needlework, dancing,music, and probably drama. In the winter of 1786, Jane and Cassandra went back home because their family was not rich enough to send both of their daughters to school. Austen then studied English at Bristol University. She stayed in Manor Hall in Clifton at that time.
Austen also learned much by reading books. Her father and brothers helped choose the books she read. George Austen seemed to have let his daughters read the books in his large library freely. He also allowed Austen's experiments in writing, and gave her costly paper and other writing materials.
Jane Austen and her family also enjoyed acting out plays privately. Most of the plays were comedies. This might have been a way for Austen's comedic and satirical talents to develop.
Perhaps from as early as 1787, Austen began writing poems, short stories, and plays for fun. Austen later put together "fair copies" of 29 of these early works into three notebooks. They are now called the "Juvenilia". It has pieces which were first written down between 1787 and 1793. Jane Austen had arranged her writing during this time into three volumes, namely "Volume the First", "Volume the Second" and "Volume the Third". There is some proof that Austen continued to work on these pieces later in life. Her nephew and niece, James Edward and Anna Austen, may have made further additions to her work in around 1814. In these works were included "Love and Freindship" which was completed in 1790 and "Lesley Castle" which was completed in 1792. In "Love and Freindship", she laughed at popular sentimental novels. She also wrote "The History of England", which had 13 watercolour pictures by her sister Cassandra inside it.
Jane Austen started to feel increasingly unwell during 1816, which was the year when her novel "'Persuasion' "was published. On 24 May 1817, she moved to Winchester in search for a cure to her illness. She died on 18 July 1817, aged 41. Although there is no conclusive evidence to prove the cause of her death, it seems likely that it was Addison's disease that killed her. She was buried in Winchester Cathedral on 24 July 1817.
Biographies
Essay collections
Monographs and articles
Online works

</doc>
<doc id="5134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5134" title="Charlotte Brontë">
Charlotte Brontë

Charlotte Brontë (21 April 1816 – 31 March 1855) was an English novelist and poet. 
She first published her works, including "Jane Eyre", under the pseudonym (false name) of Currer Bell. In 1846, Charlotte encouraged her sisters to print "Poems by Currer, Ellis, and Acton Bell". They did not sell well. Her first novel, "The Professor", was rejected by many publishers. It was not printed until 1857. She is famous for her novel "Jane Eyre" (1847), which was very popular when it was printed. 
"Jane Eyre" was a strong story of a plain, brave, clever woman struggling with her passions, reasons, and social condition. She later wrote the books "Shirley" (1849) and "Villette" (1853). She lived longer than her sisters, but she was only 38 when she died in pregnancy.
Charlotte Brontë was the third child of Patrick Brontë (formerly "Patrick Brunty"), an Irish Anglican clergyman, and his wife, Maria née Branwell. In April 1821, the family moved a few miles to Haworth. Patrick had been appointed Perpetual Curate there. Maria Branwell Brontë died of cancer on 15 September 1821. She left her five daughters and a son to be looked after by her sister Elizabeth Branwell. 
In August 1824, Charlotte was sent with three of her sisters to the Clergy Daughters' School at Cowan Bridge in Lancashire. She described it as Lowood School in her novel "Jane Eyre". The sisters were Emily, Maria and Elizabeth. The poor conditions of the school permanently affected Charlotte's health according to her. She thought it led to the early deaths of her two elder sisters, Maria (born 1814) and Elizabeth (born 1815). They died of tuberculosis in June 1825 soon after their father took them from the school on 1 June.
At home in Haworth Parsonage, Charlotte and the other living children (Branwell, Emily and Anne) began writing about the lives and struggles of the dwellers of their imaginary kingdoms. Charlotte and Branwell wrote Byronic stories about their country — Angria — Emily and Anne wrote articles and poems about theirs Gondal.
Charlotte went to school at Roe Head, Mirfield, from 1831 to 1832. There she met her lifelong friends, Ellen Nussey and Mary Taylor. In 1833 she wrote her novella "The Green Dwarf" under the name of Wellesley. Charlotte returned as a teacher from 1835 to 1838. In 1839 she became a governess to various families in Yorkshire, a career she had until 1841. 
In 1842 she and Emily travelled to Brussels to enroll in a pensionnat (boarding school) run by Constantin Heger (1809 – 1896) and his wife Claire Zoé Parent Heger (1814 – 1891). In return for this, Charlotte taught English and Emily taught music. Their time at the pensionnat was cut short when Elizabeth Branwell, their aunt, died in October 1842. Charlotte returned alone to Brussels in January 1843 to be a teacher at the pensionnat. This stay was not happy. She became lonely, homesick and deeply attached to Constantin Heger. She finally returned to Haworth in January 1844 and later used her time at the pensionnat as the inspiration for some of "The Professor" and "Villette".

</doc>
<doc id="5135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5135" title="Emily Brontë">
Emily Brontë

Emily Brontë (born July 30, 1818 in Thornton, Yorkshire, England - December 19, 1848) was an English author and poet. Her most famous book is "Wuthering Heights". Brontë had two sisters, Charlotte and Anne, who were also writers. She attended Cowan School with her sister Charlotte.
Brontë died of tuberculosis in Haworth.
The sisters of Emily Brontë:
 The books of Emily Brontë:

</doc>
<doc id="5136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5136" title="Anne Brontë">
Anne Brontë

Anne Brontë (17 January 1820 – 28 May 1849) was an English writer and poet. She is best known for writing "Agnes Grey" (1847) and "The Tenant of Wildfell Hall" (1848).
Anne was born on 17 January 1820 in Thornton, Yorkshire, England. She was the daughter of Patrick and Marie Brontë and the youngest of their six children. She was taught at her family's home in Haworth by her aunt Elizabeth Branwell. She worked as a governess in 1839 and then again between 1841 and 1845.
In 1846 Anne contributed 21 poems to "Poems by Currer, Ellis and Acton Bell". This was a joint work with her sisters, Charlotte and Emily. "Agnes Grey" was published in 1847 in three volumes with "Wuthering Heights", a book written by her sister Emily. "The Tenant of Wildfell Hall" was published in 1848 and sold well.
Anne Brontë died on 28 May 1849 in Scarborough, Yorkshire, England of tuberculosis.
The sisters of Anne Brontë:
The books of Anne Brontë:

</doc>
<doc id="5137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5137" title="Charles Dickens">
Charles Dickens

Charles Dickens (7 February 1812—9 June 1870) was one of the great English writers of the 19th century. 
Charles Dickens was born in Portsmouth, England. His parents were John Dickens (1785-1851), a naval pay clerk, and Elizabeth Barow (1789–1863).
When Charles was ten years old, his family moved to Camden, London. He worked in a blacking factory there while his father was in prison for debt. Dickens's hard times in the factory served as a foundation of ideas for many of his novels. Many like "Oliver Twist" soon became famous. When his great-grandmother died and transmitted money, Charles' father paid off his debts and was released from prison. Charles did not like working and wished to stop working after his father was released. However, his mother said that the family needed the money so Charles was forced to continue working. Charles then finished his schooling, and got a job as an office boy for an attorney. After finding that job dull, he taught himself shorthand and became a journalist that reported on the government. Dickens was a Unitarian.
His first book was "Sketches by Boz" in 1836, a collection of the short pieces he had been writing for the Monthly Magazine and the Evening Chronicle. This was followed by "The Posthumous Papers of the Pickwick Club" in 1837. Both these books became popular as soon as they were printed.
Charles Dickens died of a stroke on June 9, 1870. He was buried in Poet's Corner in Westminster Abbey.
The books Charles Dickens has written including: 
He also wrote one Christmas book:

</doc>
<doc id="5138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5138" title="Portsmouth">
Portsmouth

Portsmouth is a city in the south of England, in the county of Hampshire. About 209,085 people live there. It is a port and is the home of the British Royal Navy (the "navy" is the army of the sea). It's the second-largest city in the county of Hampshire, behind Southampton. It is one of the most densely populated cities in Europe.
Situated on Portsea Island and narrowly separated from the mainland by a creek, the city is most famous for the HMS Victory and the HMS Warrior, which are ships. People also visit Portsmouth to see the old ship Mary Rose. This was Henry VIII of England's ship, and it was under the water for a long time, from 1545 to 1982. Tourists also go to see Cumberland House, the birth place of Charles Dickens, a British author (writer).
Charles Dickens, Rudyard Kipling and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, all British authors, are famous people who lived in Portsmouth.
It is home of the Football League Two side Portsmouth F.C. They play at Fratton Park.
Portsmouth has one university, the University of Portsmouth.
North of the city is Cosham.

</doc>
<doc id="5139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5139" title="HMS Victory">
HMS Victory

HMS "Victory" is the oldest ship still in use. It is in Portsmouth, England with the HMS "Warrior" and the remains of the "Mary Rose", a ship belonging to Henry VIII of England. 
Her most famous captains are Horatio Nelson, who died on the ship during the Battle of Trafalgar, and Samuel Hood.

</doc>
<doc id="5142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5142" title="HMS Warrior">
HMS Warrior

HMS "Warrior" was the first battleship which was made with a hull made of iron. It is in Portsmouth, England with the HMS "Victory" and the remains of the "Mary Rose", a ship belonging to Henry VIII of England.

</doc>
<doc id="5143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5143" title="Mary Rose">
Mary Rose

The Mary Rose was a ship which belonged to Henry VIII of England. She sank in 1545 in battle with a French fleet.
In 1979, the "Mary Rose" Trust was formed. In 1982 the "Mary Rose" Trust managed to get the "Mary Rose" out of the sea. In 1994, they started to preserve her. 
The remains of the "Mary Rose" are currently in Portsmouth, England with the HMS "Victory" and HMS "Warrior".
It is not known the exact reason for the sinking. One of the theories is that she had the gun ports open to fire at the French. She then turned to fire at the other side, but the men on board failed to close the gun ports. Sea water got in the open gun ports, which tipped her over and she sank. 
The "Mary Rose" sank because the wind blew and tipped her over. 

</doc>
<doc id="5144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5144" title="Mary Tudor">
Mary Tudor

The name Mary Tudor can refer to either:

</doc>
<doc id="5147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5147" title="1603">
1603


</doc>
<doc id="5148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5148" title="April 28">
April 28


</doc>
<doc id="5149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5149" title="Mutiny on the Bounty">
Mutiny on the Bounty

The Mutiny on the "Bounty has become a famous story, leading to many books, movies, and songs. The HMS "Bounty was a small, three masted, fully rigged, sailing ship. The "Bounty" became famous when the crew (seamen) mutinied (took over) the ship on 28 April 1789. The captain of the "Bounty" was named William Bligh.
The ship was built in Hull, England in 1784 and was first called "Bethia". In 1787 the ship was rebuilt to carry breadfruit trees. Heat and water were added to the cabins so the trees would survive in cold weather. The British government was hoping the breadfruit trees growing wild in Tahiti could be grown in Jamaica. This would provide cheap food for the slaves working on the sugar farms. The ship was very small - 90 feet 10 inches (27.7 metres) long and 24 feet 4 inches (7.4 metres) wide. The tallest mast was 53 feet (16.1 metres) high.
The "Bounty" was captained by Lieutenant William Bligh and he took command on 16 August 1787. On 23 December, 1787, "Bounty" set off on the long trip to Tahiti. On the journey, William Bligh tried to go around Cape Horn. He tried for over a month but bad weather and winds stopped the ship. The "Bounty" was turned around and went the longer way around the Cape of Good Hope.
The "Bounty" reached Tahiti on 25 October 1788. She had been at sea for ten months. The crew stayed for five months and lived on the island. They collected 1015 breadfruit plants. The crew were very happy living in Tahiti and Fletcher Christian fell in love with a Tahitian girl named Maimiti. They did not want to have another long journey and go back to England.
The "Bounty" left Tahiti on 4 April 1789, on the way to Jamaica. On 28 April, near the Friendly Islands, Fletcher Christian led the mutiny (take over). Bligh and 18 sailors were left at sea in a small boat, while Christian and the "Bounty" went back to Tahiti. Christian and a small group of sailors, 11 Tahitian women, and 6 Tahitian men then went to the remote Pitcairn Island. After they arrived they took everything they could from the ship. A sailor called Matthew Quintal, burned and destroyed the "Bounty" on 23 January 1790.
Pitcairn Island is a remote island in the Pacific Ocean. The Polynesians knew about the island and people had once lived there. There was nobody living on Pitcairn when it was discovered by an English sailor, Philip Carteret on 2 July 1767. He made a mistake and marked it on the map 200 miles from its real location. The people from the "Bounty" had the remote island to themselves. There was a lot of fighting between the new settlers. Fletcher Christian, 4 other mutineers and all 6 of the Tahitian men were killed. One of the 4 surviving mutineers fell off a cliff while drunk. Matthew Quintal was killed by the remaining 2 mutineers after he attacked them. When the American seal-hunting ship "Topaz" visited the island in 1808 they found only 1 mutineer, John Adams, still alive along with 9 Tahitian women. In 1856, the British government moved all the island people to Norfolk Island. Most stayed on Norfolk, but about 22 people found their way back and their descendants still live on Pitcairn. Norfolk has about 1000 "Bounty" descendants, which is about half its population.
Lieutenant William Bligh was able to sail the small boat 6500 km back to Batavia. He returned to England and reported the mutiny to the Admiralty on 15 March 1790. On 7 November 1790, HMS "Pandora" was sent to Tahiti look for the "Bounty" and to bring back the mutineers for punishment. The "Pandora" was able to capture the mutineers left on Tahiti, but could find no sign of the group that was hiding on Pitcairn. The "Pandora" was wrecked on the way back to England.
The following list tells what happened to the crew of the "Bounty".
Two died before the mutiny:
From the 19 left in the small boat, only 12 got back safely to England
One sailor was killed on the trip to Timor:
One sailor died from disease when they reached Timor:
Three sailors died from disease not long after getting to Batavia:
Two sailors died on their way home from Batavia to England:
Seven sailors were forced to stay on the "Bounty" after the mutiny. There was not room in the small boat. They were all taken prisoner in Tahiti by the "Pandora" to be taken back to England to be charged:
Two of the mutineers who stayed on Tahiti died before the "Pandora" arrived:
Three mutineers who were captured by the "Pandora", drowned in the wreck:
Four mutineers survived the wreck and were taken to England for trial:
Only two of the mutineers who went to Pitcairn died peacefully:

</doc>
<doc id="5150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5150" title="1787">
1787


</doc>
<doc id="5151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5151" title="August 16">
August 16


</doc>
<doc id="5152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5152" title="December 23">
December 23


</doc>
<doc id="5153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5153" title="1788">
1788


</doc>
<doc id="5154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5154" title="October 25">
October 25


</doc>
<doc id="5155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5155" title="1789">
1789


</doc>
<doc id="5156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5156" title="April 4">
April 4


</doc>
<doc id="5157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5157" title="May 28">
May 28


</doc>
<doc id="5158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5158" title="Political virtues">
Political virtues

The political virtues were listed by Bernard Crick "In Defense of Politics", 1982. They included but were not limited to: 
take one step, then see its results before taking another
making friends with people you have argued with
giving up some things you want to get those things that are most important to you
people want to have a number of choices that are different from each other
meet the needs of changing times
never be boring
He sees these virtues as a way of avoiding ideology or "absolute-sounding ethic". More virtues will lead to less conflict. None of them can be forced on anyone.
Some other virtues have also been suggested:
humour,
empathy,
initiative
and compassion. "Being brief" or "being positive" are sometimes claimed also to be virtues, but just as many people think they are bad things that only help avoid truth or serious problems.

</doc>
<doc id="5159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5159" title="Lady Jane Grey">
Lady Jane Grey

Lady Jane Grey (1537-1554), also known as 'The Nine Days Queen', was born in London, or at her family home of Bradgate Park, Leicestershire, England.
Jane was an English noblewoman, who occupied the English throne from 10 July until 19 July 1553 and was executed, a common punishment for royal blood, for high treason.
A great-granddaughter of Henry VII by his younger daughter Mary, Jane was a first-cousin-once-removed of Edward VI.
In May 1553, Jane married Lord Guildford Dudley, a younger son of Edward's chief minister, John Dudley, Duke of Northumberland. When the 15-year-old King lay dying in June 1553, he nominated Jane as successor to the Crown in his will, thus subverting the claims of his half-sisters Mary and Elizabeth.
During her short reign, Jane lived in the Tower of London. She became a prisoner there, as the Privy Council decided to change sides and proclaim Mary as queen, on 19 July 1553. Wyatt's rebellion in January and February 1554 against Queen Mary's plans of a Spanish match was the direct cause of Jane's and her husband's execution.
She was the daughter of Henry Grey, Duke of Suffolk, and Lady Frances Brandon (16 July 1517 – 20 November 1559), the daughter of Henry VIII's sister, Mary. She was born on 12 October 1537 and she was probably named after Jane Seymour (c. 1508 or 1509 – 4 October 1537). Jane had two younger sisters, Catherine (b. 1540) and Mary (b. 1545).
Jane's parents were very strict even by the standards of the day. If she made mistakes in her studies or had any other normal troubles, her mother would slap her or beat her. She found she loved her nurse, but otherwise lived a sad childhood.
She told a visiting scholar Roger Ascham: 
"For when I am in the presence of either Father or Mother, whether I speak, keep silence, sit, stand or go, eat, drink, be merry or sad, be sewing, playing, dancing, or doing anything else, I must do it as it were in such weight, measure and number, even so perfectly as God made the world; or else I am so sharply taunted, so cruelly threatened, yes presently sometimes with pinches, nips and bobs and other ways ... that I think myself in hell".
When Jane was nine, she was sent to the royal court to learn etiquette and manners with Henry VIII's sixth wife and eventual widow, Catherine Parr. Jane liked Catherine a great deal and found love with her, which she had not got from her parents. It was clear that Catherine was very fond of Jane in return.
Jane also found friendship with her cousin and future king Edward VI. They often studied together.
Jane was well educated as a child and learned to read in Latin, Greek, French and Italian, as well as English. Later in her life, she also learned Hebrew.
Jane's parents, especially her mother, wanted to gain more political influence. For that reason, they wanted to marry her to someone important. Jane had two sisters, Catherine, born in 1540, and Mary, born in 1545. After her sisters were born, her parents tried to marry Jane to her cousin Edward VI. They went to Catherine Parr's new husband, Thomas Seymour, to try to prepare this royal marriage. It is likely that King Edward loved Jane. However, he decided to arrange a marriage with a foreign princess instead.
In 1548, Jane was sent to Chelsea to be with Catherine Parr and Thomas Seymour. Catherine Parr became pregnant that same year and the family moved to Sudeley Castle in June, taking Jane with them. Tragedy struck when Catherine Parr died while having the baby in August of that year and Jane served as chief mourner in her funeral.
Jane was dealt another blow in 1549 when Thomas Seymour was arrested on charges of treason. She was sent back to her angered parents. They knew that their hopes of her marriage to the king were ruined; they punished her cruelly for this, even though it was not her fault.
In 1551 Jane's mother's two half-brothers died of the Sweating Sickness. Since Frances's father was dead, she became Duchess of Suffolk. Jane's father also became Duke of Suffolk. In the same year John Dudley was made the Duke of Northumberland and the chief councillor to Edward VI.
In April 1552 Edward became sick with the measles and caught tuberculosis as well. By next year, Edward was so ill that he was weak and spitting up blood or something that was greenish-yellow. It was clear that he was going to die soon.
Dudley knew that if either of Edward's half-sisters, Mary or Elizabeth, became queen, he would not be powerful anymore. Dudley plotted with Jane's equally ambitious parents and planned that Jane became his ward, and also that she marry his son, Guildford Dudley. Jane's mother decided to give up her claim to be queen for Jane. This did not mean that Frances was any less greedy, however. This meant that Jane would become Frances and Dudley's puppet and do what they wanted. Now Jane would be the next in line to the throne if the rights of the princesses Mary and Elizabeth were ignored.
When Jane's mother and father told her that Jane was going to get married, Jane refused. She said that Guildford was ugly, stupid, and rude. She also hated John Dudley. When Jane refused, Frances and Henry swore at Jane and slapped her. This did not work, so Frances gave Jane a brutal whipping. Finally, Jane agreed.
The wedding between Jane and Guildford happened on 25 May 1553. This became a triple marriage because Jane's sister, Katherine, was married at this time to Lord Herbert, and Guildford's sister, Katherine, was also married to Lord Hastings.
On 6 July 1553, King Edward VI died. Dudley's plan to make Jane queen was starting to take place. Edward's death was kept secret for a few days until Jane could be proclaimed queen.
Jane was told by her parents and John Dudley that she was queen. She became sick with fright and fainted. She did not want to take the crown.
"The crown is not my right. It pleaseth me not. The Lady Mary is the rightful heir," Jane said. Her parents swore at her and John Dudley told her that she "doth wrong to herself and her house". Under pressure, Jane finally relented. Lady Jane said she never forgave herself for doing this.
Meanwhile, news was spreading the Jane had been proclaimed the new queen. Although the people liked Jane, they loved Mary and Elizabeth more. They also did not like John Dudley. In East Anglia, Mary was gaining support and planning to march into London. Dudley tried to enforce a counter-attack but to no avail. On 19 July Mary became queen. Jane was queen for nine days.
Jane returned all the crown jewels and clothes. She was then brought into the Tower of London. There, she was kept in a cell for the next few months. However, she was allowed to walk in the garden. She wrote many letters and read many books while at the Tower of London. She wrote a letter to Queen Mary saying that she never wanted the crown. 
Queen Mary believed Jane and refused to execute her cousin. Many people pressured Mary, but she was stubborn. She still ordered that a trial be held for traditional purposes. Jane was found guilty but the Queen pardoned her.
However, the next year, 1554, a group of rebels under Thomas Wyatt, including Jane's father Henry Grey, led a rebellion against Queen Mary because she was planning to marry prince Phillip II of Spain. It was quickly put down. Although Jane had nothing to do with it and Mary did not want to kill her cousin, her advisors told her that Phillip would only come if Jane was killed. So, with a heavy heart (sadly), Queen Mary signed the death warrant. Jane was going to be beheaded.
When Jane was told that her head was going to be cut off, she was very scared. Nonetheless, she was happy that her "sad and woeful days" of life were finally coming to an end.
Meanwhile, Mary still did not want to kill her cousin. So, she sent a Catholic priest Dr. Feckenham to try to convert Jane to Catholicism. That way, Jane would not be a threat. Jane was a firm Protestant, and refused to become a Catholic. Jane's execution was postponed from 9 February to 12 February, to try and make her a Catholic. The night before the execution, Jane wrote many letters to her family and prepared her neck for the block. The next morning, her hair was tied back, and she watched Guildford go very unwillingly to the block. Then it was her turn.
On 12 February 1554, at the Tower of London, Jane was sent to the scaffold. She calmly climbed the scaffold and said a speech. She said the Psalm 51 in "the most devout manner". She then knelt by the block and tied a piece of cloth around her eyes.
When the executioner told her to put her head on the block, she reached out but could not find the block since she was very scared. She cried for help until someone grabbed her hands and helped her find the block. Jane then put her neck above the block and slowly lowered it onto the block, pressed her neck against the wood and fit her chin in the hold. Then she brought her arms around her. Before she was executed, she cried out "Lord, into thy hands, I commend my spirit!"
Some say her last words were the name of her much loved husband, Lord Gilbert.
The crowd watched as the executioner raised the axe high in the air. Jane was shivering badly but her neck stayed perfectly still. Then, the executioner quickly swung the axe down perfectly at the middle of Jane's neck, which was severed in a single stroke. Jane's severed head fell to the straw in front of the block while huge amounts of blood splattered across the scaffold. The executioner then grabbed Jane's head by her red hair and lifted it up to show the crowd. He shouted "So perish all the Queen's enemies! Behold the head of a traitor!"
But some sources suggest the fact that it took 3 shots to remove Lady Janes head.
After the crowd left, the blood was removed, and Jane's body was brought to the church St. Peter ad Vincula. Since the church had just become Catholic and Jane was a Protestant, they had to get permission from Queen Mary to bury her. It was four hours until her maids were allowed to prepare her body for burial. Jane's body was buried between former Queens Anne Boleyn and Catherine Howard. It is unknown what happened to her severed head.

</doc>
<doc id="5160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5160" title="Tower of London">
Tower of London

The Tower of London is an ancient Norman stone fortress in London, England. It stands on the bank of the River Thames, in the oldest part of the city.
It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
The fortress was built by William the Conqueror, King William I, starting in 1078. The moat was built by Richard I, using water diverted from the River Thames.
The Tower had many uses. Its main function was to protect Norman rule in the years after the conquest. It was a prison, and a place of execution. Today, the Crown Jewels are kept there. This is the collection of jewels owned by the British state, and sometimes worn by the monarch. There is also a museum of armour.
Only the most important people were executed (by axe) inside the Tower of London. Among the most famous were:
<br>
The Tower of London has a collection of ravens, large black birds of the Crow family. They are taken care of by the staff who work there. The ravens' wing feathers are kept short so they cannot fly away. This is because a legend (story) says that if the ravens leave the Tower, the Tower and the Kingdom will fall.
The closest Underground station to the Tower of London is Tower Hill.

</doc>
<doc id="5161" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5161" title="Anne Boleyn">
Anne Boleyn

Anne Boleyn (1501 or 1507 – 19 May 1536) was the second wife of King Henry VIII of England and queen consort from 1533 until 1536. She was the mother of Elizabeth I of England. Anne has been called "the most influential and important queen consort England has ever had." It was because of Anne Boleyn that Henry VIII divorced Catherine of Aragon, and became independent from the Roman Catholic Church. After she was accused of adultery, incest and high treason, she was executed.
People's opinions of Anne's beauty was different. The Venetian diarist Marino Sanuto described Anne as "not one of the handsomest women in the world; she is of middling , complexion, long neck, wide mouth, bosom not much raised ... eyes, which are black and beautiful". Simon Grynée wrote to Martin Bucer in September 1531 that Anne was "young, good-looking, of a rather dark complexion". Lancelot de Carles called her "beautiful" with a good figure. A Venetian in Paris in 1528 also said that she was beautiful. The most well-known description of Anne was written by the Catholic Nicholas Sanders in 1586. He wrote it several years after Anne died. Even though this is the most famous, it is also probably the least correct description. "Anne Boleyn," he said, "was rather tall ... with black hair, and an oval face of a sallow complexion, as if troubled with jaundice. She had a projecting tooth under the upper lip, and on her right hand six fingers [which historians now say is not true]. There was a large wen under her chin, and therefore to hide its ugliness she wore a high dress covering her throat ... She was handsome to look at, with a pretty mouth." Sanders said that it was because of Anne that Henry went away from the Catholic Church. Sanders' words about Anne made what Eric Ives called the "monster legend" of Anne Boleyn. Anne was also a good dancer. William Forrest, who wrote a modern poem about Catherine of Aragon, praised Anne's dancing. He said she had "passing excellent" skill as a dancer. "Here", he wrote, "was [a] fresh young damsel, that could trip and go."
Little is known for certain about Anne's early life, beginning with the date and location of her birth. She was born in either 1501 or 1507, as one source says she was 20 upon her return from France in 1521, and another that she was not yet 29 at the time of her death in 1536. The location was either Blickling Hall in Norfolk or Hever Castle in Kent. She was the daughter of Sir Thomas Boleyn, a courtier and later a diplomat, and his wife Lady Elizabeth Howard, daughter of the Duke of Norfolk. She had two siblings; a sister Mary and a brother George. 
Anne's early education was the same for girls of her class. Her academic education was limited to arithmetic, her family genealogy, grammar, history, reading, and writing. She had been given a strong upbringing in religion and the Scriptures as the Boleyns were a family of firm religious beliefs. Anne developed domestic skills such as dancing, embroidery, good manners and morals, household management, music, needlework, and singing and excelled in playing several musical instruments including the block flute, the harp, the lute, and the virginals. She learned to play games such as, cards, chess, and dice and outdoor pursuits such as archery, falconry, horseback riding, and hunting. Anne was also taught to have obedience to the men in her life was which first to her father and then to her husband once she was married.
In 1513, she was sent to Margaret of Austria's royal court in the Netherlands to complete her education. Anne learned to speak French and studied art, culture, dance, literature, music, and poetry while she was there. The following year, she was transferred to the French court on the occasion of the marriage of Princess Mary Tudor, younger sister of King Henry VIII, to the French King Louis XII. Anne remained in France after the death of Louis XII and served as a lady-in-waiting to Queen Claude upon the accession of Francis I. In Queen Claude's household, Anne completed her study of French and developed a thorough knowledge of French culture and etiquette. As well as English, French, and some Italian, Anne demonstrated a working knowledge of Latin. She also developed an interest in fashion and religious philosophy that called for reform of the Church. Anne stayed in France until late winter 1521.
Anne was called back to England to marry a distant cousin James Butler, in the hope to settle an inheritance dispute over the Earldom of Ormond. However, when the plan failed, Thomas Boleyn found a place for his daughter at the English court, as lady-in-waiting to Queen Katherine. There, Anne fell in love with Sir Henry Percy, who was the eldest son of the Earl of Northumberland, and they became secretly engaged to be married much to the displeasure of their respective families. Cardinal Wolsey ordered them to be separated. Anne was sent home to Hever Castle and Henry Percy was forced to marry Lady Mary Talbot, the daughter of Edward Talbot, Earl of Shrewsbury. Anne blamed Cardinal Wolsey for her lost love and was determined to have her revenge on him, because he had called her a "foolish girl".
Anne came back to the royal court and soon King Henry fell passionately in love with her. He wanted her to become his mistress, however she categorically refused, which made Henry's desire for her even greater. 
King Henry's marriage to Catherine of Aragon had produced only one daughter, Princess Mary, not thought suitable to rule the country after his death. Henry needed a son to succeed him and to secure the Tudor dynasty, but Catherine was now too old to have children. Henry then came to see Anne as the answer to the problem of the succession, and decided to divorce Catherine, so that he could marry Anne instead and have male heirs. 
He said that the marriage was not valid because Catherine had been married to his older brother Arthur, Prince of Wales before she had married Henry. Arthur had died a few months after the marriage at the age of fifteen, and a special dispensation from the Pope on the ground the marriage had never been consummated was issued so Catherine could marry Henry and the alliance between Spain and England would be kept. King Henry now thought that their marriage should not have been allowed in the first place and that they had been punished by not having any sons. He quoted a verse from the Bible that said "a man may not marry his brother's wife". He said he was doing what he thought was right, even though he still loved Catherine, but his conscience would not allow him to continue living in sin with her. The plans for the divorce caused a lot of gossip at court and abroad and became known as the "King's Great Matter". 
A special court was held, with Wolsey leading it, to decide if the divorce should be allowed. An official from the Pope in Rome was brought over and a trial was held. The official stated that he could not decide what to do. He wanted the Pope to decide instead. The Pope was fearful to offend Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, nephew of Catherine, and what would happen if he allowed the divorce. He did not make a decision. In the meantime, Anne and King Henry were becoming more and more impatient.
After becoming Marquess of Pembroke in her own right, Anne felt secure enough and finally gave in to Henry in late 1532 and soon became pregnant. In order to have a legitimate heir to the throne, this meant that Anne and Henry needed to legalize their union quickly and therefore were secretly married on January 25, 1533, even though the divorce had not come through. 
No longer hoping for the Pope to grant him a divorce, Henry's marriage to Catherine of Aragon was declared illegal in the following May by the newly appointed Archbishop of Canterbury Thomas Cranmer, former chaplain of the Boleyns. Catherine was sent away from court with the title of Dowager Princess of Wales as if she had never been married to Henry. 
Now recognized as Henry's legal wife, Anne was formally crowned Queen of England on June 1, 1533. All that was needed now was the birth of a son and her triumph would be complete. 
Anne gave birth to a daughter, the future Elizabeth I of England, on September 7, 1533. King Henry was very disappointed, after all his troubles, the problem of the succession was still not resolved. However, Anne soon became pregnant again but that ended in a miscarriage in the summer of 1534. Henry started to worry that Anne could not give him a healthy male child. Feeling the king's displeasure, Anne became more and more insecure and ever more difficult and Henry began tiring of her. The situation only deteriorated when the king began to pay special attention to a lady of the court named Jane Seymour. 
When, on January 29, 1536, Anne gave birth to a stillborn male child, Henry felt betrayed and completely turned against her, accusing her of having bewitched him.
Henry's new secretary, Thomas Cromwell, looked for a way to get rid of Anne so that Henry could marry again. He found people who said that Anne had been the lover of other men while she was married to King Henry. She was put on trial and found guilty of treason, adultery and incest, although she was probably innocent. The men who were accused of being her lovers were Sir Francis Weston, her musician Mark Smeaton, Sir Henry Norris, William Brereton, and her brother Viscount Rochford George Boleyn. All of them were condemned and executed.
Anne was executed on 19 May 1536 in the Tower of London, London, England. She was buried in the Chapel Royal of Saint Peter ad Vincula, within the Tower of London.

</doc>
<doc id="5163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5163" title="Mona Lisa">
Mona Lisa

Mona Lisa (also known as La Gioconda or La Joconde) is a 16th-century portrait painted in oil by Leonardo da Vinci during the Renaissance in Florence, Italy. Many people think Mona Lisa's smile is mysterious. It is so often studied, recognized, and copied that it is the most famous painting in the world. The Louvre says that about 80 percent of its visitors come to see the painting of Mona Lisa. 
The painting is owned by the Government of France and is shown at the Musée du Louvre in Paris under the title "Portrait of Lisa Gherardini, wife of Francesco del Giocondo".
Giorgio Vasari, who was Leonardo's first biographer (a person who writes about the life of another person), thought the painting was of a person named Lisa Gherardini. Speculation over the painting's model was solved in 2008 by Dr Armin Schlechter, a manuscript expert. Notes discovered in Heidelberg University Library which were written by Agostino Vespucci, a Florentine city official, reinforced Vasaril's earlier identification of the model. Lisa was the wife of Francesco del Giocondo a rich silk merchant, who lived in Florence.
Although the sitter has traditionally been identified as Lisa del Giocondo, a lack of definitive evidence has long fueled alternative theories, including Leonardo's mother Caterina in a distant memory as the painting's subject and the possibility that Leonardo used his own likeness. 
Leonardo began painting the "Mona Lisa" in 1503 or 1504 in Florence, Italy. According to Da Vinci's contemporary, Giorgio Vasari, "...after he had lingered over it four years, left it unfinished...".
The painting was brought to France by Leonardo in 1516 and it was bought by Francis I of France. 
The "Mona Lisa" used to hang in the Chateau Fontainebleau and was then moved to the Palace of Versailles. After the French Revolution, Napoleon I of France had it hanging in his bedroom in the Tuileries Palace, but it was later moved to the Louvre where it is still hanging today.
On August 21, 1911, the "Mona Lisa" was stolen. The Louvre museum thought it was being photographed, but when they checked, it was not there. The Louvre closed for one week to help look for it.
People thought Guillaume Apollinaire, a French poet, stole it. He was put into jail, and tried to make people think his friend Pablo Picasso did it, and he was questioned. It was not either of them, though.
It was lost for two years, and everybody thought it would be lost forever. A worker at the Louvre, named Vincenzo Peruggia, had actually stolen it. He had hidden it in his coat and walked out with it after the museum had closed. He wanted the painting to go back to Italy and be shown in an Italian museum. After hiding it in his apartment for two years, he grew impatient and tried to sell it to a gallery in Florence, but was caught. It was shown all over Italy before going back to the Louvre. People thought Vincenzo was a hero who loved Italy, so he only spent a few months in jail.

</doc>
<doc id="5164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5164" title="December 14">
December 14

[[Category:Days of the year]]

</doc>
<doc id="5165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5165" title="1542">
1542


</doc>
<doc id="5166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5166" title="February 13">
February 13


</doc>
<doc id="5167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5167" title="January 31">
January 31


</doc>
<doc id="5168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5168" title="1981">
1981

1981 (MCMLXXXI) was a common year starting on Thursday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="5169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5169" title="Britney Spears">
Britney Spears

Britney Jean Spears (born December 2, 1981), is an American recording artist and entertainer. She has recorded several albums and has received several entertainment industry awards.
Britney Jean Spears was born on December 2, 1981. Her parents are Lynne Irene (née Bridges and James Parnell Spears. She grew up in Kentwood, Louisiana. Her maternal grandmother, Lillian Portell, was English (born in London), and one of Spears's maternal great-great-grandfathers was Maltese. Her siblings are Bryan James and Jamie Lynn. She was the middle of three children.
She prepared early for a career in entertainment. She took music and dance lessons. She often performed for family and friends.
On January 3, 2004, Spears married her childhood friend Jason Allen Alexander in Las Vegas, Nevada. The marriage was annulled 55 hours later. On September 18, 2004, Spears married Kevin Federline. They had a son on September 14, 2005 named Sean Preston Spears Federline. On September 12, 2006, Britney gave birth to their second son, Jayden James Spears Federline.
In November 2006, Spears filed for divorce from Federline. In September of 2007, Spears lost some custody of her two children, Sean Preston and Jayden James, to her ex-husband, Federline. At the beginning of January 2008, Spears lost full custody of her children after a mental breakdown. In February 2008, her father took control of her estate. Spears currently has 50/50 custody of her two sons.
Spears stated in 2012 that she has attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder.
Spears appeared on the 1993-1994 season of the children's television series, "The All New Mickey Mouse Club". In 1997, she signed with Jive Records. Her first and second studio albums "...Baby One More Time" (1999, the best-selling album by a teenage solo artist) and "Oops!... I Did It Again" (2000) became great successes. Their title tracks broke sales records around the world.
In 2001, Spears released her third album "Britney" and starred in the profitmaking but critically panned movie, "Crossroads". She developed a more sexualized image, dancing in little clothing with an albino python at the 2001 MTV Video Music Awards. She took creative control of her fourth album "In the Zone" (2003). The song "Toxic" was a huge success. In 2003, she shared a kiss with Madonna at the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards that raised eyebrows in the entertainment industry and fan magazines.
Spears' fifth album "Blackout" was released in 2007.
On September 17, 2013 "Work Bitch" was released as the first single from Spears' eighth album "Britney Jean".
Spears has one Grammy, three MTV Video Music Awards, and her own star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. She has had five #1 songs: "...Baby One More Time", "Womanizer", "3", "Hold It Against Me" and "S&M (remix)"
Spears has made twelve albums, eight are studio albums, and four compilations:

</doc>
<doc id="5171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5171" title="The Matrix">
The Matrix

The Matrix is a science fiction action movie that was made in 1999. It was written and directed by the Wachowski Brothers. The main actors in the movie are Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, and Hugo Weaving. "The Matrix" was followed by two sequels: "The Matrix Reloaded" and "The Matrix Revolutions".
The main character of the movie is Thomas A. Anderson (played by Keanu Reeves), who is a computer programmer at MetaCortex, a big software company, but he is also an underground hacker. Thomas meets Trinity (played by Carrie-Anne Moss), who then introduces him to Morpheus (played by Laurence Fishburne), who gives him a choice between taking a blue pill or a red pill. If he took the blue pill, he would wake up at his bed and wouldn't be bothered anymore, but if he took the red pill, Morpheus would show him the truth about the Matrix. Thomas takes the red pill. Then Morpheus tells Thomas he is actually Neo, or "the one". He explains Neo that the Matrix is a computer program made by robots to simulate a world which humans think its real. He then explains Neo that, because he is "the one" he is able to modify the Matrix however he wants. Morpheus then helps Neo to get out of the Matrix. At the beginning, Neo is skeptical about his power, but after training, he is able to show his real power. Neo, Trinity, Morpheus and the rest of the rebels then go on a journey to free humans from the Matrix 
There is a lot of symbolism in "The Matrix". Common sources are Christianity, Buddhism, Hinduism (the concept of maya), the ancient philosopher Plato and "Plato's Cave", modern philosophers such as René Descartes, and modern authors such as William Gibson. 
Descartes says that maybe humans are brains in jars. A monster is maybe tricking humans. The monster makes humans believe that they are in the real world, but actually humans are simply brains. Humans cannot know what is real. 
There are also references to "Simulacra and Simulation", a very modern philosophy book by Jean Baudrillard. Baudrillard says that in the modern world, copies of copies are made. "The Real" is gone because people do not know what the first things were. For example, a modern person who eats a chicken did not kill the chicken. That person does not know what a real chicken is. The chicken meat is false because the person did not kill the chicken. The person's reality is the chicken meat. 
<poem>
</poem>
Don Davis made the score (orchestra part with violins and flutes).
The Matrix's soundtrack (band music for a movie) includes music from bands such as Rammstein, Rob Dougan, Rage Against the Machine, Propellerheads, Massive Attack, The Prodigy, Rob Zombie, and Marilyn Manson.
The word "matrix" sometimes means "origin" or "beginnings". In very old English, "matrix" means "womb". A matrix is also a part of mathematics.
A new religion called Matrixism or The path of the One is based on the movie "The Matrix". The religion began in 2004 with 300 members. Now there are about 16,000 members of Matrixism.

</doc>
<doc id="5172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5172" title="Category:Movies">
Category:Movies

This category lists movies (also known as films, cinema, or motion pictures).

</doc>
<doc id="5176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5176" title="September 11 attacks">
September 11 attacks

The September 11, 2001 attacks (or September 11th, or 9/11), were four terrorist attacks. They all happened at the same time. They were done by the Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda. They attacked the United States in New York City. The attacks took place on Tuesday, September 11, 2001.
Four groups of terrorists, each with a trained pilot, captured airplanes and flew them into US landmarks. These landmarks were the World Trade Center's twin towers in New York City, and the Pentagon. The fourth plane crashed in an empty field in Pennsylvania before it could reach its target in Washington, D.C. After the event, the US government said the people who had done the attacks were close to the terrorist group al-Qaeda. During the events, almost 3000 people died. Most of them were from the United States, but over 300 were from other places, such as the United Kingdom, India, and Canada.
The first of the four planes to depart was American ­Airlines Flight 11, a Boeing 767-200ER. It was 159 feet and two inches long, with a sixteen-foot-six-inch-wide body that allowed for two aisles. The plane made daily flights between Boston and Los Angeles, and when it took off at 7:59 a.m. on the morning of the eleventh, it carried only 81 passengers in its 158 seats. Forty-seven minutes later, it crashed into the North Tower at 440 mph, carrying 9,717 gallons of jet fuel, 14,000 gallons under capacity.
United Flight 175, also a Boeing 767-200ER, was the second. Like American Airlines 11, it was scheduled to fly between Boston and Los Angeles. When United 175 took off at 8:14 a.m., it was even lighter than the American flight: Only 56 of 168 seats were occupied. When it crashed into the South Tower at 9:03 a.m., traveling 540 mph, it had 9,118 gallons of fuel in its tanks.
American Airlines Flight 77 was the third plane to take off, a Boeing 757-200. AA77 left Washington, D.C., at 8:20 a.m. bound for Los Angeles. It was two-thirds empty, with 58 passengers in its 176 seats, and its tanks were 4,000 gallons under its 11,500-gallon capacity. It crashed into the Pentagon at 9:37 a.m., ­flying 530 mph.
The fourth plane, United Airlines Flight 93, was also a 757-200. It was delayed for 42 minutes past its ­scheduled 8 a.m. departure from Newark, New Jersey bound for San Francisco. When it finally took off, it carried only 37 ­passengers—its capacity was 182—and it was loaded with a little over 7,000 gallons of fuel. It crashed at 560 mph into an empty field in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, at 10:03 a.m.
All of the 246 people on the four planes died in the crashes. 19 terrorists were also killed in the attacks. Both towers of the World Trade Center caught on fire after the crashes. The South Tower (2 WTC) burned for 56 minutes before it fell and was destroyed. The North Tower (1 WTC) burned for 102 minutes before it also fell. As the towers fell, parts of the towers hit other buildings around them. It is believed that because of this damage, a third building, 7 World Trade Center (7 WTC), fell at 5:20 p.m., but this is a debated subject. Many other buildings in the area were damaged badly and had to be destroyed. 2,602 people died at the World Trade Center.
"Shown on the right is Flight 175 hitting the South Tower in New York City, USA. The North Tower was already hit. Both eventually collapsed."
The plane that hit the Pentagon hit the ground just as it hit the western side of the building. It then crashed through three of the five "rings" that make up the Pentagon. The crash killed 125 people in the Pentagon.
The United States government paid an average of $1.8 million to the families of the victims of the attacks.
2,996 people died in the attacks, including people such as firemen and policemen trying to save the lives of other people.
This was the first big attack by non-Americans on the United States. In 1941, when Japanese war planes attacked the US naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii was not yet part of the United States. There had been some big terrorist acts against American targets before but most of them have been outside the U.S. (such as the Marine camp in Lebanon).
Many conspiracy theories have appeared which say that certain people in the United States government knew about the attacks beforehand, or even made them happen.
After the attack, the United States blamed Al-Qaeda, which the U.S. thought was a terrorist group. President George W. Bush said he would start a "War on Terror". He meant that the United States would do more things to try to stop terrorism in the future. Bush said this was meant to protect Americans and their property from terrorists. For example, the American government would be reorganized. Security and control in public places was made stronger, especially at airports. Americans were told every day whether there was a serious threat of terrorism. (This was done by giving a color for the day. Red meant there was a high risk, green meant a low risk, and there were many levels in between.)
The War on Terror also led to real wars. The leader of Al-Qaeda, Osama bin Laden, lived in the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. The United States told the government of Afghanistan, called the Taliban, to turn bin Laden over to them. The Taliban would not do this. The leader of the Taliban, Mullah Muhammad Omar, demanded to see proof from the United States government. If proof was not given, Mullah Omar said that he would not hand over bin Laden. President George W. Bush said that he did not need to provide proof. The United States then went to war against Afghanistan. The Taliban was removed from power, a new government was put in power, and a new president was chosen by the people of Afghanistan.
While this was happening, the United States government changed in a few ways. The United States Department of Transportation (DOT) created the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). Before 9/11, security at American airports was provided by the airlines. The TSA made it the government's job to provide airport security. New officers were hired by TSA to work at airports and to fly on planes as air marshals. The TSA also provides security on American trains and subways. A new Department of Homeland Security was also created. It became their job to protect Americans and their property inside the United States. When this department was created, the TSA moved from the DOT to Homeland Security.
After defeating the Taliban, President George W. Bush thought the US should invade Iraq. He believed that Iraq helped terrorist groups, including al-Qaeda. He said he had evidence that Iraq was also making weapons of mass destruction. He sent Secretary of State Colin Powell to the United Nations to show them some of the evidence. In March, 2003, the United States began its invasion of Iraq. (Four other countries also took part, including the United Kingdom, Australia, Poland, and Denmark.) The government of Iraq was overthrown, and the people of Iraq elected a new government. No weapons of mass destruction were found in Iraq.
On May 2, 2011, United States Navy SEALs killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, who led the September 11, 2001 attacks, among other terrorist attempts.

</doc>
<doc id="5179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5179" title="Cardiff">
Cardiff

Cardiff is the capital and biggest city of Wales, in the United Kingdom. 
Its name in the Welsh language is "Caerdydd". A 2011 census reports that around 346,100 people live in Cardiff. It is the most important city in Wales for tourism, culture, government, sport, transport, nightlife and business.
Cardiff has a big port that used to be known as Tiger Bay. It is now just called Cardiff Bay, and the Welsh government works there. There are now lots of shops, pubs and restaurants in Cardiff Bay. Cardiff has an international airport, and is twinned with Nantes in France and Stuttgart in Germany. Cardiff has one of the largest stadiums in the United Kingdom, the Millennium Stadium, where important world sports matches and concerts happen. Other big stadiums in the city are the Cardiff City Stadium, where the main football team play, Cardiff Arms Park where the main rugby team play, and the SWALEC Stadium where cricket is played.
To get around, there are lots of bus routes and train lines in the city. There are two big train stations in Cardiff city centre, called Central station and Queen Street station, but there are also 18 other smaller stations in the city for local areas. There are lots of cycle paths in Cardiff on and off the road.
Three big rivers flow through Cardiff - the Taff, the Ely and the Rhymney.
Part of Cardiff is built on marshland.

</doc>
<doc id="5185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5185" title="Valladolid">
Valladolid

On 19 October 1469, Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile married secretely in the "Palacio de los Vivero". Also, Christopher Columbus died in the city on 20 May 1506.
The river which runs through the city is known as the Pisuerga. Valladolid has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate ("Csa" in the Köppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="5188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5188" title="Category:Grammar">
Category:Grammar


</doc>
<doc id="5194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5194" title="Elizabeth Gaskell">
Elizabeth Gaskell

Elizabeth Cleghorn Gaskell (29 September 1810 – 12 November 1865) was an English writer.
She was born in Chelsea, London. After her mother died, she lived with her aunt in Knutsford, Cheshire. She married William Gaskell, a priest, in 1832. They lived in Manchester, where several of her books are set. She died of a heart attack in Holybourne, Hampshire.
Her most famous books are "Mary Barton", "Cranford", "North and South", and "Wives and Daughters". She also wrote a book of the life of her friend, writer Charlotte Brontë. Some of her books have been made into movies and television programmes.

</doc>
<doc id="5195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5195" title="Category:Mathematics">
Category:Mathematics


</doc>
<doc id="5198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5198" title="Venice">
Venice

Venice is a city in Italy. It is the capital of the Veneto region, which is in the north-east of the country. The population of Venice is 271,367. Area is 412 km².
Venice is built on 118 small islands that are separated by 150 canals. People cross the canals by many small bridges. They can also be taken for rides along the canals in a type of boat called a "gondola". The buildings in Venice are very old and attractive, and tourists come from all over the world to see them and the canals. This has made Venice one of the most famous cities in the world. The most famous sights are the Rialto Bridge, St Mark's Basilica and the Doge's Palace.
There are problems with transit and sewage in Venice, but it is still the most popular tourist attraction in northeast Italy. Every year the city sinks a few centimeters because the ground is made from mud. Eventually the city will be completely underwater, but that will take years. Because of this the Italian government is building the MOSE Project, a state-of-the-art defense against the sea water flooding, that will safely protect Venice forever.
The city was founded by people from the greater Veneto region as a refuge from the Barbarian invasions, when the Roman Empire fell. During the Middle Ages, Venice slowly grew to be an important commercial city. Around the year 1000 AD the Republic of Venice started to create an empire in the eastern Mediterranean Sea. It lasted until 1797, when it was annexed by Napoleon's France, it then changed hands a few times, becoming a part of Austria two different times, before becoming part of Italy during the Italian unification. Venice deeply influenced the Venetian, Istrian and Dalmatian coasts for one thousand years.
Venice started to lose population after its conquest by Napoleon, but with the unification of Italy the city returned to be an important city. It is actually one of the most visited places on Earth by tourists from all around the globe.
There are several ways to get around in Venice. The most common is the gondola, and also the vaporetto, which is a water bus and carries lots of people around the canals. There are also motoscafi, motonavi and traghetti (ferries). You can use a motorboat, catch a taxi, or walk.
Usually, the warmest month is July and the coolest month is January. The maximum average precipitation occurs in November.

</doc>
<doc id="5199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5199" title="Naples">
Naples

Naples is a southern Italian city with a port. It faces the Mediterranean Sea and is near Mount Vesuvius. Its name in Italian is Napoli which came from its Greek name Neapolis, meaning "new city". 
Ancient Greeks settled Naples in the 6th Century B.C. There were so many Greeks there, the Romans called it "Magna Graecia", which means "Greater Greece." Later the Romans conquered the southern Italy and took Naples. When the Roman Empire fell to invaders in the west, Naples came under the rule of the Byzantines. The Byzantines ruled the Greek-speaking Eastern Roman Empire based in Greece and also in what is today called Turkey. 
Naples became independent later and but was combined with the Kingdom of Sicily during the Middle Ages. By 1500 it was ruled by Aragón, which was a kingdom in eastern Spain. Later Naples became part of Spain when Aragon and the other kingdom in Spain called Castile became one country. Naples was part of this Kingdom of Spain until the Austrian Empire got it in the War of the Spanish Succession in 1714. The Italian kingdom of Sardinia-Piedmont conquered it in 1861. That kingdom became known as Italy. Naples was heavily bombed when Italy fought in World War Two, since British/American armies tried to capture it.
Today Naples is the capital of Campania and the largest city in southern Italy. It has a population of about 1 million. 300,000 people live in the area around Naples (including the habitans of Naples). It is an important city for tourists.
The average temperature and in the summer is 24°C. In the winter, the average can be as low as 8°C.
There is one airport in the city, Naples International Airport at Capodichino.
It was the capital of the former Kingdom of the Two Sicilies.

</doc>
<doc id="5200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5200" title="Florence">
Florence

Florence (Italian: "Firenze") is the capital city of the region of Tuscany ("Toscana"), in Italy. From 1865 to 1870 the city was also the capital of the Kingdom of Italy. Florence is on the Arno River. The city has a population of around 400,000 people, and a suburban population of over 2,000,000 persons. The greater area has some 956,000 people. The city was a center of medieval European trade and finance. It is often considered the birthplace of the Italian Renaissance and was long ruled by the Medici family. Florence is also famous for its fine art and architecture. It is said that, of the 1,000 most important European artists of the second millennium, 350 lived or worked in Florence.
Bridges:
Museums:
Palaces:
Churches:
The football team of Florence is the Fiorentina.
The food of Florence is based more on peasant eating rather than expensive cooking. Most of foods are based on meat. The whole animal was usually eaten. Many kinds of tripe, (trippa) and (lampredotto) were commonly served. They are still sold at the food carts in the city. Antipasti include "crostini toscani", sliced bread topped with a chicken liver-based pâté. Also common are sliced meats (mainly prosciutto and salami). They are often served with melon when it is in season. Tuscan bread has no salt or butter. It is used often in Florentine meals. It is very common in the local soups, "ribollita" and "pappa al pomodoro", Both soups are usually served with local olive oil. The bread is also used in the salad of bread and fresh vegetables called "panzanella" that is served in summer. The most famous main course is the "bistecca alla fiorentina". It is a huge steak of Chianina beef that is cooked over hot charcoal. It is served very rare with the "tagliata", sliced rare beef served on a bed of arugula, often with slices of parmesan cheese on top.
Florence has a mixed Mediterranean climate and humid subtropical climate, with hot and humid summers and cool and damp winters. Florence is especially hot from June to August (surrounded by hills in a valley cut by the Arno river). Summer temperatures are higher than those along coastlines. Winter has some snow.

</doc>
<doc id="5201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5201" title="Milan">
Milan

Milan (Italian: "Milano"; ancient "Medhelan" "Mediolanum" (City in the middle of the lands)) is a city in northern Italy. Milan is the capital of the Milano Provence and of the Lombardy Region. It is populated by 1,308,735 inhabitants.
It is the most populated province in Italy, and it is the second biggest city in Italy (after Rome). 
Milan is the fashion capital of the world and its important influence on design, economics, opera, and the media make it amongst the world's top 18 Global cities, along with Moscow, Buenos Aires and Kuala Lumpur.
Mediolanum was founded by Insubres, a Celtic people. It was captured by the Romans in 222 BC. Milan became very successful under the Roman Empire. 
Milan was ruled by the Spanish in the 1500s and the Austrians in the 1700s. During the Renaissance and the Romantic periods, Milan was a major cultural centre in the whole of Europe, famous for its literature and opera.
During the war, the city was badly affected by Allied bombings and during the 50s and 60s the city grew into being the wealthy and industrial metropolis it is today.

</doc>
<doc id="5208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5208" title="Category:Alphabet">
Category:Alphabet


</doc>
<doc id="5209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5209" title="Category:Countries">
Category:Countries


</doc>
<doc id="5210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5210" title="Category:Rivers">
Category:Rivers


</doc>
<doc id="5211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5211" title="Category:Cities">
Category:Cities


</doc>
<doc id="5212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5212" title="Category:Continents">
Category:Continents


</doc>
<doc id="5213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5213" title="Category:Oceans">
Category:Oceans


</doc>
<doc id="5216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5216" title="Category:Biology">
Category:Biology


</doc>
<doc id="5217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5217" title="Category:Ships">
Category:Ships


</doc>
<doc id="5219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5219" title="Category:Chemistry">
Category:Chemistry


</doc>
<doc id="5220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5220" title="Category:Christianity">
Category:Christianity


</doc>
<doc id="5221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5221" title="Category:Hinduism">
Category:Hinduism


</doc>
<doc id="5222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5222" title="Category:Mammals">
Category:Mammals

These articles are about mammals, a class of vertebrate animals.

</doc>
<doc id="5223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5223" title="Category:Cats">
Category:Cats

This category and articles are about domestic cats. For big cats and wild cats, see .

</doc>
<doc id="5226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5226" title="Glamorgan">
Glamorgan

Glamorgan, also known as Glamorganshire is a county in Wales in the west of Great Britain. Glamorgan was a medieval kingdom. Its capital is Cardiff.
The county is home to over a million people, which is more than one third the total of Wales. It contains the cities of Cardiff, Swansea and most of the valleys that are famous for coal mining in the past.

</doc>
<doc id="5227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5227" title="Cornwall">
Cornwall

Cornwall (Cornish: "Kernow") is a county in the far south west of England in the UK. Truro is the capital of the Unitary Authority that has administered Cornwall since 2009. Truro is also the only city and has the cathedral of the Diocese of Truro. The Duchy of Cornwall is an estate which belongs to the Prince of Wales (who is also the Duke of Cornwall), but only part of it is in Cornwall. Cornwall is split from Devon by the River Tamar.
Some people in Cornwall have revived Cornish, a very old recently extinct Celtic language of the area of Britain which is called Cornwall, which is related to Breton and to Welsh. There is also a dialect of the English language spoken in Cornwall.
Cornwall has a population of approx 550,000 and its population is divided almost equally between native Cornish and incomers from elsewhere in the UK, mostly England. Many Cornish people consider themselves as descendents of the indigenous Britons, and not English, and are recognised by Celtic organisations worldwide as such. 
Tintagel Castle is on the north coast of Cornwall. Falmouth harbour is one of the largest natural harbours in the world. Newquay is one of the larger holiday resorts and popular with surfers.
Since early times Cornwall has been an important area for the mining of tin. Tin is no longer mined but china clay is still an important industry. Bodmin Moor is the largest and highest of the granite moors of Cornwall. The climate is generally mild, with much frontal rain. The varied scenery and historical monuments attract many tourists to Cornwall.
The most important transport links between Devon and Cornwall are the Plymouth to Penzance railway line and the A30 and A38 major roads.
The Scilly Isles are a group of islands south west of Cornwall and forming part of the county. The Scilly Isles have a long history of shipwrecks because of the rocky coasts. There are 530 known ship wrecks around the isles.

</doc>
<doc id="5229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5229" title="Tintagel Castle">
Tintagel Castle

Tintagel Castle is in Cornwall, a county in England.
Reginald, Earl of Cornwall built the castle on Tintagel Head (a piece of land by the sea) in about 1150. In Cornish legend, this is the place where the old Kings of Cornwall lived. Reginald built the castle for propaganda, not for military use; he wanted people to think of Camelot when they thought about him. Some people say King Arthur was born at the castle, because traditional stories say the King of Cornwall looked after him when he was a child.
The modern village of Tintagel was first called Trevena. Then, in the 1850s, it got a new name, to bring in tourism because of the King Arthur and Camelot legends. Really, Tintagel is only the name of land by the sea.

</doc>
<doc id="5230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5230" title="Gwyneth Paltrow">
Gwyneth Paltrow

Gwyneth Kate Paltrow (born September 28, 1972) is an American actress. She was born in Los Angeles, California. 
Her father was movie director Bruce Paltrow. Her mother is actress Blythe Danner. Her brother is director Jake Paltrow. Her uncle is singer-actor Harry Danner. Her half-cousin is actress Katherine Moennig.
She studied Spanish in Talavera of the Queen, Spain.
Paltrow has been married to Chris Martin, lead singer of rock band "Coldplay", since December 5, 2003. The couple separated in 2014. They have a daughter, Apple (born May 14, 2004) and son, Moses (born April 8, 2006).

</doc>
<doc id="5231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5231" title="Sarah Michelle Gellar">
Sarah Michelle Gellar

Sarah Michelle Gellar (born April 14, 1977) is an American actress. After several television acting roles during the 1990s, Gellar became famous for playing Buffy Summers in the television series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". After "Buffy", she started acting in movies. She has starred in the family movies "Scooby-Doo" (2002) and "" (2004), the movie "Harvard Man" (2001), and the horror movies "The Return" (2006), "The Grudge 2" (2006), "The Grudge" (2004) and "I Know What You Did Last Summer" (1997). She won an award for her part in the 1999 movie "Cruel Intentions".
Gellar was born in New York City. She is the only child of Rosellen Greenfield and Arthur Gellar. Both of her parents were Jewish, but Gellar's family had a Christmas tree during the holidays while she was growing up. In 1984, her parents divorced. She was raised by her mother on New York's Upper East Side. Gellar and her father did not have a good relationship from this time until his death from liver cancer on October 9, 2001. She went to school at New York's Columbia Grammar & Preparatory School and the Professional Children's School. Gellar was a very good student and was a good figure skater. Her best friend was Melissa Joan Hart. Several years later, Hart was the star of the series "Clarissa Explains It All" and "Sabrina, the Teenage Witch".
At the age of four, Gellar was seen by an talent agent in a restaurant in Uptown Manhattan. Two weeks later, she auditioned for a part in "An Invasion Of Privacy", a movie made for television. The movie starred Valerie Harper, Carol Kane and Jeff Daniels. At the audition, Gellar read the lines for both her own character and Harper's character. The directors thought this was very impressive and she got the job. A short while later, she got a part in a television commercial for the fast food restaurant Burger King. In it, she said bad things about McDonald's and said she only ate at Burger King. Gellar made other commercials while doing other acting job. Some of these jobs were playing Emily in an episode of the TV series "", appearing in a small role in the Chevy Chase comedy movie "Funny Farm" and in the movie "High Stakes". She was also in Europe working on the TV series "Crossbow". In 1991, she played a young Jacqueline Bouvier in "A Woman Named Jackie". 
Gellar's major break came in 1992. She starred in the teen soap opera "Swan's Crossing". After that, she got a part in another soap opera, "All My Children". She playing the character Kendall Hart, the long-lost daughter of character Erica Kane (Susan Lucci). In 1995, at the age of eighteen, she won a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Younger Leading Actress in a Drama Series for her work as Kendall Hart.
Gellar left "All My Children" in 1995. People were saying that her and Susan Lucci did not get along and this caused problems with them working together. She got the main role in the 1997 TV series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". She played a teenager who had to fight many of supernatural enemies with the help of the Scooby Gang and her Watcher (a mentor). The show was well liked by both the critics and the audience. Another series, ("Angel"), was made based on characters from "Buffy". "Buffy" was on television for seven seasons and a total of 144 episodes. During the show, Buffy, and Gellar also, became cult icons in the United States and the UK. They were a symbol of "empowered" women. Gellar also sang several of the songs during the "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" musical episode "Once More, with Feeling".
During the show's later years, Gellar said she did not like some parts of season six and the seventh season's final episode. After the show ended, Gellar said that she did not want to be in a "Buffy" movie. Since that time, she has said she might do it if the script is good enough. 
Gellar's picture has been used on the covers of "Cosmopolitan, Glamour, FHM, Rolling Stone", and other magazines. She was part of Maxim's "Hot 100" list in 2002, 2003, and 2005, and in FHM's "100 Sexiest Women" of 2005. In 1998, she was named one of "People" Magazine's "50 Most Beautiful People (in the World)". Gellar has also been in the Stone Temple Pilots music video "Sour Girl" and is a celebrity spokesperson for the cosmetics company, Maybelline.
After "Buffy", Gellar tried to use her television fame for a movie career. Some of her movies were well liked, others were not. After roles in the popular horror movies "I Know What You Did Last Summer" and "Scream 2" (both 1997), she starred in the 1999 movies "Simply Irresistible", a romantic comedy, and "Cruel Intentions". "Cruel Intentions" was a small hit at the box office. It made over $38 million in the United States. The movie had a lesbian kiss between Gellar and co-star Selma Blair that won the "Best Kiss" award at the 2000 MTV Movie Awards. Critic Roger Ebert said that Gellar is "effective as a bright girl who knows exactly how to use her act as a tramp".
Gellar starred as Daphne in the box office success "Scooby-Doo" (2002), a live-action version of the cartoon series. Gellar was also in the sequel, "" (2004), which made less money than the first movie. Gellar's next movie was the 2004 horror movie "The Grudge". It was very well liked. Gellar appeared in the sequel "The Grudge 2". It opened on October 13, 2006. She has also starred in several movies that have yet to be released, including "Southland Tales", "The Air I Breathe" and "The Girls' Guide to Hunting And Fishing". 
Gellar met her husband Freddie Prinze, Jr. during filming of the 1997 teen horror movie "I Know What You Did Last Summer" but the two did not begin a intimate relationship until 2000. They were engaged to be married in April 2001. They got married in Jalisco, Mexico on September 1, 2002.
In 2004, while filming "The Grudge" in Japan, Gellar visited the famous Japanese swordmaker Shoji Yoshihara (Kuniie III) and bought a Katana from him as a birthday gift for her husband. Gellar found out that she needed permission from the government to take the sword out of the country. After she got permission, she said that it was incredibly difficult to do.
Gellar and her husband have two children together — a daughter named Charlotte Grace Prinze (b.September 19, 2012) and a son by unknown name (b. September 2012).

</doc>
<doc id="5233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5233" title="Jennifer Garner">
Jennifer Garner

Jennifer Anne Garner (born April 17, 1972) is a Golden Globe Award- and SAG Award-winning and Emmy Award-nominated American movie and television actress, and producer. She first became famous for her role as "Sydney Bristow" on "Alias", a CIA agent. She was also in Juno, Pearl Harbor, and Dude, Where's My Car.
Garner joined the Ban Bossy campaign in 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="5234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5234" title="Heather Graham">
Heather Graham

Heather Joan Graham (born January 29, 1970 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin) is an American actress.
Her father is a retired FBI agent. Her mother is a writer of books for children. Her sister, Aimee, is an actress and writer. Graham's parents are Catholics. They did not want their daughter to make any movies about sex. She does not talk to her parents now.
Graham was a student at the University of California, Los Angeles. She met James Woods when she was a student. She stopped going to college so she could become an actress.
Graham was in the movie "Drugstore Cowboy" in 1989. In 1997, She was in the movie "Boogie Nights". She played a character called "Roller Girl". She played the character called "Felicity Shagwell" in the movie "" in 1999. She was in the movie "From Hell" in 2001, in which she played a character called "Mary Kelly".
She was in several episodes of the television series "Scrubs" in 2004 and 2005.
Pictures of Graham were used in advertisements for Garnier hair care products and for Skyy vodka.
Graham has dated several famous men. These include UK musician/actor Adam Ant, actors James Woods, Kyle McLachlan and Heath Ledger, and directors Stephen Hopkins and Edward Burns. 

</doc>
<doc id="5235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5235" title="Christina Ricci">
Christina Ricci

Christina Ricci (born February 12, 1980) is an American actress. She was born in Santa Monica, California and grew up in Montclair, New Jersey.

</doc>
<doc id="5236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5236" title="Julia Roberts">
Julia Roberts

Julia Fiona Roberts (born October 28, 1967) is an American actress and producer. She is best known for her roles in the movies "Steel Magnolias" (1989), "Pretty Woman" (1990), "Runaway Bride" (1998) and "Erin Brockovich" (2000). Roberts regularly plays characters of attractive powerful women. She has been among People Magazine's "50 Most Beautiful People in the world" eight times. 
It is commonly mistaken that Julia's birth name is "Julie". Roberts has said in interviews that "Julie" was a nickname given to her by classmates in elementary school, and she never took well to it. She reverted to her original name "Julia Roberts" when she discovered that a "Julie Roberts" was already registered with the Screen Actors Guild. Roberts originally wanted to be a veterinarian (an animal doctor), but later studied journalism. When her brother, Eric Roberts, achieved success in Hollywood, Julia decided to try acting. Her first breakthrough came when she played in two youth-oriented movies called "Mystic Pizza" and "Satisfaction", both filmed in 1987. Roberts' sister Lisa Roberts Gillan and niece Emma Roberts are actresses.
Roberts was born in Smyrna, Georgia, to Betty Lou (née Bredemus) and Walter Grady Roberts She is of English, Scottish, Irish, Welsh, German, and Swedish ancestry. Her father was a Baptist and her mother a Roman Catholic, and she was raised a Catholic. Her older brother, Eric Roberts, from whom she was estranged until 2004; sister Lisa Roberts Gillan; and niece Emma Roberts, are also actors.
Roberts' first marriage was to musician Lyle Lovett; they divorced. She and her husband Danny Moder have three children. She gave birth to twins, Hazel Patricia and Phinnaeus Walter, in 2004. In 2007, she gave birth to a son, Henry Daniel.
Roberts is a convert to Hinduism.

</doc>
<doc id="5237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5237" title="Angelina Jolie">
Angelina Jolie

Angelina Jolie DCMG ( , born Angelina Jolie Voight; June 4, 1975) is an American actress, movie producer, screenwriter, and author. She is the daughter of Jon Voight, who is also an actor and former actress/model Marcheline Bertrand. Her full name is Angelina Jolie Voight, but she decided to go by Angelina Jolie. She grew up in Los Angeles and attended the Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute. She began acting at about 12 years old, and since then has starred in many movies, including the Tomb Raider movies. She has also been in the movies "Hackers", "Gathering Evidence" (U.S. title), and "Gone in Sixty Seconds".
She was born in Los Angeles, California. She is the daughter of actors Jon Voight and Marcheline Bertrand. She is the sister of actor James Haven, niece of singer-songwriter Chip Taylor, and goddaughter of actors Jacqueline Bisset and Maximilian Schell. On her father's side, Jolie is of German and Slovak descent, and on her mother's side, she is of primarily French Canadian, Dutch, and German ancestry. Like her mother, Jolie has stated that she is part Iroquois, although her only known Native American ancestor was a Huron woman born in 1649.
Jolie played her first leading role in the 1993 movie "Cyborg 2". In 1999 Jolie played Lisa Rowe in "Girl, Interrupted".
She won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in "Girl, Interrupted".
Jolie self-identifies as bisexual. She has been married to Jonny Lee Miller and Billy Bob Thornton. 
She has three adopted children. She lives with actor Brad Pitt. Pitt and Angelina are called 'Brangelina' by the media. They have three biological children. On May 27, 2006, Jolie gave birth to a girl, Shiloh. In 2008, she also gave birth to twins, Vivienne Marcheline and Knox Leon. On August 28, 2014, Jolie married Pitt in France. In September 2016, they separated and she filed for divorce. Jolie is currently battling for full custody of her six children.
She said in May 2013 that she had undergone a preventive double mastectomy after learning she had an 87% risk of getting breast cancer. Jolie has a defective BRCA1 gene resulting in a very high risk of breast cancer and ovarian cancer. Jolie said she might have her ovaries removed to prevent cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="5238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5238" title="Lisa Kudrow">
Lisa Kudrow

Lisa Marie Diane Kudrow (b. July 30, 1963 in Encino, California) is an American actress. She was best known for her roles as Ursula on "Mad About You" and Phoebe on "Friends". "Friends" has been very popular lately and is still selling many copies, beating many popular shows even though it finished a long time ago. She also starred in P.S. I Love You playing the role Denise Hennessey.

</doc>
<doc id="5239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5239" title="Grace Kelly">
Grace Kelly

Grace Kelly (November 12, 1929 - September 14, 1982) was an American actress. She later married Prince Rainier III of Monaco and became Her Serene Highness The Princess of Monaco. With Prince Rainier, she had 3 children:
Kelly's father was an Irish American; her mother was a German American Her movies included three by Alfred Hitchock: "Dial M for Murder", "Rear Window", and "To Catch a Thief". In 1955 she won an Academy Award for "The Country Girl". She was the first actress to appear on a postage stamp. She was also mentioned in Billy Joel's song "We didn't start the fire" and in Mika's song "Grace Kelly" (2007). The classic head-cover of a silk scarf crossed under the chin and knotted at the side or nape of the neck is universally known as the "Grace Kelly." This chic look is still copied by many female Hollywood stars when they wish to retain a degree of anonymity in the public eye.
Kelly suffered a stroke which caused her to crash her car.

</doc>
<doc id="5240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5240" title="Elizabeth Taylor">
Elizabeth Taylor

Dame Elizabeth "Liz" Rosemond Taylor, DBE (February 27, 1932 – March 23, 2011) was a British-American actress. 
The movies she starred in were, "National Velvet", "Father of the Bride", "A Place in the Sun", "Giant", "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof", and "Suddenly, Last Summer". She won the Academy Award for Best Actress for "BUtterfield 8". She played the title role in "Cleopatra", and married her costar Richard Burton. They appeared together in 11 films, including "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?". Taylor won a second Academy Award in "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?". From the mid-1970s, she appeared less frequently in film, and made occasional appearances in television and theatre.
Her personal life included eight marriages and several life-threatening illnesses. From the mid-1980s, Taylor supported HIV and AIDS programs; she co-founded the American Foundation for AIDS Research in 1985, and the Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation in 1993. She received the Presidential Citizens Medal, the Legion of Honour, the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award and a Life Achievement Award from the American Film Institute. The American Film Institute named her seventh on their list of the "Greatest American Screen Legends". Taylor died of congestive heart failure in March 2011 at the age of 79 after suffering many years of ill health.
Taylor was born in London to American parents, Francis Lenn Taylor and Sara Sothern, who were Americans living in England. Her parents were originally from Arkansas City, Kansas. They returned to the United States on the onset of World War II. 
Her first act was in "Lassie Come Home" (1942). The next one was "National Velvet" (1944). Throughout her teens, she appeared in various supporting roles and easily made the transition to young adult parts. 
Her first major role was in "A Place in the Sun" in 1950, with Montgomery Clift. Working steadily during the 1950s, notable movies have included; "The Father of the Bride" (1951), "Ivanhoe" (1952), "Elephant Walk" (1954), "Rhapsody" (1954), "Giant" (1956), "Raintree County" (1957), "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof" (1958), "Suddenly last Summer" (1959), "BUtterfield 8" (1960), etc. 
In 1963, she played the lead role in "Cleopatra" and met actor Richard Burton, who became her fifth husband in 1964. They appeared in several movies together; "The V.I.P's" (1963), "The Sandpiper" (1965), "Who's afraid of Virginia Woolf ?" (1966), "The Taming of the Shrew" (1967), "Boom" (1968). She also starred in "Secret Ceremony" (1969), "X, Y and Zee" (1972) and "Ash Wednesday" (1973).
She has won two Academy Awards for best actress, the first for her performance in "Butterfield 8", the second for her performance in "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?". In 1999 she won the BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award, a lifetime achievement award.
Taylor often received media attention because of her many illnesses and controversial marriages to well known figures such as Nicky Hilton, Michael Wilding, Mike Todd, Eddie Fisher, Richard Burton (twice), John Warner. She has two sons with Michael Wilding and a daughter with Mike Todd. She also adopted a daughter while married to Richard Burton. She was the godmother of two of Michael Jackson's children.
Taylor devoted consistent and generous humanitarian time, advocacy efforts, and funding to HIV and AIDS-related projects and charities. She helped to raise more than $270 million for the cause. She was one of the first celebrities and public personalities to do so at a time when few people knew about the disease and organized and hosted the first AIDS fundraiser in 1984 to benefit AIDS Project Los Angeles.
Taylor was cofounder of the American Foundation for AIDS Research (amfAR) with Dr. Michael Gottlieb and Dr. Mathilde Krim in 1985. Her longtime friend and former co-star Rock Hudson had disclosed having AIDS and died of it that year. She also founded the Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation (ETAF) in 1993, created to provide critically needed support services for people with HIV/AIDS. For example, in 2006 Taylor commissioned a "Care Van" with examination tables and xray equipment, the New Orleans donation made by her Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation and Macy's. That year, after Hurricane Katrina, Taylor donated $500,000 to the NO/AIDS Task Force, a non-profit organization serving the community of those affected by HIV/AIDS in and around New Orleans.The donation was shared by Taylor for her celebration of her 74th birthday and to help NO/AIDS Task Force continue their work on fighting AIDS.
Taylor was honored with a special Academy Award, the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award, in 1992 for her HIV/AIDS humanitarian work. Speaking of that work, former President Bill Clinton said at her death, "Elizabeth's legacy will live on in many people around the world whose lives will be longer and better because of her work and the ongoing efforts of those she inspired."
After she converted to the Jewish religion, Taylor worked for Jewish causes throughout her life.
In 1959, her purchase of Israeli Bonds caused Arab boycotts of her films. In 1962, she was prevented from entering Egypt to complete "Cleopatra"; its government announced that she would not be allowed to come to Egypt because she had adopted the Jewish faith and "supports Israeli causes". However the ban was lifted in 1964 after it was considered that the film had brought good publicity to Egypt.
In 1974, Taylor and Richard Burton considered marrying in Israel, but they were unable to do so because Burton was not Jewish. Taylor helped to raise money for organizations such as the Jewish National Fund; advocated for the right of Soviet Jews to emigrate to Israel and canceled a visit to the USSR because of its disapproval of Israel due to the Six-Day War, along with signing a letter protesting the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 3379 of 1975.
She offered herself as a replacement hostage after more than 100 Israeli civilians were taken hostage in the Entebbe skyjacking in 1976. After the success of the operation, which freed the hostages, she acted with Kirk Douglas in a TV special, "Victory at Entebbe", broadcast in January, 1977. When she experienced the role, she stated, "I couldn't pass up this opportunity. I have strong ties to Israel and I firmly believe in the courage and dedication of the Entebbe mission."
Taylor had a lot of health problems. In 2004, she was diagnosed with congestive heart failure. In 2009, she underwent cardiac surgery for it. In early 2011, new symptoms related to congestive heart failure caused her to be admitted into Cedars-Sinai Medical Center for treatment. Taylor died on March 23, 2011, surrounded by her four children at the same medical center in Los Angeles, California, at the age of 79.

</doc>
<doc id="5242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5242" title="Hilary Swank">
Hilary Swank

Hilary Swank (born July 30, 1974) is an Academy and Golden Globe Award-winning American actress. The is the second woman in the world to win two Oscars before thirty (the first one was Jodie Foster). Swank's movies include "Million Dollar Baby" and "Freedom Writers". 
Swank was born in Lincoln, Nebraska. When she was nine she played her first role as Mowgli in her school's version of "The Jungle Book" by Rudyard Kipling. Afterward she often was in school and university performances.

</doc>
<doc id="5243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5243" title="Nana Visitor">
Nana Visitor

Nana Visitor (born July 26, 1957) is an American actress. Visitor was born in New York City. She is most famous for playing Kira Nerys in the television series "".
Visitor married fellow "Star Trek" actor Alexander Siddig in 1997. They had a son in 1996. Visitor and Siddig divorced in 2001.
Visitor is the niece of American actress Cyd Charisse.

</doc>
<doc id="5244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5244" title="Alexander Siddig">
Alexander Siddig

Alexander Siddig (November 21, 1965) is a Sudanese actor. Siddig is most famous for playing Dr Julian Bashir in the "Star Trek" television series "".
Siddig married fellow "Star Trek" actor Nana Visitor in 1997. They had a son in 1996. Siddig and Visitor divorced in 2001.
Siddig is the nephew of English actor Malcolm McDowell and of former Sudanese Prime Minister Sadiq al-Mahdi.

</doc>
<doc id="5246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5246" title="Eiffel Tower">
Eiffel Tower

The Eiffel Tower (, , IPA pronunciation: "EYE-full" English; "eh-FEHL" French) is a famous landmark in Paris. It was built between 1887 and 1889 for the Exposition Universelle. The Tower was the Exposition's main attraction. 
It cost £35 million to build. It is 300 metres tall, but this height does not include the 24 m aerial (antenna) on the top; the total height of the structure is 324 m (1063 feet). There are also 1,665 steps inside the Eiffel Tower. It weighs 10,000 tons. It consists of 18,038 pieces and 2 1/2 million rivets. There are 20,000 sparkling lights and 80 kilometers of cables covering the structure. The weight of paint used is 60 tons, and the surface to be painted - 250,000 m2. The paper used to print the visitor's tickets in a year weighs 2 tons. Three separate colors of paint are used on the Tower in order to enhance the impression of height, with the and the lightest at the top. The top of the tower leans away from the sun, as the metal facing the sun heats up and expands and it can move as much as 7 inches.
The Eiffel Tower was built by Gustave Eiffel for the 100th year of the French Revolution. There were 107 bids submitted to construct the Eiffel Tower, 50 people worked on the design, and more than 100 built the parts. 132 workers assembled the parts on site. At first, the Eiffel Tower was to be made in Barcelona, Spain, but the people of Barcelona did not want it. Construction began on January 28, 1887 and was concluded on March 31, 1889. When the tower was built, it was only meant to be kept for 20 years. People did not like the Eiffel Tower and reckoned they wanted it taken down. After the 20 years, the tower became the property of Paris again. By this time, the city had learned that the tower could be used to help with communications. The military used the tower to communicate during battle. The tower was used in the capture of the spy, "Mata Hari". Nobody wanted it to be taken apart.

</doc>
<doc id="5247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5247" title="Musée du Louvre">
Musée du Louvre

The Louvre is a museum in Paris, which attracts millions of visitors every year because of its art collection. It is the most popular art museum in the world.
The most famous picture in the Louvre is the Mona Lisa by Leonardo da Vinci, but there are also paintings by other great painters like Rembrandt, Giambattista Pittoni, Caravaggio, Rubens, Titian and Eugène Delacroix. 
There are also statues inside the Louvre. The most famous statues are the Venus de Milo and the Winged Victory of Samothrace.
Philip II of France built a castle called the "Castle of the Louvre". It used to be where the museum is. They used the castle as a fortress to defend Paris against the Vikings.
Charles V, King of France turned the castle into a palace. However, Francis I, King of France, knocked it down and built a new palace.
Henry IV, King of France added the Grande Galerie to the Louvre. The Grande Galerie is more than a quarter of a mile long and one hundred feet wide. The Grande Galerie was built along the River Seine. It was the longest building in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="5248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5248" title="Venus de Milo">
Venus de Milo

The Venus de Milo is an ancient Greek statue. It is in the Louvre, a museum in Paris, France. The "Venus de Milo" represents Aphrodite, the goddess of love in Greek mythology. The statue is made of marble and is 203cm high. It is believed to be the work of Alexandros of Antioch. The "Venus de Milo" was found on 8 April 1820 on the Aegean island of Melos. King Louis XVIII of France presented the "Venus de Milo" to the Louvre in 1821. 

</doc>
<doc id="5249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5249" title="Aphrodite">
Aphrodite

Aphrodite (Greek 'risen from sea-foam') is the goddess of love and beauty in Greek mythology, and one of the Twelve Olympians. Many artists chose to portray her as a naked woman, or with very little clothing. 
The major theory of Aphrodite's birth was that she was the daughter of Zeus and Dione.
Another theory states that Aphrodite was born from sea-foam near Paphos, Cyprus. She appeared from the sea.
Eros, Phobos, Deimos, Harmonia, Pothos, Anteros, Himeros, Hermaphroditos, Rhode, Eryx, Peitho, Tyche, Eunomia, The Graces, Priapus, Aeneas and Chloe
Aphrodite was very beautiful, which made Hera afraid that she would be the cause of fights between the other gods. She therefore gave Aphrodite to Hephaestus. Hephaestus was happy to be married to Aphrodite and gave her many pieces of jewelry which were gifts of love, like a belt that when ever she wore it made men would be attracted to her. Aphrodite, however, she was not attracted to him. So she spent most of her time with Ares, but was also spent time with Adonis and Anchises.

</doc>
<doc id="5250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5250" title="Venus (mythology)">
Venus (mythology)

In Roman mythology, Venus is the goddess of love and beauty. She was the Roman version of the Greek Aphrodite and Etruscan Turan.
Her cult began in Ardea and Lavinium, Latium. On August 18, 293 BC, the first temple to her was built. August 18 was then a festival called the Vinalia Rustica. On April 1, the Veneralia was celebrated in honor of Venus Verticordia, the protector against vice. On April 23, 215 BC, a temple was built on the Capitol dedicated to Venus Erycina to commemorate the Roman defeat at Lake Trasum.
Venus was also married to Vulcan, who was the god of fire, volcanoes and blacksmiths.
Julius Caesar introduced Venus Genetrix as a goddess of fatherhood and domesticity.

</doc>
<doc id="5251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5251" title="Jupiter (mythology)">
Jupiter (mythology)

Jupiter (Latin: "Iuppiter") is the king of the gods in Roman mythology. He was the god of the sky and thunder. He is known as Zeus in Greek mythology.
Jupiter was the son of Saturn (Kronos in Greek mythology). Saturn, who was the previous king of the gods, began to swallow the children that he had with his wife, Ops (Greek equivalent Rhea), when they were born. This was because he had been warned that one of his children would overthrow him. Saturn swallowed the children Neptune, Pluto, Ceres, Juno and Vesta. When Ops realised that she was pregnant again, she had the baby secretly moved to Crete, giving a stone wrapped in swaddling-clothes to Saturn for him to eat. Saturn believed he had eaten Jupiter therefore Jupiter was saved.
After Jupiter was raised by his mother, his destiny was to take over his own father, Saturn, as revenge for all he had done to his brothers and sisters in the past. When Jupiter grew up, he made Saturn vomit up all of the children he had swallowed. All the brothers and sisters joined forces and overthrew Saturn.
Then, with the help of the Cyclopses and the Hundred-handed Giants, they declared war on Saturn and the other Titans. Jupiter finally defeated the Titans and they were imprisoned in Tartarus.
Jupiter and his brothers divided the universe into three parts, Jupiter obtaining the heavens, Neptune the sea and Pluto the underworld. This is how Jupiter became the king of the gods.

</doc>
<doc id="5254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5254" title="Minerva">
Minerva

Minerva was the Roman goddess of crafts and wisdom. The Greeks called her Athena (for the wisdom and crafts), and Pallas for the war part.

</doc>
<doc id="5255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5255" title="Athena">
Athena

Athena is the Greek goddess of wisdom and strategy. She is one of the Twelve Olympians. Athena's symbol is the owl, the wisest of the birds. She also had a shield called Aegis, which was a present given to her by Zeus. She is often shown with her helmet on and with her shield, which has Medusa's head on it. This was a present to her from Perseus.
Athena is the protector of Athens, Greece, a city named after her. The Parthenon, which is on the Acropolis in Athens, is her most famous temple. She also helped many heroes, including Heracles, Jason, and Odysseus, and is always seen with Nike, the goddess of victory. 
There are many stories about Athena's birth. In Hesiod's "Theogony", Zeus had sexual intercourse with Metis, but Zeus was scared of Metis giving birth to a child because the Oracle of Delphi had said that she will give birth to Athena, and a son that would overthrow Zeus, just like Zeus overthrew Cronus. To stop Metis giving birth to her son, Zeus swallowed her whole. This was when she turned herself into a fly as Zeus and Metis were playing a game. However, Zeus was too late, as Metis was already pregnant.
While she was inside Zeus's head, Metis made a helmet, armor, and a robe for Athena. The hammering noise caused Zeus to have a major headache. To help Zeus in pain, Hephaestus cut his head open with a Minoan axe. Athena then came out of Zeus's head. She was fully grown and had her armor on.
Athena is the goddess of knowledge, purity, arts, crafts, learning, justice and wisdom. She also plays a tough, clever and independent role. People think She helped them win the Trojan war. Athena often helped heroes, like Jason and Perseus. People worship her, because they think she can give their victory.
Athena was given many other cult titles. She has the epithet Ergane as the patron of craftsmen and artisans. With the epithet Parthenos she was especially worshipped in the festivals of the Panathenaea and Pamboeotia where both militaristic and athletic displays took place. With the epithet Promachos she led in battle. With the epithet Polias, Athena was the protector of not only Athens but also of many other cities, including Argos, Sparta, Gortyn, Lindos, and Larisa.

</doc>
<doc id="5257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5257" title="Salt Lake City">
Salt Lake City

Salt Lake City is a city in the United States of America. It is the capital and largest city of the state of Utah. It was founded by the Mormons and is the official headquarters of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is named after the Great Salt Lake, which it is near. The city's population was estimated at 191,180 in 2013.
The city was founded in 1847 by Brigham Young and his Mormon followers. They extensively irrigated and cultivated the arid valley. Due to its proximity to the Great Salt Lake, the city was originally named "Great Salt Lake City"–the word "great" was dropped from the official name in 1868. Although Salt Lake City is still home to the headquarters of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), less than half the population of Salt Lake City proper is Mormon today.
Immigration of international LDS members, mining booms, and the construction of the first transcontinental railroad initially brought economic growth, and the city was nicknamed the "Crossroads of the West". It was traversed by the Lincoln Highway, the first transcontinental highway, in 1913, and presently two major cross-country freeways, I-15 and I-80, intersect in the city. Salt Lake City has since developed a strong outdoor recreation tourist industry based primarily on skiing. It was host to the 2002 Winter Olympics. It is the industrial banking center of the United States.
In 1847 pioneer Jane Dillworth held the first classes in her tent for the children of the first LDS families. In the last part of the 19th century, there was much controversy over how children in the area should be educated. LDS and non-LDS parents could not agree on the level of religious influence in schools. Today, many LDS youths in grades 9 through 12 attend some form of religious instruction, referred to as seminary. Students are released from public schools at various times of the day to attend seminary. LDS seminaries are usually located on church-owned property adjacent to the public school and within walking distance.
Because of high birth rates and large classrooms, Utah spends less per student than any other state. At the same time, Utah spends more per capita than any state with the exception of Alaska. Recently, money was approved for the reconstruction of more than half of the elementary schools and one of the middle schools in the Salt Lake City School District, which serves most of the area within the city limits. There are twenty-three K-6 elementary schools, five 7-8 middle schools, three 9-12 high schools (Highland, East, and West, with the former South High being converted to the South City campus of the Salt Lake Community College), and an alternative high school (Horizonte) located within the school district. In addition, Highland has recently been selected as the site for the charter school Salt Lake School for the Performing Arts (SPA). Many Catholic schools are located in the city, including Judge Memorial High School. Rowland Hall-St. Mark's School, established in 1867 by Episcopal Bishop Daniel Tuttle, is the area's premier independent school.
The Salt Lake City Public Library system consists of the main library downtown, and five branches in various neighborhoods. The main library, designed by renowned architect Moshe Safdie, opened in 2003. In 2006, the Salt Lake City Public Library was named "Library of the Year" by the American Library Association.
Colleges in Salt Lake City include the University of Utah, Westminster College, Salt Lake Community College, Stevens-Henager College, Eagle Gate College, The Art Institute of Salt Lake City and LDS Business College. Utah State University and BYU also operate education centers in the city. There are also many trade and technical schools such as Healing Mountain Massage School and the Utah College of Massage Therapy. The University of Utah has good research and medical programs. It was one of the original four universities to be connected to ARPANET, the predecessor to the Internet, in 1969, and was also the site of the first artificial heart transplant in 1982.

</doc>
<doc id="5258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5258" title="Nagano, Nagano">
Nagano, Nagano

Nagano () is a city in Japan. It is the capital of Nagano Prefecture ().
Nagano has been recognized as a core city since 1999.
As of October 1, 2007, 2,182,190 people lived in Nagano.
In 1998, the Olympic Games were held in Nagano.

</doc>
<doc id="5259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5259" title="Barcelona">
Barcelona

Barcelona is a city in Spain. It is the capital city of Catalonia, which is a region of Spain. Barcelona is the largest city on the Mediterranean coast. The city is between the rivers of "Llobregat" and "Besòs", and south of the Pyrenees mountains. It has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate ("Csa" in the Koeppen climate classification).
In 1992, Barcelona hosted the Summer Olympic Games. It was a great opportunity to improve the city. Many new parks were opened and other significant changes to the city were made. One example is opening the new beaches in the Poble Nou area.
In 2007, about 1.6 million people lived in Barcelona. Around 3.1 million people live in the Metropolitan Area and 4.9 million people live in the Urban Region. Barcelona is the second most populated city in Spain, and the tenth in the European Union.
Barcelona is home to football team F.C. Barcelona.
Barcelona is one of the most important tourist destinations in Europe, with millions of people visiting every year. The city is famous for its 19th century modernist architecture. The best known of those buildings was designed by Antonio Gaudi. It is the unfinished church Sagrada Familia, which is the symbol of Barcelona.
It is known for its tapas food, a delicious meze.
Barcelona has sister relationships with many places worldwide:

</doc>
<doc id="5260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5260" title="Denise Lewis">
Denise Lewis

Denise Lewis (born 27 August 1972) is a British retired athlete from West Bromwich. She won the bronze medal in the heptathlon at the 1996 Summer Olympics. She won the gold medal in the heptathlon at the 2000 Summer Olympics.
In late 2004, she was a contestant in the second series of "Strictly Come Dancing".

</doc>
<doc id="5267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5267" title="Michael Johnson">
Michael Johnson

Michael Duane Johnson (born in September 13, 1967), Dallas, Texas is an American retired sprinter. He is considered one of the best runners (athletes) in the world. He still holds a world record: 400 m (43:18 Seville, Spain) His 200 meter world record was beaten by Usain Bolt at the Beijing 2008 Olympics. He won four Olympic gold medals and eight World Championships gold medals.
He was the first athlete to win both the 200m and 400m sprints in the same Olympic Games (Atlanta, Georgia).
He retired in 2001, and is a sports commentator on TV. He was a contestant in the 2010 season of "The Celebrity Apprentice".

</doc>
<doc id="5268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5268" title="Icelandic">
Icelandic

Icelandic might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="5277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5277" title="Category:United Kingdom">
Category:United Kingdom


</doc>
<doc id="5285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5285" title="Bronze Age">
Bronze Age

The Bronze Age is the time period when people made tools from an alloy (a mixture of metals) called bronze. Bronze is a mixture of mainly copper and tin: usually nine parts copper to one part tin. Materials like wood and stone were also used for tools, but bronze was better for cutting and chopping, and was easy to shape. The Bronze Age was not at the same time everywhere, because different groups of people began to use bronze at different times. In Western Europe, the Bronze Age lasted from about 2000 BC until 800 BC. In the Middle East, it started about a thousand years earlier. For example, bronze was first used in Mesopotamia around 3300 BC.
Archaeologists think that people became more organised in the Bronze Age, because the making of metal tools was difficult and needed certain skills. The people who had these new skills would have been important. The new metal tools were bought, sold, or traded across larger distances.
Later, when iron tools spread, the Bronze Age ended and the Iron Age started. A reason for iron replacing bronze is that tin ore, a rock in which tin may be found, is much more rare than iron ore. Copper tools were not useful because they were too soft.
By the Bronze Age, wild food was no longer a main part of the diet. The title "inventors of agriculture" might go to the Sumerians, starting c. 5500 BC.
Farming allows more people in an area than can be supported by hunting and gathering. Crops can be stored for off-season use, or to sell or barter. Farmers could feed people to do other things than agriculture. This was a crucial factor in the rise of full-time armies.
Sumerian agriculture allowed them to win battles and land. This made them early empire builders. Not long after, the Egyptians, farming in the fertile Nile valley, increased their population. There were now enough warriors for a territorial expansion more than tripling the Sumerian empire in area.
In Sumer, barley was the primary crop; wheat, flax, dates, apples, plums, and grapes were grown as well. Mesopotamian agriculture was both supported and limited by flooding of the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. Floods came in late spring or early summer from snow melting from the Anatolian mountains.
Sheep and goats were domesticated, kept mainly for meat, milk, butter and cheese. Ur, a large town that covered about 50 acres (20 hectares), kept 10,000 animals; 3,000 were slaughtered every year. The city's population of 6,000 included a labour force of 2,500, cultivated 3,000 acres (12 km²) of land. The labour force included storehouse recorders, work foremen, overseers, and harvest supervisors as well as labourers.
The land was plowed by teams of oxen pulling light unwheeled plows and grain was harvested with sickle. Wagons had solid wheels covered by leather tires kept in position by copper nails and were drawn by oxen. As many as four animals could pull a wagon at one time. The horse was domesticated in Ukraine around 4000 BC, and was in use by the Sumerians around 2000 BC.

</doc>
<doc id="5287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5287" title="Wikipedia:Welcome">
Wikipedia:Welcome

Welcome to the ! We hope you are happy changing here and being a .
Some helpful pages are:
If you want to meet and talk with other members, you can visit our version of the "village pump" at . Just remember to sign your messages on Talk pages by typing "~~~~" at the end of your words.
You can set your own preferences or choices for the Simple English Wikipedia software at or at any time by clicking "my settings". 
We have a special page that describes .
Some new pages that need to be written now may be listed at .
Non-native English speakers are welcome to work on Simple English Wikipedia. To write here, you do need to know "some" English, because all of our articles are in English. For many writers here, English is not their first language!
What non-native English speakers write on Simple English Wikipedia is special and valuable. We may not have many articles on their cultures, and they can give more information. Native speakers will help and correct articles; don't feel bad if they change your article. Also remember that they probably can't speak your language as well as you can speak English.

</doc>
<doc id="5289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5289" title="Louis XIV of France">
Louis XIV of France

Louis XIV, also popularly known as the Sun King (5 September 1638–1 September 1715) was the King of France and King of Navarre from 14 May 1643 until his death. He was a king for 72 years. This was the longest recorded rule of any European monarch. He is often seen as the typical example of absolutism. He was the oldest of two brothers the other being Philippe. The two were very close and Philippe was later created the Duke of Orléans. 
Louis' parents were Louis XIII and Anne of Austria. He was the unexpected child of King Louis XIII and Anne of Austria, who had not had children in their 22-year marriage. He was christened Louis Dieudonné (literally, “gift of God”). In 1643, before his fifth birthday, his father died, and Louis inherited the throne of France. Because Louis XIV was too young to rule, his mother ruled France with Cardinal Mazarin, the Italian financier who had been the principal minister of Louis XIII. Mazarin had guided the nation through the later stages of the Thirty Years' War (1618-1648). In this war France struggled against the Habsburg dynasty that ruled Spain for military supremacy in Europe. 
After Mazarin died in 1661, Louis declared that he would rule France without a chief minister, something no French king had done in living memory. He intended to rule as an absolute monarch, believing that his power as king was derived from God and that he was responsible to God alone. He was obliged to rule for the benefit of his people. While Louis assumed responsibility for decision making, he understood that he must rule within the constraints of the laws and customs of his kingdom. Louis consulted widely with his nobles and ministers, and he met weekly with members of his high council. He created an informal cabinet, which was eventually led by Jean-Baptiste Colbert, chief minister of finance. 
Nevertheless, the system of absolute monarchy emphasized the role of the king, and no monarch was more successful in creating the image of monarchy than Louis XIV. He took the sun as his emblem and connected himself to its radiant image.
Starting in 1661, King Louis XIV transformed a humble hunting lodge into a glittering palace. Over 30,000 men worked on constructing the Palace of Versailles, a project that drained the royal treasury for decades. Expenses included not only building but also diverting rivers, piping in fresh water, and planting thousands of orange trees to mask the smell of sewage that could not be properly drained away. In May 1682, Louis moved the capital of France to Versailles, 12 miles away of Paris. It was Louis XIV's motive to remove himself and his nobles from the political intrigues of Paris. It became a symbol of his Absolute Monarchy.
Although Louis dreamed of a Spanish inheritance for his heirs, his military policy was not to expand French territory. He fought his early wars for defensive purposes—to secure France’s northern border and to dislodge the Spanish from strategic towns.
Louis fought the War of the Devolution (1667-1668) to assert his claims to a portion of Spain’s possessions after his wife’s father, Philip IV, died. Louis claimed the Spanish Netherlands in place of the wedding gift that Philip IV had never paid. 
The French aggression in the Spanish Netherlands caused relations between France and Holland to deteriorate. The Dutch had already fought the Spanish for generations to protect against an invasion of their country. They had no intention of allowing the French to pose the same threat by occupying the territories on their border. The result was war in the Netherlands from 1672 to 1678, during which Louis again demonstrated the effectiveness of French might. In a sweeping campaign, Louis almost succeeded in conquering Holland. To protect themselves, the Dutch opened their dikes, flooded the countryside, and turned Amsterdam into a virtual island. Louis’s armies could not advance farther, and they began negotiating a truce. War resumed, however, when Spain and Austria allied themselves with Holland, and Louis signed a treaty with England in 1670 to keep the English navy neutral. Neither side could win a decisive victory, and both suffered from financial exhaustion, which ultimately led to a treaty to end the war. 
Louis revoked, or ended, the Treaty of Nantes. This Treaty said that there would be freedom of religion in France. This means that everybody in France could worship the way they wanted to. When Louis revoked the Treaty of Nantes, he said that all people in France must be Catholic. Because of this, 50 thousand Protestant workers left France and went to America, England, and Germany. 
While Louis ruled, France became the most powerful country in all of Europe, and many other countries copied the French people's way of dressing and thinking. He also encouraged people to explore Canada, and tried very hard to make France larger. Louis spent a lot of money on wars, and France went into deep debt because of him.
By the middle of the 1680s the Sun King was losing much of his shine. Mazarin had taught him to work rigorously, and Louis maintained a punishing schedule throughout his life, shrugging off a series of minor illnesses and not listening to the advice of his physicians. Eventually a broken arm put an end to his vigorous horseback riding, and gout ended his long walks around Versailles. He was wheeled to the throne room or carried to his carriage. In 1683 his first wife died, and Louis secretly married his longtime mistress, Françoise d’Aubigné, Marquise de Maintenon. In 1711 he went through the tragedy of the death of his oldest son and the following year that of his oldest grandson.
French kings after Louis XIV taxed a lot of money from the poor people to try and pay off the debt. This is part of what led to the French Revolution.
In a world that regarded territory, power, and wealth as paramount, Louis XIV was recognized as a great king. He transformed France into the dominant nation in Europe, expanded its boundaries, and left his heirs secure in their possessions. Louis reached the height of his power in the 1670s, and he protected what he had achieved for the next four decades in the face of a Europe united against him. Moreover, he eventually realized his dream of seeing a Bourbon on the Spanish throne. During Louis’s reign, France also consolidated the administration of its colonial possessions and commerce, becoming a world power. On the domestic front, Louis strengthened the central government’s control over the diverse regions of France, incorporating his territorial gains into a united state. On the other hand, he provoked controversy when he restored Catholic religious unity by revoking the Edict of Nantes and repressing Protestantism. Unfortunately many of Louis’s policies, both domestic and foreign, caused great hardship to ordinary people, many of whom suffered starvation, fled their homeland, or lived in terror of persecution. Ultimately, Louis XIV wished to bring glory to France and to his dynasty, and he died believing that he had.

</doc>
<doc id="5290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5290" title="Olympic Games">
Olympic Games

The Olympic Games () are an important international event featuring summer and winter sports. Olympic Games are held every leap year (every four years), with Summer and Winter Olympic Games taking turns. Each seasonal games happens every four years. Originally, the ancient Olympic Games were held in Ancient Greece at Olympia. The first games were in 776 BC. They were held every four years up until the 5th century AD. The first "modern" Olympics happened in 1896 in Athens, Greece. People choose to play in the Olympics to represent the country they are from.
Over time the Olympics have become bigger. In old times, women were not allowed to compete, but now everyone is allowed. The Winter Games were created for ice and snow sports. The Paralympic Games were created for athletes with physical disabilities. As well, the Olympics became bigger with the addition of the Youth Olympic Games for teenage athletes. World War I and World War II led to the cancellation of the 1916, 1940, and 1944 Games. As the decision-making body, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) is responsible for choosing the host city for each Olympic Games. The IOC is also responsible for choosing what sports are in the games.
The celebration of the Games includes many rituals and symbols, such as Olympic flag and torch, as well as the opening and closing ceremonies. The first, second, and third place finishers in each event receive, respectively, gold, silver, and bronze medals.
The Olympics of Ancient Greece featured mainly athletic but also combat and chariot racing events. During the Olympic Games all struggles among the participating city-states were postponed until the games were finished. The origin of these Olympics is shrouded in mystery and legend According to legend, it was Heracles who first called the Games "Olympic" and established the custom of holding them every four years. The most widely accepted date for the beginning of the Ancient Olympics is 776BC; this is based on inscriptions, found at Olympia, of the winners of a footrace held every four years starting in 776BC. The Ancient Games featured running events, a pentathlon (consisting of a jumping event, discus and javelin throws, a foot race and wrestling), boxing, wrestling, and equestrian events.
There is no agreement on when the Games officially ended, but many historians think it is 393AD, when the emperor Theodosius I declared that all Pagan religious practices should end. Another date might be 426AD, when the next emperor Theodosius II ordered the destruction of all Greek temples. After the Olympics stopped, they were not held again until the late 19th century.
An attempt to copy the ancient Olympic Games was the "L'Olympiade de la République", a national Olympic festival held annually from 1796 to 1798 in Revolutionary France. The competition had several sports from the ancient Greek Olympics.
Greek interest in bringing back the Olympic Games began with the Greek War of Independence from the Ottoman Empire in 1821. It was first proposed by poet and newspaper editor Panagiotis Soutsos in his poem "Dialogue of the Dead", published in 1833. Evangelis Zappas, a wealthy Greek-Romanian philanthropist, first wrote to King Otto of Greece, in 1856, offering to fund a permanent revival of the Olympic Games. Zappas sponsored the first Olympic Games in 1859, which was held in Athens. Athletes from Greece and the Ottoman Empire participated. Zappas funded the restoration of the ancient Panathenaic stadium so that it could host all future Olympic Games.
Between 1862 and 1867, Liverpool held an annual Grand Olympic Festival. It was created by John Hulley and Charles Melly, with support from Dr. Brookes. These games were unfair in nature since only Men could compete. In 1865 Hulley, Dr. Brookes and E.G. Ravenstein founded the National Olympian Association in Liverpool, a forerunner of the British Olympic Association. Its articles of foundation provided the framework for the International Olympic Charter.
Dr. Brookes copied the sports which were in the Olympics held in Athens in 1859 in future Wenlock Olympian Games (Brookes created this first as a class in 1850 and then as an event in 1856.). In 1866, a national Olympic Games in Great Britain was organized by Dr. Brookes at London's Crystal Palace.
The Panathinaiko Stadium hosted Olympics in 1870 and 1875. Thirty thousand spectators attended that Games in 1870, although no official attendance records are available for the 1875 Games. In 1890, after attending the Olympian Games of the Wenlock Olympian Society, Baron Pierre de Coubertin created the International Olympic Committee. Coubertin built on the ideas and work of Brookes and Zappas with the aim of creating an Olympic Games that would occur every four years in a different country. He presented these ideas during the first meeting of the newly created International Olympic Committee (IOC). This meeting was held from June 16 to June 23, 1894, at the Sorbonne University in Paris. On the last day of the meeting, it was decided that the first Olympic Games, to be controlled by the IOC, would take place two years later in Athens. The IOC elected the Greek writer Demetrius Vikelas as its first president.
The first Games held under the IOC was hosted in the Panathenaic stadium in Athens in 1896. These Games brought 14 nations and 241 athletes who competed in 43 events. Zappas and his cousin Konstantinos Zappas had left the Greek government money to fund future Olympic Games. This money was used to pay for the 1896 Games. George Averoff paid for the refurbishment of the stadium in preparation for the Games. The Greek government also provided money, which was paid back through the sale of tickets. Money was also paid back through the sale of the first Olympic commemorative stamp set.
The Greek officials and public were excited about hosting these Games. This feeling was shared by many of the athletes, who even demanded that Athens be the host of the Olympic Games on a permanent basis. The IOC did not approve this request. The IOC stated that each games would be held in a different country.
Following the success of the 1896 Games, the Olympics entered a period of stagnation that threatened their survival. The Olympic Games held at the Paris Exposition in 1900 and the World's Fair at St. Louis in 1904 were side-shows. The Games at Paris did not have a stadium, however this was the first time women took part in the games. The St. Louis Games hosted 650 athletes, but 580 were from the United States. The homogeneous nature of these celebrations was a low point for the Olympic Movement. The Games rebounded when the Intercalated Games (so-called because they were the second Games held within an Olympiad, a period of time lasting four years) were held in Athens. These Games are not officially recognized by the IOC and no Intercalated Games have been held since. These Games were hosted at the Panathenaic stadium in Athens. The games attracted an international field of participants, and generated great public interest.
The Winter Olympics were created to feature snow and ice sports that were not part of the Summer Games. Figure skating (in 1908 and 1920) and ice hockey (in 1920) were featured as Olympic events at the Summer Olympics. The IOC wanted to expand this list of sports to encompass other winter activities. At the 1921 Olympic Congress, in Lausanne, it was decided to hold a winter version of the Olympic Games. A winter sports week (it was actually 11days) was held in 1924 in Chamonix, France; this event was the first Winter Olympic Games. The IOC ruled that the Winter Games to be celebrated every four years on the same year as the summer games. This pattern continued until the 1992 Games in Albertville, France. After this, beginning with the 1994 Games, the Winter Olympics were held on the third year of each Olympiad.
Starting in 2010, Youth Games help to develop young athletes for the Olympic Games. Athletes between the ages of 14 and 18 compete. The Youth Olympic Games were created by IOC president Jacques Rogge in 2001 and approved during the 119th meeting of the IOC. The first Summer Youth Games were held in Singapore from 14–26 August 2010. The first Winter Games will be hosted in Innsbruck, Austria, in 2012. These Games are shorter than the Olympic Games. The summer version will last twelve days and the winter version will last nine days. The IOC will allow 3,500 athletes and 875 officials to take part at the Summer Youth Games. 970 athletes and 580 officials will take part at the Winter Youth Games. The sports to be played will be the same as at the Olympic Games.
The Olympic Movement includes a large number of national and international sporting organizations and federations. As the group in charge of the Olympic Movement, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) is responsible for selecting the host city. Overseeing the planning of the Olympic Games. Changing the sports involved. Agreeing sponsorship and broadcasting rights. 
The Olympic Movement is made of three major elements:
French and English are the official languages of the Olympic Movement. The other language used at each Olympic Games is the language of the host country.
In 1998, it was uncovered that several IOC members had taken bribes from members of the Salt Lake City bid committee for the hosting of the 2002 Winter Olympics. This was done to make sure that Salt Lake City won. The IOC investigated and four members resigned and six people were sacked. 
A BBC documentary entitled "Panorama: Buying the Games", aired in August 2004, investigated the taking of bribes in the bidding process for the 2012 Summer Olympics. The documentary claimed it was possible to bribe IOC members into voting for a particular candidate city. After being narrowly defeated in their bid for the 2012 Summer Games, Parisian Mayor Bertrand Delanoë accused the British Prime Minister Tony Blair and the London Bid Committee of breaking the bid rules.
The Turin bid for the 2006 Winter Olympics was also shrouded in controversy. A prominent IOC member, Marc Hodler, strongly connected with the rival bid of Sion, Switzerland, alleged bribery of IOC officials by members of the Turin Organizing Committee. These accusations led to a wide-ranging investigation. The allegations also served to sour many IOC members against Sion's bid and potentially helped Turin to capture the host city nomination.
The Olympic logo also known as the Olympic rings, consists of five intertwined rings and represents the unity of the five inhabited continents (America, Africa, Asia, Australasia, Europe). The colored version of the rings—blue, yellow, black, green, and red—over a white field forms the Olympic flag. The flag was adopted in 1914 but flown for the first time at the 1920 Summer Olympics in Antwerp, Belgium. The flag has since been flown during every Games. The Olympic motto is "Citius, Altius, Fortius", a Latin expression meaning "Faster, Higher, Stronger".
Before each Games, the Olympic flame is lit in Olympia in a ceremony that reflects ancient Greek rituals. A female performer, acting as a priestess, lights a torch with the use of the sun. The woman then lights the torch of the first relay bearer. Starting the Olympic torch relay that will carry the flame to the host city's Olympic stadium. The flame has been an Olympic symbol since 1928 and the torch relay was introduced at the 1936 Summer Games.
The Olympic mascot was introduced in 1968. The mascot is either an animal or human figure representing the cultural heritage of the host country.
As mandated by the Olympic Charter, various elements frame the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games. Most of these rituals were established at the 1920 Summer Olympics in Antwerp. The ceremony typically starts with the hoisting of the host country's flag and a performance of its national anthem. The host nation then presents artistic displays of music, singing, dance, and theater representative of its culture. 
After the artistic portion of the ceremony, the athletes parade into the stadium grouped by nation. Greece is traditionally the first nation to enter in order to honor the origins of the Olympics. Nations then enter the stadium alphabetically according to the host country's chosen language. The host country's athletes are always the last to enter. During the 2004 Summer Olympics, which was hosted in Athens, Greece. The Greek flag entered the stadium first and last. When it came in to the stadium for the second time it was followed by the athletes. Speeches are then given formally opening the Games. Finally the athletes oath said. Following this the Olympic torch is brought into the stadium and passed on until it reaches the final torch carrier who lights the cauldron.
The closing ceremony of the Olympic Games takes place after all sporting events have concluded. Flag-bearers from each participating country enter the stadium. They are followed by the athletes who enter together without any national distinction.
Three national flags are hoisted while the corresponding national anthems are played. The flag of Greece to honor the birthplace of the Olympic Games. The flag of the current host country. The flag of the country hosting the next Summer or Winter Olympic Games is also flown. 
The president of the organizing committee and the IOC president make their closing speeches. The Games are officially closed and the Olympic flame is put out. 
In what is known as the Antwerp Ceremony (as this tradition was started in Antwerp), the mayor of the city that organized the Games transfers a special Olympic flag to the president of the IOC. The president then passes it on to the mayor of the city hosting the next Olympic Games. 
After these compulsory elements, the next host nation briefly introduces itself with artistic displays of dance and theater representative of its culture.
A medal ceremony is held after each Olympic event is concluded. The winner, second and third-place competitors or teams stand on top of a three-tiered rostrum to be awarded their respective medals. After the medals are given out by an IOC member, the national flags of the three medalists are raised while the national anthem of the gold medalist's country plays.
The Olympic Games program consists of 26 sports, 30 disciplines and nearly 300 events. For example, wrestling is a Summer Olympic sport, comprising two disciplines: Greco-Roman and Freestyle. It is broken down into fourteen events for men and four events for women. Each event represents a different weight class. The Summer Olympics program includes 26 sports, while the Winter Olympics program features 15 sports. 
Olympic sports are governed by international sports federations (IFs) recognized by the IOC as the global supervisors of those sports. There are 35 federations represented at the IOC. Changes can happen to the list of sports in the Olympics. Sports can be added or removed from the list on the basis of a two-thirds majority vote of the members of the IOC. 
The 114th IOC meeting, in 2002, limited the Summer Games program to a maximum of 28 sports, 301 events, and 10,500 athletes. Three years later, at the 117th IOC Session, the first major change to the list was performed. This resulted in the removal of baseball and softball from the list of sports for the 2012 London Games. Since there was no agreement in the promotion of two other sports, the 2012 program will feature just 26 sports. The 2016 and 2020 Games will return to the maximum of 28 sports given the addition of rugby and golf.
The exclusion of professionals caused several controversies throughout the history of the modern Olympics. The 1912 Olympic pentathlon and decathlon champion Jim Thorpe was stripped of his medals when it was discovered that he had played semi-professional baseball before the Olympics. His medals were restored by the IOC in 1983 on compassionate grounds. As class structure evolved through the 20th century, the definition of the amateur athlete as an aristocratic gentleman became outdated. The advent of the state-sponsored "full-time amateur athlete" of the Eastern Bloc countries further eroded the ideology of the pure amateur, as it put the self-financed amateurs of the Western countries at a disadvantage. Nevertheless, the IOC held to the traditional rules regarding amateurism. 
Beginning in the 1970s, amateurism requirements were gradually phased out of the Olympic Charter. After the 1988 Games, the IOC decided to make all professional athletes eligible for the Olympics, subject to the approval of the IFs.
As of 2004, the only sport in which no professionals compete is boxing, although even this requires a definition of amateurism based on fight rules rather than on payment, as some boxers receive cash prizes from their National Olympic Committees. In men's football (soccer), only three professional players over the age of 23 are eligible to participate per team in the Olympic tournament.
There have been many countries deliberately missing the Olympics in order to make political statements. The most famous examples of countries missing the Olympics happened in 1980 and 1984. The Cold War opponents missed each other's Games. 65 nations refused to compete at the Moscow Olympics in 1980 because of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The Soviet Union and 14 of its Eastern Bloc partners (except Romania) countered by missing the Los Angeles Olympics of 1984. The countries stated that they could not guarantee the safety of their athletes. Soviet officials defended their decision to withdraw from the Games by saying that "chauvinistic sentiments and an anti-Soviet hysteria are being whipped up in the United States".
The Olympic Games have been used as a platform to promote political ideologies almost from its inception. Nazi Germany wished to portray the Nationalist Socialist Party as benevolent and peace-loving when they hosted the 1936 Games. The Games were also intended to show the superiority of the Aryan (white) race. This goal was not met due in part to the achievements of athletes such as Jesse Owens, who won four gold medals at this Olympics.
Individual athletes have also used the Olympic stage to promote their own political agenda. At the 1968 Summer Olympics, in Mexico City, two American track and field athletes, Tommie Smith and John Carlos, who finished first and third in the 200meter sprint race, performed the Black Power salute on the podium. The runner up Peter Norman wore an Olympic Project for Human Rights badge in support of Smith and Carlos. IOC President Avery Brundage then told the United States, to either send the two athletes home or withdraw the track and field team. The United States chose to send the pair home.
In the early 20th century, many Olympic athletes began using drugs to improve their athletic abilities. For example, the winner of the marathon at the 1904 Games, Thomas J. Hicks, was given strychnine and brandy by his coach. The only Olympic death linked to doping happened at the Rome Games of 1960. During the cycling road race, Danish cyclist Knud Enemark Jensen fell from his bicycle and later died. A coroner's inquiry found that he was under the influence of amphetamines. By the mid-1960s, sports federations were starting to ban the use of performance enhancing drugs. The IOC did likewise in 1967. The IOC created the World Anti-Doping Agency in 1999. The IOC-established drug testing regimen (now known as the Olympic Standard) has set the worldwide benchmark that other sporting federations around the world attempt to emulate. The first Olympic athlete to test positive for the use of performance enhancing drugs was Hans-Gunnar Liljenwall, a Swedish pentathlete at the 1968 Summer Olympics, who lost his bronze medal for alcohol use.
The Olympics have not brought lasting peace to the world, even during the Games. Three Olympic Games were not held due to war. The 1916 Games were cancelled because of World War I, and the summer and winter games of 1940 and 1944 were cancelled because of World War II. Terrorism has also threatened the Olympic Games. In 1972, when the Summer Games were held in Munich, West Germany, eleven members of the Israeli Olympic team were taken hostage by the terrorist group Black September. This event is now known as the Munich massacre. The terrorists killed two of the athletes soon after they had taken them hostage and killed the other nine during a failed rescue attempt. A German police officer and 5 terrorists also died. During the Summer Olympics in 1996 in Atlanta, a bomb was detonated at the Centennial Olympic Park, which killed 2 and injured 111 others. Eric Robert Rudolph is currently serving a life sentence for the bombing.
The host city for an Olympic Games is chosen seven years ahead of the event. The process of selection is carried out in two phases that span a two-year period. The process starts when a city wanting to host the games applies to its country's Olympic group. If more than one city from the same country gives a proposal to its NOC, the national group chooses which city will run for host. The first step once the deadline passes (To tell the IOC that you want to hold the Games), is to ask the cities to complete a questionnaire which covers many key points in the organization of the Olympic Games. The evaluation of the filled questionnaires by a group provides the IOC with an idea of each cities project and their potential to host the Games. On the basis of this evaluation, the IOC chooses the applicants that will proceed to the candidature stage. 
Once the candidate cities are chosen, they must give to the IOC a bigger presentation of their project as part of a candidature file. Each city is analyzed by an evaluation group. This group will also visit the cities. The group give a report on its findings one month prior to the IOC's final decision. During the interview process the candidate city must also guarantee that it can fund the Games. The IOC members gathered in the meeting have the final vote on the host city. 
By 2016, the Olympic Games will have been hosted by 44 cities in 23 countries. The United States has hosted four Summer and four Winter Olympics, more than any other nation. Among Summer Olympics host nations, the United Kingdom has been the host of two Games, and will host its third Olympics in 2012 in London. Germany, Australia, France, and Greece are the other nations to have hosted the Summer Olympics twice. Among host cities, only Los Angeles, Paris, Athens and London have played host to the Olympic Games more than once, with each holding that honor twice. With the 2012 Games scheduled to take place in London, the British capital will hold the distinction of hosting the modern Olympics Games three times, more than any other city.
In the Winter Olympics, France has hosted three Games, while Switzerland, Austria, Norway, Japan, and Italy have hosted twice. The most recent Games were held in Vancouver, Canada's second Winter Olympics and third overall. The next Winter Games will be in Sochi, Russia in 2014, which will be the first time this nation has hosted.

</doc>
<doc id="5291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5291" title="Iron Age">
Iron Age

The Iron Age is the period after the Bronze Age. Iron production took place in Anatolia at least as early as 1200 BC, with some evidence pointing to even earlier dates.
In the Mesopotamian states of Sumer, Akkad and Assyria, the use of iron reaches far back, to perhaps to 3000 BC. One of the earliest smelted iron artifacts known was a dagger with an iron blade found in a Hattic tomb in Anatolia, dating from 2500 BC. The widespread use of iron weapons which replaced bronze weapons rapidly disseminated throughout the Near East (North Africa, southwest Asia) by the beginning of the 1st millennium BC.
Before this time, people used bronze or flint tools, and pottery. They farmed, and lived in communities. Most of Europe, Africa and Asia reached the Iron Age by 500 BC. In Europe, it is a period of prehistory, as Iron Age people did not write their history down.
Iron is easy to find, but hard to make into tools. It melts at a higher temperature than bronze. When blacksmiths learned how to make iron tools, they were able to make many of them. With more and better tools, people could do more. For example, more people could own a metal plough. They could farm their fields better and grow more crops. Some people invented coins to help buy and sell their crops and their iron tools. 
Bronze weapons and armor were no match for those made of iron, so many peoples who did not have iron were conquered by those who did. Armour was rare in western Europe's Iron Age, but people used shields and helmets to keep safe in battles.

</doc>
<doc id="5300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5300" title="Entertainment">
Entertainment

Entertainment is something that gives pleasure, or distracts a person from daily life, like a sport or game that excites people and keeps their attention. Some entertainment, like horror movies, can also make people feel sad or scared. Other entertainment, like comedy shows, are funny.
Entertainment can help reduce stress.

</doc>
<doc id="5301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5301" title="Open Site">
Open Site

Open Site is a free internet encyclopedia created by many editors. Anyone can apply to become an editor or donate content.
At Open Site all the content is separated into categories. There are eleven main categories which each have many subcategories. These are the main categories:
Open Site claims to have encyclopedias in many languages e.g. Romanian, but there are very few articles.
Open Site started an encyclopedia for children in August 2004. The writing and pictures on the children's' encyclopedia are simpler and easier to understand than other encyclopedias, like this one. The encyclopedia contains tools and facts as well as articles.

</doc>
<doc id="5302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5302" title="Category:Learning">
Category:Learning


</doc>
<doc id="5310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5310" title="Coca-Cola">
Coca-Cola

Coca-Cola, is a carbonated, sweetened soft drink and is the world's best-selling drink. Another name is Coke. The Coca-Cola Company claims that the beverage is sold in more than 200 countries. The company's headquarters are in Atlanta, Georgia. Coca-Cola's main rival is Pepsi. 
Coca-Cola was first made in the 1800s by John Pemberton. The first sales were at Jacob's Pharmacy in Atlanta, Georgia, on May 8, 1886. They sold it there for five cents a glass, it was very strong tasting because they did not mix it with water. Coca-Cola was first made the way it is now in Columbus, Georgia. It was called Pemberton's French Wine Coca at first, and was sold as a medicine to help cure colds and give people more energy. The drink used to be sold at soda fountains in the United States. Also created to stop the addiction of morphine.
Coca-Cola was first sold in bottles in Atlanta on March 12, 1894 with actual cocaine content. It was first sold in cans in 1955. During the first year, sales were about only nine drinks per day. Dr. Pemberton did not think he could make a lot of money with the drink he invented, so he sold parts of his business to different people. Just before he died in 1888, he sold the rest of his Coca-Cola business to Asa G. Candler. Mr Candler, together with some other businessmen, started the Coca-Cola Company.
The drink is called "Coca-Cola" because of the cocaine leaf and kola fruits that were used to add flavor. Dr. Pemberton's partner and bookkeeper, Frank Robinson, suggested the name "Coca-Cola" because he thought using the letter C twice would look better than if they used a K in the word "Cola". He then wrote down the name to use as a logo that is now very famous. The recipe was altered after a short while, swapping the cocaine leaf with the coca leaf after reported cases of hallucinations.
Coca-Cola was the first ever sponsor of the Olympic Games. This was for the 1928 Olympic Games in Amsterdam.
The company sells many other products, including other sorts of Coca-Cola, such as Diet Coke (1981), Cherry Coke (1985), Diet Cherry Coke (1986), Diet/ Coke with Lemon (2001), Diet/ Vanilla Coke (2002), Diet/ Coke with Lime (2004), Coke Zero (2006), Coca Cola with Orange (2007), Diet Coke Citrus Zest (2007).
Based on Interbrand's best global brand 2011, Coca-Cola was the world's most valuable brand.

</doc>
<doc id="5311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5311" title="Sulfur">
Sulfur

Sulfur (or sulphur) is a chemical element. The symbol for sulfur is S, and its atomic number is 16.
The superhero Sulfire, created by a young Iowan student, is based off of the element Sulfur, and is able to become partially fire.
Sulfur is a yellow solid that is a nonmetal. It is brittle (easily broken) and crystalline. It burns easily, releasing toxic fumes of sulfur dioxide. It has a very faint odor. If it is melted and cooled very quickly, it makes a rubbery form of sulfur that is called "plastic sulfur". It gradually turns back into the yellow brittle form. It does not dissolve in water. The smell normally known as "sulfur" comes from hydrogen sulfide and similar chemicals. These sulfides are produced when things decay without air.
Sulfur compounds are chemical compounds containing sulfur ions. Sulfur comes in several forms: oxidation states of -2 (hydrogen sulfide), +4 (sulfur dioxide, sulfites) and +6 (sulfuric acid, sulfates) are most common, although there are other oxidation states.
Mixture of sulfur oxides and water
Salts of hydrogen sulfide
Salts of sulfurous acid
Salts of sulfuric acid
Sulfur can be found in the earth near volcanoes. Many minerals contain sulfur ions. Coal contains sulfur ions which are released when it burns. Hydrogen sulfide and sulfur dioxide are some sulfur compounds that are released when coal burns. They are reacted to make sulfur. Sulfur in the ground in melted, then forced up through pipes by compressed (squeezed) air.
Sulfur is commonly used in gunpowder, medicine, and matches. Matches release sulfur dioxide when they burn, giving them their smell. Sulfur is an essential component to living cells. Many proteins contain sulfur. It is also used as a pesticide on organic farms.
Powder sulfur is said to be left after an occurrence of a supernatural being.
Sulfur is not toxic, but the chemical compounds formed when sulfur burns can be very toxic. Sulfuric acid, for example, can make paper turn black!
The ancient name for sulfur is "brimstone". Sulfur was used in fumigation (making fumes) and medicine in ancient Greece. In 1777, Antoine Lavosier convinced the scientific community that sulfur was an element.

</doc>
<doc id="5313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5313" title="Aluminium">
Aluminium

Aluminium (American spelling: aluminum) is a chemical element. The symbol for aluminium is Al, and its atomic number is 13. Aluminium is the most abundant metal.
Aluminium is a very good conductor of electricity and heat. It is light and strong. It can be hammered into sheets (malleable) or pulled out into wires (ductile). It is a highly reactive metal, although it is corrosion resistant.
Aluminium prevents corrosion by forming a small, thin layer of aluminium oxide on its surface. This layer protects the metal by preventing oxygen from reaching it. Corrosion can not occur without oxygen. Because of this thin layer, the reactivity of aluminium is not seen.
Pure aluminium is made from bauxite, a kind of rock that has aluminium oxide and many impurities. The bauxite is crushed and reacted with sodium hydroxide. The aluminium oxide dissolves. Then the aluminium oxide is dissolved in liquid cryolite, a rare mineral. Cryolite is normally produced artificially though. The aluminium oxide is electrolyzed to make aluminium and oxygen.
Aluminium was once considered a precious metal that was even more valuable than gold. This is no longer true because, as technology improved, it became cheaper and easier to make pure metal.
Aluminium forms chemical compounds in the +3 oxidation state. They are generally unreactive. Aluminium chloride and aluminium oxide examples. Very rarely are compounds in the +1 or +2 oxidation state.
Many things are made of aluminum. Much of it is used in overhead power lines. It is also widely used in window frames and aircraft bodies. It is found at home as saucepans, soft drink cans, and cooking foil. Aluminium is also used to coat car headlamps and compact discs.
Pure aluminium is very soft, so a harder metal is almost always added. The harder metal is usually copper. Copper/aluminium alloys are to make ships, because the aluminium prevents corrosion, and the copper prevents barnacles.
Aluminium compounds are used in deodorants, water processing plants, food additives, and antacids.
Since aluminium needs to be made by electrolysis, it requires a very large amount of electrical power. Recycling aluminium would be much cheaper. That's why recycling plants were opened. The cost of recycling aluminium is much less than the cost of making it from bauxite.
Aluminium is not used in the human body, although it is very common. People debate whether its use in deodorants and water treatment is healthy. Aluminium ions slow down plant growth in acidic soils. Aluminium may be a factor in Alzheimer's disease (a disease when the brain stops working and the patient is confused). But the Alzheimer's Society says overwhelming medical and scientific opinion is that studies have not convincingly demonstrated a causal relationship between aluminium and Alzheimer's disease.

</doc>
<doc id="5316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5316" title="Drawing">
Drawing

Drawing is a way of making a picture. Drawings are created by making lines on a surface. Long lines make up the shapes and small lines make the textures. Drawings can be images of real life or abstract images showing ideas cannot be seen in the real world.
A drawing is the art created this way. Examples of things used to mark with are pencils, chalk, charcoal, crayons, pastels, pen and ink.
Artists have been drawing for many centuries. They draw on paper or on other surfaces which the marks show up on.

</doc>
<doc id="5324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5324" title="Texas">
Texas

Texas is the second largest state in the United States. About 27 million people live there. In 1845, it became the 28th state in the United States.
Texas has been controlled by Spain, France, the Confederate States of America, and Mexico. It declared its independence from Mexico in 1836. It was its own country, the Republic of Texas, for 9 years (1836-1845). 
The largest cities in Texas are Houston, Dallas, Fort Worth, San Antonio, El Paso, and Austin. Austin is the capital city of Texas.
There are many famous attractions in Texas. Fort Worth is known for its stockyards. Amarillo is known for the cattle business and stockyards. In Dallas, industrial technology companies including Texas Instruments and EDS have their home offices.
San Antonio has The Alamo. Houston has the Johnson Space Center. Austin has the University of Texas at Austin. Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas Tech University in Lubbock, and Baylor University in Waco are other important universities in the state.
The state's name derives from táyshay, a word in the Caddoan language of the Hasinai (a Native American tribe), which means "allies" or "friends".
Texas was first explored in 1528 by Spanish explorers on accident (they arrived when their ship sank off the coast). It did not become a colony until 1685, when France claimed it. In response, Spain set up a rival colony in 1691 by setting up a religious outpost in the eastern part of Texas. Spain did not come back to Texas until 1716 to protect its colonies in the west from French forces. Two years later, San Antonio was started.
The pressure between the Spaniards and Native Americans in East Texas stopped many settlers from coming to Texas. To stop the violence and the increasing Native American raids, Spain called a truce between many tribes in 1745 and 1789.
Tensions rose in Texas after the United States bought a large amount of nearby land from France in 1803. This land was called the Louisiana Purchase. People began wondering whether Spain or the United States could claim Texas.
When Mexico got independence from Spain in 1821, Texas became part of Mexico. Americans and other settlers came into Texas when Mexico allowed non-Spanish settlers to settle here. After many settlers came to Texas, Mexico started taxing non-citizens. This outraged many settlers. Those from the South were even more outraged because Mexico banned all slavery in 1829 (many southerners saw slavery as a way of life back then). On March 2, 1836, Texas declared independence from Mexico and soon they were at war. Texas won, but Mexico refused to recognize Texas as an independent. Texas soon asked to become a state of the United States. Years later, in 1845, the US added Texas as a state, and Mexico broke off diplomatic relations. Mexico resisted offers by the U.S. to buy land extending from Texas to the Pacific Ocean. In 1846, a dispute over the border between Texas and Mexico resulted in armed conflict, and the Mexican-American War began. The United States won the war, and by the Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo won lands that later formed the states of California, Arizona, Nevada, Utah, New Mexico, southwestern Colorado, and southwestern Wyoming. Mexico received 15 million dollars and gave up its claims to Texas.
After Abraham Lincoln was elected President of the United States, Texas joined the newly formed Confederate States of America in 1861 and fought in the American Civil War in an attempt to become independent from the United States. The Confederates lost to the Union (the United States) in 1865. Texas was restored to full representation in Congress on March 30, 1870. 
On January 10, 1901, oil was found in Texas, leading the founding of a richer economy. During a time when the economy was bad, many people left Texas. Texas did not regain its population it lost until the 1950s and 60s. In recent years, Texas has been exploring technology and computers.
Texas is the second biggest state in the Union (after Alaska) and is bigger than every European country except Russia. It has mountains, deserts, plains and coasts. The largest river in Texas is the Rio Grande, which forms the border between Mexico and the United States throughout south Texas. The highest mountain in Texas is Guadalupe Peak.
Most of Texas is in Central Time. El Paso in Western Texas is in Mountain Time.

</doc>
<doc id="5328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5328" title="Category:Capital cities">
Category:Capital cities


</doc>
<doc id="5333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5333" title="Category:Olympic cities">
Category:Olympic cities

These cities have hosted the Olympic Games, either in the summer or winter, at least once.

</doc>
<doc id="5354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5354" title="Prussia">
Prussia

Prussia (, , Lithuanian: "Prūsija") was the name for a place in Northern Europe. It was part of Germany for a while, and included land in Poland, too. The name "Prussian" has had a lot of different meanings in the past and now:
In 1934 the Nazis stopped using the name Prussia for that area, and in 1947 the Allies abolished the state of Prussia, and divided its territory among themselves and the new States of Germany. Today the name is only for historical, geographical, or cultural use.
The name Prussia is from the Borussi or Prussi people who lived in the Baltic region. Ducal Prussia was a fiefdom of the Kingdom of Poland until 1660, and Royal Prussia was part of Poland until 1772. In the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, most German-speaking Prussians started thinking they were part of the German nation. They thought the Prussian way of life was very important: 
From the late 18th century, this bigger Prussia had a lot of power in North Germany; it was the strongest in politics and economics, and it had the most people. In 1871 Otto von Bismarck created the German Empire, and Prussia was the center of the empire.
Prussia was a small part of today’s northern Poland. After a small number of Prussi people lived there, Germans came to live there too. In 1934, Germany’s borders were with France, Belgium, the Netherlands, and Lithuania. Some parts of Prussia can be found in eastern Poland. Before 1918, a lot of western Poland was also in Prussia. Between 1795 and 1807, Prussia also controlled Warsaw and most of central Poland.
Before 1934, these regions were also in Prussia:
However, some regions were never part of Prussia, such as Oldenburg, Mecklenburg, and the Hanse city-states.
North-east Germany was Protestant, so Prussians were mostly Protestant. But there were a lot of Catholic people in the Rhineland, East Prussia, Posen, Silesia, West Prussia, and Ermland. The states of south Germany (especially Austria and Bavaria) were Catholic, so they did not want Prussia to have the power. Prussia was mostly German, but in the late 18th century the new Polish areas had a lot of Polish people too. In 1918, these Polish areas returned to Poland.
In 1226 Polish Prince Conrad of Mazovia (a place in Northern Poland) asked the Teutonic Knights from Transylvania to come to Mazovia. He wanted them to fight the Prussian tribes on his borders. They fought for more than 100 years, then they created a new state. After some time, this state controlled most of today’s Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, and parts of northern Poland. From 1466, the Knights were under the King of Poland and Lithuania. In 1525 the leader of the Knights became a Protestant. He made part of the Knights' land into the Duchy of Prussia, in the Kingdom of Poland. 
At that time, the Duchy of Prussia was only the area east of the mouth of the Vistula River. In 1618 the new Duke of Prussia was the Elector John Sigismund of Brandenburg. He was also Margrave of Brandenburg. Brandenburg was under the Hohenzollern family. The Duchy of Prussia was important to the Hohenzollern family because it was not in the Holy Roman Empire. The name for the new state was "Brandenburg-Prussia". In the middle of the state was Polish land, but Brandenburg-Prussia was moving away from Poland. Under Frederick William, "the Great Elector," Prussia took some new land in Magdeburg and areas west of the Rhine.
In 1701 the Holy Roman Emperor and Polish King allowed Brandenburg-Prussia to have the name "Kingdom of Prussia" under Frederick I. Under Frederick II ("the Great"), Prussia took Silesia from Austria by War and kept it. The wars ended in 1763; Prussia was now the most powerful state in eastern Germany. Other parts of Germany, including Pomerania, went to Prussia because of marriage or death.
In this time, the Prussian military machine grew, as did the administration system. Until 1945 these were at the heart of the German state. Between 1772 and 1795 Prussia, Russia and Austria divided Poland into parts (the Partitions of Poland). Now Prussia controlled land in the far east, e.g. Warsaw. 
Frederick William II took Prussia into war with France in 1792. He lost at Valmy and gave his western land to France. Frederick William III started a new war, but lost at Jena. He gave more land to France at the Treaty of Tilsit.
In 1813 Prussia again started war with Napoléonic France. In 1815 Prussia won her lost land again, and also all the Rhineland and Westphalia and some other land. This land in the west was very important, especially the Ruhr valley. It was the new centre of Germany's industrialisation, and the home of the weapons industry. After the Napoléonic Wars Prussia was the biggest power in Germany, and more powerful than Austria. 
In the early 19th century, the liberals in Germany wanted one federal, democratic Germany. The conservatives wanted Germany as a group of independent, weak states. In 1848 revolution came to Europe – the liberals had a chance. Frederick William IV was worried. He allowed a National Assembly and a constitution. The new Frankfurt Parliament wanted to give Frederick William the crown of all Germany, but he did not want it. He said that revolutionaries could not name kings. Now Prussia had a semi-democratic constitution, but really the nobility with land (the Junkers) had the power, especially in the east.
In 1862 Prussian King William I named Otto von Bismarck as the new Minister-President (prime minister). Bismarck wanted the liberals and the conservatives to lose. He wanted to create a strong united Germany, but under the Junker, not under the western German liberals. So, he started three wars:* with Denmark in 1864 – this gave Prussia Schleswig-Holstein* with Austria in 186] (Austro-Prussian War) – this allowed Prussia to take Hanover and most other north German territories who were with Austria* with France in 1870 (Franco-Prussian War) - so Bismarck could control Mecklenburg, Bavaria, Baden, Württemberg and Saxony. After this, these states (but not Austria) became part of a united German Empire, and William I took the title of Emperor (Kaiser). 
This was Prussia’s high moment. The economic and political future looked good, if the leaders were clever. But after 99 days, in 1888 the state had a new leader, William II. He fired Bismarck, who lost his job in 1890, and William II started a new foreign policy. He made the army bigger, and the navy much bigger, and took risks; this took Germany into World War I. With defeat, the Prussian Junkers lost power. The Prussian king and the other German kings had to leave. Germany became the Weimar Republic. In 1919 the Treaty of Versailles re-created the Polish state, and Prussia had to give up much of Prussia. The Polish Corridor was split between East Prussia and Germany.
At the end of World War I, the Treaty of Versailles took away West Prussia to make the Free City of Danzig and Polish Corridor. Some people also wanted to break Prussia into smaller states, but tradition won. Prussia became the "Prussian Free State" "(Freistaat Preußen)," the largest state of the Weimar Republic, with 60% of its land. The industrial Ruhr area was in Prussia, and also Berlin, so Prussia was the home of the left. The Social Democrats and the Catholic Centre had power for most of the 1920s. 
In 1932 Germany's conservative Chancellor Franz von Papen took control of Prussia, ending the state’s democratic constitution. It was the end of German democracy too. In 1933 Hermann Göring became Interior Minister of Prussia; he was now very strong. In 1934 the Nazis took the German states’ power. 
In 1945 the Soviet Union’s army took all of eastern and central Germany (and Berlin). Poland took everything east of the Oder-Neisse line, e.g. Silesia, Pomerania, eastern Brandenburg and East Prussia. The Soviet Union took the northern third of East Prussia, including Königsberg, now Kaliningrad. About ten million Germans had to fly from these areas. Polish and Russian people moved there to fill the area. Because of this, and because the Communists took control of land in the GDR, the Junker and Prussia were finished. 
In 1947, the United States, Britain, France and the Soviet Union formally agreed the end of Prussia. In the Soviet Zone (from 1949 the GDR) the Prussian lands were now the states of Brandenburg and Saxony-Anhalt. The Prussian parts of Pomerania went to Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. In 1952, the GDR government stopped using states and used districts. In 1990, the end of the GDR, the states returned. In the West (from 1949 the Federal Republic of Germany), the Prussian lands went to North Rhine-Westphalia, Lower Saxony, Hesse, Rhineland-Palatinate and Schleswig-Holstein. Baden-Württemberg took the Hohenzollern land.
The idea of Prussia is not completely dead in Germany. Some people want to put together the states of Brandenburg, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern and Berlin and call them Prussia. But German politicians are not interested in the idea. The constitution of Berlin allows for Berlin and Brandenburg becoming one state, but the people of Berlin voted against the idea on May 5, 1996.

</doc>
<doc id="5361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5361" title="Apocrypha">
Apocrypha

The Apocrypha are religious texts that are in some versions of the Bible. Other versions omit them. The word comes from Ancient Greek "" (apokrypha). Apocrypha means "those that were hidden". Generally, the term is applied to writings that were not part of the canon. There are several reasons why these texts were not included in the canon. The texts might only have been known to few people, or they might have been left out because their content does not fit well into that of the other books of the Bible. Some of the apocrypha were written at a later date, and were therefore not included. 
The Authorized King James Version called these books ‘Apocrypha’. It separated them, because the Bible said so in 2 Esdras 14:46, "But keep the seventy last, that thou mayest deliver them only to such as be wise among the people: For in them is the spring of understanding, the fountain of wisdom, and the stream of knowledge."
Roman Catholic Bibles have these books in the Old Testament. They do not call them Apocrypha. They call them deuterocanonical, which means that they belong to the second canon. Canon just means an official list of literary works accepted as representing a field. The first list is of books first written in Hebrew. This second list is of books first written in Greek.
These books were kept in Catholic Bibles because it is believed that the Bible Jesus read was a Bible that included the books of the "Apocrypha," the deuterocanonical books. It is known that the most popular Bible at the time of Jesus was the Greek Septuagint version - which includes these extra books. That is why early Church fathers quoted from Bibles including these books.
Christians disagree about the ‘Apocrypha’. Others point out that the ‘Apocrypha’ was in every Christian Bible until 1828.
In 1828 these books were taken out of some Bibles. The translators of the King James Bible said that these books were written to prepare the people for Jesus, in the same way as John the Baptist did. They said that the apostles used these books. And modern day Mormons also have hints in the book of Mormon. 
There is no question that these books have always been part of the Bible in Oriental Orthodox Churches, so they were definitely not added in the 1500s. Around the year 80 AD, the Jewish Council (Sanhedrin) decided to cut the books from the Hebrew Bible, but they stayed in the Christian Bible. Then soon after Christianity became the only religion of Roman Empire in the 4th century, the Romans decided to cut out all of the same books that the Sanhedrin had cut out, and they moved some of them to the "apocrypha".
Books of the Apocrypha (they may not be in order):
Note: Other candidates for Apocryphal scriptures include supposedly lost portions of Esther and Sirach.
There are also Apocrypha candidates for the New Testament:

</doc>
<doc id="5362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5362" title="Category:Metals">
Category:Metals


</doc>
<doc id="5363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5363" title="Category:Chemical elements">
Category:Chemical elements


</doc>
<doc id="5369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5369" title="Category:Paris">
Category:Paris


</doc>
<doc id="5371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5371" title="Category:France">
Category:France


</doc>
<doc id="5375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5375" title="Category:Philosophers">
Category:Philosophers


</doc>
<doc id="5377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5377" title="Category:Ancient Greek poets">
Category:Ancient Greek poets


</doc>
<doc id="5378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5378" title="Category:Poets">
Category:Poets


</doc>
<doc id="5381" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5381" title="Category:Greece">
Category:Greece


</doc>
<doc id="5382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5382" title="Category:Languages">
Category:Languages

Language is how we all exchange ideas and information with other people.

</doc>
<doc id="5383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5383" title="Category:Lists of countries">
Category:Lists of countries


</doc>
<doc id="5385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5385" title="Category:Olympic medalists">
Category:Olympic medalists


</doc>
<doc id="5386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5386" title="Category:Olympic gold medalists">
Category:Olympic gold medalists


</doc>
<doc id="5389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5389" title="Category:Pop music">
Category:Pop music


</doc>
<doc id="5390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5390" title="Category:Musicians">
Category:Musicians

This category is for individual "Musicians". For groups use .

</doc>
<doc id="5392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5392" title="Sodium">
Sodium

Sodium (symbol Na, from the Latin name "natrium") is the chemical element number 11 in the periodic table of elements. It follows that its nucleus includes 11 protons, and 11 electrons orbit around it (according to the simplified model known as "Niels Bohr atom"). Even if a relatively large number of isotopes can be artificially produced, all decay in a short time. As a consequence all sodium found in nature (mainly in sea water) has the composition Na, meaning that the nucleus includes 12 neutrons. The atomic mass of sodium is 22.9898; if it is rounded, it would be 23.
Sodium is a light, silver-coloured metal. Sodium is so soft that it can be easily cut with a knife. When it is cut, the surface will become white after a bit of time. This is because it reacts with air to form sodium hydroxide and sodium carbonate. Sodium is a little lighter than water; when it reacts with water it floats. This reaction is very fast. Hydrogen and sodium hydroxide are produced. The hydrogen may ignite. Since sodium melts at a low temperature, it melts when it reacts with water. It has one valence electron which is removed easily, making it highly reactive. 
Compared with other alkali metals (metals in the first column of the periodic table), sodium is usually less reactive than potassium and more reactive than lithium.
These are chemical compounds that contain sodium ions. Sodium only exists in 1 oxidation state: +1.
Sodium was discovered by Sir Humphrey Davy, an English scientist, back in 1807. He made it by the electrolysis of sodium hydroxide. It is named after soda, a name for sodium hydroxide or sodium carbonate.
It is used in the preparation of organic compounds. It is also used in the street lights that are orange, and ultra violet lights.
Sodium compounds are used in soaps, toothpaste, baking and antiacids.
Sodium does not exist as an element in nature; its easily removed valence electron is too reactive. It exists as an ion in chemical compounds. Sodium ions are found in the ocean. It is also found as sodium chloride in the earth's crust, where it is mined.
Sodium is normally made by electrolysis of very hot sodium chloride that was melted.
Sodium ion in the form of sodium chloride is needed in the human body, but large amounts of it cause problems, which is why one should not eat too much salt. Many organisms in the ocean depend on the proper concentration of ions in sea water to live. 

</doc>
<doc id="5395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5395" title="Dice">
Dice

Dice are objects used in games when something random needs to be done, such as moving a piece a random number of places on a board. Most dice are cubes that have the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 on the faces. Dice are sometimes made in other shapes than cubes, but the six-sided die ("die" is the singular of "dice") is the most common. A die is usually rolled by the player’s hand. When calculating together opposite sides of typical dice, result is always 7.
Some games are played with two dice and some use only one. Some games that use dice are Monopoly, Yahtzee, Risk, Dungeons and Dragons, and many more. Dice with different numbers of sides are called polyhedral dice.
Weights can be put inside a die to make it only land on a certain number once it is rolled. 

</doc>
<doc id="5398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5398" title="Matrix (mathematics)">
Matrix (mathematics)

In mathematics, a matrix (plural: matrices) is a rectangular table of cells of numbers, with rows and columns. The rows are each left-to-right (horizontal) lines, and the columns go top-to-bottom (vertical). The top-left cell is at row 1, column 1 "(see diagram at right)".
There are rules for adding, subtracting and "multiplying" matrices together, but the rules are different than for numbers. As an example, formula_1 does not always give the same result as formula_2, which is the case for the multiplication of ordinary numbers. A matrix can have more than 2 dimensions, such as a 3D matrix. Also, a matrix can be one-dimensional, as a single row or column.
Many natural sciences use matrices quite a lot. In many universities, courses about matrices (usually called linear algebra) are taught very early, sometimes even in the first year of studies. Matrices are also very common in computer science.
The horizontal lines in a matrix are called rows and the vertical lines are called columns. A matrix with "m" rows and "n" columns is called an "m"-by-"n" matrix (or "m"×"n" matrix) and "m" and "n" are called its dimensions. 
The places in the matrix where the numbers are is called "entries". The entry of a matrix "A" that lies in the row number "i" and column number "j" is called the "i,j" entry of "A". This is written as "A"["i,j"] or "a".
We write formula_3 to define an "m" × "n" matrix "A" with each entry in the matrix called "a" for all 1 ≤ "i" ≤ "m" and 1 ≤ "j" ≤ "n".
The matrix
is a 4×3 matrix. This matrix has m=4 rows, and n=3 columns. 
The element "A"[2,3] or "a" is 7.
The sum of two matrices is the matrix, which ("i","j")-th entry is equal to the sum of the ("i","j")-th entries of two matrices:
The two matrices have the same dimensions. Here formula_6 is true.
The multiplication of two matrices is a bit more complicated: 
So with Numbers:
There are some matrices that are special. 
A square matrix has the same number of rows as columns, so m=n. 
An example of a square matrix is 
This matrix has 3 rows and 3 columns: m=n=3.
Every square dimension set of a matrix has a special counterpart called an "identity matrix". The identity matrix has nothing but zeroes except on the main diagonal, where there are all ones. For example:
is an identity matrix. There is exactly one identity matrix for each square dimension set. An identity matrix is special because when multiplying any matrix by the identity matrix, the result is always the original matrix with no change.
An inverse matrix is a matrix that, when multiplied by another matrix, equals the identity matrix. For example:
formula_14 is the inverse of 
formula_15.
A matrix, that has many rows, but only one column, is called a column vector.
The determinant takes a square matrix and returns a number. To understand what the number means, take each column of the matrix and draw it as a vector. The parallelogram drawn by those vectors has an area, which is the determinant. For all 2x2 matrices, the formula is very simple:
formula_16
For 3x3 matrices the formula is more complicated:
formula_17
There are no simple formulas for the determinants of larger matrices, and many computer programmers study how to get computers to quickly find large determinants.
There are three rules that all determinants follow. These are:

</doc>
<doc id="5400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5400" title="Hawaiian">
Hawaiian

Hawaiian can be:

</doc>
<doc id="5401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5401" title="British Isles">
British Isles

The British Isles are an archipelago (a group of islands) in north-western Europe. They have a long geographical and geological history. The first men were in Britain by 800,000 years ago (Happisburgh footprints).
The biggest islands are called Great Britain and Ireland, followed by the Isle of Man. Great Britain, the biggest island, is home to three countries. These are England, Wales and Scotland. The island of Ireland is divided into Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. Great Britain is the biggest island in Europe and Ireland is the third biggest.
England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland join together to make the United Kingdom. 
Some people include the Channel Islands of Jersey, Guernsey, Sark in the term "British Isles", but they are a lot closer to France than to Great Britain. In politics, they are British islands but in geology they are French islands.
The term tends not to be used in the Republic of Ireland because many people feel it implies that Ireland is politically British.

</doc>
<doc id="5403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5403" title="Mandarin Chinese">
Mandarin Chinese

Mandarin is the language of government and education of China and Taiwan, with the notable exceptions of Hong Kong and Macau where a local dialect of Chinese called Cantonese is more often used.
Mandarin is one of five major regional languages of China. It spreads wider than any other regional language, from the whole northern part of China down to Yunnan Province in the southwest corner of China. In that big area there are many regional differences in vocabulary, so somebody who moves from Beijing to Yunnan could not understand people there who were speaking their own language, Yunnanhua. The problem is bigger than for a person in Great Britain or the United States to go to Australia. Therefore, starting in the 1920s, the Chinese government set up a national language based on the Beijing dialect and on the most widely understood words and pronunciations.
Mandarin is a standard language. It is nobody's native language, but a good average between various language forms and a common language everyone can understand and communicate with. Although it is based on the Beijing dialect, it is not the same as Beijing dialect.
In China, the language used in all schools is known as Standard Mandarin, "Putonghua" (普通话/普通話) meaning "common (spoken) language" or "Hanyu" (汉语/漢語) meaning "language of the Han“. In places such as Malaysia it is known as "Huayu" (华语/華語). In Taiwan it is known as "Guoyu" (国语/國語) meaning "national language." There are some minor differences in these standards.
Mandarin is spoken by over 800 million people around the world, more than any other language. Most people emigrating from the Greater China region now speak Mandarin, while in the past it used to be Cantonese or Taishanese, another local Chinese dialect.
Standard Mandarin is one of the six official languages at the United Nations. The others are English, Spanish, French, Arabic, and Russian.
Mandarin is written with Chinese characters called "Hànzì" (漢字 or 汉字) which literally means "Han characters". Each "Hànzì" has its own pronunciation and meaning. An ordinary dictionary will contain about 10,000 characters. Spoken Mandarin uses very many compound words, words that combine meanings the way English does in such terms as "machine gun," "fire truck," "playground," etc.
The Hanzi are ideograms: one character means one "idea". The various concepts are derived from the ideograms by combining them. Mandarin can be also written phonetically (that is: written as it is spoken) with the Latin alphabet as you really cannot see the spelling from Hanzi characters. That is called transliteration. The most popular transliteration system is called Pinyin.
Some Chinese characters were originally fairly concrete pictures of the things they represent. As time went on, people chose to write simpler versions that are easier to write but do not look so much like the real thing, just as we sometimes draw stick men rather than drawing people with real-looking bodies, arms, legs, etc. Here are some examples:
Most characters, however, are made by combining pictures, using one to give a general meaning, and the other to represent a sound. For instance, "媽 mā" (mom) is made by adding 女 (nǚ, human female) to 馬 (mǎ, horse). The "ma" part is only there to represent the sound.
In most dialects of ancient Chinese, one character is generally enough for one word, but spoken Mandarin uses mostly compounds like "媽媽 māma," which is just "mama," 
Other examples show different ways of combining components:
Just as the English used in Great Britain favors "petrol" but the English used in the United States almost always uses "gasoline," different regional languages in China may use different compound words to name the same thing.
In Spoken Mandarin, most words are character compounds because over time Mandarin lost many sounds that existed in earlier forms of Chinese. Due to the loss of sounds, many Chinese words ended up becoming homophones, thus more characters were added to words to tell them apart. For example, the Chinese title of the poem "Lion-Eating Poet in the Stone Den" 施氏食狮史 is pronounced "Shī Shì Shí Shī Shǐ", and every character in the poem is pronounced with the same syllable, but with different tones. In older forms of Chinese, one could have been to tell apart the different characters making up the title, as they could have sounded noticeably different from each other. 
Thus, one-character words in Classical Chinese like
became the Mandarin compound words
to clearly distinguish such words from their homophones, otherwise the already mentioned characters could be mistaken for similar sounding characters like
thus making spoken language difficult to understand without the compound words.
Mandarin is defined and designed based on Beijing accent. In China, there are over 600,000 dialects and more accents although they all use Chinese language and characters, but their pronunciation and some expressions are totally different. China must find a standard pronunciation to make all people to understand and communicate. Beijing has been the capital city of China for more than 1,000 years, so China defined Beijing Accent as standard mandarin.
Beijing also has some local dialects that are not included by mandarin or standard Chinese language yet. But different from the other dialects, Beijing is capital city, political, economic, culture and education center of China, more and more new Beijing dialects have been or will be accepted as mandarin or standard Chinese language. (But, the other dialects, such as Shanghainese, Cantonese, Hakka etc., have few opportunities to be included into Mandarin or standard Chinese language or be accepted by the whole of China.)
The following samples are some Beijing dialects which are not accepted as standard mandarin yet by now.
倍儿: bèi'ér means 'very much'; 拌蒜: bànsuàn means 'stagger'; 不吝: bùlìn means 'do not worry about'; 撮: cuò means 'eat'; 出溜: chūliū means 'slip'; 大老爷儿们儿: dàlǎoyémen means 'men, males';
The following samples are some Beijing dialects which have been already accepted as mandarin in recent years.
二把刀: èrbǎdāo means 'not very skillful'; 哥们儿: gēmenr means 'good male friends'; 抠门儿: kōumén means 'parsimony'; 打小儿: dǎxiǎo'ér means 'since childhood'

</doc>
<doc id="5404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5404" title="Algeria">
Algeria

Algeria (official name: People's Democratic Republic of Algeria) is a country in the Western part of North Africa. The capital city is Algiers. It is the largest country in Africa. The name is from the city of Algiers. It is bordered by the Mediterranean Sea in the north, Tunisia in the northeast, Libya in the east, Niger in the southeast, Mauritania and Mali in the southwest, Western Sahara in the west and Morocco in the northwest.
Algeria has had people since 10.000 BC. This can be seen in Tassili National Park. By 600-BC, Phoenician were at Tipasa. The first Muslim Arabs came to Algeria in the mid-7th century. Many people chose this religion.
In the 11th century the Arab tribes of Banu Hilal and Banu Sulaym were installed between Tunisia and eastern Algeria (Constantois). The famous mathematician, Fibonacci (1170—1250) lived in Algeria as a teenager. This is where he learned the Hindu-Arabic number system and realized it was simpler to use. In the 1500s and 1700s the Spanish Empire ruled a lot of Algeria. Algeria was made part of the Ottoman Empire in 1517. Pirates worked from the Barbary Coast. They took people to sell as slaves.
France ruled Algeria starting in 1830. In 1954, the National Liberation Front (Front de Libération Nationale or FLN) wanted freedom from France. They fought a war. It became independent from France in July 5, 1962.
In 1963 Ahmed Ben Bella became the first President of Algeria.
The Algerian Civil War started in 1991. It ended in 2002. After many people protested, like in Tunisia, Egypt, and Libya, the government stopped the state of emergency on 24 February 2011.
A large part of southern Algeria is the Sahara Desert. The Aures and Nememcha mountain ranges are in the north. The highest point is Mount Tahat (3,003 m).
Official languages are Arabic and Berber. French is widely spoken too.
Algeria's population is about 39.5 million people. There are over 40 cities with more than 100,000 people.
There are 48 provinces (since 1983) in Algeria, they are:
There are several UNESCO World Heritage Sites in Algeria including Al Qal'a of Beni Hammad, the first capital of the Hammadid empire; Tipasa, a Phoenician and later Roman town; and Djémila and Timgad, both Roman ruins; M'Zab Valley, a limestone valley containing a large urbanized oasis; also the Casbah of Algiers is an important citadel. The only natural World Heritage Sites is the Tassili n'Ajjer, a mountain range.

</doc>
<doc id="5406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5406" title="Plymouth, Devon">
Plymouth, Devon

Plymouth is a city in Devon, South West England. It is on the south coast. It has a large port at Devonport used by the Royal Navy. Nearly 250,000 people live in Plymouth and it is the largest place in Devon. West of Plymouth is the mouth of the River Tamar which is called the Hamoaze. Plymouth means mouth of the River Plym. 
The Roman Catholic Bishop of Plymouth has his cathedral here. Plymouth was badly affected by German bombing during the Second World War, when many buildings were destroyed. The Plymouth Fathers and the Plymouth Brethren were both named after Plymouth. Plymouth is linked to Saltash in Cornwall by two bridges across the River Tamar: the Royal Albert Bridge (built in 1859) carries the railway line to Penzance and the Tamar Bridge the A38 main road. On Plymouth Hoe is the third lighthouse which formerly stood on the Eddystone Rock in the English Channel.
It has a football team called Plymouth Argyle and a rugby football team called Plymouth Albion.

</doc>
<doc id="5409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5409" title="Plymouth">
Plymouth

Plymouth is the name of various places:
Other meanings of the word Plymouth are:

</doc>
<doc id="5410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5410" title="George Washington">
George Washington

George Washington (February 22, 1732 – December 14, 1799) was the first President of the United States (1789–1797), the commander in chief of the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War, and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. 
His mother was Mary Ball and his father was Augustine Washington. They owned a plantation with slaves in Virginia. George studied at local schools in Fredericksburg, and was also homeschooled for part of his life. George's father died when he was 11. George's mother was not fit to look after him. 
There is a well known story about honesty, that Washington cut down his father's cherry tree and then admitted it. Although it is a very good example of what Washington was like, the story is not true, although it is an extremely accurate example of an action he would do.
Washington became a farmer like his father. His large plantation was called Mount Vernon. He also worked as a surveyor, someone who measures land. Washington always wanted to be a soldier. He was active in the French and Indian War. His first military actions were a defeat at the hands of the French and their soldiers in Virginia. They fought the Indians. In 1759, Washington married a widow named Martha Custis. They did not have any kids.
Washington was a delegate to the First Continental Congress, which was created by the Thirteen Colonies to respond to various laws passed by the British government. The Second Continental Congress chose him to be the commanding general of the Continental Army. Washington led the army from 1775 until the end of the war in 1783. After losing the big Battle of Long Island, and being chased across New Jersey Washington led his troops back across the Delaware River on Christmas Day, 1776, in a surprise attack on Hessian mercenaries at the small Battle of Princeton and Trenton, New Jersey. The British had more troops and more supplies than Washington. However, Washington kept his troops together and won these small battles.
Overall, Washington did not win many battles, but he never let the British destroy his army. With the help of the French army and the navy, Washington made a British army surrender at Yorktown, Virginia in 1781, in the final major battle of the war. The war officially ended with the Treaty of Paris in 1783. The army in Newburgh, New York had not been paid and some leaders wanted to force the Continental Congress to pay them. Washington made a speech to persuade them not to do that.
When the Revolutionary war ended, Washington was a national hero. He was offered what would basically be a dictatorship over the colonies. In a move that surprised everyone, however, Washington said no, quit the army and went home to Mount Vernon. He wanted the colonies to have a strong government, but was tired of leading. He also did not want the U.S. to be run by a tyrant.
A few years later, Washington was called over to host the discussions for the new government. He was voted president of the Constitutional Convention in 1785. Washington wanted the states to ratify the Constitution of the United States and they did, largely thanks to the Federalist Papers, which were written by Alexander Hamilton, John Jay, and James Madison. 
In 1789, Washington was elected president without any competition. Washington was the first President of the United States. Washington helped the government get started. While Washington did not belong to any political party and stayed neutral, he agreed with Federalist policies such as the country having a standing army and a national bank. He was re-elected to a second term. After his second term, Washington decided not to run for reelection even though he was popular enough to probably win in a landslide. His decision set a precedent that every president followed until Franklin D. Roosevelt broke it in 1940.
In Washington's farewell address, he warned the country not to divide into political parties and to not get involved in wars outside of the United States. Washington's non-intervention foreign policy was supported by most Americans for over one hundred years. His advice concerning political parties was completely ignored, as parties were already forming at the time of his speech.
Washington went back home to Mount Vernon after his second term ended in 1797. He was very happy to be home. He died on December 14, 1799, in Mount Vernon at the age of 67 from pneumonia. Washington, D.C. and the state of Washington are named after him. Many schools are named after him. His face is on the United States dollar bill and the quarter coin.
From his marriage in his 20s, George Washington owned a lot of farm land. He grew tobacco and wheat and vegetables. Washington also owned more than 100 slaves. He made them free when he died. However, he did not have much money in cash. He had to borrow money while he was president. At his death, Washington's estate was worth over $500,000.
Many people think George Washington had wooden teeth, but this is not true. He tried many different ways to replace his teeth, though: for instance, he tried having teeth carved from elk's teeth or ivory. Ivory and bone both have hairline fractures in them, which normally can’t be seen which started to darken due to Washington's love of wine. The darkened, thin fractures in the bone made the lines look like the grain in a piece of wood. George Washington's teeth started falling out when he was about 22, and he had only one tooth left by the time he became president. It was hard to talk and hard to eat. At one time, he had fake teeth with a special hole so that the one tooth he still had could poke through; he tried to keep them smelling clean by soaking them in wine, but instead they just became mushy and black. In 1796, a dentist had to pull out George Washington's last tooth, and he kept his tooth in a gold locket attached to his watch chain. When the time came for the president to have his portrait painted, cotton was pushed under his lips to make him look as if he had teeth. But the cotton made his mouth puff out too far, as is seen on the picture on the dollar bill.

</doc>
<doc id="5411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5411" title="February 22">
February 22


</doc>
<doc id="5412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5412" title="Category:Presidents of the United States">
Category:Presidents of the United States


</doc>
<doc id="5414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5414" title="Abraham Lincoln">
Abraham Lincoln

Abraham Lincoln (February 12 1809  – April 15 1865) was the 16th President of the United States. He served as president from 1861 to 1865, during the American Civil War. Just five days after most of the Confederate forces had surrendered and the war was ending, John Wilkes Booth assassinated Lincoln. Lincoln was the first president of the United States to be assassinated. Lincoln has been remembered as the "Great Emancipator" because he worked to end slavery in the United States.
Abraham Lincoln was born on February 12, 1809, in Hodgenville, Kentucky, U.S.. His parents were Thomas Lincoln and Nancy Hanks. His family was very poor. Abraham had one brother and one sister. His brother died in childhood. They grew up in a small log cabin house, with just one room inside. Although slavery was legal in Kentucky at that time, Lincoln's father, who was a religious Baptist, refused to own any slaves.
When Lincoln was seven years old, his family moved to Indiana. Later on they moved to Illinois. In his childhood he helped his father on the farm, but when he was 22 years old he left home and moved to New Salem, Illinois, where he worked in a general store.
Later, he said that he had gone to school for just one year, but that was enough to learn how to read, write, and do simple math. In 1842, he married Mary Todd Lincoln. They had four children, but three of them died when they were very young.
Abraham Lincoln was sometimes called Abe Lincoln or "Honest Abe" after he ran miles to give a customer the right amount of change. The nickname "Honest Abe" came from a time when he started a business that failed. Instead of running away like many people would have, he stayed and worked to pay off his debt.
Lincoln started his political career in 1832 when he ran for the IGA Illinois General Assembly, but he lost the election. He served as a captain in the Illinois militia during the Black Hawk War, a war with Native American tribes. When he moved to Springfield in 1837, he began to work as a lawyer. Soon, he became one of the most highly respected lawyers in Illinois.
In 1837, as a member of the Illinois General Assembly, Lincoln issued a written protest of its passage of a resolution stating that slavery could not be abolished in Washington, D.C.
In 1841, he won a court case (Bailey v. Cromwell). He represented a black woman who claimed she had already been freed and could not be sold as a slave. In 1847, he lost a case (Matson v. Rutherford) representing a slave owner (Robert Matson) claiming return of fugitive slaves. After he moved to Illinois, he worked as a shopkeeper and  postmaster. He rode the circuit of courts for many years. When he was 21, he worked on a flatboat that carried freight. He joined the Independent Spy Corp. At first, he was a member of the Whig Party. He later became a Republican. Lincoln ran for senate against Stephen A. Douglas. Douglas won.
In 1846, Lincoln joined the Whig Party and was elected to one term in the House of Representatives. After that, he ignored his political career and instead worked as a lawyer. In 1854, in reaction to the passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Act, Lincoln became involved in politics again. He joined the Republican Party, which had recently been formed in opposition to the expansion of slavery. In 1858, he wanted to become senator; although this was unsuccessful, the debates drew national attention to him.
The Republican Party nominated him for the Presidential election of 1860.
Lincoln was chosen as a candidate for the elections in 1860 for different reasons. Among these reasons were that his views on slavery were less extreme than those of other people who wanted to be candidates. Lincoln was from what was then one of the Western states, and had a bigger chance of winning the election there. Other candidates that were older or more experienced than him had enemies inside the party. Lincoln's family was poor, which added to the Republican position of free labor, the opposite of slave labor. Lincoln won the election in 1860, and was made the 16th President of the United States. He won with almost no votes in the South. For the first time, a president had won the election because of the large support he got from the states in the North. During his presidency Lincoln became well-known because of his large stovepipe hat. He used his tall hat to store papers and documents when he was traveling.
After Lincoln's election, seven States (South Carolina, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Texas and Louisiana) formed the Confederate States of America. When the United States refused to surrender Fort Sumter in Charleston, South Carolina, the Confederates attacked the fort, beginning the American Civil War. Later, four more states (Arkansas, Virginia, Tennessee, and North Carolina) joined the Confederacy for a total of eleven. In his whole period as President, he had to rebuild the Union with military force and many bloody battles. He also had to stop the "border states", like Kentucky, Missouri, and Maryland, from leaving the Union and joining the Confederacy.
Lincoln was not a general, and had only been in the army for a short time during the Black Hawk War. However, he still took a major role in the war, often spending days and days in the War Department. His plan was to cut off the South by surrounding it with ships, control the Mississippi River, and take Richmond, the Confederate capital. He often clashed with generals in the field, especially George B. McClellan, and fired generals who lost battles or were not aggressive enough. Eventually, he made Ulysses S. Grant the top general in the army.
With the Emancipation Proclamation on January 1, 1863, Lincoln ordered the freedom of all slaves in those states still in rebellion during the American Civil War. It did not actually immediately free all those slaves however, since those areas were still controlled by the rebelling states of the Confederacy. Only a small number of slaves already behind Union lines were immediately freed. As the Union army advanced, nearly all four million slaves were effectively freed. Some former slaves joined the Union army.
The Proclamation also did not free slaves in the slave states that had remained loyal to the Union (the federal government of the US). Neither did it apply to areas where Union forces had already regained control. Until the Thirteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution in 1865, only the states had power to end slavery within their own borders, so Lincoln issued the proclamation as a war measure.
The Proclamation made freeing the slaves a Union goal for the war, and put an end to movements in European nations (especially in Great Britain and France) that would have recognized the Confederacy as an independent nation. Lincoln then sponsored a constitutional amendment to free all slaves. The Thirteenth Amendment, making slavery illegal everywhere in the United States, was passed late in 1865, eight months after Lincoln was assassinated.
Lincoln made a famous speech after the Battle of Gettysburg in 1863 called the Gettysburg Address. The battle was very important, and many soldiers from both sides died. The speech was given at the new cemetery for the dead soldiers. It is one of the most famous speeches in American history.
Lincoln was reelected president in 1864 and re-inaugurated March 4 1865. Soon afterwards, it appeared likely that the Union would win the Civil War. Lincoln proposed lenient terms for restoring self-government in the states that had rebelled. On April 9 1865, the leading Confederate general, Robert E. Lee, surrendered his armies. On April 11, 1865, Lincoln gave a speech in which he promoted voting rights for blacks.
On April 14th, Lincoln went to attend a play with his wife at Ford's Theatre in Washington, D.C.. During the third act of the play, John Wilkes Booth, a well-known actor and a Confederate spy from Maryland, entered the presidential box and shot Lincoln at point-blank range, mortally wounding him. An unconscious Lincoln was carried across the street to Petersen House. He was placed diagonally on the bed because his tall frame would not fit normally on the smaller bed. He remained in a coma for nine hours before dying the next morning. Booth escaped, but died from shots fired during his capture on April 26.
Lincoln was the first American president to be assassinated.
Lincoln has been consistently ranked both by scholars and the public as one of the greatest U.S. presidents. He is often considered the greatest president for his leadership during the American Civil War and his eloquence in speeches such as the Gettysburg Address.

</doc>
<doc id="5415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5415" title="February 12">
February 12


</doc>
<doc id="5416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5416" title="April 15">
April 15


</doc>
<doc id="5420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5420" title="Calvin Coolidge">
Calvin Coolidge

John Calvin Coolidge (July 4, 1872 - January 5, 1933) was the 30th President of the United States between 1923 and 1929.
He was the only President of the United States to be born on the 4th of July. He was married to Grace Coolidge and had 2 children: John (born September 6, 1906 - died 31 May 2000) and Calvin Jr. (born 13 April 1908 - died 7 July 1924). His younger son Calvin Jr. died at 16 while playing tennis at the White House. His son was wearing tennis shoes without socks and died from a toe infection. He was buried at the foot of Hill Cemetery.
Coolidge served as the Mayor of Northampton, Massachusetts. He later served as the Governor of Massachusetts. As governor, he became famous because of his response during the Boston Police Strike. Coolidge fired the police who went on strike and gave the jobs to unemployed World War 1 veterans (he gave the same bonuses that the striking policemen asked for to the veterans).
In 1920, he was nominated Vice President under Warren G. Harding. The Harding-Coolidge team won easily. Harding died in 1923 and Coolidge became the next President.
Coolidge finished Harding's term and was elected in 1924 to continue to be the country's president.
Coolidge was president during a prosperous economy and the country did not face many challenges. He believed that the federal government should be as small as possible. He supported tax cuts and wanted the federal government to keep its hands off the economy.
Coolidge was criticized for refusing to give subsidies to farmers and when a giant flood happened in Mississippi during 1927, he did not want the federal government to be involved. This was part of his belief of federalism, that the country's problems should be solved mainly by state governments and local governments rather than the federal government.
He surprised many people by choosing not to run for re-election during 1928.
The legacy of Calvin Coolidge is mixed. People who support more federal government involvement in the economy do not like him. People who support less federal government involvement in the economy like him.
Calvin Coolidge was nicknamed "Silent Cal" because he did not talk much.

</doc>
<doc id="5422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5422" title="Harry S. Truman">
Harry S. Truman

Harry S. Truman (May 8, 1884 - December 26, 1972) was the 33rd President of the United States, from 1945 to 1953. He became president when President Franklin D. Roosevelt died in office.
As president, Truman made important foreign policy decisions, such as using atomic weapons on Japan to end World War II; repairing Europe (which was destroyed during the war); beginning the Cold War, and getting the U.S. involved in the Korean War.
Harry S. Truman was born on May 8, 1884, in Lamar, Missouri. The initial S in Truman's name has no meaning.
Truman was raised in Independence, Missouri. He lived for 12 years as a Missouri farmer. 
The presidential election of 1892 happened when Truman was eight years old. He wanted Grover Cleveland, a Democrat like Truman's family, to win. Grover Cleveland did win. 
Truman joined the United States Military in 1917. He went to France in World War I and became a captain in the Field Artillery. 
Truman left the military in 1919. That same year, he married Elizabeth Virginia Wallace. He opened a clothing store in Kansas City.
On February 17, 1924, Bess had a baby girl and named her Mary Margaret Truman.
Truman was active in the Democratic Party. In 1922, he was elected judge of Jackson County Court. 
Two years later, Truman lost the next county judge election. However, he was elected county judge again in 1926. 
In 1934, Truman was elected Senator of Missouri. He became a member of the Interstate Commerce Committee. He was also the vice-chairman of a subcommittee on railroad safety. 
In 1940, Truman ran for re-election to the Senate. First he would have to beat another Democrat, Governor Lloyd Stark, in a primary election. The primary election would decide which Democrat would go on to face a Republican candidate in the final elections in November. 
President Franklin Roosevelt and St. Louis Mayor Bernard Dickmann both wanted Stark to win. Truman had a hard time getting money. Most people thought he would lose. However, about a month before the primary election, the railroad unions said that they wanted Truman to win. Then, two days before primary election day, Bernard Dickmann also said that he wanted Truman to win. 
Truman won by about 8,000 votes. He also won the election in November. 
Truman became the head of a committee that looked at how much money the United States was spending on defense during World War II. He found billions of dollars of spending that he thought was a waste, and could be cut out of what the U.S. was spending. Truman supported Roosevelt's leadership of the country in the war, but wanted to make the government less wasteful and more effective. He became well-known for leading that committee. 
In 1944, President Roosevelt ran for re-election again. Roosevelt was in bad health and he did not have much longer to live. The Democratic Party realized that whoever they selected as Vice President could be the next president of the United States. (In the U.S. government, if the President dies, the Vice President automatically becomes the new president.) 
Henry A. Wallace, Roosevelt's former Vice President, was not chosen because he had a friendly attitude toward the Soviet Union, which many people saw as a dictatorship. Roosevelt wanted Truman as his Vice President, and Truman was chosen. 
They won the election, and Roosevelt began his fourth term as president. On April 12, 1945, shortly after his fourth inauguration, Franklin Delano Roosevelt died. Truman became president.
About becoming President, Truman said: "it felt like the moon, the stars, and all of the planets had fallen upon me."
Truman had become president during the last few months of World War II. While Truman was vice president, Roosevelt never told him much about World War II. At that time, people did not think of the Vice Presidency as an important job in politics. Because of this, Truman entered the presidency knowing not much more than the average person about what the U.S. military was doing in World War II. However, Truman's defense advisors told him everything once he became president.
Nazi Germany surrendered less than a month after Truman became president. This ended the war in Europe. However, the Japanese kept fighting. The United States made the Potsdam Declaration, telling Japan to surrender or it would face "prompt and utter destruction." Japan did not surrender. As a result, Truman ordered the first atomic bomb to be dropped on Hiroshima, Japan, on August 6th, 1945. Three days later, Truman ordered the second atomic bomb to be dropped on Nagasaki, Japan. Japan surrendered and the war ended.
The bombs were very destructive. They destroyed both cities and killed hundreds of thousands of people. For that reason, the decision to use the weapons was controversial (meaning that many people supported it, but many other people were against it). People who disagreed with the decision, like general and future president Dwight Eisenhower, believe it was a cruel and inhumane attack on innocent people, when Japan was already close to being beaten. Other people thought it was a good decision because it ended the war early. Truman thought that if the U.S. had invaded Japan instead of using the bombs to end the war quickly, many more people would have died. 
After the war, Truman ordered Europe (which was destroyed during the war) to be repaired with the Marshall Plan. Germany was divided into two parts after the war. The Soviet Union controlled East Germany. The United States, Britain, and France controlled West Germany. Truman ordered the Berlin Airlift, which flew in tons of food to West Germany to feed the starving people. 
Truman also helped create the United Nations, an organization which was based on the League of Nations. The United Nations still exists today. Its goal is for different countries to work together to help humanity and to promote peace. 
After World War II, the Soviet Union and the United States were the only two powerful countries left. With Germany being divided between the Soviet Union and the United States, tensions began to increase between the two countries. The Cold War began. This was a war where the Soviet Union and the United States did not fight directly, but each wanted to have a bigger influence than the other over the world. The Soviet Union wanted to spread communism around the world. (Communism is the belief that the government should own the economy to make everybody equal). Truman believed in a policy called containment: that the U.S. should contain communism and stop it from spreading. Truman declared the Truman Doctrine, which said the United States should give money to Turkey and Greece so that they could be strong enough to defend themselves from communism.
Truman sent Congress his "Fair Deal." It was based on Roosevelt's New Deal. It gave more money to education, more money to farmers, and a higher minimum wage for workers. Labor union leaders asked him for higher wages and more benefits. 
After coal miners went on strike, Truman had the Department of the Interior take over the mines. While Truman sympathized with the working class, when there was a huge railroad strike, Truman believed it was illegal. He also thought it was unfair to people who could not get to work because the railroads were not running. He reacted by threatening to force the strikers to go into the army if they did not return to work. 
Truman de-segregated the military, allowing blacks and whites to fight together.
In 1948, Truman ran for a second term as President against Thomas Dewey. He was the underdog and everyone thought he was going to lose. The Chicago Tribune published a newspaper on the night of the election with the title "Dewey Defeats Truman". To everyone's surprise, Harry Truman won the election.
On June 25, 1950, North Korea attacked South Korea. China supported North Korea. North Korea wanted to bring Communism into South Korea. 
The U.S. fought the Korean War to defend South Korea and keep communism from spreading there. General Douglas MacArthur wanted to bomb China. Truman thought it was too dangerous to do that, so he fired MacArthur. Many people respected MacArthur, so they were angry at Truman. He made Mathew B. Ridgeway general. 
During the end of his term, Harry Truman's approval rating was at an all-time low. He was very unpopular because thousands of Americans died in the Korean War; there was a medium amount of corruption in his government; and people were accusing many of Truman's employees of being communists. He left office on January 20, 1953. The Korean War ended about six months later.
As time passed, Truman's reputation got better. Many historians now believe that Harry Truman was a great president.
Truman moved back to Missouri. He died on December 26, 1972.

</doc>
<doc id="5423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5423" title="John Adams">
John Adams

John Adams, Jr. (October 30, 1735 – July 4, 1826) was the second President of the United States (1797–1801), and father of the sixth President, John Quincy Adams. He was also the first Vice President of the United States (1789–1797). He was from Braintree, Massachusetts.
Adams was born in Braintree, Massachusetts. He was the son of Lt. Col. John Adams, Sr. (1691-1761) and Susanna Boylston (1708-1797). He went to Harvard College. He married Abigail Adams in 1764.
Adams wanted the Thirteen Colonies to be free from Great Britain. However, Adams was fair and thought every person should be treated fairly. Even though he did not want British soldiers in Boston, he was the lawyer who defended the British soldiers who were involved in the Boston Massacre.
Adams was a representative from Massachusetts during the Second Continental Congress. He helped Thomas Jefferson write the United States Declaration of Independence. During the American Revolutionary War, Adams helped make peace with Great Britain. He served in France, the Netherlands and England as an ambassador in the 1780s.
Adams was the first vice president under George Washington. After Washington chose not to run again, Adams won the 1796 election. Adams is thought to have been the first president to belong to a political party, but like George Washington, he thought himself above any particular party. He ran for president on the Federalist ticket. He beat Thomas Jefferson of the Democratic-Republican Party. President candidates and vice president candidates did not run together like they do today. Since Jefferson got the second highest number of votes, he became vice president.
During his term, he resolved a conflict against France peacefully. He also passed the Alien and Sedition Acts which made it illegal to say bad things about the government. Many people did not like those acts because they felt it took away their freedom of speech. Adams was not re-elected president and lost to Thomas Jefferson. The Federalist Party was not as popular as it was when Adams was elected. One of his last acts as president was to make John Marshall the Chief Justice of the United States. This made sure that the Federalist Party would still be important.
Of the first five U.S. presidents, Adams was the only one who did not own slaves. He was also the only one to be from New England.
Adams died on July 4, 1826. This was the same day that Thomas Jefferson died, and was also exactly 50 years after the Declaration of Independence was signed in 1776.

</doc>
<doc id="5424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5424" title="Bill Clinton">
Bill Clinton

William Jefferson "Bill" Clinton (born William Jefferson Blythe III; August 19, 1946) is an American politician who served from 1993 to 2001 as the 42nd President of the United States. He was 46 years old when he was elected and the third youngest president. 
He took office at the end of the Cold War. Clinton was the first president from the baby boom generation. Before he was president, Clinton was governor of Arkansas from 1979 to 1981 and 1983 to 1992 and attorney general of Arkansas from 1977 to 1979. His wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton is the former United States Secretary of State and Senator of New York.
Clinton was born William Jefferson Blythe in Hope, Arkansas. His biological father, William Jefferson Blythe died in a car accident, three months before Clinton was born. His mother, Virginia Clinton Kelley was a Nurse anesthetist. He took the last name Clinton because it was his stepfather, Roger Clinton, Sr.'s name. Clinton grew up in Hot Springs, Arkansas. In high school, Clinton played the saxophone. Clinton went to college at Georgetown University. During his college years, Clinton worked under several politicians. He later went to Oxford University and Yale Law School. Clinton did not fight in the Vietnam War because he was in the ROTC for a short time.
Clinton married Hillary Rodham in 1975. In 1980, their daughter, Chelsea Clinton, was born.
After law school. Clinton was elected Attorney General of Arkansas in 1976 and governor of Arkansas in 1978. At 32, he was the youngest governor in the country at that time. Clinton served as governor of Arkansas from 1979 to 1981 and again from 1983 to 1993. Clinton was known for being a "New Democrat" while governor. During his time as governor, Clinton changed the state's school system. There was also a scandal called Whitewater during Clinton's term.
In the 1992 presidential election, he beat Republican George H. W. Bush. During the early part of Clinton's first term, he put in place a tax code which would increase taxes on the rich and decrease taxes on the poor.
In 1994, during Clinton's first term in office, the Congress switched to a Republican majority. However, Clinton still beat Republican Bob Dole in the 1996 election.
The Republicans defeated Clinton's proposal for the U.S. government to adopt universal health care. The Republicans proposed many new ideas to Congress to limit the size of government such as requiring the budget to be balanced and to stop people from abusing the welfare system.
Clinton was sued by Paula Jones for sexual harassment, but the lawsuit was officially dismissed after Jones failed to prove damages. This made him the first sitting United States president to be sued.
President Clinton was accused of wrongdoing by the U.S. House of Representatives in December 1998 during the Monica Lewinsky scandal. Although he lied that they did not engage in sexual activity, he was found to have done nothing wrong by the U.S. Senate in February 1999.
The country faced very few challenges during his term. The Cold War was over and there was very little need for the U.S. military to get involved in the world's affairs, so defense spending was significantly lowered. The economy was doing very well during his term, though there is a debate whether the economy was well because of Clinton's policies or because of the Republicans' policies.
The decade ended with the being the first time the United States did not have to borrow money to pay for its budget. Clinton left office with high approval ratings and was succeeded by George W. Bush.
After his presidency, he wrote some books and traveled around the world helping out the United States. He is married to former US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and now lives in New York. He has written "My Life", a book about his life, and several other books. Clinton has received two Grammy Awards, both for books he read on tape. He is now the U.N.'s envoy to Haiti. He also became a vegetarian.
In 2013, Clinton started following Buddhist meditation to help him relax.<ref name="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2183101/Bill-Clinton-turns-art-Buddhist-meditation-relax.html"></ref>
On November 20, 2013, he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian honor of the United States, by President Barack Obama.

</doc>
<doc id="5429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5429" title="Yield">
Yield

In economics, the yield is how much money somebody is paid each year for leaving his or her money invested somewhere. Unlike a corporate dividend, a yield is fairly certain, unless there is a bankruptcy. This means that somebody usually knows how much money they are going to make from their yield ahead of time.
Yields can be different because of inflation. However, there is usually an order for which are most risky and which are the least: the least risky instruments, such as Treasury bonds, yield the least, then safe and "guaranteed" instruments like long-term deposits, then overnight deposits, and so on to the various municipal bond and corporate bonds. Extremely risky instruments with high yield are usually called junk bonds.

</doc>
<doc id="5430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5430" title="Moral purchasing">
Moral purchasing

Moral purchasing is when a person uses moral reasoning to decide what to buy. For example, when a person chooses to buy local goods instead of those from other countries, helps neighbours and processes that one can point to quickly.

</doc>
<doc id="5431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5431" title="Social network">
Social network

A social network is a set of people who interact. This includes group organizations. The social relationships may include friendship/affect, communication, economic transactions, interactions, kinship, authority/hierarchy, trust, social support, diffusion, contagion, and so on. 
Calling social relationships a network calls attention to the pattern or structure of the set of relationships.
A community social network is the pattern of relationships among a set of people and/or organizations in a community. Each of these networks can involve social support, give people a sense of community, and 
lead them to help and protect each other.
How big a personal network becomes depends on the individual and the type of relationships considered. "The set of people that a person knows well or with whom a person frequently interacts seldom exceeds several hundred". As the size of a network grows, keeping relationships is strained by the size. There is a so-called "Law of 150" which suggests that about 150 people is the best size for a village or large clan though most people live in much bigger towns. Some experts think that a corporation has an ideal size of about 70 people: these people and their spouses would also make a large social network.
The free rider problem is that someone uses the social network but does not give help when needed. Social networks are vulnerable to them, since the circumstances where help is required, like disasters, occur by surprise. It might happen that someone cannot help at that one time - it might also happen that they are not there the next time. Only slowly does it become obvious who is and is not contributing to the safety of the group, or who is avoiding this duty.
Social networks are held together by common interest. This may be employment, common interest in a sport or pastime, a religion (a mosque, church or temple is almost always a center of a social network). Often the network has an identity of its own which is quite real, even though it may have no official recognition. Networks may be centered on places, or on families, or on worldwide communities with common interests. 

</doc>
<doc id="5432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5432" title="Cabal">
Cabal

A cabal is a group of people who try to control things in a secret way.
Sometimes people say "There Is No Cabal", or use the abbreviation TINC to mean "There Is No Cabal" but since a cabal is necessarily secret, they cannot know.
One new example of the use of the word Cabal is that the former chief of staff, Lawrence Wilkerson, of the Secretary of State Colin Powell said that the foreign policy of George W. Bush's administration were run by a "Cheney-Rumsfeld cabal". With this word he meant that the President had not really the power that he is given by the constitution and that the Vice President and the Secretary of Defense had more influence than they should have. 

</doc>
<doc id="5433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5433" title="Creating">
Creating

Creating is making new things that have not existed before, usually by combining two or three things that existed. Art is almost always called creative, but so are other activities like music, mathematics, technology, business, craft, building, gardening and forestry, if they combine things to get new things.
When several people cooperate in more than one process of creating, that is a creative network. This cuts risk since anything creative involves some chance that it will simply not work.
What is "not creative" is usually called imitative, and includes anything that is mostly trying not to do what has never been done – like law, sports, science, war and especially education. These involve more direct competition, so risk comes from the competitor who may do it better. The word team is used for such groups.
Most people fear change and new things, and so what is most stable and considered important by society tends to be imitative and done in teams. But unless society encourages creating it loses out to others by competition in business or technology, so there must be some creative networks, somewhere, in labs or art studios.
Views of control of creative work also depend very much on religious and spiritual views of nature (or a creator) creating Man, according to economist Lester Thurow. Those ethical traditions that see "Man in the image of God" have created legal codes (see guild, intellectual right, intellectual interest, intellectual property) to tightly control what they are creating or have created. These are now the basis of organizations such as WIPO or ICANN. Often, such laws also create control over things which are merely found, not created.
Many people give away what they have created and never think about it as property – other people try to control it and get paid every time anyone sees it – or even every time they just talk about it.
Wikipedia uses the GNU FDL which is a content license that tries to get people to combine what they are creating, with no one clearly in control. This is considered strange by many people, who are uncomfortable with that idea, or seek to control some aspect of it themselves.

</doc>
<doc id="5434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5434" title="Human science">
Human science

Human science is the science of humans: what makes them different from animals, and their limits, which tend to be the same as those of other animals. Because human bodies are animal bodies, human science is part of biology which leads to Life Science. However human behaviour includes the use of words, measures, numbers, knowing time and having memory, and such habits as trade - thus economics and psychology are considered to be part of human science. A general human science is anthropology which studies only the differences between humans and near relatives.
One important debate in human science is whether the exchange of culture (or in economics instructional capital), is only among humans or if it also goes on among our Great Ape near relatives. If so, then culture is part of primatology and there is no clear line between human science and life sciences.
Another name for human science is Social Science, since the most complex thing about humans is how they relate to each other in society. The most general social science is ethics, or economics, depending on your point of view.
However, life science also deals with humans as objects of study (notably in medicine), while hard science such as chemistry deals with humans as the observer who "does" the study - sets the scale at which observation can happen, incurs observer effects - as studied in philosophy of science.
Often sciences have different names based on whether they study humans or not. For instance economics is the study of how humans make a living, while ecology is the study of how non-humans make a living. Medicine is normally restricted to humans while veterinary medicine refers to the same techniques made on other species. One relies more on ethics and less on economics when dealing with humans, at least according to any ethical tradition.
The living, social, and sensory observing aspects of humans are probably all part of the human sciences to the degree they affect how humans view themselves.
Specific human sciences are (in addition to anthropology and ethics and economics) include psychology, sociology and linguistics. There is debate as to whether mathematics is something human or if it is universal - see philosophy of mathematics on this.

</doc>
<doc id="5435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5435" title="Flaying">
Flaying

Flaying is a form of torture, mutilation, and execution. It is the act of stripping the skin and flesh from the bones. Flaying an enemy while alive is an ancient practice. Accounts attribute the practice to the ancient Assyrians, who were said to flay the skin from a captured enemy or rebellious ruler and nail it to the wall of his city, as warning to all who would defy their power. Searing or cutting the flesh from the body was sometimes used as part of the public execution of traitors in medieval Europe. A similar mode of execution was used as late as the early 18th century in France; one such episode is graphically recounted in the opening chapter of Michel Foucault's "Discipline and Punish" (1979).

</doc>
<doc id="5437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5437" title="Rice">
Rice

Rice ("Oriza sativa") is a type of grain. It is eaten as staple food in many parts of Asia. It is grown in warm parts of the world, mainly Asia, Africa, northern Italy, and the west coast of North America.
Rice used to be the main diet in many countries. Various kinds of food processing prepare rice for eating. It is usually cooked. In some areas, such as Spain, rice is first fried in olive oil or butter, then cooked with water or soup. In other areas, such as India, rice is eaten with sauce or curry. Rice can also be used to make alcohol, such as Japanese sake.
Rice is believed to have been first grown in ancient southern China and India around 2500 BC. Rice growing was brought to Japan possibly in the 1st century BC, and became popular during the 2nd century and the 3rd century. From India, rice spread to southern Europe and Africa.
Alluvial loamy and clayey soil is ideal for growing rice. The rice crop needs about 24°C or above with minor variations during sowing, growing and harvesting seasons. It grows well in the areas where rainfall is above 100cm. Deltas, river valleys, coastal plains and terraced fields in mountainous regions are ideal for its cultivation.
Rice is usually planted in a flat field filled with water. Before cropping, the water is drained from the field. Before farmers developed a good farming system and fertilizers, they used to let lands rest for 1 to 2 years while farming in other lands. 
In some hot areas, close to the equator, farmers do double-cropping which means raising two crops one year.
Rice contains a lot of carbohydrates. There are different kinds of rice. Brown rice is rice that has only had the outer layer removed. It contains more fibre than normal rice, which is called white rice.
A naturally occurring strain of rice, IR8, is believed to have saved many lives. Rice accounts for 80% of the calories eaten in Asia. 
The new strain, part of the Green Revolution, had defects. It lacked taste, and the team spent 20 years improving its quality, and its resistance to fungi and pests. The teams later work was to reduce its effect on diabetes type 2 and on its vitamin A content.

</doc>
<doc id="5444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5444" title="Yoga">
Yoga

Yoga is an old discipline from India. It is both spiritual and physical. Yoga uses breathing techniques, exercise and meditation. It claims to improve health and happiness.
"Yoga" is the Sanskrit word for "union".
Patanjali was a pioneer of classical yoga. He defined yoga as "the cessation of the modification of the mind". ("stopping changing the mind").
A person doing yoga will move from one posture (called "asana") to another. For example, the "sun-salutation" contains 12 poses of asanas, one after the other, and is said to help balance body and soul. The "sun-salutation" is popularly known as "Suryanamaskar".
Scholars think that yoga was developed by Indian ascetics. Ascetics are people who avoid pleasure. Ascetic practices ("tapas") are referenced in the (900 to 500 BC), early commentaries on the Vedas. Several seals discovered at Indus Valley Civilization (~3300–1700 B.C.) sites in Pakistan depict figures in positions resembling a common yoga or meditation pose. The pose shows "a form of ritual discipline, suggesting a precursor of yoga", according to archaeologist Gregory Possehl. Scholars think there must be some type of connection between the Indus Valley seals and later yoga and meditation practices, though there is no conclusive evidence.
A yogasan is a pose in which a man can sit. The intention of yogasan is to exercise the body and making it free of pains and problems.
Yogi is a person who has mastered yoga or has achieved great success in yoga. Yogasanas are also called as "Asan" or "Asanas" (plural). A Yogi can sit in any asan for a given time.
This yogasan helps to release gas in the stomach.
This yogasan makes the spine more relaxed.
1. Nisarga Yoga - Understand yoga philosophy and your true nature by being it via yoga practice.

</doc>
<doc id="5445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5445" title="Human development theory">
Human development theory

Even though economics is all about choice on the basis of what is available rather than what should be available, the big question relates to who decides how resources should be distributed and how economics can embrace a trade-off between different groups which each seek to make the most of their allocation of resources. If "what should be" cannot be incorporated, the subject of economics will be as dry as desert as described by Ayn Rand. The challenge therefore is to construct a model combining "what is" to "what should be" and make the same acceptable to common man as well as politicians. Not being able to sell the idea as such is a defeat to the discipline. The issue is that of influence and not of theory, as Adam Smith perceived that no group of business men ever met other than to exploit the consumer.

</doc>
<doc id="5450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5450" title="Cattle">
Cattle

Cattle is a word to describe animals which are mammals and belong to the genus "Bos". Within the general term of cattle are cows, bulls, oxen, heifers, steers, bullocks and calves. Cattle are the most common type of large domesticated hoofed animals. They are a prominent modern member of the subfamily Bovinae.
Cattle are large grass-eating mammals with two-toed or cloven hooves and a four-chambered stomach. This stomach is an adaptation to help digest tough grasses. Cattle can be horned or polled (or hornless), depending on the breed. The horns come out on either side of the head above the ears and are a simple shape, usually curved upwards but sometimes down. Cattle usually stay together in groups called "herds". One male, called a "bull" will usually have a number of "cows" in a herd as his harem. The cows usually give birth to one "calf" a year, though twins are also known to be born. The "calves" have long strong legs and can walk a few minutes after they are born, so they can follow the herd. 
Cattle are native to many parts of the world except Australia and New Zealand. Cattle have been domesticated for about 7,000 years. They are used for milk, meat, transport, entertainment, and power.
The word "cattle" has been used in English for about 1,000 years and the meaning has changed. In books such as the King James Version of the Bible, the word is used for all sorts of farm animals, including horses, sheep and goats. The word comes from the "Old French" word, chattels, meaning all the things that a person owns.
The word "cattle" is used for some wild animals as well as for domesticated cattle. Wild cattle include the Water Buffalo from South East Asia, the Musk Ox and Yak from Central Asia, the Bison of North America and Europe and the African Buffalo. The last Aurochs, wild cattle of Europe, were killed in Masovia, Poland in 1627.
An intact male bovine is called a bull. A young male bovine is called a bullock. A mature female that has given birth to at least one or two calves is called a cow. A young bovine between birth and weaning is called a calf. Two or more of these young bovines are calves. A female that has never had a calf is called a heifer, (pronounced "heffer"). Calving is the act of a cow or heifer giving birth to a calf.
Because very few bulls are needed to breed with many cows and heifers and to form a complete breeding herd, most male cattle are used for meat. They are "castrated" by removing the testicles to prevent them from being able to breed other cows and heifers, and to take away the male characteristics that are common with bulls. A male that has been castrated before reaching puberty is called a steer. An ox is a male bovine that has been castrated after puberty and is trained and used for draft purposes, such as pulling a plow or a wagon. Cattle can either be horned, which are two bony points coming out on either side of a beast's head, one on each side, or polled, where no horns are grown but a somewhat pointy poll is found at the top of a cow's head.
The adjective that is used to describe something that is like a cow or an ox is "bovine".
The words "cow", "bull" and "calf" are also used to describe some other large animals that are not related to cattle, such as elephants, moose and whales.
Cattle are found all over the world, from as far north as Canada and Russia to the dry inland of Australia. The only continent they are not found on is Antarctica. Different types and breeds of cattle are suited to different environments. "Bos indicus" cattle such as the Brahman breed are suited to subtropical and tropical areas, whereas "Bos taurus" cattle such as Angus cattle are more suited to temperate or colder climates. Their large wide hooves are good in both wet areas and dry grassland. Their hairy coat grows much longer in the winter and has an extra fluffy layer to hold in warmth. They shed this extra layer in springtime in preparation for the hot summer ahead. Most cattle, except those of the "Bos indicus" subspecies do not have sweat glands in their skin, but their wet nose is a useful cooling system. They can also pant like a dog as well.
Cattle can make a range of noises, from a gentle "moo" to a low growl in warning or to attract females, especially among bulls. When they are angry or upset, they can bellow or bawl quite loudly. Calves are said to bawl, cows moo and bulls bellow.
Cattle are herbivorous, meaning that they are plant-eating (primarily grass) animals. Eating grass is called "grazing". They have very strong tongues and strong lower front teeth that help them to graze. Unlike a horse, cattle do not have any upper front teeth. A cow often swallows grass whole. After a cow has eaten its fill and is resting, they return or regurgitate the grass from their stomach to their mouth and rechew it with their very large back teeth to break it down further. This is called "chewing the cud". Other ruminants like deer, sheep and goats also do this. Horses do not. This means that cattle do not need as much food as horses, even though they are about the same size.
Cattle are ruminants which mean they have a stomach with several chambers which helps digest their food more efficiently. A cow's stomach has four chambers called the "reticulum", "rumen", "omasum" and "abomasum". The reticulum is known as the "hardware" stomach because it is mainly used as a storage area for hard things that the cow might accidentally swallow like nails, rocks and other objects. The rumen is the largest chamber in a ruminant's stomach, and in cattle it can hold up to 50 gallons feed. It is the chamber where fermentation takes place to help break down the grass that the cow has eaten. The omasum, also known as "many piles" is a compartment that squeezes or absorbs all the water that has accumulated from the digestion that has gone on in the rumen. The fourth chamber is the abomasum which similar in function to a human's stomach, and so is called the "true stomach." 
Cows have "breasts" called "udders" which are joined together in a large sac, often pink in colour, found hanging between the back legs. The udder is divided into four parts, or quarters, each with a large "teat" that the calf is able to grasp with its mouth to suckle from. Cows begin milk production a few days before a calf is born, and can continue to produce milk when bred again and when pregnant with their next calf. Heifers, unless they have given birth to their first calf, do not produce milk. Dairy cows tend to have much larger udders than beef cows, and as such, these type of cows will usually produce more milk than what is needed to feed one calf. "Dairy cows" are female cattle that are raised to produce lots of milk for human consumption. "Beef cows", on the other hand, are female cattle that are used to raise a calf from birth that is used for beef later in its life. Both types of cows will keep producing milk as long as it is demanded, either by the calf, by the milking machine, or by the human that is hand-milking them. When milk from them is no longer needed, they will not explode: they simply "dry up," where the milk they produce is absorbed or taken back in by their bodies. Cows are pregnant for around 9 months, or an average of 280 days.
Bulls can often be fierce and dangerous, especially in the presence of their herd of cows and heifers. In the wild, they will often fight each other over mating rights and their herds of cows and will use their horns to "gore" each other. Some bulls will fight to the death: others will fight until either one of the bulls decides to run off. They also protect the herds from other animals such as wolves, jackals, bears, tigers and lions. On farms, bulls are usually quieter and more docile and can be led by a nose-ring by their owners, but they can be aggressive with other bulls and with strange people or animals who might get too near his herd. Dairy bulls like Jerseys and Holsteins tend to be more aggressive than bulls of beef breeds like Hereford and Angus. Not all cattle have horns. Bulls with no horns fight by head-butting the other's head, neck, side or belly, and will use their heads to push each other around.
For the reasons above, most male cattle are either sent to slaughter while they are still calves or are castrated so that they are much less likely to fight each other, or be aggressive towards the farmer that is raising them, making them safer to handle and keep until it is time to send them to market. Steers have no other purpose except to be raised, sold and slaughtered for beef.
Ever since people started using cattle in Prehistoric times, cattle have been a sign of wealth. In many countries, particularly in Africa and Asia, a person's wealth is judged by the number of cattle they own. Different breeds are used differently. 
Cattle are very useful animals. Their flesh can be eaten as meat. Their milk can be drank and turned into cheese and yogurt. Their skin can be used as leather. They can pull carts and plows. They can make the power to turn flour mills or pump water. The food that they eat is not expensive, and often not in competition with what people eat.
Dairy cattle are kept and raised specially for milking. Herds of cows are kept and are regularly mated with a bull, so that they produce calves. This keeps the milk supply going. However, most commercial dairy farms do not keep bulls because of the concern that such bulls are very dangerous when being handled. Instead, cows are artificially inseminated with bull semen that is stored kept frozen in liquid nitrogen, and is "bred" by a person who artificially inseminates cows for a living.
Some large dairy herds, especially those used to produce organic or "free-range" milk are kept on pasture where there is a good supply of grass and the fields are relatively small, but not so small that they are not able to graze regularly during the season when grass is growing. This is because the cows need to be brought in for milking every day, twice a day, and should not have far to travel.
A number of dairy herds are kept in barns or sheds for most of their lives and are given feed that has been especially made for them. This feed contains grain like corn, hay including grass and alfalfa or clover, and fermented chopped feed called silage that is usually made from corn, wheat or barley. Cows are often kept in stalls where they have enough room to lay down comfortably. Such large dairies must supply straw or saw dust for the cows to rest on without getting sore from the hard concrete floor.
Cows can be milked by hand, but in many countries where there are large dairies, the cows are milked by a "milking machine". The milk is collected in a large stainless steel container where it undergoes pastuerization, a process that heats milk to a very high temperature to kill any bacteria that are living in the milk. The milk is then taken by truck to a milk or dairy factory to be made into the milk we drink by being separated to remove most of the cream. It is then put into bottles or cartons to be sold. Some milk is also turned into cheese, ice cream, butter, cream and even yogurt. All of these dairy products are packaged or put into cartons or bottles and sold.
Many types of cattle are used for milk. They include:
Beef cattle are bred and raised specifically to provide meat or beef. "Steers" are the best type for this purpose because they can be kept in herds without fighting each other. "Heifers" are also often used for beef, especially those that are not suitable to be used in a breeding herd. The cows of beef cattle are used to give birth to and raise calves for meat. They are not usually used for milk, although some types of cattle, such as the Red Poll, Dexter or Red Devon (also known as the North Devon or Devon) are used for both. These type of cattle are called dual purpose breeds.
Beef cattle are often allowed graze over large areas because they do not have to be brought in every day like dairy cattle. The biggest farms in the world are "cattle stations" in Australia, "ranches" in North America and "ranchos" in Latin America where they run beef cattle.
Until the mid 20th century, beef cattle were often sent to market "on the hoof". Cowboys or drovers would herd the cattle along the roads or on trails to the cattle markets in big towns or cities, or to railway stations where they would be loaded and shipped to these towns or cities. In Australia, sometimes the cattle would travel for hundreds of miles along roads known as Traveling Stock Routes. Big herds would have thousands of "heads of cattle". (Cattle are counted by the "head".) Nowadays cattle are usually sent to the market in huge lorries known as "road-trains". In North America, cattle are sent to auction marts, slaughter plants or other farms or ranches by large semi-trucks called "cattle liners."
The meat from a calf is called "veal" and from an older beast, "beef". Meat that is cut into flat pieces for frying or grilling is called "steak". Every part of a beast can be used. The skin becomes leather. The meat which is not used by humans becomes pet food and almost everything that is left over becomes garden fertilizer. Many other products can be and are often made from cattle: for example, car tires, home insulation, paint, hand lotion, soap, jello, and many drugs are made from parts of cattle. Cow's blood is often used in special effects in the creation of action or horror movies. Bones from cattle can be made into knife handles or napkin rings. The list is endless.
Types of cattle that are used for beef: 
"Oxen" are cattle trained as work animals. The word "ox" is used to describe just one. They are castrated males (steers).
An ox is over four years old and grown to full size when it begins to work. Oxen are used for pulling plows and wagons, for hauling heavy loads like logs or for powering different machines such as mills and irrigation pumps.
Oxen are most often used in teams of two for light work such as plowing. In past days, very large teams of fourteen to twenty oxen were used for heavy work such as logging. The oxen are put into pairs and each pair must work together. A wooden yoke is put about the neck of each pair, so that the work is shared across their shoulders. Oxen are chosen from certain breeds with horns, since the horns hold the yoke in place when the oxen lower their heads, back up or slow down.
Oxen must be trained from a young age. The owner must make or buy as many as a dozen yokes of different sizes as the animals grow. Ox teams are steered by shouted commands, whistles or the noise of a whip crack. Men who drove ox teams were called teamsters in America, wagoners in Britain, or in Australia, "bullockies". Many bullockies and teamsters were famous for their voices and for their foul language.
Oxen can pull harder and longer than horses, especially for very large loads. They are not as fast as horses, but they are less often injured or less likely to startle than horses are. Many oxen are still in use all over the world, especially in poor countries.

</doc>
<doc id="5459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5459" title="Quick">
Quick

Quick may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="5460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5460" title="Thunder">
Thunder

Thunder is a very loud sound that is made sometimes during a very big rain storm.
Thunder is so loud, it can be heard from a very far distance.
It can sound like a boom, a crash, or a rumble.
Thunder is made when lightning strikes.
The energy from the lightning heats up the air so much that it makes a kind of explosion.
When lightning is very near, thunder will be heard soon after the lightning flash, and the sound will be very loud. If the lightning is farther away, the thunder will be a few seconds or many seconds after the lightning. People can guess how far away the lightning is by counting the number of seconds between the time they see the lightning and hear the thunder.

</doc>
<doc id="5461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5461" title="1">
1

The year 1 (I) was a common year starting on Saturday of the Julian calendar. The year started on a Monday in the Gregorian calendar. It was the first year of the 1st century and 1st millennium.
It is one of only seven years to use just one Roman numeral. The seven are 1 AD (I), 5 AD (V), 10 AD (X), 50 AD (L), 100 AD (C), 500 AD (D), and 1000 AD (M).
At the time, it was known as the "Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Paullus". The denomination 1 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the main method in Europe for naming years. The year before this is 1 BC in the widely used Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="5462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5462" title="2">
2

The year 2 (II) was a common year that started on Sunday, according to the Julian calendar. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Tuesday.
At the time, it was known as the "Year of the Consulship of Vinicius and Varus". It was the 2nd year of the 1st century.

</doc>
<doc id="5463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5463" title="3">
3

The year 3 (III) was a common year which started on a Monday. according to the Julian calendar. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Wednesday. At the time, it was known as the "Year of the Consulship of Lamia and Servilius". The year is called 3 since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the usual method in Europe for naming years. It was the 3rd year of the 1st century.

</doc>
<doc id="5464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5464" title="4">
4

The year 4 (IV) was a leap year which started on a Tuesday, according to the Julian calendar. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Thursday. At the time, it was known as the "Year of the Consulship of Catus and Saturninus". It was called the fourth year since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the usual method in Europe for naming years. It was the 4th year of the 1st century.

</doc>
<doc id="5465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5465" title="5">
5

5 (V) is a common year of the Julian calendar which started on a Thursday. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Saturday. It was known as the "Year of the Consulship of Messalla and Cinna". It was the 5th year of the 1st century.
It is one of only seven years to use just one Roman numeral. The seven are 1 AD (I), 5 AD (V), 10 AD (X), 50 AD (L), 100 AD (C), 500 AD (D), and 1000 AD (M).

</doc>
<doc id="5466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5466" title="6">
6

6 (VI) is a common year of the Julian calendar which started on a Friday. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Sunday. It was the 6th year of the 1st century.

</doc>
<doc id="5467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5467" title="7">
7

7 (VII) is a common year of the Julian calendar which started on a Saturday. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Monday. It was the 7th year of the 1st century.

</doc>
<doc id="5468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5468" title="8">
8

8 (VIII) is a leap year of the Julian calendar which started on a Sunday. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Tuesday. It was the 8th year of the 1st century.

</doc>
<doc id="5469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5469" title="9">
9

9 (IX) is a common year of the Julian calendar which started on a Tuesday. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Thursday. It was the 9th year of the 1st century.

</doc>
<doc id="5470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5470" title="10">
10

10 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Julian calendar. At the time, throughout the Roman Empire, it was known as the year of the consulship of Dolabella and Silanus 

</doc>
<doc id="5471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5471" title="11">
11

11 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Thursday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Lepidus and Taurus.

</doc>
<doc id="5472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5472" title="12">
12

12 is a year in the 1st century. It was a leap year starting on Friday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Capito.

</doc>
<doc id="5473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5473" title="13">
13

13 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Sunday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Silius and Plancus.

</doc>
<doc id="5481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5481" title="30">
30

30 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Sunday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Vinicius and Longinus.

</doc>
<doc id="5483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5483" title="50">
50

50 (Roman numerals: L) is a common year of the Gregorian calendar. It started on a Saturday.
It is one of only seven years to use just one Roman numeral. The seven are 1 AD (I), 5 AD (V), 10 AD (X), 50 AD (L), 100 AD (C), 500 AD (D), and 1000 AD (M).

</doc>
<doc id="5489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5489" title="3 (number)">
3 (number)

The number three (3) is one more than two and one less than four. It is the first Mersenne prime. Three is an important number for many cultures (groups of people living together). It is also a prime number. It is the first odd prime. In Roman numerals, it is III. It is the only prime that p and formula_1 are both prime.

</doc>
<doc id="5496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5496" title="10 (number)">
10 (number)

10 (ten ) is the number that is after nine and before eleven. Most people have ten fingers and ten toes.
Ten is the smallest positive whole number with two digits. Ten is an important number because most people write numbers using multiples of ten. This is called the decimal number system.
In Roman numerals, 10 is written as X.

</doc>
<doc id="5498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5498" title="Category:Websites">
Category:Websites

This page has links to articles about websites. Wikipedia is an example of a website.

</doc>
<doc id="5499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5499" title="Category:Deletion requests">
Category:Deletion requests

The pages here have been marked for ().

</doc>
<doc id="5504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5504" title="Man">
Man

A man is a male adult human. He is the opposite of a woman. We use the word "man" (one "man", two or more "men") to talk about gender. Manhood is the period in a male's life after he changes from a boy. A boy is a male child, the opposite of a female child (a girl). After boys reach maturity, they can be called a man.
Like most other male mammals, a man inherits an X chromosome from his mother and a Y chromosome from his father.
There are some sexual differences between a man and a woman. Men have sex organs which we call "external" (not inside the body). But many parts of the male reproductive system are internal too. The study of male reproduction and sex organs is "andrology".
Men normally have the same illnesses as women, but there are some sexual illnesses which men have only, or more often.
There are more differences between men and women, not only sexual differences.
Some examples of secondary sexual characteristics in male humans:
Biology is not the only thing which makes people feel they are men, or that other people are men. Perhaps one in 100,000 men were born without a male body. We call these "transgender" or "transsexual" men. Some men can have a hormone or chromosomal difference (for example "androgen insensitivity syndrome"). Some men have other intersex conditions. Some of those intersex people who people said were female (girls) when they were born want to change this later in their lives. 

</doc>
<doc id="5505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5505" title="Woman">
Woman

A woman is a female human adult. People use the word "woman" (one woman, two or more women) to talk about biological sex, however, people also use the term woman to identify a female human, regardless of age, as in phrases such as "Women's rights". 
A woman usually has a uterus or "womb". A baby develops in the uterus, a sexual organ exclusive to females. 
While women have gained many more rights and freedoms in most of the developed world, especially since the beginning of the 20th century, women still face discrimination and harassment worldwide. Until then, women in most of the world did not have the right to vote, and were treated with even greater disrespect than today. 
The symbol for the goddess Venus is used for women.
The Latin "fēmina", whence "female", is likely from the root in "fellāre" (to suck), in reference to breastfeeding.
In some prehistoric cultures, women often had the roles of gathering food and looking after children. In modern times, these roles have changed a lot, with single, career oriented women becoming a regular part of society.

</doc>
<doc id="5506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5506" title="Position">
Position

Position is a way to explain where something is.
To find which is your left hand side, hold your hands palms down, point your index fingers and stick your thumbs out at right angles. The finger and thumb of your left hand will form a capital letter L.
Middle is between "up" and "down" and is between "left" and "right".
Middle means the same as "center".
Left and right are called opposite sides.
In, indoors, or inside, and out, outdoors, or outside, mean whether one thing is in another, most commonly in a house or other building, or out "in nature".
Far means that something is a long way away. Near means "close".
In many sports, the term "position" is used to show what occupation a person has on their team. For example, in baseball, positions include catcher, shortstop and pitcher. 
The position of something is where that thing is in space and time. Usually people use Cartesian coordinates to write down a position. So a scientist might say that the balloon was at "x", "y", "z" when it popped at a certain time. 
The position of a person is his status or responsibility in a community or group of people. It is called rank in the army.
In a factory the manager is a typical position.

</doc>
<doc id="5508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5508" title="Right">
Right

Right might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="5517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5517" title="Arundel Castle">
Arundel Castle

Arundel Castle is a castle in Arundel, West Sussex, England. It was built by Edward the Confessor.

</doc>
<doc id="5522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5522" title="Religious Society of Friends">
Religious Society of Friends

The Religious Society of Friends is a group with Christian roots that began in England in the 1650s. The formal title of the group is the Society of Friends or the Religious Society of Friends. 
People in the Society of Friends are called "Friends" or Quakers - both mean the same thing. Most Quakers are Christian but the group today includes a few other people. They live all over the world, but the largest groups are in Kenya, the United States of America, Bolivia, Guatemala, the United Kingdom (England), and Burundi. 
The Society of Friends began in the 1650's in England. A man named George Fox spent several years struggling to figure out how to be a good Christian. He finally heard God's voice telling him that Christ would make it clear to him what he should do. Fox went around preaching to people. He told them they could talk to God themselves - that they did not need a priest or minister to do it for them. He told them that if they listened within themselves they would hear Christ telling them what to do. Fox found other people who had similar experiences. Together they started a religious movement that later became the Religious Society of Friends. 
The government of England did not like this new group; at the time it was against the law not to belong to the Church of England. They put a lot of Friends in jail, or made them pay money as a punishment. At first, the word "Quaker" was a name used to make fun of Friends, but after a while those people came to like it and use it for themselves.
Because Quakers were being thrown in jail in England, some of them moved away to places like America. A young Quaker named William Penn started a new colony there. He got the land because the English king Charles II owed his father a lot of money. This new colony was called Pennsylvania, and it was a place where people could belong to any religion. Penn wanted people to be fair to each other, and he called the biggest city in his new colony Philadelphia, which means "The City of Brotherly Love." Soon there were many Quakers in America.
The Quakers were very active in America in the nineteenth century (1800s). Many of the leaders of the abolition and women's rights movements, such as Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Lucretia Mott, were Quakers.
Today there are about 375,000 Quakers in the world. This number is very small compared to other religious groups. Even so, a lot of people have heard of the Quakers, because they have worked hard to make our world more fair and just. 
Quaker worship services are called "meetings for worship". They start with everybody sitting quietly. This is because they are trying to listen to God. Sometimes, a Quaker will feel that God wants him or her to say something. When this happens, the person stands up and tells everyone. Then they all sit quietly again. At some meetings, a many people will speak. At other meetings, nobody speaks. Quakers feel that a meeting for worship helps them to understand what God wants. Usually, worship lasts about an hour. 
Anyone can go to a Quaker meeting. 
Quakers also have meetings for worship for weddings and funerals -- when two people get married, or if someone dies. When two people get married, the meeting is about them and the life that they will live together. When someone has died, the meeting is about remembering things about the person and the life they had. 
Many Quakers in North America, South America, and Africa have a different kind of worship service, like other Christian services. They sing hymns and a pastor gives a sermon. They also have a quiet time, but it does not last as long. These Quakers often have strong Christian beliefs. 
and at other times these meetings also decide what Quakers should do - these meetings can be called "meetings for business", but other people call them "meetings for worship for business", because they include parts of both worship and business.
, because most Quakers think that everyone is equal, and that this is a very important idea. There are two types of 
Quakers seek religious truth in their inner experiences. They rely on conscience to guide what they do. They emphasise direct experience of God rather than ritual or ceremony. They believe that priests and rituals are unnecessary and can get between the believer and God. What Quakers say matches what they do. 
Almost all Quakers share these beliefs:

</doc>
<doc id="5526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5526" title="Size">
Size

The size of something is how much space the thing takes. It can also be described as how big or small something is.
Sizes can be measured. When a size is measured, it is given a number.
"Small" and "big" are opposites.

</doc>
<doc id="5546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5546" title="Opposite">
Opposite

Opposite may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="5547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5547" title="Direction">
Direction

Direction follows an imaginary line connecting two points.
Something following the line is moving in that "direction". People show directions by pointing.
The word "direction" is made from the root "direct" meaning to guide.
These are words used to talk about a direction:

</doc>
<doc id="5548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5548" title="Starvation">
Starvation

Starvation is when a person or animal has not eaten food for such a time that they are unable to do things in a normal way.
After the stomach has been left empty for so long the body starts to give up.
There are many effects of starvation. These can include:
The metabolism naturally lowers when a person is starved. This makes weight loss slower.
Consistently not being able to eat enough will lead to permanent damage to the organs. This is the case for humans when they do not eat enough for about 1-2 months. A process called catabolysis will break down body tissues, using them as fuel to keep vital functions (the nervous system and the heart) working. It will first use muscles before it starts destroying fat. 
Starvation was also used to inflict a death penalty. 
In 1944 Ancel Keys started a scientific experiment about starvation. The participants were all men. They ate 1800 calories a day.

</doc>
<doc id="5549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5549" title="Microsoft Word">
Microsoft Word

Microsoft Word or MS-WORD (often called "Word") is a graphical word processing program that users can type with. It is made by the computer company Microsoft. Its purpose is to allow users to type and save documents. 
Similar to other word processors, it has helpful tools to make documents.
MS Word is part of Microsoft Office, but can also be bought separately.
The program was first released in 1981.
Many of the ideas and features in Microsoft Word came from Bravo, the first graphical writing program.
Microsoft bought the Bravo program, and changed its name to "Microsoft Word".
When it first came out, it was not very popular, and did not sell as well as other writing programs like WordPerfect.
Although it was not very popular when it came out, it had a feature called "WYSIWYG" (What You See Is What You Get), which meant that people can change the visual style of writing (e.g. bold, italics), by clicking on buttons, when in other programs like WordPerfect, people had to add special 'codes' to change the style of writing. "WYSIWYG" is now a common feature of all computer writing programs.
There are versions for Microsoft Word for other operating systems as well as Microsoft Windows. New versions support fewer operating systems, although they always support Windows.
"Note: "Word for Windows" is the name of the Microsoft word made for Microsoft Windows.'"'
The program is very popular.
Without configuration the program saved the document in a secret file format, so other programs could not open it. When the user sent his document to a friend, the friend needed a copy of Microsoft Word to read the document. Then that friend would probably also save documents in the same secret format of Word. This gave Microsoft Word a dominant position.

</doc>
<doc id="5553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5553" title="Ant">
Ant

Ants are social insects of the family Formicidae. 
Like wasps and bees, ants are in the order Hymenoptera. There are about 22,000 species of ants. More than 12,500 have been classified. They have a thin waist and elbowed antennae.
Ants form colonies that vary greatly in size. Some species have a few dozen predatory individuals living in small natural cavities. Some highly organised colonies may cover large territories and have millions of individuals. Ants are usually small, but can carry the weight of twenty ants. Worker ants carry food back to the colony so that other ants and the queen can eat.
The following account is mainly about ants which live in large colonies.
A colony has a female reproductive ant, called a queen, who lays eggs. Those eggs will hatch into worker ants. Larger colonies of ants having millions of ants mostly have female ants making groups of "workers", "soldiers", or other special "castes". Almost all ant colonies also have some fertile male ants called "drones".
These colonies are sometimes described as 'superorganisms' because the ants appear to operate as a unified entity, collectively working together to support the colony.
Ants have colonies almost everywhere on planet Earth. Places that do not have ants are Antarctica, and certain far away places or islands hard to live on.
The family Formicidae belongs to the order Hymenoptera, which also includes sawflies, bees and wasps. Ants evolved from a lineage within the vespoid wasps. 
Phylogenetic analysis suggests that ants arose in the Lower Cretaceous period about 110 to 130 million years ago, or even earlier. One estimate from DNA studies places the origin of ants at ≈140 million years ago (mya). Another study puts it in the Jurassic at 185 ± 36 mya (95% confidence limits).
After the rise of flowering plants about 100 million years ago ants diversified. They became ecologically dominant about 60 million years ago. 
In 1966 E.O. Wilson and his colleagues identified the fossil remains of an ant ("Sphecomyrma freyi") from the Cretaceous period. The specimen, trapped in amber dating back to more than 80 million years ago, has features of both ants and wasps. "Sphecomyrma" was probably a ground forager but some suggest that primitive ants were likely to have been predators underneath the surface of the soil.
During the Cretaceous period, a few species of primitive ants ranged widely on the Laurasian super-continent (the northern hemisphere). They were scarce in comparison to other insects, representing about 1% of the insect population. 
Ants became dominant after adaptive radiation at the beginning of the Cainozoic. By the Oligocene and Miocene ants had come to represent 20-40% of all insects found in major fossil deposits. Of the species that lived in the Eocene epoch, approximately one in ten genera survive to the present. Genera surviving today comprise 56% of the genera in Baltic amber fossils (early Oligocene), and 92% of the genera in Dominican amber fossils (apparently early Miocene).
Termites, though sometimes called "white ants", are not ants and belong to the order Isoptera. Termites are actually more closely related to cockroaches and mantids. Termites are eusocial but differ greatly in the genetics of reproduction. The similar social structure is attributed to convergent evolution. Velvet ants look like large ants, but are wingless female wasps.
The life of an ant starts from an egg. If the egg is fertilised, the progeny will be female (diploid); if not, it will be male (haploid). Ants develop by complete metamorphosis with the larval stages passing through a pupal stage before emerging as an adult. The larva is fed and cared for by workers.
Food is given to the larvae by trophallaxis, a process in which an ant regurgitates liquid food held in its crop. This is also how adults share food, stored in the 'social stomach', among themselves. 
Larvae may also be given solid food brought back by foraging workers, and may even be taken to captured prey in some species. The larvae grow through a series of moults and enter the pupal stage. 
The differentiation into queens and workers (which are both female), and different castes of workers, is influenced in some species by the food the larvae get. Genetic influences, and the control of gene expression by the feeding are complex. The determination of caste is a major subject of research.
A new worker spends the first few days of its adult life caring for the queen and young. It then does digging and other nest work, and later, defends the nest and forages. These changes are sometimes fairly sudden, and define what are called "temporal castes". An explanation for the sequence is suggested by the high casualties involved in foraging, making it an acceptable risk only for ants that are older and are likely to die soon of natural causes. 
Most ant species have a system in which only the queen and breeding females can mate. Contrary to popular belief, some ant nests have multiple queens (polygyny). The life history of "Harpegnathos saltator" is
exceptional among ants because both queens and some workers
reproduce sexually. 
The winged male ants, called "drones", emerge from pupae with the breeding females (although some species, like army ants, have wingless queens), and do nothing in life except eat and mate. 
Most ants produce a new generation each year. During the species specific breeding period, new reproductives, winged males and females leave the colony in what is called a "nuptial flight". Typically, the males take flight before the females. Males then use visual cues to find a common mating ground, for example, a landmark such as a pine tree to which other males in the area converge. Males secrete a mating pheromone that females follow. Females of some species mate with just one male, but in some others they may mate with anywhere from one to ten or more different males. Mated females then seek a suitable place to begin a colony. There, they break off their wings and begin to lay and care for eggs. The females store the sperm they obtain during their nuptial flight to selectively fertilise future eggs. 
The first workers to hatch are weak and smaller than later workers, but they begin to serve the colony immediately. They enlarge the nest, forage for food and care for the other eggs. This is how new colonies start in most species. Species that have multiple queens may have a queen leaving the nest along with some workers to found a colony at a new site, a process akin to swarming in honeybees.
A wide range of reproductive strategies have been noted in ant species. Females of many species are known to be capable of reproducing asexually through parthenogenesis, and one species, "Mycocepurus smithii" is known to be all-female.
Ant colonies can be long-lived. The queens can live for up to 30 years, and workers live from 1 to 3 years. Males, however, are more transitory, and survive only a few weeks. Ant queens are estimated to live 100 times longer than solitary insects of a similar size.
Ants are active all year long in the tropics but, in cooler regions, survive the winter in a state of dormancy or inactivity. The forms of inactivity are varied and some temperate species have larvae going into the inactive state (diapause), while in others, the adults alone pass the winter in a state of reduced activity.
It may seem strange that ants have uses, but there are some. Some people use ants for food, medicine and rituals. Some species of ants are used for pest control (they eat pests that destroy food for humans). They can damage crops and enter buildings, though. Some species, like the red imported fire ant, live in places where they came to by complete accident.

</doc>
<doc id="5555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5555" title="Scissors">
Scissors

Scissors are a tool used for cutting thin material like:
Knives are better than scissors for some uses. Unlike a knife, scissors have two sharp edges.
Some types of scissors, like children's scissors, are not very sharp. Children's scissors are often protected with plastic. These are called "Safety Scissors".
Scissors can be made for left-handed or right-handed people. Using scissors made for the wrong hand is very hard for most people. 
There are many kinds of scissors used for cutting different materials and shapes.

</doc>
<doc id="5556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5556" title="Indigo">
Indigo

Indigo is a hue lying between blue and violet. The brightest tone of indigo is the sixth color of the rainbow. The color shown at right, "electric indigo", is the closest color it is possible to display on a computer to the color of the indigo color band in the rainbow. 
Isaac Newton named and defined indigo as a spectrum color when he divided up the spectrum into the seven colors of the rainbow. The spectral range of indigo is between 450 and 420 nanometers. 
The name of the color indigo originally came from the indigo plant. Indigo is a dye made from the indigo plant, used to dye cloth. Indigo dye also is used to dye denim cloth, which is used to make what are called blue jeans (they should really be called "indigo jeans"). This shade of indigo, called "indigo dye" (shown at left above in the picture and in the color chart below), is darker than the spectrum indigo shown above.
The indigo plant originally came from the nation of India. The Ancient Greek language word for the dye is "indikon". The Romans used the term "indicum", which passed into Italian dialect and eventually into English as the word indigo. 
These things are colored indigo:

</doc>
<doc id="5557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5557" title="Violet">
Violet

Violet is the seventh color of the rainbow--it is the color on the inner edge of the rainbow. Violet is the color between blue and purple. The name of the color comes from the violet, which is a small flower grown in most parts of the world.
The first written use of "violet" as a color name in English was in 1370.

</doc>
<doc id="5558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5558" title="Malcolm IV of Scotland">
Malcolm IV of Scotland

Malcolm IV of Scotland (c. 1141- December 9, 1165) was the grandson of David I of Scotland. He succeeded his grandfather as King of Scotland in 1153. He never married or had children. Not much is known about him.

</doc>
<doc id="5561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5561" title="David I of Scotland">
David I of Scotland

David I of Scotland (1084 – May 24, 1153) was the son of Malcolm III of Scotland and Saint Margaret of Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="5562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5562" title="Saint Margaret of Scotland">
Saint Margaret of Scotland

Saint Margaret of Scotland (c. 1045 - 16 November 1093) was married to Malcolm III of Scotland, and was the mother of David I of Scotland, Alexander I of Scotland and Edgar. She was the daughter of Edward the Exile, and the granddaughter of Edmund Ironside. She was probably born in Hungary. 
Margaret died four days after her husband.

</doc>
<doc id="5565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5565" title="Alexander I of Scotland">
Alexander I of Scotland

Alexander I of Scotland (c. 1078 - 23 April 1124) was the son of Malcolm Canmore and Saint Margaret of Scotland. He became the King of Scotland in 1107. In the same year, he married Sybilla, who was an illegitimate daughter of Henry I of England.

</doc>
<doc id="5566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5566" title="Henry I of England">
Henry I of England

Henry I of England (c. 1068 C.E. - 1 December 1135 C.E.), also called Henry Beauclerc (meaning good scholar), was the King of England. He ruled from, 1100 until his death in 1135. Henry was born in Selby, Yorkshire. He was the fourth son of William the Conqueror and Queen Matilda of Flanders. Henry was the only child born in England. His mother had come to England for her coronation in 1068. 
Henry was educated in Latin and the liberal arts. His parents probably raised him to go into the Church when he was old enough. On William's death in 1087, Henry's two older brothers were each left half of their father's kingdom. Robert Curthose became Duke of Normandy. William Rufus became king of England. But Henry, still a minor, was left with no inheritance. Henry purchased the County of Cotentin in western Normandy from Robert. But Robert and William Rufus forced him out in 1091. Henry gradually rebuilt his power base in the Cotentin. He then allied himself with William against Robert. Henry was present when William died in a hunting accident in 1100. Robert was away on Crusade. Henry, who was present when William was killed, rushed to seize the English throne for himself.
As King, Henry tried to make social reforms. He issued the Charter of Liberties which is considered a predecessor of the Magna Carta. He put back in place some of the laws of Edward the Confessor.
Henry and his wife had two children, Matilda and William Adelin. William died in the White Ship sinking on November 25, 1120. Henry also fathered more illegitimate children than any other English King. Estimates by various historians place the number between 20 and 25.
Henry died in 1135. He was visiting his daughter and grandchildren in Normandy. After his death, his daughter Mathilda and his nephew, Stephen, argued over who would become the ruler of England, and started a civil war called The Anarchy.

</doc>
<doc id="5568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5568" title="William I of England">
William I of England

William I of England (–1087), also known as William the Conqueror, was the first Norman King of England (1066–1087). He was also the Duke of Normandy from 1035 until his death. At the Battle of Hastings William defeated Harold Godwinson, the last Anglo-Saxon king of England. That event is shown on the Bayeux Tapestry. He changed the course of both Norman and English history. He was cousin to Edward the Confessor so when Edward the Confessor died he thought he should inherit the throne. He and Harold Godwinson battled to see who would keep and or receive the English throne. William beat Harold at the battle of Hastings in 1066.
William was the son of Robert I, Duke of Normandy by his concubine Herleva. He was born in Falaise, Normandy in 1027 or 1028. William became the Duke of Normandy when his father died in 1035. In 1034 or 1035 Duke Robert wanted to go on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem. He made his noblemen swear to make his young son William their duke if he was killed. 
But William's minority rule of Normandy did not start well. Some Normans did not want a boy as their duke. Robert II Archbishop of Rouen was a powerful man in Normandy. He protected William. King Henry I of France also approved of William. In 1037 Archbishop Robert died. Without his support Norman nobles began fighting among themselves. Some wanted William out of the way and tried to kill him. One of William's servants was killed in the very room where William slept. Two more of William's protectors died during this time. Normandy was in complete disorder.
In 1042 William held a church council in Normandy. At that council the church made a new law called the Truce of God. It was to help stop all the private wars. There could be no fighting on or fast days. No fighting was allowed from Thursday night until Monday morning. The punishment for breaking the truce was excommunication. William probably reached the age of majority in about 1044. He no longer needed tutors. He could now rule on his own.
The private wars continued into 1046. William's rule depended on the loyalty of his . By the fall of 1046 many of the families in lower Normandy began plotting to replace William as duke. Guy of Burgundy, William's cousin, was sent to William's court in hopes he would do well there. William gave Guy castles at Brionne and Vernon. But Guy wasn't happy with this and decided he should rule Normandy himself. He became the leader of what was by now an open revolt. Two of William's viscounts joined Guy. William realized this was a serious threat and he asked King Henry for help. The French king came right away and brought a large army. The combined armies of Duke William and King Henry met the rebels at Val-es-Dunes. The rebels were defeated and Guy fled to his castle at Brionne. William kept the castle cut off from food or supplies until Guy gave up in 1049. The duke forgave his cousin, but Guy soon returned to Burgundy. William's victory at Val-es-Dunes gave him some control of Normandy. 
A church council met in October 1047 near the battlefield to consider a new Truce of God. No private wars would be allowed from Wednesday evening through Monday morning. Also no such fighting was allowed during Advent, Lent, Easter and Pentecost. This followed other such truces in place elsewhere in France. But the king and duke were both excluded from this truce. They were allowed to wage war during these times to keep the peace. William's peace in Normandy was now supported by the church.
The battle of Val-es-Dunes was the start of William's rise to power. As the king had stepped in it was more his victory than William's. But William's nobles now began to see him as a leader. He could now think about taking a wife. Shortly before 1049 William decided to marry Matilda of Flanders. She was the daughter of Baldwin V of Flanders and Adela of France, who was the daughter of King Robert II of France. Before it could take place Pope Leo IX refused to allow the marriage. He did not give a reason but the two were cousins. Some time between 1050 and 1052 the two married anyway. But it wasn't until 1059 that another pope, Nicholas II, lifted the ban on their marriage.
While William was building his power in Normandy things were changing around him. King Henry had supported him and William had helped the king against the count of Anjou. About 1052 Count Geoffrey of Anjou and the king suddenly made peace. Just as suddenly the king turned on William. At the same time two of William's uncles, Archbishop Mauger and Count William of Arques rebelled against their nephew. William fought his uncle at the castle at Arques. King Henry now led a large force (army) into Normandy to help Count William of Arques. But Duke William met him in battle and won. Without the king's army to help, the castle had to give up. Duke William sent his two uncles away from Normandy.
In 1054 the king again entered Normandy with a large hostile force. He split his army in two and led the southern forces himself. His brother Odo led the second force east of the Seine river. This time William had all of Normandy supporting him. He had everything that could be used as food removed ahead of the French armies. This would cause them difficulty in keeping their soldiers fed. William also split his soldiers into two armies. William's forces watched the king's armies looking for any chance to attack. When Odo's forces reached the town of Mortimer they found plenty of food and drink. This caused his forces to relax and enjoy themselves. The of William's second army caught them by surprise and killed most of Odo's soldiers. Those who did survive were taken prisoner and held for ransom. When the king got the news that his brother's army had been destroyed his army was struck with panic. The king and his men left Normandy as fast as they could. King Henry I agreed to a peace that lasted three years. But in 1058 the king broke the peace and invaded Normandy again. Just as before William kept the king's army close but waited for the best time to strike. This came as the French army was crossing the Dives river at Varaville. The king had already crossed the river and watched as his army was destroyed as they entered the water. He took what remained of his army and left Normandy for good. The king died a short time later. The new king, his young son Phillip, was under the care of William's father-in-law, Baldwin V. France was no longer hostile to Normandy and this allowed William the freedom to expand.
In 1002 Ethelred King of England married Emma, sister of Duke Richard II of Normandy. The alliance formed by this marriage had far reaching effects. When Canute came to the throne of England in 1016, he took Emma of Normandy as his wife. Her two sons by her former marriage fled to Normandy for their own safety. Edward, the older son, stayed in Normandy for many years at the court of the dukes. The last duke who protected him there was his cousin William. Edward became King of England in 1042. in 1052 Edward made William his heir. In 1065 Harold Godwinson was in Normandy. While he was there he promised Duke William he would support him as successor to the English throne. On 5 January 1066 Edward the king died. But Harold did not respect his oaths. The next day, the day of the funeral, Harold Godwinson was crowned King of England. The story was that on his deathbed, the king had changed his mind, and promised Harold the throne. Harold was not royalty himself and had no legal claim on the throne. For weeks William must have known Edward was dying. But the news of the king's death and Harold's taking the throne must have been a surprise to others.
William began his plans for invasion almost as soon as he received news of the events in England. He called a meeting of his greatest men. William made plans to gather a large army from all over France. His influence and wealth meant he could mount a large campaign. His first task was to build a of ships to carry his army across the English Channel. Then he started gathering an army. His friendship with Brittany, France, and Flanders meant he did not have to rely only on his own army. He hired and paid soldiers from many parts of Europe. William asked for and got the support of the pope who gave him a banner to carry into battle. At the same time Duke William was planning his invasion, so too was Harold Hardrada. The king of England knew both would be coming but he kept his ships and forces in the south of England where William might land. 
William may have had as many as 1,000 ships in his invasion fleet. They had favorable winds to leave Normandy on the night of 27 September 1066. William's ship, the Mora, was a gift of his wife, Matilda. It led the fleet to the landing at Pevensey the next morning. As soon as he landed William got news of King Harold's victory over the Norwegian king at Stamford Bridge in the north of England. Harold also received news that William had landed at Pevensey and came south as quickly as he could. The king rested at London for a few days before taking his army to meet William and his French forces.
King Harold's army took up a position on an east-west ridge north of Hastings. The ridge itself was called Senlac Hill. They found the Norman army marching up the valley in front of them. While Harold had more soldiers, they were tired from the forced march from London. William formed his lines at the base of the hill facing the shield wall of the English. He sent his archers halfway up the slope to attack the English. He sent his mounted knights to the left and right to find any weak spots. At first William's knights tried to break through the shield wall with the weight of their horses. But they were attacking uphill and could not gain any speed. Harold's front line simply stood fast and was able to fend off any attacks. William's army began to fall back with rumors of Duke William's death. William removed his helmet so his men could see he was still alive. When William saw that many of Harold's men were following his knights back down the hill he used a trick he had learned years before. He turned suddenly and charged the oncoming English foot soldiers who had no chance against mounted knights. 
This tactic worked at least two more times during the battle and made Harold's shield wall weaker. Now William used something new. Where his attacks by knights and soldiers had been separate movements he now used them together. Where his archers had not succeeded against the shield wall he had them shoot high into the air so the arrows came down on top of the English. This may be where king Harold was killed by an arrow through his eye. The shield wall finally broke and the Normans were on top of them. By nightfall the English were either dead on the field or being hunted down by William's men. William called his men back and they spent the night camped on the battlefield.
The battle was won but the English still had smaller armies which had not joined King Harold at Hastings. They had lost their king but were still trying to reorganize. William rested his army for five days before moving towards London. His line of march took him through several towns he either captured or destroyed. When William reached London the English resisted for a short time but in the end surrendered. On Christmas day in 1066 William was crowned King of England. His victory at Hastings gave Duke William the nickname he has been known by ever since: 'William the '.
William chose to be crowned at Christmas. This was partly because he thought the English would be less likely to riot at this high feast day. It was also a good choice because he believed it was God's will he be king. Now the king, William spent a few months in England. He then returned to Normandy leaving England in the hands of two capable men. These were his half-brother Odo, the Bishop of Bayeux and William FitzOsbern. Odo was made the Earl of Kent while FitzOsbern became the earl of Hereford. The remaining three English earls were left in place. When William sailed back to Normandy with him were many of his followers. Many of his soldiers who had been paid and others he wished to keep track of. In particular these were the English Archbishop Stigand and Edgar Atheling. He also brought his remaining three English earls, Edwin, Morcar and Waltheof. This was so none of them could start a revolt while he was away. William had his duties at home to take care of. Also many of his soldiers needed to come back to keep the duchy safe.
When William returned to London in December of 1067 he began to find out what problems had come up while he was gone. Hertfordshire had been raided by Mercians. Then Exeter had not accepted the rule of the new king. William raised money from all those parts of England that would pay. He also called out English levies. Exeter surrendered after one of its hostages was blinded. After he subdued Devon and Cornwall all seemed quiet. At Winchester William sent for his wife Matilda who was crowned Queen of England there at Pentecost. 
By summer more rebellions had broken out. At the same time others were fleeing England. Edgar Atheling along with his mother and sisters left for Scotland where they were welcomed. In the North strong anti-Norman groups were gathering around York. Earl Edwin and his brother Morcar left William's court to join the rebels in the north. William then built a castle at Warwick. This caused the Earls and others to give in to William. Other castles followed. William then entered York where others came to him and submitted. He then negotiated with the king of Scots to prevent any invasions of England from the north. But his campaign in the North was not as effective as he thought. In 1069 a second uprising developed into a war. The men William left in charge had been killed. A small Norman force was holding out in York when William came to their aid. After building another castle William left Earl William FitzOsbern in charge. For the next five months the north was quiet. But the northern English leaders had sent word to King Swein in Denmark offering him the crown if he could defeat the Normans. Swein sent a Danish fleet to England. 
In the summer of 1069 the Danish fleet appeared off the coast of Kent. It moved up the coast towards the north, raiding as it went. William and his army were in the south guarding against any incursions. Finally the fleet joined the English rebels on the banks of the River Humber. The remaining English earls all deserted William and joined the combined English-Danish forces. They moved against the Norman garrison at York and killed all but a few women and children. William Malet, a Norman who had lived in England before 1066 was also spared.
William's northern army was wiped out and York in was in ruins. At the same time smaller rebellions were breaking out in Wales and southwest England. William knew he was in trouble. He began by calling in all his commanders and troops to combine his forces. The king knew that with a smaller army he had to deal with one group of rebels at a time. He sent William FitzOsbern and Brian of Brittany to deal with Exeter. William himself fought an army moving in from the east. In both cases the Norman armies were victorious. He now moved on the northern armies that had destroyed York. But he was unable to get any farther north than Pontefract. After trying for several weeks William bribed the Danish Fleet to withdraw from York for the winter. They agreed and returned to the mouth of the Humber to winter there. William was now able to move up to York. He rebuilt the castles there. He then had his forces spread out and destroy everything useful for the English and Danish army to feed itself. The result was widespread famine and the people of the area either left or starved to death. This was William's infamous harrying of the North. The result of all this was the surrender of his English Earls and most of the rebels in England. The few remaining groups were quickly crushed by William's army. But one group proved more stubborn. This was at Chester and after a forced march during Winter, William surprised them before they were ready. After their surrender he built two more castles there then returned to Winchester. 
William never again had to lay waste to a county as he did at Yorkshire. He had dealt with the main threats to his rule but some had only been solved in part. The Danish fleet came back in 1070 this time led by King Swen. They joined a small group of rebels on the Isle of Ely led by Hereward the Wake. Again William bribed the Danes to leave and then dealt with the rebels. Hereward was never heard from again.
William now had to rule both England and Normandy. He found he had to be present to keep things under control. When he was in Normandy trouble often broke out in England. When in England, though, Normandy was being ruled by his wife Matilda. But Fulk Rechin, the new count of Anjou, had taken Maine from William's control. William had to take it back in 1073.
In 1082 William arrested his half-brother Odo, Bishop of Bayeux and Earl of Kent. The reasons are uncertain but Odo was trying to raise an army to march on Rome. His plan was to become the next pope. William put him on trial on the Isle of Wight. In addition to other crimes was that of trying to raise an army among William's soldiers. As William pointed out, they were needed for the defense of England. Odo protested that not even a king could judge him. As a bishop only the pope could. William replied that he wasn't a bishop, he was seizing his earl who he left in charge during his absence. Odo was in Normandy for the rest of his life. 
In 1083 Queen Matilda died and was buried in Caen. The two had been very close and only disagreed over their son Robert Curthose. Robert had repeatedly rebelled against his father yet kept in contact with his mother. This caused a rift between them. Philip I of France had found it difficult for his vassal to become a king like himself and so resented William. Not strong enough to fight William himself, when Robert Curthose rebelled against his father, King Philip helped him. 
In the summer of 1085 William learned that King Canute IV of Denmark was getting a fleet ready to sail against England. William came back to England in the fall with a large number of soldiers. He had to pay them and feed them at great cost. It may have been at this time he realized he had no records of what was owed him as king. He didn't know if he was collecting all the taxes that were due.
At his Christmas court at Gloucester in 1085 William asked that a great survey be taken in every part of England. The king wanted to know how many people lived in his realm. He wanted to know the size of every property, what each was worth, and how much income it brought in. No such survey had ever been made in England before. It was unique in what it covered, its details and its contribution to English history. The Domesday Book was the first in England.
The text of the book fit into two volumes. The first covered thirty-one counties. It was called 'Great Domesday' because of its size. The second covered the counties of Essex, Norfolk, and Suffolk and was called 'Little Domesday'. The facts were recorded by several panels made up of bishops and . Each panel collected information on several counties. William was presented with a large collection of written records on 1 August 1086. This was the Domesday Book, but it wouldn't bound into books for almost another century.
William died when he was in Rouen, France from injuries he had received from falling off a horse. 
William and his wife Matilda of Flanders had at least nine children. 

</doc>
<doc id="5569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5569" title="Matilda of Flanders">
Matilda of Flanders

Matilda of Flanders (c. 1031 - November 2, 1083) was the wife of William I of England. She was Duchess of Normandy and Queen of England.
Matilda was the daughter of Baldwin V of Flanders and Adela of France, who was the daughter of king Robert II of France. Historians think she was born about 1032. Care was given to her education so she would become known for her learning as much as for her great beauty. Matilda, like other princesses of her day, was very skilled at fine needlework. Matilda was well respected because she was a part of a large Royal family. She was related to many kings in Europe including Charlemagne. Matilda was a very small woman in size, some reports said she was only four feet two inches high (129.5 Centimeters).
Matilda was married to William probably between 1051 and 1052 while she was still a teenager. Ever since he became duke of Normandy as a boy, William had to fight to keep Normandy. When William was born his mother and father were not married so he had the stigma of being a bastard. By marrying Matilda, who was the niece of the king of France, William gained respect in Europe.
When William was getting ready to attack England, Matilda had a ship built for him called the "Mora". While William was in England and after he became King of England in 1066, Matilda stayed behind to rule Normandy while William was away. 
A year later, in 1067, Matilda was able to join her husband in England and she was crowned Queen of England. It helped William that Matilda was related to an earlier English king, Alfred the Great. This was important to the English people to think Matilda was herself part English. Matilda died on 3 Nov 1083 when she was about 51 years old. 
Together they had ten children, including:

</doc>
<doc id="5571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5571" title="Robert II of France">
Robert II of France

Robert II of France (March 27, 972 - July 20, 1031) was born in Orleans, France. He was the son of Hugh Capet and Adelaide of Aquitaine. He was married to Constance of Arles. 
Robert was succeeded by his son Henry I of France. Robert is buried in the Saint Denis Basilica.

</doc>
<doc id="5574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5574" title="Adelaide of Aquitaine">
Adelaide of Aquitaine

Adelaide of Aquitaine (952-1004) was the Queen of Hugh Capet and the daughter of William III of Aquitaine. She was the sister of William IV of Aquitaine.

</doc>
<doc id="5576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5576" title="William III of Aquitaine">
William III of Aquitaine

William III of Aquitaine (c. 915 – April 3, 963) became the Duke of Aquitaine and Count of Poitiers in 935. He was the son of Ebalus of Aquitaine.
William's nickname was "Towhead".
William was married to Adela of Normandy. He was the father of Adelaide of Aquitaine, who became Queen of France when she married Hugh Capet. He was succeeded by his son, William IV of Aquitaine.

</doc>
<doc id="5577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5577" title="Basilica of St Denis">
Basilica of St Denis

The Basilica of Saint Denis is a basilica in Paris, France. It is famous for its architecture and as the burial place for many Kings of France. It is in the suburb of Saint Denis, which is in the north of Paris.
The Basilica is named after Saint Denis. Saint Denis is the patron saint of France. He was also the first Bishop of Paris.
The Basilica was a Romanesque building. In 1136 the Abbot Suger (1081 - 1155) began replacing the building, bit by bit, beginning with the west front and then with a new east end. The east end is said to be the first building in the Gothic style. It was not completed until the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="5578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5578" title="Gothic architecture">
Gothic architecture

Gothic architecture are building designs, as first pioneered in Western Europe in the Middle Ages. It began in France in the 12th century. The Gothic style grew out of Romanesque architecture. It lasted until the 16th century. By that time the Renaissance style of architecture had become popular. The important features of Gothic architecture are the pointed arch, the ribbed vault and the flying buttress, stained glass windows which are explained below. 
Gothic architecture is best known as the style of many of the great cathedrals, abbeys and churches of Europe. It is also the architecture of many castles, palaces, town halls, universities, and also some houses.
Many church buildings still remain from this period. Even the smallest Gothic churches are often very beautiful, while many of the larger churches and cathedrals are thought to be priceless works of art. Many are listed with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) as World Heritage Sites.
In the 19th century, the Gothic style became popular again, particularly for building churches and universities. This style is called Gothic Revival architecture.
Gothic architecture was at first called "the French Style" ("").
The word "Gothic" was used later during the Renaissance as an insult. In fact, the architecture had nothing to do with the real Goths, a German tribe who attacked Rome in the early Middle Ages.
An Italian writer named Giorgio Vasari used the word "Gothic" in the 1530s, because he thought buildings from the Middle Ages were not carefully planned and measured like Renaissance buildings or the buildings of ancient Rome. After Vasari, many other people used the word "Gothic" to describe architecture with pointed arches.
At the end of the 12th century, Western Europe was split into different states which were beginning to become the countries that are known today. 
The Holy Roman Empire ruled a big part of Europe including the modern countries of Germany, The Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Austria, eastern France and much of northern Italy, apart from Venice. Historians believe Emperor Charlemagne began the Holy Roman Empire in 800 AD.
The countries of France and Spain were split into kingdoms. England was ruled by a king whose family also had a lot of land in France. Norway was influenced by England, while the other Scandinavian countries and Poland were influenced by Germany.
At that time, there was a lot of trade between towns and states. This caused the towns to grow larger. Germany, Holland and Belgium had many big towns that grew peacefully, often trading with each other. Because of the peace and wealth of these towns, they showed their pride by building huge Town Halls, often with very tall towers.
In England and France, most people did not live in towns. They lived on farms, which were often owned by a rich nobleman (or lord). The house of the lord was usually called a manor house. 
Italy was mostly split up into small city states which often fought each other. Cities often had high walls and many of the houses built at this time were tall, high towers.
In Western Europe, in the Middle Ages, almost everyone belonged to the Roman Catholic Church. The Roman Catholic Church has one head - the Pope. During the Middle Ages, one language was used in churches all across Europe - Church Latin, which had developed from ancient Latin. 
The churches of each area had a local bishop who came under the Pope. . Each Bishop had a throne where he could sit when priests and people came to him. A church which has a Bishop's throne is called a "cathedral". Cathedrals were usually the biggest and most beautiful churches.
In the early Middle Ages, many monasteries were built all over Europe. A group of holy men lived and worked and prayed there. Monks belonged to different "orders" which had different rules. The biggest number of monasteries were homes to the monks of the Benedictine Order. Their monasteries were generally in towns and they often built very big churches called "Abbeys" for the monks and the townspeople to worship in. Other orders of monks, like the Cistercians, did not live near towns. Nowadays their abbeys are seen as beautiful ruins in the English countryside.
In France, there were also Benedictines, as well as Cluniac Orders. The great monastery at Cluny, built in the Romanesque style, was the biggest in Europe. The abbey and other buildings were very well planned so for hundreds of years other monasteries were influenced by that plan.
In the 13th century St. Francis of Assisi started the Franciscans, who were often called the "Grey Friars" because of their grey-brown robes. The Dominicans were founded by St. Dominic in Toulouse and Bologna. The Dominicans built many of Italy's Gothic churches.
Abbot Suger was the head of a large monastery just north of Paris in France. The monastery had a large church, the Abbey of Saint-Denis, and also a royal palace where the French kings sometimes stayed. Abbot Suger was a close friend to two kings, Louis VI and Louis VII.
In 1127 Suger had the idea to rebuild the great abbey Church of Saint-Denis. He began by changing the "West Front" or facade which was about 200 years old and had only one small door. Suger's grand design had three big doors like the arches on the Arch of Constantine in Rome, which were to let in all the crowds on special Holy Days. The facade also had a big round window in the centre, called a rose window, which was the first one in France.
Abbot Suger did not then rebuild the part of the church inside the west doors, the "nave" where most of the ordinary people stood. The next part that he rebuilt was the eastern end.
Abbot Suger wanted this part to make people think of Heaven. He wanted it to be very light and bright, with great big windows of beautifully coloured glass. To do this, he looked at all the most modern designs, and all the clever things that other architects had done. He put all the new ideas together in one building. It was the first building of the new "Gothic" style. (But of course it was not called Gothic at this time. It was called "the French Style".)
The new East End was dedicated or "given to God" on June 11, 1144. Other architects soon copied the design for other big churches and cathedrals in northern France. After Abbot Suger's death, the rest of the church was also rebuilt in the new style, and got two more much larger and more decorated rose windows, one on either side.
The style soon spread to England and through France, the Low Countries, Germany, Spain and northern of Italy and Sicily.
Note:- The architectural vocabulary words are written in bold type and are explained and/or shown on the plan and cross-section.
"Romanesque" was the style of architecture in Europe before the "Gothic" style. Gothic architecture grew out of Romanesque architecture. There was not a clean break between the two styles. Many of the features of Gothic architecture did not begin in the Gothic period. They were already there in Romanesque architecture, and slowly changed to become Gothic. The main changes were the pointed arch and the flying buttress. These two developments allowed many other changes to happen. 
Romanesque buildings had thick walls, small windows, round arches and flat buttresses. Gothic buildings had thinner walls, larger windows, pointed arches and large buttresses. 
All the types of buildings, and the general shape of the buildings were already there in the Romanesque period. The types of buildings were:- the cathedral church, the parish church, the monastery, the castle, the palace, the great hall and the gatehouse.
Before the 20th century, the landmark building in almost every town was a church, cathedral, abbey, or town hall with its tall tower or spire rising high above all the houses. Many of these buildings were from the Middle Ages and were Romanesque or Gothic in style.
The groundplan of most Gothic churches is shaped like a cross. The long nave makes the body of the church and, crossing it, the arms are called the transept. On the other side of the "transept" is the chancel which is often called the choir because that is where the priest and the choir sing the services.
The "nave" usually has a passageway or aisle on either side. Sometimes there are two "aisles" on each side. The "nave" is usually a lot taller than the "aisles", and has high windows which light up the central space. The upper part of the building, where these windows are, is called the clerestory (or clear storey). (It is pronounced "clair-rest-tree")
Some Gothic churches in Germany and Austria and also Milan Cathedral (which was built in the German style) often have "nave" and "aisles" of almost the same height and are called "hallenkirke" (hall church). The Cathedral of St. Stephen of Vienna is an example.
In some churches with double aisles, like Notre Dame, Paris, the transept does not stick out beyond the aisles. In English cathedrals the "transepts" always stick out a long way and sometimes there are two transepts as at Salisbury Cathedral.
It is at the eastern end that Gothic churches are the most different from each other.
In England the eastern end it is usually long and often has two parts. It is usually square or has a "Lady Chapel", a place to pray to the Virgin Mary.
In France the eastern end is often polygonal and has by a passage for walking called an ambulatory. Often French churches have a ring of chapels called a chevette. German churches are often like those of France at the eastern end.
In Italy, there is no long "chancel" jutting out beyond the transept. There is usually just a semicircular chapel as at Florence Cathedral.
The "facade" or West Front of a large church or cathedral is designed to make a big impression on the worshippers. One of the best known is Notre Dame de Paris.
In the centre of the facade is the main door or portal, often with two side doors as well. In the arch of the middle door is often an important piece of sculpture, usually "Christ in Majesty". Sometimes there is a stone post in the middle of the doorway where there is a statue of the "Madonna and Child". There are many other carved figures in niches set all around the portals. Sometimes there are hundreds of stone figures carved all across the front of the building.
Above the middle door there is a large window, which is usually a rose window like that at Reims Cathedral, but not in England, Scotland, Belgium or Scandinavia where there will nearly always be a very large pointed window to let in lots of light.
In Italy, the facade is often decorated with coloured marble and mosaic made of little coloured tiles, and not so many statues, as at Orvieto Cathedral
The "facade" of a French cathedral and many English, Spanish and German cathedrals usually has two towers.
Large Gothic churches and cathedrals are often very tall. On the inside, the "nave" is usually at least twice as high as it is wide, which gives the church a very tall narrow look. Some of the churches in France and Germany have naves that are three times as high as they are wide. Cologne Cathedral is an example. The tallest nave is at Beauvais Cathedral which is 157.5 feet high. Westminster Abbey is 102 feet high.
On the outside most Gothic churches, both big and small, have at least one tower. In Italy there are domes on the churches, and the tower stands to one side. But in most other countries, cathedrals generally have two towers and quite often have three. Some have even more. Laon Cathedral was planned to have seven, but they were not all built.
Sometimes there is just one tower with a huge spire as at Salisbury. Lincoln Cathedral had the tallest spire of the Middle Ages at 527 feet (160 metres).
Because a pointed arch points upwards, it makes people look upwards. In Gothic architecture, the whole building is designed to make people look up. There are long narrow columns, long narrow windows and high pointed roofs. On the inside the arches of the roof rise up like branches. On the outside, there are often lots of fancy bits along the edge of the roof and on the tops of buttresses and above the windows. These are called " pinnacles". Milan Cathedral has hundreds of them.
Gothic architecture usually has a lot of windows. Sainte Chapelle is a famous example. At Gloucester Cathedral in England, the East window is as big as a tennis court. Milan Cathedral also has windows of about the same size.
The flying buttresses which arch across the roof of the aisle were used to support the roof above the windows, so the walls did not have to be so thick.
The columns of the inside, the ribs of the vault (or roof) and the flying buttresses, made a strong stone skeleton. in between these parts, the walls and the filling of the vaults could be of lighter thinner material. Between the narrow buttresses, the walls could be opened up into large windows.
Through the Gothic period, because of the pointed arch, Gothic windows were able to change from simple openings to very rich designs. The windows were very often filled with stained glass which made coloured light in the building, and was used for story-telling pictures.
Pointed arches were used in Persian architecture, and from 641 AD onwards, they were a feature of Islamic architecture. Knowledge of the pointed arch spread into Europe through the Crusaders who travelled to the Middle East from 1096 onwards. Also, Islamic forces had taken over parts of Spain, where they built cities and Mosques with pointed arches.
Architectural historians think that the pointed arch was also used by some European architects because it was a very strong way of making an arch.
In Gothic Architecture, the pointed arch is used in every place where an arch is needed, both for strength and for decoration. Gothic openings such as doorways, windows, arcades and galleries have pointed arches. A row of arches is called an arcade. A row of arches that is up high on a building is a gallery.
Rows of pointed arches were used to decorate walls. This is known as blind arcading. Often walls were made with tall narrow arched openings in them that could be used to stand statues in. An opening like this is called a niche which is pronounced "neesh".
An arched roof built of bricks or stone is called a vault. In the Romanesque period before the Gothic, some churches had vaulted roofs. They were always based on perfectly semi-circular shapes. There were two main ways to make a nave vault in the Romanesque period. A vault could be long like a tunnel. Churches with this type of vault were always rather dark. Or it could be square, like two tunnels crossing each other. This meant that the columns that carried the vault always had to be placed on a perfectly square ground plan, which was not always possible.
One of the good things about pointed arches was that they could be narrow and tall, or flattened and wide. Using pointed arches, architects could make vaults of very different shapes. They did not even have to be rectangular. A Gothic architect could make a vault with one side narrow, two sides wide and the last side even wider. They could make a vault with three sides or five sides quite easily, by using pointed arches.
The vaults were made of ribs which met each other at the highest part of the vault. In between the ribs were sloping surfaces of stone or brick that could be much thinner and lighter than the ribs. At first the pattern made by the ribs was quite plain, like Romanesque vaults, but architects, particularly in England, soon started adding small ribs in between the main ones and making different patterns. Some vaults like this can also be seen in Spain and Germany, but not usually in France or Italy.
In the Gothic period the shape and style of pointed arches changed. But the changes were not the same in every country.
With pointed arches, windows could be made very large. Architects made many designs of pointed arches crossing each other in different ways. These designs were often used in windows, which look as if they are filled with beautiful stone lace. This is called "tracery". The stone tracery was used to hold the glass in place. An Architectural Historian can often tell just how old a part of a building is by looking at the window tracery design.
The simplest Gothic arch is a long opening with a pointed arch known in England as the lancet. A "lancet" is a sharp knife, so these windows are knife-shaped. Very often lancet windows are put together in a group of three or five.
Salisbury Cathedral is famous for the beauty of its Lancet Gothic Architecture. In England the style is called "Early English Gothic". York Cathedral in England has a group of five lancet windows that are 50 feet high and are still full of ancient glass. They are called the Five Sisters.
These simple windows are also found at Chartres Cathedral and Laon Cathedral in France. They are the most usual sort of Gothic windows in Italy.
Many Gothic openings have tops that are based upon an equilateral triangle. The Equilateral Arch has a very pleasing look and gives a wide opening useful for doorways, arcades and big windows.
These arches are often filled with tracery in circular designs. In England this style is called Geometric Decorated Gothic. It can be seen at many English and French Cathedrals, for example Lincoln cathedral in England and Notre Dame in Paris.
Some Gothic windows have designs in the tracery, or even in the top of the window itself, that rises up like a flame. This is called Flamboyant Gothic. Tracery like this makes a very rich and lively effect.
Some of the most beautiful and famous windows of Europe have this type of tracery. It can be seen at St Stephen's Vienna, Sainte Chapelle in Paris, at the Cathedrals of Limoges and Rouen in France, and at Milan Cathedral in Italy. In England the most famous windows like this are the West Window of York Minster with its design based on the Sacred Heart, the East Window at Carlisle Cathedral and the East window of Selby Abbey. Architectural Historians sometimes argue about which of these is the most beautiful.
Flame-shaped arches are not as strong as ordinary pointed arches. It is never used for making a vaulted roof. If this shape is used to make a doorway, there is generally another stronger arch around it. Another way is to make a square topped door that has Flamboyant decoration over the top. In France there are many doorways, both in churches and in houses, that are like this. They are rare in England but there is one at Rochester Cathedral.
In England the Flamboyant style was used wall arcading and niches. The most famous examples in are in the Lady Chapel at Ely, the Screen at Lincoln and the facade of Exeter Cathedral. In German and Spanish Gothic architecture the Flamboyant style is often used for opnwork stone screens. The famous "pulpit" in Vienna Cathedral is made like this.
The Depressed arch is wide and looks as if it has been pushed almost flat. When arches like this are used to make great big windows they need to be supported by many tall thin vertical shafts and horizontal transoms, so that the window looks as if it has been divided up into a grid (lots of rectangles). This sort of decoration is used on walls as well. In England the style is called Perpendicular Gothic style.
At Gloucester Cathedral the Perpendicular East Window is said to be as large as a tennis court. There are three very famous large chapels in this style- King's College Chapel, Cambridge; St. George's Chapel at Windsor Castle; Henry VII's Chapel at Westminster Abbey. The other famous example is Bath Abbey.
A Gothic cathedral was designed to be like a model of the universe. Everything about the building was designed to tell a message about God.
The statues, the decoration, stained glass windows and wall paintings told Bible stories such as how God created the world and how he rules over everything that is in the universe, the seasons of the year and the stars in the sky.
Carvings near the door often show the signs of the Zodiac because the patterns of stars in the sky were very important to farming people who did not have calendars to tell them when to plant and when to harvest.
Above the main door is often a sculpture of Jesus on a throne, judging the people of the Earth. Many pictures and sculptures are there to remind people to live good lives because they never know what will happen next.
Many churches were very richly decorated, both inside and out. the statues were often painted in bright colours but nowadays only tiny bits remain at Chartres cathedral and some other places. Wooden ceilings were usually brightly coloured. Sometimes the stone columns were painted as well.
Even though some things about Gothic architecture stay the same, other things look different in different countries.
Different building materials were found in different parts of Europe. This is one of the differences in the architecture between different places.
In France, there was limestone. It was good for building because it was soft to cut, but got much harder when the air and rain got on it. It was usually a pale grey colour. France also had beautiful white limestone from Caen which was perfect for making very fine carvings.
England had coarse limestone, red sandstone and dark green Purbeck marble which was often used for architectural decorations like thin columns.
In Northern Germany, Netherlands, Denmark, Baltic countries and northern Poland there was no good building stone, but there was clay for making bricks and tiles. So many of these countries have Brick Gothic churches and even Brick Gothic castles.
In Italy, limestone was used for city walls and castles, but brick was used for other buildings. Because Italy had lots of beautiful marble in many different colours, many buildings have fronts or "facades" decorated in coloured marble. Some churches have very rough brick "facades" because the marble was never put on. Florence Cathedral, for example, did not get its marble "facade" until the 1800s.
In some parts of Europe, there were many tall straight trees that were good for making very large roofs. But in England, by the 1400s, the long straight trees were running out. Many of the trees were used for building ships. The architects had to think of a new way to make a wide roof from short pieces of timber. That is how they invented the hammer-beam roofs which are one of the beautiful features seen in many old English churches.
French cathedrals, and those in Germany and Belgium are often very high, both inside and outside. "The transepts" do not stick out far. The "facades" in France nearly always have three doors, a rose window and two towers. There are often "facades" with doors on the transepts as well as the front.
The thing that makes English cathedrals different from the others is that they are long, and look horizontal, like big ocean liners.
English cathedrals nearly all took hundreds of years to build, and every part is in a style that is quite different to the next part. (Only Salisbury Cathedral was not built in lots of styles.)
The West window is very large and is never a rose window. The west front may have two towers like a French Cathedral, or none. There is nearly always a tower at the middle of the building, which may have a big spire.
In Germany the towers and spires are often enormously large. Sometimes they are so big that it was impossible to finish them until modern times. The spires are quite different to English spires because they are made of lacy "openwork".
There are also many "hallenkirke" (or hall-churches) which have no "clerestorey" windows. The nave and the aisles are about the same height.
Like an English Cathedral, a Spanish or Portuguese Gothic Cathedral is often built in many different styles. They are often wide. Spanish cathedrals often have chapels all around them. The roof often has many different types of towers and spires. Often the central towers are polygonal.
Italian Gothic cathedrals use lots of colour, both outside and inside. On the outside, the "facade" is often decorated with marble. On the inside, the walls are often painted plaster. The columns and arches are often decorated with bright coloured paint. There are also mosaics with gold backgrounds and beautifully tiled floors is geometric patterns.
The facades often have an open porch with a wheel windows above it. There is often a dome at the centre of the building. The bell tower is hardly ever attached to the building, because Italy has quite a few earthquakes. The windows are not as large as in northern Europe and, although stained glass windows are often found, the favorite way of decorating the churches is fresco (wall painting).

</doc>
<doc id="5579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5579" title="Cathedral">
Cathedral

A cathedral is a large Christian church. It is the seat of a Bishop. Only those Christian denominations that have bishops have cathedrals. Cathedrals can be found in the Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Anglican as well as some Lutheran churches. As cathedrals are the seat of a bishop, they are central church of a diocese. 
In the Greek Orthodox Church, the terms "kathedrikos naos" (literally: "cathedral shrine") and "metropolis" (literally "mother city") are both used to describe the same thing. "Metropolis" is more common, but both terms are officially used.
There are certain variations on the use of the term "cathedral"; for example, some pre-Reformation cathedrals in Scotland now within the Church of Scotland still retain the term cathedral, despite the Church's Presbyterian polity which does not have bishops. As cathedrals are often particularly impressive buildings, the term is often used incorrectly to refer to any large important church. 
Several cathedrals in Europe, such as Strasbourg, and in England at York, Lincoln and Southwell, are referred to as "Minster" (German: "Münster") churches, from Latin "monasterium", because the establishments were served by canons living in community or may have been an abbey, prior to the Reformation. The other kind of great church in Western Europe is the abbey. 
The word cathedral is derived from the Latin noun "cathedra" ("seat" or "chair"), and refers to the presence of the bishop's or archbishop's chair or throne. In the ancient world, the chair was the symbol of a teacher and thus of the bishop's role as teacher, and also of an official presiding as a magistrate and thus of the bishop's role in governing a diocese.
The word cathedral, though now grammatically used as a noun, is originally the adjective in the phrase "cathedral church", from the Latin "ecclesia cathedralis". The seat marks the place set aside in the prominent church of the diocese for the head of that diocese and is therefore a major symbol of authority.
Many cathedrals are very old.
Some churches are called "cathedral", but they are not the seat of a bishop. This may be because the way the church is organised changed over time. This is the case for Our Lady of Sorrows Church, Poprad, in Slovakia, for example. In Slovak language, this church is called "cathedral". It is part of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Spiš. This diocese was re-organised several times. Currently, the cathedral of the diocese is St. Martin's Cathedral (Spišská Kapitula). Churches that formerly were a diocesan seat may be called concathedral, co-cathedral, or pro-cathedral.

</doc>
<doc id="5580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5580" title="Patron saint">
Patron saint

A patron saint is someone who has their whole life to something greater than themselves. They are someone who worked hard to make the world a better place. Catholics traditionally take a name of a patron saint to help them throughout their life.
Here is a list of patron saints and the things that they are the patron saint of:

</doc>
<doc id="5581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5581" title="Saint David">
Saint David

Saint David (c. 512 - 587) is the patron saint of Wales. He was a Welsh bishop in the 6th century.

</doc>
<doc id="5582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5582" title="Saint George">
Saint George

Saint George (c. 275/280 – April 23, 303) is the patron saint of England.
According to a legend, Saint George of Lydda killed a dragon and saved the lives of many people. It is sometimes called 'The Golden Legend'. It is a legend that is older than Christianity, which some people believe is based on gods from different religions, such as Sabazios.
A city called Silene had a large lake, where a plague-bearing dragon who breathed fire and disease lived. The dragon poisoned all the countryside. To please the dragon, the people of Silene gave it a sheep every day, for food, and when there were no more sheep, they gave their children to the dragon. The children were chosen by a lottery.
One year the lottery chose the King's daughter. The King, sad and desperate, asked the people to take all his gold and silver, and half of his empire - but only if his daughter could be saved. The people refused. The daughter was sent out to the lake, dressed in white as a bride, to be a fine meal for the dragon.
Not knowing this, Saint George was riding past the lake on the same day. The princess, terrified and trembling, tried to send him away, but George said he would stay and protect her.
The dragon came suddenly out of the lake while they were speaking. Saint George made a gesture called the Sign of the Cross, jumped on his horse and advanced toward the dragon. He used his long spear to hurt the dragon badly. Then he asked the princess to throw her long pretty belt to him. He put the silk belt around the dragon's neck. 
Now, the dragon followed the girl like a humble pet follows its master. 
The Princess and Saint George took the dragon back to the city of Silene, where the people were terrified to see the dragon enter. But Saint George told them not to be scared. He said that if the people became Christians and went to Church to be baptized, he would kill the dragon immediately.
The king and the people of Silene converted to Christianity, George killed the dragon with his sword, 'Ascalon', and its body was taken out of the city on carts. 
Fifteen thousand men were baptized, not counting women and children. 
On the site where the dragon died, the king built a Church for the Blessed Virgin Mary and Saint George. From the altar in the church came a fountain of holy water. The water cured any disease.
The story of Saint George and the Dragon symbolizes when good wins over evil, and is very famous. Compare Book of Revelation chapters 12-13.
It is the subject of a lot of art through many centuries. In Sweden, the Princess symbolizes the nation of Sweden, and the dragon represents a foreign army of enemies. The story was passed from parent to child through songs in Russia. It was also made into the story 'The Reluctant Dragon' by Kenneth Ransome, which was made into a Disney film.
Saint George's Day (also England's National Day) is on April 23, although this is not a holiday in the UK. He is the patron saint of many other countries, too - including Greece, Palestine, Georgia, Portugal and Russia. Moscow, Russia has 41 Churches with the name of Saint George, and the Moscow city Coat of Arms, or symbol, is of Saint George on a horse killing the dragon. Saint George is the patron saint of the Boy Scouts of America.
On St George's day some people in England wear a red rose, or put an English flag in their window. The flag of England is white with a red cross. The design of the flag is often called 'The Saint George Cross', or 'The Colors of Saint George'.

</doc>
<doc id="5583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5583" title="Saint Andrew">
Saint Andrew

Saint Andrew is one of the twelve apostles of Jesus and the patron saint of Scotland. He was crucified on a cross that was turned sideways to look like an "X". The Saint Andrew's flag is the official flag of Scotland.
On St Andrew's Day, many people in Scotland wear a thistle.

</doc>
<doc id="5584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5584" title="Saint Patrick">
Saint Patrick

Saint Patrick (about 402 - March 17, probably 491 or 493) is the patron saint of Ireland and Nigeria. He was born in a village in Roman Britain. When he was 16 years old he was captured and sold into slavery. He also married couples when the king prohibited it.
Saint Patrick came from a Christian family. He was the son of Calpornius, who was a deacon. He brought Christianity to Ireland. He converted many pagans to Christianity. He also challenged many of their leaders and druids such as Aodhan the Brave also known as Chief Aodhan. St.Patrick eventually converted Chief Aodhan and they worked together to convert many other pagans. 
St. Patrick's Day is celebrated every year on March 17 in his honour.
There is a bell in the National Museum of Ireland that was made around the time of Saint Patrick's life. There is no evidence that Saint Patrick owned the bell but the Irish have believed the bell belonged to Saint Patrick for 1400 years. One of the kings of Ulster who was the high king of Ireland at the time had a beautiful cover made out of gold and gems to preserve the bell. The names of the bishops of Ireland were engraved on the cover. The style of the letters on the cover were used to make the first typewriters. It is believed that the bell was rung by Saint Patrick to let people know it was time for church.
There are no snakes in Ireland but there is a legend that at the time of Saint Patrick there were lots of snakes and he chased them all into the Irish Sea. Some say that this legend came to be because pagans had tattoos of snakes and Saint Patrick got rid of the pagans by teaching Christianity and therefore drove out the snakes from Ireland.

</doc>
<doc id="5585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5585" title="491">
491


</doc>
<doc id="5586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5586" title="March 17">
March 17


</doc>
<doc id="5587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5587" title="402">
402


</doc>
<doc id="5588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5588" title="Somerset">
Somerset

Somerset is a county in South West England.
The main town of Somerset was Somerton, but it is now Taunton. There are two cities in Somerset. They are Bath and Wells.
The name "Somerset" comes from the Anglo-Saxon phrase "Sumorsaete". This means "the land of the summer people", because in the past people could only live on the land in the summer. In the winter, the land was flooded.
In the past, the northern border of Somerset was the River Avon. However, as the city of Bristol has grown, the border moved south.
In 1974 parts of north Somerset, the city of Bristol and parts of south Gloucestershire were joined into a new county. This county was named Avon. In 1996 Avon was split into 4 parts, which are now unitary authorities. People usually say that 2 of these parts (named North Somerset and Bath and North East Somerset) are part of Somerset, even though they have their own councils.
The oldest prison in England which is still used is in a town named Shepton Mallet in Somerset. Somerset also has the world's oldest road which people built. It is called the Sweet Track; it was built in about 3800 BC.
There is not much large industry in Somerset, but Bridgwater is a port, and Yeovil is important in building helicopters.
Tourism is an important industry in the county; in 2001 about 23,000 people worked in tourism. Tourists like Somerset because it is very beautiful, with much countryside and few big towns. Somerset has many places to visit:
Farming is an important industry in Somerset, but not as many people work in this industry today. Somerset is famous for its cider (an alcoholic apple drink) and it has many apple orchards.
The numbers on the map are linked to the numbers below.
This is a list of the main towns and cities in Somerset:

</doc>
<doc id="5589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5589" title="Glastonbury">
Glastonbury

Glastonbury is a town in Somerset, England. It is well known for the Glastonbury Festival which happens every year in Glastonbury.
Glastonbury is also well-known because of Glastonbury Abbey. This is because Glastonbury Abbey is said to be the place where King Arthur is buried, and it was burned down when King Henry the Eighth got angry at all Catholic monasteries in the country as the Pope would not grant him a divorce. The abbot, Abbot Whiting, was killed on the Tor, a local landmark.

</doc>
<doc id="5590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5590" title="Glastonbury Abbey">
Glastonbury Abbey

Glastonbury Abbey is in Glastonbury, Somerset, England. It was King Ine of Wessex who decided to build Glastonbury Abbey and out of stone. King Edmund I of England was buried at the Abbey in 946 AD. It is said to be the burial place of King Arthur.

</doc>
<doc id="5591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5591" title="Somerton">
Somerton

Somerton is a town in Somerset. In 2001 there were 4509 people living in Somerton. It is between the towns of Yeovil and Street. It is in the South Somerset District of Somerset. 
Somerton was the capital of the Kingdom of Wessex from 871 to 901. It also used to be Somerset's county town, but this is now Taunton.

</doc>
<doc id="5592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5592" title="Yeovil, Somerset">
Yeovil, Somerset

Yeovil is a town in the county of Somerset. It is in the South Somerset District. Yeovil takes its name from the River Yeo. "Yeo Village" became Yeovil over time.
The town has two railway stations. They are called Yeovil Junction and Yeovil Pen Mill. The town has many villages near by. These are West Coker, East Chinnock, East Coker, Stoford, Evershot, Halstock and Yetminster. 
Yeovil is where the council is based for the district of South Somerset. The town's main employers are GKN Westlands Helicopters.
Yeovil is home to the "giant killer" football club Yeovil Town F.C.. The club played against Liverpool F.C in 2004. Yeovil used to be famous for glove-making. This is why the football team are nicknamed "The Glovers".

</doc>
<doc id="5593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5593" title="Bridgwater">
Bridgwater

Bridgwater is a town in the county of Somerset. It is in the District of Sedgemoor.

</doc>
<doc id="5594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5594" title="Street">
Street

A street is a piece of land, made flat or prepared in another way, so that people can travel on it better. We often use the words "street" and "road" for the same thing, but really a street is in a town.
Many streets are the centre of local culture and people make groups there. New Orleans’ Bourbon Street, for example, is famous for its active nightlife and also for its role as the center of the city’s French Quarter. The Bowery in New York was, for many years, the nation’s center of underground punk culture.

</doc>
<doc id="5595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5595" title="Taunton">
Taunton

Taunton is a town in the county of Somerset. It is in the Taunton Deane District. Taunton is the county town of Somerset. Taunton is on the River Tone and takes its name from the river. "Tone town" became Taunton. 
In 1685, Judge Jefferies was based in Taunton during the Bloody Assizes that followed the Battle of Sedgemoor.

</doc>
<doc id="5596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5596" title="Shepton Mallet">
Shepton Mallet

Shepton Mallet is a town in the county of Somerset, England. It is in the Mendip district.
Shepton Mallet is where the council is based for the Mendip district. It is a pleasant place to go, and has a beautiful countryside.

</doc>
<doc id="5597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5597" title="Bath, Somerset">
Bath, Somerset

Bath is a city in the county of Somerset in England. It is west of London and southeast of Bristol.
Bath is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The city is preserved for its Roman remains and 18th century architecture.
The city gets its name from the famous Roman baths in the town. The Romans built the baths as part of a spa, in the year 43 BC. They called it "Aquae Sulis", which means "The waters of Sulis". Sulis was a local goddess.
During the Middle Ages, it was an important city for buying and selling wool.
Bath became a city in 1585, when Queen Elizabeth I declared it to be one.
Bath has two universities and several schools and colleges.
Bath is where Roald Dahl's short story "The Landlady" takes place. The city is also mentioned in many of Jane Austen's books, like "Northanger Abbey", "Sense and Sensibility", and "Pride and Prejudice".

</doc>
<doc id="5598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5598" title="Wells">
Wells

Wells is a city in the county of Somerset. It is in the district of Mendip. The only other city in Somerset is Bath. In 2001 there were 10,406 people living in Wells.
Wells Cathedral is in Wells. The cathedral is very popular with visitors to Wells.
The cathedral has a school attached to it. Timothy K. Murray, a composer, was a student there.
The city of Wells is named after springs in the grounds of the Bishop's Palace.

</doc>
<doc id="5599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5599" title="Category:Cities in Somerset">
Category:Cities in Somerset


</doc>
<doc id="5600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5600" title="Category:Towns in Somerset">
Category:Towns in Somerset


</doc>
<doc id="5601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5601" title="Category:Somerset">
Category:Somerset


</doc>
<doc id="5602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5602" title="East Coker, Somerset">
East Coker, Somerset

East Coker is a village in Somerset. It is in the South Somerset District. East Coker is near the town of Yeovil. 
St Michael's church contains the ashes of the poet T. S. Eliot. One of his poems is called "East Coker". William Dampier, explorer and buccaneer was born in the village in 1651. He circumnavigated the world four times and published a book about his experiences. Dampier Island and Dampier Straits off Australia are named after him. Along the approach to the church are 12 almshouses built in 1640 by Archdeacon Helyar, chaplain to Queen Elizabeth l.
One of East Coker's famous residents is Trevor Peacock. Trevor Peacock played "Jim" in "The Vicar of Dibley".

</doc>
<doc id="5603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5603" title="Category:Villages in Somerset">
Category:Villages in Somerset

Villages in Somerset, England

</doc>
<doc id="5604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5604" title="Tatworth">
Tatworth

Tatworth is a village near Chard in the South Somerset District of Somerset, England. It was settled in 1254, but traces of earlier settlers have been found, such as a Roman villa.

</doc>
<doc id="5605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5605" title="Chard (Somerset)">
Chard (Somerset)

Chard is a town in Somerset. It is in the South Somerset District. It is near the border of the county of Devon.
Chard is the birthplace of aviation. It was in Chard, during 1848, that John Stringfellow (1799 - 1883), first demonstrated that powered flight was possible.
In 1685, Chard was one of the towns in which Judge Jefferies held some of the Bloody Assizes after the failure of the Monmouth Rebellion. He stayed in "The Choughs", a public house in Chard.

</doc>
<doc id="5606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5606" title="Crewkerne">
Crewkerne

Crewkerne is a town in Somerset, England where about 6,700 people live. It is in the South Somerset District. 
The first time it is mentioned in history is 899, when king Alfred the Great left the manor to his son Ethelweard. The name "Crewkerne" comes from the Saxon words "Cruce" (cross) and "earne" (cottage), because of the early church there. There was also a mint where coins were made between 978 and 1035. In 1066, the manor belonged to Edith, mistress of Harold Godwinson. After the Norman Conquest, it belonged directly to William the Conqueror. 

</doc>
<doc id="5607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5607" title="Stoford, Somerset">
Stoford, Somerset

Stoford is a village in the county of Somerset, England. It is in the South Somerset District.

</doc>
<doc id="5608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5608" title="River Tone">
River Tone

The River Tone is a river in the county of Somerset. It flows through the town of Taunton and joins the River Parrett.
Taunton takes its name from the River Tone. "Tone town" became Taunton.

</doc>
<doc id="5610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5610" title="River Yeo">
River Yeo

The River Yeo is a river in the county of Somerset in the United Kingdom. It flows through the town of Yeovil and joins the River Perrett.
Yeovil takes its name from the River Yeo. "Yeo Village" became "Yeovil" over time.

</doc>
<doc id="5612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5612" title="Category:Cities in England">
Category:Cities in England


</doc>
<doc id="5614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5614" title="River Adur">
River Adur

The River Adur is a river in the county of Sussex, in England. It starts from South Downs, southern England and ends in the port town of Shoreham-by-Sea.

</doc>
<doc id="5617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5617" title="River Aire">
River Aire

The River Aire is a river in the England. It runs through the counties of North Yorkshire, West Yorkshire and the East Riding of Yorkshire, although most of it is in West Yorkshire.
The river starts in Malham, and from there flows through (in order) Skipton, Keighley, Shipley, Leeds, Castleford, Knottingley and Airmyn.

</doc>
<doc id="5620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5620" title="River Aln">
River Aln

The River Aln is a river in the county of Northumberland. It has served as a war zone between the English and the Scots.

</doc>
<doc id="5623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5623" title="River Alt">
River Alt

The River Alt is a river in the county of Merseyside in England just north of Liverpool. The river begins near Huyton and flows about 28 km northeast to empty into the Irish Sea at the town of Hightown. Other towns along the river include Kirkby, Maghull and Formby. There are 75 km of tributary feeding the river. About 250,000 people live in the area around the river. The northern part of the river forms the boundary between the counties of Merseyside and Lancashire.

</doc>
<doc id="5626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5626" title="River Yare">
River Yare

The River Yare is a river in the county of Norfolk, England.
The river starts south of Dereham in the county of Norfolk. From there it flows to the east. The river flows along the southern edge of the city of Norwich. The river continues past Norwich into the tidal lake of Breydon Water. Here the Yare is joined by the Rivers Bure and Waveney. It empties into North Sea at Gorleston, Great Yarmouth.
Small coastal boats can sail along the river from Norwich to the North Sea. In the past, the river had a large amount of boats carrying good to Norwich. Larger modern boats can not get across Breydon Water because it is not deep enough. Because of this, a canal was created at Reedham to provides a connection to the River Waveney.

</doc>
<doc id="5629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5629" title="River Exe">
River Exe

The River Exe is a river in the county of Devon in England. It usually flows directly south. The island had many mills making paper and textiles, and also created valuable land by draining the marshlands.

</doc>
<doc id="5631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5631" title="Category:Devon">
Category:Devon


</doc>
<doc id="5632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5632" title="Ilminster, Somerset">
Ilminster, Somerset

Ilminster is a town in the county of Somerset. It is in the South Somerset District. 
Ilminster is on the River Ile and has a large church. The church is known as the "Minster". It is from both of these things that Ilminster takes its name. "Ile" and "Minster" became "Ilminster".

</doc>
<doc id="5633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5633" title="South Cadbury">
South Cadbury

South Cadbury is an archaeological site in south Somerset.
It was dug in the early 1970s, and it showed many times that people lived there. The first was in the early Neolithic (around 4000-3000 BC?) when the hill seems to have been an important place for groups of early farmers who moved around. Most things were found from when late Bronze Age people lived on the hill (around 1200 BC). In the Iron Age the site changed, with many big walls. There are signs that when the Romans came to Britain, they killed many people here. Ruins of a feasting hall built after the Roman time were also found in the dig. There are also legends connecting this place with King Arthur.

</doc>
