<doc id="425171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425171" title="Warsaw Uprising">
Warsaw Uprising

The Warsaw Uprising () was a major World War II attack by the Polish resistance Home Army (). The resistance wanted to free Warsaw from Nazi Germany.
The attack happened at the same time as the Soviet Union's Red Army got close to the east of the city and the German forces retreated. However, the Soviets stopped moving forward. This allowed the Germans to destroy the city and defeat the Polish resistance.
The resistance fought for 63 days with little help from other Allied armies. The Uprising was the largest attack done by any European resistance movement of World War II.
The uprising began on 1 August 1944. It was part of a big plan, Operation "Tempest", which started when the Soviet Army got near Warsaw. The goals of the Polish resistance were to push the German troops out of the city. They also wanted to free Warsaw before the Soviets arrived. This would help the Polish Underground State to take control of the city.
At the start of the battle, the Polish resistance got control over most of central Warsaw. The Soviets did not move into the city to help the resistance troops.
By 14 September, Polish forces under Soviet command captured the east bank of the Vistula river. The Soviet army did not help the Poles. The Soviets did not use their military planes to help the Poles.
Winston Churchill asked Stalin and Franklin D. Roosevelt to help the Polish troops, but the Soviets would not help the Poles. Churchill sent over 200 drops of supplies by air. The US Army Air Force sent one drop of supplies by air.
About 16,000 members of the Polish resistance were killed and about 6,000 were badly wounded. In addition, between 150,000 and 200,000 Polish civilians were executed. Jews being hidden by Poles were found by the Germans.
The Germans had over 8,000 soldiers killed and missing, and 9,000 wounded. During the fighting in the city approximately 25% of Warsaw's buildings were destroyed. Following the surrender of Polish forces, German troops destroyed 35% of the city.
By July 1944, Poland had been occupied by Nazi German troops for almost five years. The Polish Home Army was loyal to the Polish government in London. It had planned to attack the Germans. Germany was fighting a group of Allied powers, led by the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom and the United States.
The initial plan of the Home Army was to join with the invading forces of the Western Allies as they freed Europe from the Nazis. However, in 1943, the Soviets were about to reach the pre-war borders of Poland before the Allied invasion of Europe got very far.
The Soviets and the Poles were both enemies of Nazi Germany. But they had different goals. The Home Army wanted a democratic capitalist Poland that was allied with the West. The Soviet leader Stalin wanted to make Poland a communist country that was allied to the Soviet Union.
The Soviets and the Poles did not trust each other. Soviet partisans in Poland often had disagreements with Polish resistance troops that were allied to the Home Army.
Stalin stopped all Polish-Soviet relations on 25 April 1943 after the Germans told the world about the Katyn massacre of Polish army officers. Stalin refused to admit that he ordered the killings.
The Home Army commander, Tadeusz Bór-Komorowski made a plan on 20 November, called Operation "Tempest". On the Eastern Front, local units of the Home Army were to attack the German "Wehrmacht" and help Soviet troops.
On 13 July 1944 as the Soviet attack crossed the old Polish border, the Poles had to make a decision. They could either start to attack the Germans, which might not be supported by the Soviets, or do no attacks and be criticized by the Soviets.
The Poles were worried that if Poland was freed from German occupation by the Red Army, then the Allies would not accept the Polish government in London after the war.
When the Poles saw the actions of the Soviet forces, they realized they needed to make a decision. In Operation "Ostra Brama", Soviet security forces shot or arrested Polish officers and forced lower ranks to join the Soviet-controlled forces.
On 21 July, the Home Army decided to launch Operation "Tempest" in Warsaw soon. The plan was intended as a way of showing Poland was its own country and as an attack against the German occupiers. On 25 July, the Polish government-in-exile (against the views of Polish Commander-in-Chief General Kazimierz Sosnkowski) approved the plan for an uprising in Warsaw.
In the early summer of 1944, German plans required Warsaw to be the defensive centre of the area. The Germans wanted to hold onto Warsaw no matter how many losses they had. The Germans had build fortifications and sent many new troops to the area. This slowed after the failed 20 July plot to kill the Nazi leader Adolf Hitler. The German troops in Warsaw were weak and they did not feel confident.
However, by the end of July, German forces in the area had new troops sent to them. On 27 July, the Governor of the Warsaw District, Ludwig Fischer, called for 100,000 Polish men and women to build fortifications around the city. The inhabitants of Warsaw did not follow his demand.
The Home Army became worried about possible revenge actions by the Germans or mass arrests, which would make it hard for the Poles to start an attack. The Soviet forces were approaching Warsaw, and Soviet-controlled radio stations called for the Polish people to attack the Germans.
On 25 July, the Union of Polish Patriots made a radio broadcast from Moscow. It told Poles to attack the Germans. On 29 July, the first Soviet tanks reached the edges of Warsaw. They were counter-attacked by two German Panzer Corps: the 39th and 4th SS. On 29 July 1944 Radio Station Kosciuszko located in Moscow told Poles to "Fight The Germans!". 
Bór-Komorowski and several senior officers held a meeting on that day. Jan Nowak-Jeziorański, who had arrived from London, said support from the Allies would be weak. On 31 July, the Polish commanders General Tadeusz Bór-Komorowski and Colonel Antoni Chruściel ordered the Home Army forces for to be ready by 17:00 the following day.
The Home Army forces of the Warsaw District numbered between 20,000
Other partisan groups joined under Home Army command, and many volunteers joined during the fighting, including Jews freed from the Gęsiówka concentration camp in the ruins of the Warsaw Ghetto.
Colonel Antoni Chruściel (codename "Monter") commanded the Polish forces in Warsaw. Initially he divided his forces into eight areas. 
On 20 September, they were changed to match the three areas of the city held by Polish forces. The entire force, renamed the Warsaw Home Army Corps () and commanded by General Antoni Chruściel—promoted from Colonel on 14 September—formed into three infantry divisions (Śródmieście, Żoliborz and Mokotów).
During the fighting, the Poles obtained additional supplies through airdrops and by capture from the enemy (including several armoured vehicles, two Panther tanks and two Sd.Kfz. 251 APCs). Also, the insurgents' workshops produced weapons throughout the fighting, including submachine guns, K pattern flamethrowers, grenades, mortars, and even an armoured car ().
In late July 1944 the German units stationed in and around Warsaw were divided into three categories. The first was the garrison of Warsaw. As of 31 July, it had 11,000 troops under General Rainer Stahel.
These German forces had good weapons. They had prepared for the defence of the city for many months. Several hundred concrete bunkers and barbed wire protected the Germans.
Apart from the garrison troops, German army units were on both banks of the Vistula and in the city. The second category was formed by police and SS under Col. Paul Otto Geibel, numbering initially 5,710 men, including "Schutzpolizei" and "Waffen-SS". The third category was formed by auxiliary units, including detachments of the "Bahnschutz" (rail guard), "Werkschutz" (factory guard), "Sonderdienst" and "Sonderabteilungen" (military Nazi party units).
During the uprising, the German side received new troops every day. Stahel was replaced as overall commander by SS-General Erich von dem Bach in early August. As of 20 August 1944, the Germans fighting in Warsaw included 17,000 men arranged in two battle groups:
Battle Group Rohr (commanded by Major General Rohr), which included Bronislav Kaminski's brigade and Battle Group Reinefarth (commanded by SS-"Gruppenführer" Heinz Reinefarth) consisted of Attack Group Dirlewanger (commanded by Oskar Dirlewanger), Attack Group Reck (commanded by Major Reck), Attack Group Schmidt (commanded by Colonel Schmidt) and various support units.
At 17:00 on 31 July, the Polish army decided to start the uprising at 17:00 on the following day. The decision was a mistake because the poorly-equipped Polish forces were only prepared for night attacks. Attacking during daylight meant that Poles were shot by German machine gun fire.
Although many partisan groups were waiting throughout the city, the movement of thousands of young men and women was hard to hide. Some fighting started before the official attack time, notably in Żoliborz, and around Napoleon Square and Dąbrowski Square.
The Germans had realized that the Poles might attack them. However, they did not realize the Poles could do such a large attack. At 16:30, the German troops were told to be ready for an attack.
That evening the Poles captured a major German weapons building, the main post office and power station, Praga railway station and the tallest building in Warsaw, the Prudential building. However, Castle Square, the police district, and the airport were held by the Germans.
The Poles were most successful in the City Centre, Old Town, and Wola districts. However, several major German strongholds remained, and in some areas of Wola the Poles had to retreat.
In other areas such as Mokotów, the Poles controlled only the residential areas. In Praga, on the east bank of the Vistula, the Poles were sent back into hiding by a large number of German forces.
The Polish groups had trouble getting in contact with other Polish fighting groups. By 4 August most of the city was held by Polish forces.
The uprising was intended to last a few days until Soviet forces arrived;however, this never happened, and the Polish forces had to fight with little outside help. The results of the first two days of fighting in different parts of the city were as follows:
The Directorate of Sabotage and Diversion or "Kedyw" was to guard the headquarters. These units secured parts of Śródmieście and Wola; along with the units of "Area I", they were the most successful during the first few hours.
Among the most important targets that were not taken during the start of the uprising were the airfields of Okęcie and Mokotów Field, as well as the PAST skyscraper overlooking the city centre and the Gdańsk railway station guarding the passage between the centre and the northern borough of Żoliborz.
On 4 August when the Home Army soldiers managed to establish front lines in the westernmost areas of Wola and Ochota. The German army stopped its retreat westwards and began receiving new troops. On the same day SS General Erich von dem Bach was appointed commander of all the forces used against the Uprising.
German attacks aimed to join up with the remaining German groups of troops and then block the Uprising troops from the Vistula river. Among the new units were forces under the command of Heinz Reinefarth.
On 5 August Reinefarth's three attack groups started their advance westward along "Wolska" and "Górczewska" streets toward the main East-West Jerusalem Avenue. Their advance was halted, but the regiments began carrying out Heinrich Himmler's orders to kill civilians. Special SS, police and "Wehrmacht" groups went from house to house, shooting the people and burning their bodies. 
Estimates of civilians killed in Wola and Ochota range from 20,000 to 50,000, 40,000 by 8 August in Wola alone, or as high as 100,000. The leaders of the killings were Oskar Dirlewanger and Bronislav Kaminski.
The killings of civilians were intended to stop the Poles from wanting to fight and end the uprising without having to do heavy city fighting. With time, the Germans realized that killing civilians only made the Poles' resistance stronger.
The Germans began to try to think of a political solution, because the thousands of men under the German commander were unable to win against the insurgents in an urban guerrilla setting.
They aimed to gain a significant victory to show the Home Army that further fighting had no use. They wanted the Home Army to surrender. This did not succeed. Until mid-September, the Germans shot all captured insurgents, but from the end of September, some of the captured Polish soldiers were treated as POWs.
Despite the loss of Wola, the Polish resistance got stronger. "Zośka" and "Wacek" troops captured the Warsaw Ghetto and liberate the Gęsiówka concentration camp, freeing about 350 Jews.
The area became one of the main communication links between the insurgents fighting in Wola and those defending the Old Town. On 7 August German forces were strengthened by the arrival of tanks. The Germans put Polish civilians in front of the tanks to act as human shields.
After two days of heavy fighting they managed to get through Wola and reach Bankowy Square. However, by then the barricades, street fortifications, and tank obstacles were well-prepared. Both sides reached a stalemate (a situation in which no side could win), with violent house-to-house fighting.
Between 9 and 18 August, violent battles raged around the Old Town and nearby Bankowy Square. The Germans and the Poles both made successful attacks. The Germans bombed the Poles with heavy artillery and bombers. The Poles could not defend themselves against the bombers, as they lacked anti-aircraft artillery weapons. Even clearly marked hospitals were dive-bombed by Stukas.
Although the Battle of Stalingrad had already shown the danger of fighting in a city, the Warsaw Uprising showed that an under-equipped force supported by the civilian population could fight better-equipped professional soldiers.
The Poles held the Old Town until a decision to withdraw was made at the end of August. Until 2 September, the defenders of the Old Town withdrew through the sewers.
Soviet attacks on the 4th SS Panzer Corps east of Warsaw were renewed on 26 August, and the Germans were forced to retreat into Praga. The Soviet army under the command of Konstantin Rokossovsky captured Praga and arrived on the east bank of the Vistula in mid-September.
By 13 September, the Germans had destroyed the remaining bridges over the Vistula. In the Praga area Polish units under the command of General Zygmunt Berling (thus sometimes known as "berlingowcy" – "the Berling men") fought on the Soviet side. Three patrols of his First Polish Army () landed in the Czerniaków and Powiśle areas and joined with Home Army forces on the night of 14/15 September.
The artillery and air bombing provided by the Soviets did not stop enemy machine-gun fire as the Poles crossed the river, and the landing troops had heavy losses. Only part of the main units made it ashore (I and III battalions of 9th infantry regiment, 3rd Infantry Division).
The landings by the 1st Polish Army were the only outside ground force which arrived to support the uprising.
The Germans attacked the Home Army positions near the river to prevent any further landings. However, they were not able to advance for several days while Polish forces held these positions in preparation for a Soviet landings.
Polish units from the eastern shore attempted several more landings, and from 15 to 23 September had heavy losses (including the destruction of all their landing boats and most of their other river crossing equipment).Red Army support was inadequate. After the failure of repeated attempts by the 1st Polish Army to link up with the insurgents, the Soviets limited their help to occasional artillery and air bombing.
Conditions that prevented the Germans from removing the insurgents also prevented the Poles from removing the Germans. Plans for a river crossing were stopped "for at least 4 months", since fighting against the 9th Army's five panzer divisions was a problem.
The commander of the 1st Polish Army, General Berling was removed from his job by his Soviet superiors. On the night of 19 September,b no further attempts from the other side of the river were made and the
evacuation of wounded did not take place. That night. Home Army soldiers and the 1st Polish Army retreated from their positions on the bank of the river.
Out of approximately 900 men who made it ashore only a small number made it back to the eastern shore of the Vistula. Berling's Polish Army losses in the attempt to aid the Uprising were 5,660 killed, missing or wounded.
From this point on, the Warsaw Uprising can be seen as a one-sided war of attrition or as a fight for good terms of surrender. The Poles were heavily attacked in three areas of the city: Śródmieście, Żoliborz and Mokotów.
In 1939 Warsaw had 1,350,000 people. Over a million were still living in the city at the start of the Uprising.
In Polish-controlled territory, during the first weeks of the Uprising, people tried to have a normal life. There were many cultural activities, including theatres and newspapers. Boys and girls of the Polish Scouts delivered mail.
Near the end of the Uprising, lack of food, medicine, overcrowding and German air and artillery bombing on the city made the civilian life very difficult.
As the Uprising was supposed to be helped by the Soviets in a few days, the Polish underground did not realize food shortages would be a problem.
However, as the fighting continued, the inhabitants of the city had to deal with hunger and starvation. On 6 August, when Polish units recaptured the Haberbusch i Schiele brewery at Ceglana Street, the citizens of Warsaw lived on barley from the brewery's warehouses.
Every day several thousand people went to the brewery for bags of barley and then distributed them in the city centre. The barley was then ground in coffee grinders and boiled with water to form a soup (). The "Sowiński" Battalion managed to capture the brewery until the end of the fighting.
Another serious problem for civilians and soldiers was a shortage of water.
By mid-August most of the water pipes were either not working or filled with corpses. In addition, the main water pumping station was held by the Germans.
To prevent the spread of diseases and provide the people with water, the authorities ordered water wells to be dug in the backyards of every house. On 21 September the Germans blew up the remaining pumping stations at Koszykowa Street and after that the public wells were the only source of drinking water in the city. By the end of September, the city centre had more than 90 functioning wells. 
Before the Uprising the Bureau of Information and Propaganda of the Home Army had set up a group of war journalists. Headed by Antoni Bohdziewicz, the group made three newsreels and over 30,000 meters of film about the Uprising. The first newsreel was shown to the public on 13 August in the Palladium cinema at Złota Street.
In addition to films, dozens of newspapers appeared. Several underground newspapers started to be distributed openly. The two main daily newspapers were the government-run "Rzeczpospolita Polska" and military "Biuletyn Informacyjny". There were also several dozen newspapers, magazines, bulletins and weeklies published by various organizations and military units.
The "Błyskawica" long-range radio transmitter, assembled on 7 August in the city centre, was run by the military, but was also used by the recreated Polish Radio from 9 August.
It broadcast three or four times a day, broadcasting news programmes and appeals for help in Polish, English, German and French. It also broadcast reports from the government, patriotic poems and music. It was the only insurgent radio station in German-held Europe.
Among the speakers appearing on the insurgent radio were Jan Nowak-Jeziorański, Zbigniew Świętochowski, Stefan Sojecki, Jeremi Przybora, and John Ward, a war correspondent for "The Times" of London.
According to many historians, the uprising failed because of a lack of outside support and the late arrival of the support which did arrive.
The Polish government in London tried to get support from the Western Allies before the start of battle. The allies would not help without Soviet approval. The Polish government in London asked the British several times to send allied troops to Poland, however, the British troops did not arrive until December 1944. Shortly after their arrival, the Soviet authorities arrested them.
From August 1943 to July 1944, over 200 British Royal Air Force (RAF) flights dropped 146 Polish personnel trained in Great Britain, over 4000 containers of supplies, and $16 million in banknotes and gold to the Home Army.
The only support operation which was done all through the Uprising were night supply drops by long-range planes of the RAF, other British Commonwealth air forces, and units of the Polish Air Force. They had to use airfields in Italy, reducing the amount of supplies they could carry.
The RAF made 223 flights and lost 34 aircraft. The effect of these airdrops was mostly that they gave the insurgents a feeling of hope. The airdrops delivered too few supplies for the needs of the insurgents, and many airdrops landed outside insurgent-controlled territory.
From 4 August the Western Allies began supporting the Uprising with airdrops of ammunition and other supplies. Initially the flights were carried out by the "1568th Polish Special Duties Flight" of the Polish Air Force (later renamed No. 301 Polish Bomber Squadron) stationed in Bari and Brindisi in Italy. They flew B-24 Liberator, Handley Page Halifax and Douglas C-47 Dakota planes.
Later on, after the Polish government-in-exile asked for more help, they were joined by the Liberators of 2 Wing –No.31 and No. 34 Squadrons of the South African Air Force based at Foggia in Southern Italy, and Halifaxes, flown by No. 148 and No. 178 RAF Squadrons.
The drops by British, Polish and South African forces continued until 21 September. The total weight of allied drops varies according to source (104 tons, 230 tonsor 239 tons
), over 200 flights were made.
The Soviet Union did not allow the Western Allies to use its airports for the airdrops, so the planes had to use bases in the United Kingdom and Italy. This reduced the weight they could carry and number of flights. The Allies' request for the use of landing strips made on 20 August was denied by Stalin on 22 August.
Stalin called the insurgents "criminals" and stated that the uprising was started by "enemies of the Soviet Union".
By not giving landing rights to Allied aircraft on Soviet-controlled territory the Soviets made it hard for the Allies to help the Uprising. The Soviets fired at Allied airplanes which carried supplies from Italy and went into Soviet-controlled airspace.
American support was also limited. After Stalin's objections to supporting the uprising, British Prime Minister Winston Churchill telegraphed U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt on 25 August and said they should send planes. Roosevelt did not want to upset Stalin before the Yalta Conference. Roosevelt said he would not send planes.
Finally on 18 September the Soviets allowed a USAAF flight of 107 B-17 Flying Fortresses of the Eighth Air Force's 3rd Division to land at Soviet airfields used in Operation "Frantic", but it was too late to help the insurgents.
The planes dropped 100 tons of supplies but only 20 tons were picked up by the insurgents due to the wide area over which they were spread.The vast majority of supplies fell into German-held areas. The USAAF lost two B-17s with a further seven damaged. The planes landed at the Operation "Frantic" airbases in the Soviet Union.
The next day, 100 B-17s and 61 P-51s left the USSR to bomb Szolnok in Hungary on their way back to bases in Italy. The Soviets thought that 96% of the supplies dropped by the Americans fell into German areas.
The Soviets refused permission for any further American flights until 30 September. By this time the weather was too poor to fly, and the insurgency was nearly over.
Between 13 and 30 September Soviet planes dropped arms, medicines and food supplies. Initially these supplies were dropped without parachutes which led to damage and loss of the contents – also, a large number of canisters fell into German areas.
The Soviet Air Forces flew 2535 re-supply missions with small bi-plane Polikarpov Po-2's. They delivered a total of 156 50-mm mortars, 505 anti-tank rifles, 1478 sub-machine guns, 520 rifles, 669 carbines, 41 780 hand grenades, 37 216 mortar shells, over 3 mln. cartridges, 131.2 tons of food and 515 kg of medicine.
Although there was almost no German air defence over the Warsaw area, about 12% of the 296 planes were lost because they had to fly 1,600 km out and the same distance back over heavily defended enemy territory (112 out of 637 Polish and 133 out of 735 British and South African airmen were shot down).
Most of the drops were made during night at 100–300 feet altitude. Many parachuted packages fell into German-controlled territory (only about 50 tons of supplies, less than 50% delivered, was recovered by the insurgents).
The role of the Red Army during the Warsaw Uprising is controversial and historians still disagree about its role.
The Uprising started when the Red Army arrived near the city. The Poles in Warsaw were expecting the Soviets to capture the city in a few days.
This approach of starting an insurgent uprising against the Germans a few days before the arrival of Allied forces was done successfully in a number of European capitals, such as Paris and Prague.
However, despite the easy capture of the area south-east of Warsaw, the Soviets did not help the insurgents. Instead, the Soviets waited as the Germans killed the soldiers from the anti-communist Polish Home Army.
At that time, the city edges were defended by the weak German 73rd Infantry Division. The weak German defence forces were not attacked by the Soviets. This allowed the German forces to send more troops to fight against uprising in the city itself.
The Red Army was fighting battles to the south of Warsaw, to capture bridges over the Vistula river. The Red Army was fighting battles to the north of the city, to capture bridges over the river Narew. The best German armoured divisions were fighting in those sectors.
The Soviet 47th Army did not move into Praga (Warsaw's suburbs) on the right bank of the Vistula, until 11 September (when the uprising was over). In three days the Soviets quickly captured the suburb. The weak German 73rd Division was quickly defeated.
By mid-September a series of German attacks had reduced the territory held by the Poles to one narrow stretch of the riverbank, in the district of Czerniaków. The Poles were hoping Soviet forces would help them.
Though Berling's communist 1st Polish Army did cross the river, they did not get much support from the Soviets and the main Soviet force did not follow them.
One of the reasons given for the failure of the uprising was that the Soviet Red Army did not help the Resistance. On August 1, the day of Uprising, the Soviet advance stopped. Soon afterwards the Soviet tanks stopped receiving any oil.
Soviets knew of the planned Uprising from their agents in Warsaw. They also knew because Polish Prime Minister Stanisław Mikołajczyk told them of the Polish Home Army uprising plans.
If the Polish Home Army had won, the Polish government in London would have been able to return to Poland.
Also the destruction of the main Polish resistance forces by the Germans helped the Soviet Union, since it significantly weakened any potential Polish opposition to the Soviet occupation.
Stopping the advance and then capturing Warsaw in January 1945 enabled the Soviets to say they "freed" Warsaw.
The fact that Soviet tanks were nearby Wołomin 15 kilometers to the east of Warsaw helped convince the Home Army leaders to launch the uprising. However, as a result of the battle of Radzymin in late July, these tanks from the Soviet 2nd Tank Army were pushed out of Wołomin and back about 10 km.
On 9 August, Stalin told Premier Mikołajczyk that the Soviets had originally planned to be in Warsaw by 6 August. He said an attack by four Panzer divisions had stopped them from getting to the city. By 10 August, the Germans had surrounded and badly damaged the Soviet 2nd Tank Army at Wołomin.
When Stalin and Churchill met in October 1944, Stalin told Churchill that the lack of Soviet support was due to Soviet losses in the Vistula area.
Germans thought that the Soviets were trying to help the insurgents. The Germans thought it was their defence of Warsaw that prevented the Soviet advance. The Germans did not think that the Soviets did not want to advance.
The Germans published propaganda which said that both the British and Soviets did not help the Poles.
The Soviet units which reached the edges of Warsaw in the final days of July 1944 had advanced from the 1st Belorussian Front in Western Ukraine.
The Soviets defeated many German troops.
The Germans were trying to send new troops to hold the line of the Vistula. This was the last major river barrier between the Red Army and Germany.
The Germans sent in many infantry units of poor quality, and 4–5 high quality Panzer Divisions in the 39th Panzer Corps and 4th SS Panzer Corps.
Other explanations for the Soviet lack of help to the Poles are possible. The Red Army made for a major attack into the Balkans through Romania in mid-August. A lot of Soviet troops and equipment was sent in that direction, while the attacks in Poland were stopped.
Stalin decided to occupy Eastern Europe, rather than moving toward Germany. The capture of Warsaw was not essential for the Soviets. They had already captured bridges to the south of Warsaw, and were defending them against German attacks.
Finally, the Soviet High Command may not have developed a plan for helping Warsaw because they did not have correct information. Propaganda from the Polish Committee of National Liberation said that the Home Army was weak and said that they were allied with the Nazis. Information submitted to Stalin by Soviet agents was often wrong.
According to David Glantz (military historian and a retired US Army colonel, as well as a member of the Russian Federation’s Academy of Natural Sciences), the Red Army could not help the uprising, regardless of Stalin's political goals. German military strength in August and early September stopped any Soviet help to the Poles in Warsaw. Glantz argued that Warsaw would be a hard city for the Soviets to capture from the Germans. As well, Warsaw was not a good location for future Red Army attacks.
By the first week of September both German and Polish commanders realized that the Soviet army was not going to attack and break the stalemate. The Germans thought that a longer insurgency would make it hard to hold Warsaw as the frontline. The Poles were worried that continued resistance would lead to many deaths. On 7 September, General Rohr proposed to talk, which Bór-Komorowski agreed to discuss the following day.
Over the 8, 9 and 10 September about 20,000 civilians were allowed to leave the city. Rohr recognized the right of Home Army insurgents to be treated as fighters. The Poles stopped talks on the 11th, as they received news that the Soviets were advancing through Praga. A few days later, the arrival of the 1st Polish gave the resistance confidence and the talks stopped.
However, by the morning of 27 September, the Germans had recaptured Mokotów. Talks restarted on 28 September. In the evening of 30 September, Żoliborz was captured by the Germans. The Poles were being pushed into a smaller area and they were at risk of being killed. On the 30th, Hitler decorated von dem Bach, Dirlewanger and Reinefarth, while in London General Sosnkowski was dismissed as Polish commander-in-chief. Bór-Komorowski was promoted to commander-in-chief, even though he was trapped in Warsaw.
Bór-Komorowski and Prime Minister Mikołajczyk again asked Rokossovky and Stalin for Soviet help. None came. According to Soviet Marshal Georgy Zhukov, who was by this time at the Vistula front, both he and Rokossovsky advised Stalin against an attack because of heavy Soviet losses.
The surrender order of the remaining Polish forces was signed on 2 October. All fighting ceased that evening. According to the agreement, the "Wehrmacht" promised to treat Home Army soldiers in accordance with the Geneva Convention, and to treat the civilian population humanely.
The next day the Germans began to disarm the Home Army soldiers. They later sent 15,000 of them to POW camps in various parts of Germany. Between 5,000 and 6,000 insurgents decided to blend into the civilian population hoping to continue the fight later. The entire civilian population of Warsaw was removed from the city and sent to camp "Durchgangslager" 121 in Pruszków.
Out of 350,000–550,000 civilians who passed through the camp, 90,000 were sent to labour camps in the Third Reich, 60,000 were shipped to death and concentration camps (including Ravensbrück, Auschwitz, and Mauthausen, among others). The rest were transported to various locations in the General Government and released.
The Eastern Front did not change in the Vistula sector. The Soviets made no attempt to push forward, until the Vistula–Oder Offensive began on 12 January 1945. Almost entirely destroyed, Warsaw was liberated from the Germans on 17 January 1945 by the Red Army and the First Polish Army.
The destruction of the Polish capital was planned before the start of World War II. Warsaw was to be turned into a provincial German city. The failure of the Warsaw Uprising provided an opportunity for Hitler to begin the transformation.
After the remaining population had been removed, the Germans continued the destruction of the city. German engineers burned and demolished the remaining buildings. According to German plans, after the war Warsaw was to be turned into a military station, or even an artificial lake – the latter of which the Nazi leadership had already intended to implement for the Soviet/Russian capital of Moscow in 1941. The demolition squads used flamethrowers and explosives to destroy houses. They destroyed historical monuments, Polish national archives and places of interest.
By January 1945 85% of the buildings were destroyed: 25% as a result of the Uprising, 35% as a result of German actions after the uprising, and the rest as a result of the earlier Warsaw Ghetto Uprising, and the September 1939 campaign. Material losses are estimated at 10,455 buildings, 923 historical buildings (94%), 25 churches, 14 libraries including the National Library, 81 primary schools, 64 high schools, University of Warsaw and Warsaw University of Technology, and most of the historical monuments.
Almost a million inhabitants lost all of their possessions. The exact amount of losses of private and public property as well as art, monuments of science and culture is unknown but considered enormous. Studies done in the late 1940s estimated total damage at about US$30 billion.
In 2004, President of Warsaw Lech Kaczyński, later President of Poland, established a historical commission to estimate the losses caused by German authorities. The commission estimated the losses as at least US$31.5 billion at 2004 values. Those estimates were later raised to US$45 billion 2004 US dollars and in 2005, to $54.6 billion.
The exact number of casualties on both sides is unknown. Estimates of casualties fall into roughly similar ranges. Polish civilian deaths are estimated at between 150,000 and 200,000. Both Polish and German military personnel losses are estimated separately at under 20,000.
In addition, Germans lost valuable military equipment, including three aircraft, 310 tanks and armoured cars, 340 trucks and cars and 22 light (75 mm) artillery pieces.
Most soldiers of the Home Army (including those who took part in the Warsaw Uprising) were captured by the NKVD or UB political police. They were asked questions under force and imprisoned on various charges, such as "fascism".
Many of them were sent to Gulags or executed. Between 1944 and 1956, all of the former members of Battalion Zośka were put in Soviet prisons. In March 1945, a staged trial of 16 leaders of the Polish Underground State held by the Soviet Union took place in Moscow – (the Trial of the Sixteen). 
The Government Delegate, together with most members of the Council of National Unity and the C-i-C of the Armia Krajowa, were invited by Soviet general Ivan Serov with agreement of Joseph Stalin to a conference on their eventual entry to the Soviet-backed Provisional Government.
They were presented with a warrant of safety, yet they were arrested in Pruszków by the NKVD on 27 and 28 March. Leopold Okulicki, Jan Stanisław Jankowski and Kazimierz Pużak were arrested on the 27th with 12 more the next day. A. Zwierzynski had been arrested earlier.
They were brought to Moscow in the Lubyanka.
After several months of violent interrogation and torture, they were presented with the forged accusations of "collaboration with Nazi Germany" and "planning a military alliance with Nazi Germany".
Many insurgents, captured by the Germans and sent to POW camps in Germany, were later liberated by British, American and Polish forces and remained in the West. Among those were the leaders of the uprising: Tadeusz Bór-Komorowski and Antoni Chruściel.
The facts of the Warsaw Uprising were a problem for Stalin. The facts were changed in propaganda of the People's Republic of Poland, which emphasized the failings of the Home Army and the Polish government-in-exile. It did not allow criticism of the Red Army or the goals of Soviet Union.
In the post-war period, the name of the Home Army was banned, and most films and novels covering the 1944 Uprising were either banned or modified so that the name of the Home Army did not appear. From the 1950s on, Polish propaganda depicted the soldiers of the Uprising as brave, but the officers as treacherous, reactionary and characterized by disregard of the losses.
The first publications on the topic taken seriously in the West were not issued until the late 1980s. In Warsaw no monument to the Home Army was built until 1989. Instead, efforts of the Soviet-backed People's Army were glorified and exaggerated.
By contrast, in the West the story of the Polish fight for Warsaw was told as a tale of valiant heroes fighting against a cruel and ruthless enemy. It was suggested that Stalin benefited from Soviet failure to help. The opposition to eventual Soviet control of Poland was eliminated when the Nazis killed the partisans.
The belief that the Uprising failed because of the Soviet Union contributed to anti-Soviet feelings in Poland. Memories of the Uprising helped to inspire the Polish labour movement Solidarity, which led a peaceful opposition movement against the Communist government during the 1980s.
Until the 1990s, there was little historical analysis of the events because of official censorship and lack of academic interest. Research into the Warsaw Uprising was boosted by the fall of communism in 1989, due to the end censorship and increased access to state archives. As of 2004, however, access to some material in British, Polish and ex-Soviet archives was still restricted.
Further complicating the matter is the British claim that the records of the Polish government-in-exile were destroyed, and material not transferred to British authorities after the war was burnt by the Poles in London in July 1945.
In Poland, 1 August is now a celebrated anniversary. On 1 August 1994, Poland held a ceremony commemorating the 50th anniversary of the Uprising to which both the German and Russian presidents were invited. Though the German President Roman Herzog attended, the Russian President Boris Yeltsin declined the invitation; other notable guests included the U.S. Vice President Al Gore.
Herzog, on behalf of Germany, was the first German statesman to apologize for German atrocities committed against the Polish nation during the Uprising. During the 60th anniversary of the Uprising in 2004, official delegations included: German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, UK deputy Prime Minister John Prescott and US Secretary of State Colin Powell; Pope John Paul II sent a letter to the mayor of Warsaw, Lech Kaczyński on this occasion. Russia once again did not send a representative. A day before, 31 July 2004, the Warsaw Uprising Museum opened in Warsaw.

</doc>
<doc id="425181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425181" title="Martin Bashir">
Martin Bashir

Martin Bashir (born January 19, 1963) is a British journalist. He is known for interviewing Princess Diana in 1995 and Michael Jackson in the 2003 documentary Living with Michael Jackson. That year he was voted the fifth 'worst Briton'. He started being a journalist in 1986. He worked with BBC until 1999. Then he joined ITV. In December 2010 he joined MSNBC. He hosted "Martin Bashir" on MSNBC on weekdays.
On November 15 2013 Bashir made people angry when he said on his MSNBC show "Clear the Air" that someone should defecate in Sarah Palin's mouth and called her a 'world-class idiot'. In December 2013 Bashir stopped working at the MSNBC.
Bashir was born to Pakistani parents in Wandsworth in South London. He speaks English and Urdu.

</doc>
<doc id="425183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425183" title="Chaff (countermeasure)">
Chaff (countermeasure)

In the military, chaff are small thin pieces of metal which are shot out of an airplane or warship. These thin strips of metal make it harder for enemy radar to detect where the plane or ship is. The thin strips of metal also make it harder for radar-guided missiles to hit the plane or warship. The chaff tricks the enemy and helps to keep the plane or warship safe.

</doc>
<doc id="425184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425184" title="Category:Actors from Worcestershire">
Category:Actors from Worcestershire


</doc>
<doc id="425188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425188" title="Category:Writers from Gloucestershire">
Category:Writers from Gloucestershire


</doc>
<doc id="425193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425193" title="Flare (countermeasure)">
Flare (countermeasure)

In the military, a flare countermeasure is a very hot, burning object which is shot out from a warplane or helicopter. Warplanes and helicopters shoot out flares if the enemy has fired a heat-seeking missile at them. The flare may trick the missile into hitting into the hot, burning flare. This helps to protect warplanes and helicopters from enemy missiles. If a warplane or helicopter has had a radar-guided missile fired at them, they may shoot out chaff. Chaff is thin strips or fibres of metal which make if hard for the enemy missile to target the plane or helicopter.

</doc>
<doc id="425196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425196" title="Terry stop">
Terry stop

In the United States, a Terry stop is a when police stop a person and quickly check the person's clothes for guns or knives. To do this action, the police officer has to have a good reason to think that the person may be involved in a crime.

</doc>
<doc id="425198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425198" title="Traffic calming">
Traffic calming

Traffic calming measures are changes to a road to make car drivers slow down and to make the road safer for people who have to walk across the road. Some traffic calming techniques include installing speed bumps and narrowing roads, which make drivers slow down. Another way to make drivers slow down is to set speed limits. These speed limits can be enforced with automatic speed cameras. These cameras take photographs of people who are driving too fast. Another way to slow drivers down is to make curbs wider.

</doc>
<doc id="425204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425204" title="Earl (mixtape)">
Earl (mixtape)

Earl is the debut mixtape by Earl Sweatshirt. It was released on March 31, 2010 as a free digital download on Odd Future's website. The mixtape was recorded when Earl was between 15 and 16. The album is short and the lyrics are about murder, rape, drugs and critism of religion.

</doc>
<doc id="425206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425206" title="John Abbott">
John Abbott

Sir John Joseph Caldwell Abbott, (March 12, 1821 – October 30, 1893) was the third Prime Minister of Canada. He served in the office for seventeen months, from June 16, 1891 to November 24, 1892. Through his daughter, Abbott is the great-grandfather of Canadian Academy Award-winning actor Christopher Plummer. 
Abbott died on March 12, 1893 from complications of pneumonia in his Montreal, Quebec home. He was 72 years old. 

</doc>
<doc id="425214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425214" title="Bike rage">
Bike rage

Bike rage refers to using bad words, bad gestures, or physcial conflict between cyclists and others on the road, including pedestrians, cyclists, motorcyclists, and drivers. Bike rage is similar to other road rage.
A bike rage event can start because a cyclist, driver, or pedestrian thinks that another road user was breaking traffic rules, or in other ways because someone felt that their safety was threatened by another road user. Some people consider that the problem is city planners have mixed bikes and cars together in the same ways and may cause lots of chances for conflict. As such, cyclists feel threatened in traffic and hard done by and under attack. 
An article in "Toronto Life" magazine argued that the source of the problem bike rage is neither the problem of drivers nor the problem of cyclists, but the environment in which they interact. A possible explanation between cyclists and drivers is the anonymity of the big city; all the cyclists and drivers know they will never meet each other again.
Drivers attacking cyclists
An event from New York Times show that a 41-year-old cyclist, Dan Cooley was injured by a driver who became angry at him after an exchange of insults. The event began when the driver overtake in front of Mr. Cooley. As Mr. Cooley moved off the road, the driver drove the car to him, and used car to hurted him. Mr. Cooley fell on the ground and then the driver got out of the car and attacked him. Mr. Cooley got concussion and a torn ligament when he was taken to hospital. Mr. Cooley said that the reason for anger between cyclists and drivers is the car had monopolized the road for long time, however, bicyclists become more and more popular to save gas in this time. No one knows how to share the road.
Cyclists attacking drivers
In 2004 Chicago had an event that a cyclist attacked a driver. A Pennsylvania bicyclist shot a truck driver after an altercation. The truck driver, William Nicoletti, 51, when he drove past the cyclist, the man on the bike made obscene gesture to him. Not only for this, but also he drew a pistol and shot Mr. Nicoletti. The man on the bicycle, Robert Urick, 41, was "charged with attempted homicide, aggravated assault and weapons offenses."
In Toronto in January 2006, a driver threw his lunch out the window of his car. A 26-year-old bike courier threw the food back into the car. The driver tossed two cups of hot coffee at the courier. Then the driver attacked the woman and her bike.
A cyclist named Jefferey Guffey from Indiana told a driver to slow down. The driver attacked Guffey and bit part of his ear off. Police charged the driver with an offence.
In Toronto in 2007, a cyclist got angry at a driver. The cyclist then stabbed the driver in the face and neck with a screwdriver.

</doc>
<doc id="425216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425216" title="Trevor McDonald">
Trevor McDonald

Sir Trevor McDonald OBE (born George McDonald on 16 August 1939) is a British journalist. He was ITN's first black journalist.
In 1992, McDonald became the presenter of the ITV News at Ten. In 1999 the programme ended. 
In 1999 "Tonight with Trevor McDonald" started on ITV. In 2007 McDonald stopped presenting the programme. It is now simply called "Tonight".
He was born in Trinidad. In 1969 he started working for the BBC.

</doc>
<doc id="425218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425218" title="Jeremy Kyle">
Jeremy Kyle

Jeremy Kyle (born 7 July 1965) is an English television presenter. He is best known for presenting British talk show "The Jeremy Kyle Show". He also hosted the American version until September 2013.
He was born in Reading, Berkshire. He went to the Reading Blue Coat School. He married Carla Germaine in 2003.
In late 2007 Kyle started a radio show called "The Jeremy Kyle Show".
In 2009 his first book, "I'm Only Being Honest", was published. In it he talks about 'Broken Britain'.
On 11 October 2011 a game show called "High Stakes" started on ITV. Kyle presented the show until it ended 13 December 2011. 
In Blackpool's Madame Tussauds there is a wax figure of Kyle.

</doc>
<doc id="425219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425219" title="Vandal-resistant switch">
Vandal-resistant switch

Vandal-resistant switches (sometimes referred to as vandal-proof switches or tamper-proof switches) are electrical switches that are designed to be so strong that people cannot break them. To make switches strong, they are often made out of stainless steel or other durable metals. Buttons are often made so that they do not come very far out. This makes it harder for vandals to pry them out with a screwdriver. Examples of vandal-resistant switches include the buttons that you press to cross the street, the buttons on bank machines, and the buttons on public telephones.

</doc>
<doc id="425229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425229" title="Zine">
Zine

A zine (a short way of referring to a fanzine) is a photocopied newspaper or magazine about music, politics, or another issue. Zines are usually photocopied by hand, and made by amateurs who do not have training in journalism. Only a small number of copies of a zine are usually made. Zines are often sold at record stores. A music zine might include reviews of line music shows, interviews with bands, and advertisements for CDs. Zines were an important part of the punk rock and hardcore punk subcultures.

</doc>
<doc id="425235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425235" title="Shed">
Shed

A shed is a simple, single-storey structure in a garden which is used for storage. Some people use their shed to do hobbies or as a workshop. There are many types of sheds. Some sheds are small open-sided structures with tin rooves. Some sheds are large structures framed by wood. Some sheds are made out of plastic. Sheds used on farms can be large and tall structures. Sheds can be made with metal panels attached to a metal frame, plastic or vinyl panels attached to a frame, all-wood construction.

</doc>
<doc id="425240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425240" title="Water politics">
Water politics

Water politics are the politics related to whether people have enough fresh drinking water (see water scarcity). There is less fresh water available for many reasons. One reason is that some industries use huge amounts of water. Another problem is water pollution, which occurs when dangerous chemicals or human waste gets into the water. Currently, 40% of the people in the world do not have enough fresh water. More than 2.2 million people died in 2000 from diseases that were caused by drinking polluted, dirty water or drought.

</doc>
<doc id="425244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425244" title="M-60 machine gun">
M-60 machine gun

The M60 is a type of American-made machine gun. The M60 fires 7.62mm NATO cartridges. The cartridges are fed into the gun using a belt. The United States Army started to use the M60 in 1957. It has been used by all the branches of the U.S. military. The United States Army used the M60 during the Vietnam War, Gulf War, Afghanistan War and the Iraq War. Recently, the U.S. military has started to replace the M60 with the M240 machine gun.

</doc>
<doc id="425245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425245" title="Lauren Laverne">
Lauren Laverne

Lauren Cecilia Fisher (born 28 April 1978), known as Lauren Laverne, is an English television presenter.
When she was at college she started a rock band called Kenickie with her brother Peter, Marie Nixon and Emma Jackson. The band broke up in 1998. In 2000 she sang on the single "Don't Falter" by Mint Royale. It reached No.15 in the UK Singles Chart.
In 2010 her first novel was "Candypop – Candy and the Broken Biscuits" was published by HarperCollins. From 2010-2013 Laverne presented 10 O'Clock Live.
She writes a style column for The Guardian.

</doc>
<doc id="425246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425246" title="M240 machine gun">
M240 machine gun

The M240 machine gun is a type of machine gun. It fires the 7.62mm NATO cartridge. It is gas-operated and the bullets are fed into the chamber by a belt. The M240 has been used by the United States Armed Forces since the late-1970s. It is used a lot by infantry. The M240 is also mounted onto ground vehicles, boats, and helicopters.

</doc>
<doc id="425247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425247" title="Category:Musicians from Worcestershire">
Category:Musicians from Worcestershire


</doc>
<doc id="425249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425249" title="Ms. Marvel (Kamala Khan)">
Ms. Marvel (Kamala Khan)

Kamala Khan is a fictional character appearing in comic books published by Marvel Comics. She first appeared in Captain Marvel #17 (November 2013). Khan is a 16-year-old Pakistani-American Muslim. She is from the suburbs of New Jersey. She can shapeshift. She was made by Sana Amanat, Steve Wacker, and G. Willow Wilson.

</doc>
<doc id="425251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425251" title="Category:Deaths from pulmonary fibrosis">
Category:Deaths from pulmonary fibrosis


</doc>
<doc id="425254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425254" title="Clonewheel organ">
Clonewheel organ

A clonewheel organ is an electronic musical instrument that copies the sound of the Hammond organ. The first group of clonewheel organs designed used synthesizer sounds. In the 1990s and 2000s, clonewheel organs began using sampling or digital techniques.

</doc>
<doc id="425255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425255" title="Category:Deaths from pulmonary embolism">
Category:Deaths from pulmonary embolism


</doc>
<doc id="425256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425256" title="Robert Peston">
Robert Peston

Robert James Kenneth Peston (born 25 April 1960) is a British journalist. In 2005 his biography of Gordon Brown, "Brown's Britain" was published. In 2013, "How Do We Fix This Mess?: The Economic Price of Having it All, and the Route to Lasting Prosperity" was published. On 17 October 2013 he was made the Economics Editor for BBC News.

</doc>
<doc id="425257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425257" title="Category:Writers from Sussex">
Category:Writers from Sussex


</doc>
<doc id="425262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425262" title="Category:Sportspeople from Leicester">
Category:Sportspeople from Leicester


</doc>
<doc id="425263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425263" title="Joseph Paul Franklin">
Joseph Paul Franklin

Joseph Paul Franklin (April 13, 1950 – November 20, 2013) was an American serial killer. He tried to kill Larry Flynt, a magazine publisher, in 1978 and Vernon Jordan, Jr., the civil rights activist, in 1980. He has been given six life sentences. He lived at Potosi Correctional Center on death row. On November 20, 2013 he was executed at 8:30am with Propofol, a lethal drug, for killing a Jewish man outside a synagogue.
He was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia. Franklin said that he thought he deserved to die for his crimes. Larry Flynt wrote in an essay published in the Hollywood Reporter, “I do not want to see him die.” Franklin was executed on November 20, 2013 by lethal injection.

</doc>
<doc id="425270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425270" title="Canistota, South Dakota">
Canistota, South Dakota

Canistota is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in McCook County, and 656 people lived there at the 2010 census. Canistota became a city in 1883.

</doc>
<doc id="425272" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425272" title="Bridgewater, South Dakota">
Bridgewater, South Dakota

Bridgewater is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in McCook County, and 492 people lived there at the 2010 census. Bridgewater became a city in 1889.

</doc>
<doc id="425281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425281" title="Garretson, South Dakota">
Garretson, South Dakota

Garretson is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Minnehaha County, and 1,166 people lived there at the 2010 census. Garretson became a city in 1891. A popular place in the city is Devil's Gulch, the place where Jesse James jumped over a wide cliff on his horse and got away from the police after trying to rob a bank in Northfield, Minnesota, in 1876. Garretson gets its name from a banker named A.S. Garretson.

</doc>
<doc id="425284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425284" title="Survivor Series (2007)">
Survivor Series (2007)

Survivor Series (2007) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 18, 2007 at the American Airlines Arena in Miami, Florida. It was the twenty first Survivor Series event held by the WWE.

</doc>
<doc id="425291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425291" title="Iyengar Yoga">
Iyengar Yoga

Iyengar Yoga is a type of yoga named after and developed by B. K. S. Iyengar (1918-2014). It is a form of Hatha Yoga. It emphasizes detail, precision and alignment. It focuses performing postures (poses) and breath control. This type of yoga helps to develop strength, mobility and stability. 
B. K. S. Iyengar has created over 200 yoga poses. Students start with simple poses and move on to more complex ones.
Iyengar Yoga often uses belts, blocks, and blankets to help people get into the postures. By using belts, blocks and blankets, people are less likely to hurt themselves.

</doc>
<doc id="425292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425292" title="Chinatown (1974 movie)">
Chinatown (1974 movie)

Chinatown is a 1974 American movie. It was directed by Roman Polanski. The screenplay was written by Robert Towne. It is set in Los Angeles in 1937. It stars Jack Nicholson, Faye Dunaway, and John Huston. The movie is based on a true story about arguments that people had over the right to use water in California. It is considered to be a film noir type of movie.
In 1991, the movie was selected by the Library of Congress for preservation in the United States National Film Registry. Only movies that are culturally, historically, or artistically important get chosen to be in the National Film Registry. The movie is often considered to be one of the greatest movies ever made. During the 1975 Academy Awards, an Oscar award was given to Robert Towne for Best Original Screenplay. The Golden Globe Awards gave the movie awards for Best Drama, Best Director, Best Actor, and Best Screenplay. The American Film Institute says that it is the second-best of all mystery movies.

</doc>
<doc id="425296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425296" title="All Souls College, Oxford">
All Souls College, Oxford

All Souls College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1438 by Henry VI and the Archbishop of Canterbury Henry Chichele. The full name of the college is "The Warden and the College of the Souls of all Faithful People deceased in the University of Oxford".
All Souls does not have any undergraduate students. It only has graduate students.
All Souls is one of the wealthiest colleges at Oxford.

</doc>
<doc id="425307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425307" title="Applied behavior analysis">
Applied behavior analysis

Applied behavior analysis (ABA) is a way to help some people change their behavior. ABA may also be used to find out why some behaviors have changed. ABA is based on the approach to psychology known as behaviorism. ABA is used as a treatment for some psychological disorders and developmental disabilities. ABA is based on behavior principles that were discovered using experiments.
Scientific experiments and articles about ABA are published in the "Journal for Applied Behavior Analysis" (JABA.) This journal was founded in 1968. In the first issue of JABA, three people wrote an article explaining what Applied behavior analysis is.
Psychologists who study the way the environment influences behavior are called behaviorists. They study the external causes of behavior instead of a person's feelings. A person's feelings are internal so behaviorists think they cannot be studied scientifically.
Psychologist John B. Watson founded Behaviorism in 1913 and he is regarded as one of the first psychologists to study the applied science of behavior. He thought that internal feelings should not be studied at all. He also thought that behavior is shaped by the environment over time due to the outcome of a person's actions. He believed all behavior is learned and can be changed. If a person gets something good as a result of doing a behavior they are more likely to repeat that behavior. If something bad happens as a result of a behavior a person is less likely to do that thing again. This is an idea that is used a lot in ABA.
One of the most famous behaviorists was the psychologist B.F. Skinner. Skinner first published his ideas about behaviorism in 1938. He wrote a lot about behaviorism throughout his career. He made some of the behavior principles that ABA uses.
ABA emerged when experimental behavior principles were applied to social behavior. There are various people that began the process of applying these principles to social behavior. One of the most famous was Ole Ivar Lovaas. In the 1960s, Lovaas became one of the first people to use applied behavior analysis as a treatment for autism. When Lovaas began using ABA to treat children with autism he changed the way developmental disorders were treated. Lovaas also thought that treatments would be more successful if they are started early in a child's life. The idea of starting treatment with a child as soon as possible is called 'early intervention'. Early intervention is still thought to be very important in ABA.
One of the more recent developments in Applied Behavior Analysis is the founding of the Behavior Analysis Certification Board (BACB). The BACB is a non-profit corporation that was started in 1998. The BACB certifies behavior analysts. In order to become a behavior analyst a person must go to a special school and then pass an exam. Once they pass this exam they will be board certified behavior analysts. The BACB sets standards to make sure board certified behavior analysts (BCBAs) are good at their jobs. The BACB makes sure that the BCBAs are using ethical, legal, and professional practices when they work.
There are seven characteristics of ABA A treatment that is based on ABA must have all of these things.
The following terms and ideas are used in Applied Behavior Analysis. It is important to understand these ideas when using ABA based interventions.
In ABA, a behavior that is bad is called a problem behavior. Problem behavior is something that hurts the person doing it or hurts other people around them. A problem behavior makes it harder for a person to learn new things.
Positive reinforcement (SR+) is when the "addition" of a stimulus leads to an increase in responding. There are four different types of positive reinforcement:
Negative reinforcement (SR-) happens when the "removal" of a stimulus increases the likelihood a person will do a behavior in the future. In this case the term negative does not mean bad. The stimulus that is removed from the environment is something aversive. This means that the person does not like it. People will want to do a behavior if they know that something they do not like will be taken away.
Reinforcements are given based on schedules of reinforcement. The schedule will explain the ways reinforcement is earned. Behavior analysts decide which reinforcement schedule is best. Different schedules are useful for different things. The schedule used depends on the person. It also depends on the behavior that is being reinforced.
Continuous reinforcement schedules (CRF) reinforce a person every time they do the target behavior. There are a few problems with CRF schedules though. The rates of behavior are not long-lasting. If the person stops being reinforced they may stop doing the target behavior. Another issue is satiation. If the person becomes satiated it means that they do not want the reinforcer anymore.
These schedules of reinforcement only reinforce the target behavior sometimes. The four most common types of intermittent schedules are:
A discriminative stimulus (SD) is something that tells a person that reinforcement is available. The presentation of a SD should cause a response. Differential reinforcement teaches a person the difference between a SD and a non-discriminative stimulus (S-delta). A SD signals that reinforcement is available. A S-delta does not tell the person anything about the availability of reinforcement. A S-delta is not likely to produce responses because there is reinforcement is not given.
It is also used to decrease problem behavior. There are four types of differential reinforcement that can be used to decrease a problem behavior.
Extinction is a way to decrease rates of problem behavior. A DRA program should be used at the same time as an extinction program. This will make the extinction program more effective.
Reinforcement is always the first thing that is tried when trying to change a behavior. Reinforcement produces long-lasting results and is better for the person. However reinforcement does not always reduce problem behavior. If reinforcement does not work it may be necessary to try punishment. Punishment is effective but it can have bad consequences. It can cause emotional harm if it is not used correctly.
Punishment is any response to a behavior that "decreases" the likelihood of a behavior happening in the future. Punishment of a problem behavior should be used with reinforcement of the appropriate behavior. Appropriate behavior should always be reinforced even when using punishment for problem behavior. Just like reinforcement, punishment can be both positive and negative. Positive punishment is the "addition" of an stimulus that decreases the chances of future responses. This stimulus that is added is something aversive. Negative punishment is the "removal" of a stimulus that decreases the chance of future behaviors happening. The stimulus that is removed is something that the person likes.
Prompting increases the likelihood that a behavior will be done the right way. Using prompts will make the learning process easier and quicker. Someone that is teaching a new behavior can use prompts to help the person that is learning the behavior. The two broad categories of prompts are stimulus and response.
Examples of stimulus prompts would be: lists or pictures that help the learner remember what the correct response is.
Response prompts do not involve a change in the antecedent. There are three types of response prompts.
Fading prompts is a way to increase the independence of the learner. Once the learner can do the behavior on their own they will not need the help of the teacher. However, if a teacher stops using prompts quickly it may confuse the learner. So prompts should be decreased slowly. The process of gradually decreasing prompting is called 'fading'.
Shaping is a way to teach new behaviors or improve behaviors that have already been taught. It involves reinforcing steps towards a target behavior.
Complex behaviors are made up of smaller simple behaviors. This is what the concept of behavior chains is based on. A behavior chain is when smaller behaviors are combined to form a complex behavior. These smaller behaviors are done in a certain order. Each of the smaller behaviors is a step in the behavior chain. Each step in a behavior chain is a response on its own. There are three different ways to teach a behavior chain:
ABA relies on data to make decisions about behavior. Behavior analysts are always collecting data about a person's behavior.
Direct observation is when behavior is watched and recorded. Indirect measures compare one person's behavior to other people's behavior. An example would be an intelligence test. One person's score is compared to the scores that other people got.
There are three common methods of data collection. They are frequency, interval, and time sampling. These methods are used for direct observation.
A functional analysis (FA) is done to find the reason for problem behavior. The reason for problem behavior must be known before a behavioral intervention can be done. Behavior analysts came up with the idea of a functional analysis in 1982. Since then it has become an important part of ABA. The behavior analyst is tries to find the situations that cause the highest rates of problem behavior. The situations that cause the highest rates of problem behavior tell the behavior analyst the reason for the behavior. Once the reasons for problem behavior are known treatment can begin.
Treatments based on the results of a FA are more effective than without a FA.
Applied behavior analysis is commonly associated with autism. This is because ABA is the only treatment for autism that has been scientifically proven to be effective.

</doc>
<doc id="425308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425308" title="Queen Elizabeth Islands">
Queen Elizabeth Islands

The Queen Elizabeth Islands are a group of islands in the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. They are split between Nunavut and Northwest Territories. 
In the past the islands were called Parry Archipelago or Parry Islands. They were named after British Arctic explorer Sir William Parry. In 1953 the islands were renamed after Elizabeth II.
According to the "Atlas of Canada" there are 34 large and 2,092 small islands in the archipelago. Many of the islands are among the largest in the world. The largest island in the archipelago is Ellesmere Island.
Less than 400 people live on the Queen Elizabeth Islands.

</doc>
<doc id="425319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425319" title="Cristobal Tapia de Veer">
Cristobal Tapia de Veer

Juan Cristobal Tapia de Veer also known as "Cristo", is a film and television score composer, arranger, producer and multi-instrumentalist based in Montreal, QC, Canada. He is mostly known for his music to the British 6-part drama UTOPIA for which he won an RTS Craft Award in the best original score category in 2013.
Cristo was born during the military coup d'état in Chile. First, his parents fled to Paris, France. While his father decided to stay there, his mother took him back to Chile. Life under Pinochet's dictatorship still proved impossible, so they found political refuge in Québec, Canada.
He obtained a master's degree in Classical Music (specialization in percussion) from the Conservatoire de musique du Québec. In 2001 he got signed to Warner Music with his pop-band "One Ton", putting a hold on his classical career. The trio won the Canadian Dance Music Award (SOCAN) in 2003 with the electro-dance single "Supersex World". It was Cristo who produced the album.
In 2011, his music for the Victorian 4-part drama "The Crimson Petal and the White" (dir: Marc Munden, BBC2) totally surprised the audiences.
Matthew Gilbert, The Boston Globe, U.S.:
"The soundtrack ranges from gnawing electronic hums to choral ecstasy. It's all brilliantly, effectively, appropriately jarring, even if it sends the Masterpiece crowd to the medicine cabinet for Dramamine."
His latest work is in the conspiracy thriller "UTOPIA" created by Dennis Kelly, that aired on Channel 4. A second series has already been commissioned.
The Royal Television Society awarded him a Craft & Design Awards for "best original music" in November 2013.
He wrote music for a new TV-show called "Série Noire", written and directed by the writers of "Les Invincibles", released in January 2014 on Radio-Canada.

</doc>
<doc id="425320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425320" title="Canova, South Dakota">
Canova, South Dakota

Canova is a town in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Miner County, and 105 people lived there at the 2010 census. Canova became a town in 1898.

</doc>
<doc id="425323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425323" title="Monroe, South Dakota">
Monroe, South Dakota

Monroe is a town in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 160 people lived there at the 2010 census. Monroe became a town in 1901.

</doc>
<doc id="425324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425324" title="Category:Towns in South Dakota">
Category:Towns in South Dakota


</doc>
<doc id="425326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425326" title="Eruption (band)">
Eruption (band)

Eruption was a popular disco, R&B and soul band in the 1970s and 1980s. It was created by German producer Frank Farian.

</doc>
<doc id="425329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425329" title="Survivor Series (2006)">
Survivor Series (2006)

Survivor Series (2006) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 26, 2006 at the Wachovia Center in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It was the twentieth Survivor Series event held by the WWE.

</doc>
<doc id="425330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425330" title="One Way Ticket">
One Way Ticket

One Way Ticket is song which was recorded by Eruption. 
The song was reached #1 on Austria and Switzerland music charts. 
This song is a cover version of song "One Way Ticket (To The Blues)" by Neil Sedaka.

</doc>
<doc id="425331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425331" title="Category:Survivor Series">
Category:Survivor Series


</doc>
<doc id="425355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425355" title="Elitserien (bandy)">
Elitserien (bandy)

Elitserien () is the men's bandy top division of Sweden since the 2007–2008 season. It consist of 14 teams, and is followed up by the Swedish championships playoffs, ending with one single final game.
The season starts with a regular season comprising 14 teams and 26 rounds. The first eight teams qualify for the quarter finals, the eleventh and twelfth plays a relegation round robin tournament against teams from the Allsvenskan and the last two teams are relegated.

</doc>
<doc id="425360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425360" title="Allsvenskan (bandy)">
Allsvenskan (bandy)

Allsvenskan () is since the 2007–2008 the second highest division of men's bandy in Sweden. It is made up of 24 teams in two regional groups.

</doc>
<doc id="425362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425362" title="Allsvenskan (disambiguation)">
Allsvenskan (disambiguation)

Allsvenskan is the highest league of Swedish association football for men.
Allsvenskan ("the all Swedish") is also the name of several Swedish sport leagues:

</doc>
<doc id="425364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425364" title="Category:Bandy">
Category:Bandy


</doc>
<doc id="425367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425367" title="European Cup (bandy)">
European Cup (bandy)

The European Cup is an annual bandy club competition between teams from Europe. The first edition of the tournament was held in 1974.

</doc>
<doc id="425369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425369" title="Sweden women's national football team">
Sweden women's national football team

Sweden women's national football team () represents Sweden on the women's side in association football. Sweden won the 1984 UEFA European Championship. In the FIFA World Cup, the team ended up second in 2003, and won the bronze medals in 1991 and 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="425377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425377" title="Category:1978 songs">
Category:1978 songs


</doc>
<doc id="425381" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425381" title="Homeless shelter">
Homeless shelter

A homeless shelter is a place for homeless people to take refuge. Shelters provide safety and protection from exposure to the weather.

</doc>
<doc id="425382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425382" title="Determinant">
Determinant

Linear algebra uses matrices. In that context, a determinant is a mathematical function that allows to associate certain matrices with a scalar. Only square matrices have determinants. That is to say that the matrix needs to have the same number of columns as it has rows. 
Originally determinants were associated with Systems of linear equations: These scalars "determined" whether a system had a unique solution.

</doc>
<doc id="425391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425391" title="Philip the Arab">
Philip the Arab

Philip the Arab (; , ""; 204 – 249) was the ruler of the Roman Empire from 244 to 249 AD.
He is known as Philip "the Arab" for two reasons. He came from modern-day Syria, then the Roman province of "Arabia Petraea" and is descended from an Arabian tribe that migrated to Syria from what is today Yemen. 
He was one of the Roman rulers that ended war with the empire known as the Sassanids, a dynasty of Persians.
He became emperor after Gordian III. During his reign, Rome celebrated its millennium or its 1,000th anniversary of existence.
Many say that unlike the Pagan rulers of the Romans, Philip was nice to the Christians and let them practice their faith openly. Philip and his wife received letters from Origen.
Philip was overthrown and killed following a rebellion led by his successor Decius. 

</doc>
<doc id="425394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425394" title="Loneliness">
Loneliness

Loneliness is a sad emotion that a person can feel if they are isolated or lack friends and family members. Loneliness can make people feel anxious.
People can feel lonely even if they are surrounded by a lot of other people. Loneliness can occur even to people in marriages, relationships, families and successful jobs. One cause of loneliness is a lack of friends during childhood and teenage years. Loneliness can also be caused by chronic depression. Loneliness can also be caused when a relationship or marriage ends.

</doc>
<doc id="425410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425410" title="Fuzz bass">
Fuzz bass

Fuzz bass (also called "bass overdrive" or "bass distortion") is a style of playing the electric bass. When a person plays fuzz bass, the bass sounds buzzy and distorted. Fuzz bass is created by turning up the volume on a bass amplifier very high, or by using an electronic fuzz pedal. In the mid-1960s, some bass players began to play fuzz bass. The Beatles' 1965 song "Think for Yourself" (from Rubber Soul) has fuzz bass. The 1965 Rolling Stones song "Under My Thumb" has fuzz bass.

</doc>
<doc id="425415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425415" title="Redirect">
Redirect

Redirect may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="425424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425424" title="Primulaceae">
Primulaceae

The Primulaceae are a family of herbaceous flowering plants. It has about 24 genera. It includes some garden plants and wildflowers. It is also called the primrose family.

</doc>
<doc id="425426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425426" title="SOCATA TBM-700">
SOCATA TBM-700

The SOCATA TB700 is a light transport aircraft. It is used by both civilian and military operators. It is built in Tarbes, France by SOCATA. It is a single-turboprop aircraft built in all-metal. More than 600 were sold. TBM-850 is a modern variant.

</doc>
<doc id="425427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425427" title="The Great Gatsby (2013 movie)">
The Great Gatsby (2013 movie)

The Great Gatsby is a drama movie released in 2013. It is based on the novel "The Great Gatsby" by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
The movie was an Australian-American production. It was directed by Baz Luhrmann. The screenplay was written by Luhrmann and Craig Pearce.
The main actors in it are Leonardo DiCaprio, Tobey Maguire, Carey Mulligan, Joel Edgerton and Isla Fisher.

</doc>
<doc id="425435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425435" title="Siege of Tobruk">
Siege of Tobruk

The Siege of Tobruk was a battle in Libya during World War II. It lasted for 241 days. The battle was between Axis and Allied Forces. The battle started on 11 April 1941, when Tobruk was besieged by an Italian and Nazi German force commanded by Lieutenant General Erwin Rommel. The siege continued for 240 days up to 27 November 1941. On that date, the Allied 8th Army took control of Tobruk.
The reason that the Allies wanted to have control of Tobruk was so that they could defend Egypt and the Suez Canal. The Allies also wanted to control Tobruk because it had a harbour that the Axis armies wanted to use. When the Axis armies could no longer use the port at Tobruk, they had to bring in supplies at the port of Tripoli. This required the Axis armies to bring the supplies by truck through of desert. Even though the Allies won Tobruk, the Axis armies kept trying to fight to take it back. The Axis armies fired many artillery shells at Tobruk and dropped many bombs on the town.
The reason that both sides wanted to control Tobruk is that it had a deep protected harbour. This made it a good place for ships to seek shelter. As well, the Italians had built a lot of fortifications. In addition, there were a number of escarpments and cliffs near Tobruk, which helped to protect the town from attack.

</doc>
<doc id="425440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425440" title="Tobruk">
Tobruk

Tobruk is a port city on Libya's eastern Mediterranean coast. It is near the border with Egypt. It is the capital of the Butnan District. In 2011, it had a population of about 120,000. There was once an ancient Greek colony at Tobruk. Later, the Romans built a fortress there. By 1911, Tobruk had become an Italian military base. During World War II, in a battle called the Siege of Tobruk, Allied forces captured the town. After the war, Tobruk was rebuilt. During the 1960s, a port terminal was built at Tobruk.

</doc>
<doc id="425441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425441" title="Battle of Berlin (air)">
Battle of Berlin (air)

The Battle of Berlin was the British bombing raid on Berlin during World War II. The bombings were done from November 1943 to March 1944. British bombers had new navigation aids to help them, such as the new H2S radar. Between November 1943 and March 1944, Bomber Command made 16 attacks on Berlin. Although the bombings were mostly done by British bombers, Australian and Canadian bombers also flew to Germany.
The Battle of Berlin was considered a failure for the Royal Air Force (RAF). They lost 1,047 bombers, with 1,682 more damaged. The RAF also lost over 7,000 air crew members. Another reason that the battle is seen as a defeat for the British is that the bombings did not cause the Germans to give up. Although it left 450,000 Germans homeless.

</doc>
<doc id="425442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425442" title="Battle of Guam (1941)">
Battle of Guam (1941)

The First Battle of Guam was a battle fought during the Pacific War in World War II. It took place on 8 December 1941 on Guam in the Mariana Islands. The battle was between Japan and the United States. The American forces on Guam were defeated by Japanese forces. The Japanese forces then occupied the island until the Second Battle of Guam in 1944.

</doc>
<doc id="425443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425443" title="Survivor Series (2005)">
Survivor Series (2005)

Survivor Series (2005) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 27, 2005 at the Joe Louis Arena in Detroit, Michigan. It was the nineteenth Survivor Series event held by the WWE.

</doc>
<doc id="425447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425447" title="Bohol (island)">
Bohol (island)

Bohol is the tenth largest island of the Philippines and the main island of the Bohol province. It is part of the Region VII (Central Visayas) in the Visayas island group.
The Philippine Tarsier, one of the smallest primate in the world, is one endemic animal of southern Philippines, including the island of Bohol.
The island of Bohol has an oval shape and is surrounded by 73 smaller islands; the larger of these small islands are Panglao, in the southwest in front of the city of Tagbilaran, and Lapining, in the northeast.
The main island of Bohol has an area of and a coastline of . It lies southeast from Cebu Island across the Cebu Strait (sometimes called Bohol Strait) and southwest from Leyte, separated by the Camotes Sea and Canigao Channel. Bohol is also located north of Mindanao with the Bohol Sea or Mindanao Sea between them.
The terrain of Bohol is basically hilly and about half the island is covered in limestone. The interior is a large plateau.
In the centre of the island, mainly in the municipalities of Sagbayan, Batuan and Carmen, are the Chocolate Hills, over 1,270 hills cone-shaped hills over an area of .
The main mountain range of the island is "Sierra Bullones" that is along the south coast. It begins near Loboc, goes to the east and then to the northeast to end near Candijay. The highest point of this range and in the entire province is Mount Mayana (870 meters).
There are four main rivers that flow through Bohol:
The climate of the island of Bohol is a warm tropical climate (Köppen climate classification "Af"); it is typically hot and wet throughout the year and rainfall is both heavy and frequent.

</doc>
<doc id="425448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425448" title="Congressional Record">
Congressional Record

The Congressional Record is the official record of the United States Congress. It is published by the United States Government Printing Office. It is issued when the United States Congress is in session. Indexes are printed about every two weeks. At the end of a session of Congress, the daily editions are assembled into bound volumes creating permanent editions. The Congressional Record is similar to Hansards, which report on the parliamentary debates in the UK's Westminster system of government.

</doc>
<doc id="425449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425449" title="Exclusionary zoning">
Exclusionary zoning

Exclusionary zoning is the use of zoning laws to exclude certain types of people from a community. Exclusionary zoning laws began to be used in the United States in the late 19th century. Exclusionary zoning rules are still used today across the country. A common type of exclusionary zoning rule is a minimum lot size rule. This type of rule makes it hard for poor families to build a house on a small lot that they could afford. Exclusionary zoning rules make it hard for poor families to find housing in a community.

</doc>
<doc id="425450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425450" title="Category:200s births">
Category:200s births


</doc>
<doc id="425451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425451" title="Category:249 deaths">
Category:249 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="425452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425452" title="Category:249">
Category:249


</doc>
<doc id="425453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425453" title="Battle of the Coral Sea">
Battle of the Coral Sea

The Battle of the Coral Sea was a battle fought during 4–8 May 1942. It was a major naval battle in the Pacific Ocean during World War II. The battle was between the Japanese Navy and Allied naval and air forces from the United States and Australia. The battle was the first battle between aircraft carriers. It was also the first naval battle in which the warships of neither side actually saw the warships of the other side. Instead, each side sent planes to attack the ships of the other side.
Japanese forces made a plan to invade and occupy Port Moresby in New Guinea and Tulagi in the Solomon Islands. When the U.S. discovered this plan, it sent two Navy aircraft carrier groups and a combined Australian–American cruiser force.
On 3–4 May, Japanese forces invaded and occupied Tulagi. The Japanese aircraft carriers entered the Coral Sea to try to destroy the Allied naval forces.
On 7 May, the carrier forces from the two sides sent planes to attack the ships of the other side. The first day, the U.S. sank the Japanese light carrier "Shōhō", while the Japanese sank a U.S. destroyer. The next day, the Japanese carrier "Shōkaku" was badly damaged, and the U.S. carriers "Lexington" and the "Yorktown" were damaged. Since both sides suffered heavy losses in aircraft and carriers, the two fleets stopped the battle.
The Japanese sank more ships than the U.S. However, the battle was considered a victory for the Allies because the Japanese forces were not able to capture the locations they were hoping to occupy. As well, the Japanese carriers "Shōkaku" and "Zuikaku" were not able to fight in the Battle of Midway, which helped the U.S. to win there. Japan's losses of carriers meant that they could not invade Port Moresby. Two months later, the Allies launched the Guadalcanal Campaign.
On 7 December 1941, using aircraft carriers, the Japanese attacked the U.S. Pacific fleet at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. The attack destroyed most of the U.S. Pacific Fleet's battleships. It also started a state of war between the two nations. The Japanese wanted to destroy American navy ships, capture land with natural resources, and obtain military bases to defend their empire.
At the same time that they were attacking Pearl Harbor, the Japanese attacked Malaya. This caused the United Kingdom, Australia, and New Zealand to join the United States as Allies in the war against Japan (Australia had joined World War 2 in 1939 when Germany invaded Poland). The goals of the Japanese battles in the war were to remove British and Americans from the Netherlands Indies and the Philippines.
In the first few months of 1942, Japanese forces attacked and captured the Philippines, Thailand, Singapore, the Netherlands East Indies, Wake Island, New Britain, the Gilbert Islands, and Guam. They also destroyed a lot of Allied land, naval, and air forces. Japan planned to use these lands to defend its empire.
Shortly after the war began, Japan's Naval General Staff wanted to invade Northern Australia. The goal was to prevent Australia from being used as a base to threaten Japan's defenses in the South Pacific.
The Imperial Japanese Army (IJA) said it did not have the forces or ships to invade Australia. Vice Admiral Shigeyoshi Inoue, commander of the IJN's 4th Fleet (also called the South Seas Force) had the idea of capturing Tulagi in the southeastern Solomon Islands and Port Moresby in New Guinea.
This would put northern Australia within range of Japanese land-based aircraft. Japan decided to capture New Caledonia, Fiji, and Samoa. This would make it hard for the United States to supply Australia.
In April 1942, the army and navy developed a plan called Operation "MO". The plan was to invade Port Moresby by 10 May. The plan also included capturing Tulagi on 2–3 May. This would give the navy a base for attacks against Allied territories and forces in the South Pacific.
When "MO" was done, the navy planned to do Operation "RY". This was a plan to capture Nauru and Ocean Island for their phosphate deposits on 15 May.
Further attacks against Fiji, Samoa and New Caledonia were planned. There was a damaging air attack by Allied aircraft on Japanese naval forces invading the Lae-Salamaua area in New Guinea in March. Inoue requested carriers to provide airplanes. Inoue was worried about Allied bombers at air bases in Townsville and Cooktown, Australia.
Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto, commander of Japan's Combined Fleet, was planning an attack for June. He wanted to try to destroy the U.S. Navy's carriers. None were damaged in the Pearl Harbor attack.
Unknown to the Japanese, the U.S. Navy had decoded Japanese secret codes. By March 1942, the U.S. was able to figure out up to 15% of the IJN's code. By the end of April the Americans were reading up to 85% of the messages in code.
In March 1942, the U.S. first noticed the "MO" operation in messages. On 13 April, the British decoded an IJN message telling Inoue that the Fifth Carrier Division, consisting of the fleet carriers and , was being sent. The British sent the message to the Americans. They also said that Port Moresby would probably be attacked in the "MO" plan.
Admiral Chester Nimitz, the new commander of Allied forces in the Pacific, and his staff thought the Japanese were planning an attack in early May on Port Moresby. The Allies saw Port Moresby as an important base for attacking the Japanese. Nimitz's staff also thought that the Japanese might attack Allied bases in Samoa and at Suva.
Nimitz sent all four of the Pacific fleet's aircraft carriers to the Coral Sea. By 27 April, Japanese messages helped the allies to know most targets of the "MO" and "RY" plans.
On 29 April, Nimitz sent his four carriers and their supporting warships towards the Coral Sea. Task Force 17 consisted of the carrier , three cruisers and four destroyers. It was supported by two oilers and two destroyers.
Task Force 11 consisted of the carrier with two cruisers. TF 16 included the carriers and the USS Hornet, but they were too far away.
Nimitz put Fletcher in command of Allied naval forces in the South Pacific area until Halsey arrived Halsey was told to command all three task forces once TF 16 arrived in the Coral Sea area (Lundstrom, "Pearl Harbor to Midway", p. 167).
The Japanese thought that all but one of the U.S. Navy's carriers were in the central Pacific. The Japanese did not know the location of the other carrier, but they did not expect an American carrier response to "MO" until the attacks had begun.
During late April, the Japanese submarines and searched the area where landings were planned. The submarines explored Rossel Island and the Deboyne Group area and the route to Port Moresby. They did not see any Allied ships and returned to Rabaul on 23 and 24 April.
The Japanese Port Moresby Invasion Force, commanded by Rear Admiral Kōsō Abe, included 11 transport ships carrying about 5,000 soldiers from the IJA's South Seas Detachment plus 500 more troops.
This included one light cruiser and six destroyers under the command of Rear Admiral Sadamichi Kajioka. Abe's ships departed Rabaul for the trip to Port Moresby on 4 May and were joined by Kajioka's force the next day. The ships, planned to arrive at Port Moresby by 10 May.
The Allied forces at Port Moresby had 5,333 men, but only half of these were infantry and all had poor equipment and little training.
Leading the invasion of Tulagi was the Tulagi Invasion Force. It was commanded by Rear Admiral Kiyohide Shima. It consisted of two minelayers, two destroyers, six minesweepers, two subchasers, and a transport ship carrying about 400 troops. Supporting the Tulagi force was the light carrier , four heavy cruisers, and one destroyer, commanded by Rear Admiral Aritomo Gotō.
There was a separate force commanded by Rear Admiral Kuninori Marumo. It consisted of two light cruisers, the seaplane tender , and three gunboats. Inoue directed "MO" from the cruiser . He arrived on 4 May.
Gotō's force left Truk on 28 April and stayed near New Georgia Island. Marumo's support group left New Ireland to establish a seaplane base on 2 May to support the Tulagi attack. Shima's invasion force left Rabaul on 30 April.
The Carrier Strike Force with carriers "Zuikaku" and "Shōkaku", two heavy cruisers, and six destroyers left from Truk on 1 May. The strike force was commanded by Vice Admiral Takeo Takagi (flag on cruiser ). Rear Admiral Chūichi Hara, on "Zuikaku", commanded the carrier air forces.
The Carrier Strike Force was to enter the Coral Sea south of Guadalcanal. Once in the Coral Sea, the carriers were to provide airplanes for the invasion forces, destroy Allied airplanes at Port Moresby, and destroy any Allied naval forces in the Coral Sea.
Takagi's carriers were to deliver nine Zero fighter aircraft to Rabaul. Bad weather during two attempts to make the delivery made the aircraft to return to the carriers. One of the Zeros crashed in the ocean.
To find out if any Allied naval forces were coming, the Japanese sent submarines to wait southwest of Guadalcanal. Fletcher's forces got into the Coral Sea area before the submarines arrived and the Japanese did not see them. Another sub was sent to explore around Nouméa. It was attacked by "Yorktown" aircraft on 2 May.
On the morning of 1 May, Fletcher sent TF11 to refuel. TF 17 completed refueling the next day. Fletcher took TF 17 northwest towards the Louisiades and ordered TF 11 to meet TF 44 on 4 May. TF 44 was a joint Australia–U.S. warship force under MacArthur's command. It was led by Australian Rear Admiral John Crace. It was made up of the cruisers , , and .
Early on 3 May, Shima's force arrived off Tulagi and the naval troops began to occupy the island. Tulagi was undefended. The small guard of Australian commandos and a Royal Australian Air Force group left before Shima's arrival. The Japanese forces built a seaplane and communications base.
At 17:00 on 3 May, Fletcher was told that the Japanese Tulagi invasion force had been seen. TF 17 went towards Guadalcanal to launch air attacks against the Japanese forces at Tulagi.
On 4 May, from a position south of Guadalcanal (), 60 aircraft from TF 17 launched three attacks against Shima's forces off Tulagi. "Yorktown"s aircraft sank the destroyer "Kikuzuki" () and three of the minesweepers, damaged four other ships, and destroyed four seaplanes. The Americans lost one dive bomber and two fighters. Even though the Japanese forces were harmed by the carrier strikes, they kept building the seaplane base. They began flying from Tulagi by 6 May.
Takagi's Carrier Striking Force was north of Tulagi when it learned of Fletcher's strike on 4 May. Takagi sent planes to search for the American carriers, but the planes found nothing.
At 08:16 on 5 May, TF 17 met up with TF 11 and TF 44 south of Guadalcanal. At the same time, four F4F Wildcat fighter aircraft from "Yorktown" shot down a Kawanishi Type 97 aircraft from the Yokohama Air Group.
A message from Pearl Harbor told Fletcher that Japanese planned to land their troops at Port Moresby on 10 May and their carriers would be close to the invasion group. Fletcher planned to take his forces north towards the Louisiades.
Takagi's carrier force entered the Coral Sea in the early morning hours of 6 May.
On 6 May, Fletcher joined TF 11 and TF 44 into TF 17. He thought the Japanese carriers were still well to the north. American planes did not find the Japanese naval forces, because they were located beyond the planes' range.
At 10:00, a Kawanishi flying boat from Tulagi saw TF 17 and sent a message to its headquarters. Takagi received the report at 10:50. At that time, Takagi's force was about north of Fletcher. Takagi's ships were still refueling, so he was not yet ready to battle. Takagi sent his two carriers with two destroyers under Hara's command to head towards TF 17 at so that they could attack the next day.
American B-17 bombers based in Australia attacked the Port Moresby invasion forces, including Gotō's warships, several timeson 6 May without success. MacArthur's headquarters told Fletcher about the locations of the Japanese invasion forces. MacArthur's planes saw a carrier ("Shōhō") about northwest of TF17.
At 18:00, TF 17 completed fueling and Fletcher sent "Neosho" with a destroyer, , to wait further south. TF 17 then turned to head northwest towards Rossel Island. At 20:00 (), Hara met Takagi who completed refueling.
Late on 6 May or early on 7 May, "Kamikawa Maru" set up a seaplane base in the Deboyne Islands to help the invasion forces as they approached Port Moresby. The rest of Marumo's Cover Force waited near the D'Entrecasteaux Islands.
At 06:25 on 7 May, TF 17 was south of Rossel Island (). At this time, Fletcher sent Crace's cruiser and destroyer force out. When Crace's warships left, this reduced the anti-aircraft defenses for Fletcher's carriers. Fletcher wanted to make sure the Japanese invasion forces could not sneak through to Port Moresby while he was fighting with the Japanese carriers.
Fletcher thought Takagi's carrier force was north of his location. Fletcher told "Yorktown" to send 10 SBD dive bombers to search that area. Takagi launched 12 Type 97 carrier bombers at 06:00 to search for TF 17. Hara thought that Fletcher's ships were to the south. Gotō's cruisers and launched four Kawanishi E7K2 Type 94 floatplanes to search for the Americans. Each side got its carrier attack aircraft ready to launch once the enemy was located.
At 07:22 one of Takagi's carrier planes, from "Shōkaku" located American ships. At 07:45, the Japanese pilot located "one carrier, one cruiser, and three destroyers". Hara thought that he had found the American carriers. Hara launched all of his available aircraft. A total of 78 aircraft—18 Zero fighters, 36 Type 99 dive bombers, and 24 torpedo aircraft—began flying from "Shōkaku" and "Zuikaku" at 08:00.
At 08:20, one aircraft found Fletcher's carriers. Takagi and Hara continued with the attack on the ships to their south. They also turned their carriers towards the northwest to get closer to the Americans. Takagi and Hara thought that the U.S. carrier forces might be operating in two groups.
At 08:15, a "Yorktown" plane saw Gotō's force. He reported two carriers and four heavy cruisers" at , northwest of TF17. Fletcher thought he had found the Japanese main carrier force. He ordered all available carrier aircraft to attack. By 10:13, the American force of 93 aircraft – 18 F4F Wildcats, 53 SBD dive bombers, and 22 TBD Devastator torpedo bombers were flying. At 10:12, however, Fletcher received a report from three United States Army B-17s of an aircraft carrier, ten transports, and 16 warships.
Believing that this was the main Japanese carrier force, Fletcher directed the airplanes towards this target.
At 09:15, Takagi's force sighted "Neosho" and "Sims". Takagi now realized the American carriers were between him and the invasion forces. Takagi ordered his aircraft to attack "Neosho" and "Sims". At 11:15, the 36 dive bombers attacked the two American ships.
Four dive bombers attacked "Sims" and the rest attacked "Neosho". The destroyer was hit by three bombs, broke in half, and sank, killing all but 14 of her 192-man crew. "Neosho" was hit by seven bombs. Heavily damaged and without power, "Neosho" was sinking. "Neosho" told Fletcher by radio that she was under attack.
The American aircraft sighted "Shōhō" at 10:40 and attacked. The Japanese carrier was protected by six Zeros and two Type 96 'Claude' fighters flying combat air patrol (CAP). Gotō's cruisers surrounded the carrier.
Attacking first, "Lexington"s air group hit "Shōhō" with two bombs and five torpedoes, causing severe damage. At 11:00, "Yorktown"s air group attacked the burning carrier with 11 more bombs and two torpedoes. Torn apart, "Shōhō" sank at 11:35 (). Gotō sent his warships to the north, but sent the destroyer to rescue survivors. Only 203 of the carrier's 834-man crew were rescued. Three American aircraft were lost in the attack. All of "Shōhō"s aircraft were lost. At 12:10, a pilot told TF 17 that the attack was successful.
The American aircraft returned and landed on their carriers by 13:38. By 14:20, the aircraft ready to launch against the Port Moresby Invasion Force or Gotō's cruisers. Fletcher was worried that he did not know where the other Japanese fleet carriers were. Allied forces thought that up to four Japanese carriers might be nearby. Fletcher turned TF17 southwest.
When Inoue was told that "Shōhō" had been sunk, he ordered the invasion convoy to pull back to the north. He ordered Takagi to destroy the American carrier forces. As the invasion convoy pulled back, it was bombed by eight U.S. Army B-17s, but was not damaged. Gotō and Kajioka were told to place their ships south of Rossel Island for a night battle if the American ships got close enough.
At 12:40, a seaplane saw Crace's force. At 13:15, an aircraft from Rabaul saw Crace's force. Takagi turned his carriers west at 13:30 and told Inoue at 15:00 that the US carriers were too far away to attack them that day.
Inoue's men sent attack aircraft from Rabaul towards Crace. The first group included 12 torpedo-armed Type 1 bombers and the second group was 19 Mitsubishi Type 96 aircraft armed with bombs. Both groups found and attacked Crace's ships at 14:30. Crace's ships were undamaged and shot down four Type 1s. A short time later, three U.S. Army B-17s bombed Crace by accident, but caused no damage.
Crace radioed Fletcher that he could not complete his mission without airplanes. Crace moved southward. Crace's ships were low on fuel.
Takagi's staff thought that the Allied ships would be close enough to attack before nightfall. Takagi and Hara decided to attack with aircraft, even though they would have to return after dark.
To try to confirm the location of the American carriers, at 15:15 Hara eight torpedo bombers to look westward. The dive bombers returned from their attack on "Neosho" and landed. At 16:15 Hara launched 12 dive bombers and 15 torpedo planes with orders to try to find the American ships.
At 17:47, TF 17 detected the Japanese forces on radar heading in their direction. The Americans sent 11 CAP Wildcats to attack the Japanese planes. The Wildcats shot down seven torpedo bombers and one dive bomber, and heavily damaged another torpedo bomber. Three Wildcats were lost.
The Japanese leaders canceled the mission and returned to their carriers. The sun set at 18:30. Several of the Japanese dive bombers found the American carriers in the darkness and tried to land on them. Anti-aircraft fire from TF 17's destroyers sent them away. By 20:00, TF 17 and Takagi were about apart. Takagi turned on his ships' searchlights to help the 18 surviving aircraft get back.
At 15:18 and 17:18 "Neosho" radioed TF 17 that she was sinking. Fletcher knew his only nearby fuel supply was gone.
As nightfall ended aircraft flights for the day, Fletcher ordered TF 17 to head west. Crace also turned west. Inoue told Takagi to destroy the U.S. carriers the next day. He delayed the Port Moresby landings to 12 May. Takagi took his carriers north during the night to protect the invasion convoy. Gotō and Kajioka were unable to attack the Allied warships at night.
Both sides spent the night preparing their aircraft for the battle. In 1972, U.S. Vice Admiral H. S. Duckworth said Coral Sea was the most confused battle area in world history." Hara said he was so frustrated with the "poor luck" the Japanese hac on 7 May that he felt like quitting the navy.
At 06:15 on 8 May, Hara launched seven torpedo bombers to search the area south from the Japanese carriers. Three Kawanishi Type 97s from Tulagi and four Type 1 bombers from Rabaul also helped in the search. At 07:00, the carrier force turned to the southwest and was joined by two of Gotō's cruisers, and . The invasion convoy, Gotō, and Kajioka moved east of Woodlark Island.
At 06:35, TF 17 launched 18 SBDs to search for Japanese ships. The skies over the American carriers were mostly clear.
At 08:20, a "Lexington" SBD spotted the Japanese carriers and told TF 17. Two minutes later, a "Shōkaku" plane saw TF 17 and told Hara. The two forces were about away from each other. Both sides got ready to launch their aircraft.
At 09:15, the Japanese carriers launched 18 fighters, 33 dive bombers, and 18 torpedo planes. The American carriers each launched a separate attack. "Yorktown"s group consisted of six fighters, 24 dive bombers, and nine torpedo planes. "Lexington"s group was made up of nine fighters, 15 dive bombers, and 12 torpedo planes. Both the American and Japanese carrier forces turned to head directly for each other.
"Yorktown"s dive bombers reached the Japanese carriers at 10:32. At this time, "Shōkaku" and "Zuikaku" were about apart, with "Zuikaku" hidden under clouds. The two carriers were protected by 16 CAP Zero fighters. The "Yorktown" dive bombers attacked at 10:57 on "Shōkaku" and hit the carrier with two bombs, causing heavy damage to the carrier's flight and hangar decks. The "Yorktown" torpedo planes missed with all of their torpedoes. Two U.S. dive bombers and two CAP Zeros were shot down during the attack.
"Lexington"s aircraft arrived and attacked at 11:30. Two dive bombers attacked "Shōkaku", hitting the carrier with one bomb, causing further damage. Two other dive bombers attacked "Zuikaku", missing with their bombs. The rest of "Lexington"s dive bombers were unable to find the Japanese carriers in the heavy clouds. "Lexington"s TBDs missed "Shōkaku" with all 11 of their torpedoes. The 13 CAP Zeros on patrol shot down three Wildcats.
With her flight deck heavily damaged and 223 of her crew killed or wounded, "Shōkaku" was unable to launch any more planes. At 12:10, "Shōkaku" and two destroyers pulled back to the northeast.
At 10:55, "Lexington"s radar detected the Japanese aircraft and sent nine Wildcats to attack the planes. Six of the Wildcats were too low, and they missed the Japanese aircraft as they passed by overhead. Because of the heavy losses in aircraft the night before, the Japanese could not do a full torpedo attack on both carriers. The Japanese sent 14 torpedo planes to attack "Lexington" and four to attack "Yorktown". A Wildcat shot down one and 8 "Yorktown" SBDs destroyed three. Four SBDs were shot down by Zeros escorting the torpedo planes.
The Japanese attack began at 11:13 as the carriers, stationed apart, fired with anti-aircraft guns. The four torpedo planes which attacked "Yorktown" all missed. The remaining torpedo planes hit "Lexington" with two Type 91 torpedoes. The first torpedo broke the aviation gasoline tanks. The second torpedo caused several of the boilers to stop working. Four of the Japanese torpedo planes were shot down by anti-aircraft fire.
The 33 Japanese dive bombers attacked after the torpedo attacks. The 19 "Shōkaku" dive bombers attacked "Lexington" while the remaining 14, attacked "Yorktown". Zeros protected the dive bombers from four "Lexington" CAP Wildcats. Takahashi's bombers damaged "Lexington" with two bomb hits, causing fires which were put out by 12:33. At 11:27, "Yorktown" was hit in the center of her flight deck by a single , semi-armor-piercing bomb which penetrated four decks before exploding, causing severe damage and killing or seriously wounding 66 men. Up to 12 near misses damaged "Yorktown"s hull below the waterline. Two of the dive bombers were shot down by a CAP Wildcat during the attack.
As the Japanese aircraft completed their attacks and began to fly back, they were attacked by US planes.
The planes, with many damaged aircraft, landed on their carriers between 12:50 and 14:30. "Yorktown" and "Lexington" were both able to land planes. Forty-six of the original 69 aircraft from the Japanese force returned. Three more Zeros, four dive bombers, and five torpedo planes were damaged beyond repair and were pushed into the ocean.
As TF 17 got its aircraft back, Fletcher thought about the situation. Fletcher knew both his carriers were hurt and that he had lost a lot of fighters. Fuel was also a problem due to the loss of "Neosho". At 14:22, Fitch told Fletcher that there were two undamaged Japanese carriers. Fletcher pulled TF17 out from the battle. Fletcher radioed MacArthur the position of the Japanese carriers and suggested that he attack them with bombers.
Around 14:30, Hara informed Takagi that only 24 Zeros, eight dive bombers, and four torpedo planes from the carriers were working. Takagi was worried about his ships' fuel levels; his cruisers were at 50% and some of his destroyers were as low as 20%. At 15:00 Takagi said he had sunk two American carriers – "Yorktown" and a "-class". Inoue called the invasion convoy to Rabaul, postponed "MO" to 3 July, and ordered his forces to gather northeast of the Solomons to begin the "RY" operation.
"Zuikaku" and her escorts turned towards Rabaul while "Shōkaku" headed for Japan.
Aboard "Lexington", an explosion killed 25 men and started a large fire. Around 14:42, another large explosion occurred, starting a second fire. A third explosion occurred at 15:25. "Lexington"s crew began abandoning ship at 17:07. After the carrier's survivors were rescued, including Fitch and the carrier's captain, Frederick C. Sherman, at 19:15 the destroyer fired five torpedoes into the burning ship, which sank in 2,400 fathoms at 19:52 ().
Two hundred and sixteen of the carrier's 2,951-man crew sunk with the ship, along with 36 aircraft. "Phelps" and the other warships left to rejoin "Yorktown", which departed at 16:01, and TF17 moved to the southwest. Later that evening, MacArthur informed Fletcher that eight of his B-17s had attacked the invasion convoy and that it was moving to the northwest.
That evening, Crace sent "Hobart", which was low on fuel, and the destroyer , which was having engine trouble, to Townsville. Crace remained on patrol in the Coral Sea in case the Japanese invasion force tried to go towards Port Moresby.
The battle was the first naval battle in history in which the ships never saw or fired directly at each other. Instead, aircraft were used to attack each other.
This was a carrier-versus-carrier battle. Neither commander had experience with this. The commanders had poor communications. This was hard, because the battle took place over a large area. The planes flew so fast that it meant there was not much time to make decisions.
The Japanese had problems because Inoue was too far away at Rabaul to direct his naval forces. Fletcher was on a carrier, so it was easier for him to direct his forces. The Japanese admirals did not share information quickly.
The experienced Japanese carrier aircrews did better than those of the U.S. The Japanese aircrews did more damage with the same number of aircraft. The Japanese attack on the American carriers on 8 May was better organized than the U.S. attack on the Japanese carriers.
The Japanese had much higher losses to their carrier aircrews. They lost ninety aircrew killed in the battle compared with thirty-five for the Americans. Japan's highly skilled carrier aircrews could not be replaced because the training programs could not produce enough new aircrew. There were not training programs to produce skilled pilots. Coral Sea was the start of Japan losing its experienced aircrews.
The Americans did learn from their mistakes in the battle. They made improvements to their carrier fighting approach. The Americans improved their anti-aircraft defences. Radar gave the Americans an advantage in this battle.
Following the loss of "Lexington", improved methods for carrying airplane fuel and better ways of dealing with damage were developed by the Americans. Coordination between the Allied land-based air forces and the U.S. Navy was poor during this battle.
Japanese and U.S. carriers would fight again in the battles of Midway, the Eastern Solomons, and the Santa Cruz Islands in 1942, and the Philippine Sea in 1944. Each of these battles had an impact on what would happen in the Pacific War.
Both sides claimed victory after the battle. In terms of ships lost, the Japanese won a victory by sinking an American fleet carrier, an oiler, and a destroyer – . The Americans sunk a light carrier, a destroyer, and several smaller warships – . "Lexington" was one quarter of U.S. carrier strength in the Pacific. The Japanese public was told it was a victory.
The Allies won because the sea invasion of Port Moresby was stopped. This meant that supply lines between the U.S. and Australia were protected. Although pulling "Yorktown" away from the Coral Sea was like giving the sea area to the Japanese, the Japanese stopped their invasion plans.
The battle was the first time that a Japanese invasion force was stopped. This improved the morale of the Allies. The Allies had been defeated by the Japanese during the first six months of the Pacific War.
Port Moresby was important to the Allies. The US Navy said that the damage it did to the Japanese was greater than what it really did.
The battle affected the planning of both sides. Without in New Guinea, the Allied advance would have been more difficult. For the Japanese, the battle was seen as a problem. The battle showed the Japanese that American were not that good in battle. The Japanese thought that future carrier attacks against the U.S. would be successful.
One of the most important effects of the Coral Sea battle was the loss of and .
Yamamoto wanted to use these carriers to battle American carriers at Midway ("Shōhō" was supposed to support the Japanese invasion ground forces). The Japanese thought that they sank two carriers in the Coral Sea, but this still left at least two more U.S. Navy carriers, "Enterprise" and "Hornet", which could fight at Midway.
American carriers had more planes than Japanese carriers. The US also had land-based aircraft at Midway. This meant that the Japanese did not have more planes at Midway. The Americans would have three carriers at Midway, because "Yorktown" could still sail, even with the damage from Coral Sea. The U.S. Navy was able to repair Yorktown at Pearl Harbor between 27 and 30 May so that she could fight in the battle.
At Midway, 's aircraft were important in sinking two Japanese carriers. "Yorktown" also took a lot of the Japanese air attacks at Midway which would have been directed at the other American carriers.
The Americans worked hard to get the maximum number of forces for Midway. The Japanese did not try to include "Zuikaku" in the operation. The Japanese did not try to put the "Shōkaku" aircrews with "Zuikaku"s air groups or provide "Zuikaku" with new aircraft. "Shōkaku" had a damaged flight deck which required three months of repair in Japan.
Historians H. P. Willmott, Jonathan Parshall, and Anthony Tully think Yamamoto made an error in deciding support the "MO". Since Yamamoto thought the big battle with the Americans would be at Midway, he should not have sent fleet carriers to less important battle like "MO". Japanese naval forces were weakened at both the Coral Sea and Midway battles, which allowed the Allies to defeat them.
Yamamoto did not notice another thing about the Coral Sea battle. The Americans put their carriers the right place and time to fight the Japanese. U.S. Navy carrier aircrews showed skill and tried to do major damage to the Japanese carrier forces. Japan lost four fleet carriers at Midway, which made Japan start to lose the Pacific War.
The Australians and U.S. forces in Australia were disappointed with the the Battle of the Coral Sea. They thought that the "MO" operation was going to lead to an invasion of the Australian mainland. In a meeting held in late May, the Australian Advisory War Council said the battle was disappointing since the Allies knew about the Japanese plans.
General MacArthur told Australian Prime Minister John Curtin that Japanese forces could attack anywhere if supported by the IJN.
Because of the losses in carriers at Midway, the Japanese were unable to invade Port Moresby from the sea. Japan tried to capture Port Moresby by land. Japan began its attack towards Port Moresby along the Kokoda Track on 21 July from Buna and Gona.
By then, the Allies sent more troops to New Guinea. The added forces slowed and stopped the Japanese advance towards Port Moresby in September 1942. They also stopped the Japanese from capturing an Allied base at Milne Bay.
The Allies tried their to use their victories at Coral Sea and Midway to try to win the war against Japan. The Allies chose Tulagi and Guadalcanal as their first attacks.
The failure of the Japanese to take Port Moresby, and their defeat at Midway, meant Tulagi was not protected by other Japanese bases. Tulagi was four hours flying time from Rabaul, the nearest large Japanese base.
On 7 August 1942, 11,000 U.S. Marines landed on Guadalcanal and 3,000 U.S. Marines landed on Tulagi and nearby islands. The Japanese troops on Tulagi and nearby islands killed in the Battle of Tulagi and Gavutu-Tanambogo. The U.S. Marines on Guadalcanal captured an airfield under construction by the Japanese.
This started the Guadalcanal and Solomon Islands Campaigns. These resulted in a number of battles between Allied and Japanese forces over the next year. Along with the New Guinea campaign, this destroyed Japanese defences, caused huge losses for the Japanese military—especially the Navy. This helped the Allies to win the war against Japan.
The delay in the advance of Japanese forces also allowed the United States Marine Corps to land on Funafuti on October 2, 1942. The US built airfields from which USAAF B-24 "Liberator" bombers could fly. The atolls of Tuvalu were places the Allies could use to get ready for the Battle of Tarawa and the Battle of Makin that started on 20 November 1943.

</doc>
<doc id="425454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425454" title="Extreme Noise Terror">
Extreme Noise Terror

Extreme Noise Terror (often abbreviated to ENT) are a British crust punk / grindcore band originally formed in Ipswich, England in 1985. The band are one of the earliest European grindcore bands. They also helped to create the crustgrind subgenre.
They are one of the first hardcore punk bands to use two vocalists. They also recorded a number of sessions for BBC Radio 1 DJ John Peel. The band's songs have political lyrics, grinding guitars, and very fast tempos.

</doc>
<doc id="425458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425458" title="Foreign policy of the United States">
Foreign policy of the United States

The foreign policy of the United States is the way in which the United States acts towards other countries. U.S. foreign policy also involves setting out how U.S. organizations, corporations, and individual citizens should act towards foreign countries. 
The United States has a lot of power in the world for several reasons. The U.S. has a $15 trillion economy and approximately a quarter of the global Gross Domestic Product. The U.S. also has a defense budget of $711 billion. This is about 43% of military spending in the world. The U.S. has a powerful military that it can send out to protect countries or locations that are considered important to U.S. foreign policy. 
The U.S. Secretary of State is the same type of job as the job of foreign minister of other countries. The Secretary of State is responsible for diplomacy with other countries. Today, John Kerry is the U.S.'s Secretary of State. 
The President of the United States has the highest authority over foreign policy. 
The United States House Committee on Foreign Affairs aims to control nuclear technology and nuclear hardware; foster commercial relations with foreign nations; and safeguard American business abroad. The Committee also watches over international agreements about commodities, international education, and the protection of American citizens abroad.
U.S. foreign policy includes defining what actions and choices are in the best national interest. U.S. foreign policy also includes the strategies that are chosen to lead to policy goals. The goals of the foreign policy of the United States are to create a more secure, democratic, and prosperous world. The U.S. aims to achieve this goal for the benefit of the American people and the international community. 
U.S. foreign policy and foreign aid have been the subject of much debate, praise and criticism both from within the U.S. and from other countries.

</doc>
<doc id="425465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425465" title="Category:Deaths from pulmonary edema">
Category:Deaths from pulmonary edema


</doc>
<doc id="425469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425469" title="Category:Deaths from bronchitis">
Category:Deaths from bronchitis


</doc>
<doc id="425470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425470" title="Category:Deaths from bronchopneumonia">
Category:Deaths from bronchopneumonia


</doc>
<doc id="425472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425472" title="Category:Deaths from cirrhosis">
Category:Deaths from cirrhosis


</doc>
<doc id="425477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425477" title="John Laurie">
John Laurie

John Paton Laurie (25 March 1897 – 23 June 1980) was a Scottish actor who was known for his role as James Frazer in the British sitcom "Dad's Army". 
Laurie was born on 25 March 1897 in Dumfries, Dumfriesshire, Scotland. He was married three times. He had one daughter. Laurie died on 23 June 1980 in his Chalfont St Peter, Buckinghamshire, England home from emphysema, aged 83 His ashes were scattered into the English Channel.

</doc>
<doc id="425478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425478" title="Codognè">
Codognè

Codognè is a town in Veneto. There are 5300 people living there. It is near Venice and the Dolomite Alps. The beaches of the Adriatic Sea are also nearby.

</doc>
<doc id="425480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425480" title="Arnold Ridley">
Arnold Ridley

William Arnold Ridley, OBE (7 January 1896 – 12 March 1984) was an English playwright and actor. He is known for his play "The Ghost Train" and for playing the elderly Private Charles Godfrey in the British sitcom "Dad's Army" (1968–77).
Ridley was born on 7 January 1896 in Bath, Somerset, England. He was married to Althea Parker from 1945 until his death in 1984. Ridley died on 12 March 1984 in Hillington, London, England from complications from a fall, aged 88.

</doc>
<doc id="425482" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425482" title="Svalbard in fiction">
Svalbard in fiction

Novelists, screenwriters and filmmakers have set their works in Svalbard, an archipelago in the Arctic which is the northernmost part of Norway. Fictional works about Svalbard often make reference to its Arctic climate, the isolation of the archipelago and the natural beauty of its vast glaciers, mountains and fjords.
"North of Danger", by Dale Hollerbach Fife, is a World War II story about a 12-year-old boy living in Svalbard who has to hide in a coal mine to avoid being captured by the Nazi invaders. The Commonwealth Club of California called "North of Danger" the best juvenile book of 1978. "Bear Island" is a 1971 thriller novel by Scottish author Alistair MacLean. It is about a movie crew who travels to Svalbard. When the group arrives in Svalbard, members of the crew start to get killed. 
The Norwegian crime writer and glacier expert Monica Kristensen has written a novel set in Svalbard entitled "Operation Fritham". The novel tells the story of a group of World War II veterans who meet in Svalbard to remember Operation Fritham. This was a 1942 Norwegian military operation which aimed to capture the coal mines so that Nazi Germany could not use the coal. The elderly soldiers do not realize that one member of the group is an not really an old soldier. One person is a murderer who is pretending to be a veteran. The head of the Svalbard police force has to solve the mystery.
"Dark Matter", by Michelle Paver, is a ghost story set in 1937 in a lonely bay in Svalbard. A group of scientists go to Svalbard and prepare to spend the winter in an old mining camp. However, they discover that there is some scary person or creature hiding in the ice.
Svalbard is the home of the armored polar bears in Philip Pullman's "His Dark Materials" trilogy of books. This trilogy of fantasy novels form an epic that includes "Northern Lights" (1995, published as "The Golden Compass" in North America), "The Subtle Knife" (1997), and "The Amber Spyglass" (2000). It follows the story of two children, Lyra Belacqua and Will Parry. The three novels have won awards, including the 2001 Whitbread Book of the Year prize, won by "The Amber Spyglass". "Northern Lights" won the Carnegie Medal for children's fiction in the UK in 1995. The won third place in the BBC's Big Read poll in 2003. The story involves fantasy story parts such as witches and armoured polar bears.
"Neige Noir" ("Black Snow") is a 1974 novel by Canadian author Hubert Aquin about a newly married Montreal couple who travel to Svalbard. "The Svalbard Passage" by Thomas Kirkwood is a thriller set in the US, Norway and Svalbard during the Cold War. 
"The Solitude Of Thomas Cave", by Georgina Harding, is a novel about a sailor who spends a whole winter in Svalbard. A review states that the "descriptions of scenery are outstanding".
Filmmaker Knut Erik Jensen made three short films about Svalbard: "Svalbard in the World" (1983), "Cold World" (1986) and "My World" (1987). This Svalbard trilogy has been called "an artistic peak" for him. The Norwegian film "Orion's Belt" (1985) ("Orions belte" was the original title) is set in Svalbard. The film, which was directed by Ola Solum, shows the white icebergs and mountain ranges. It was one of the two 1980s Norwegian films which "...found large audiences...internationally". The 1998 Belgian-Dutch-German movie "When the Light Comes" is set in Svalbard.

</doc>
<doc id="425484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425484" title="James Beck">
James Beck

Stanley James Carroll Beck (21 February 1929 – 6 August 1973) was an English actor. He is best remembered for his role as Private Joe Walker, the cockney spiv in the popular BBC sitcom "Dad's Army".
Beck was born on 21 February 1929 in Islington, London, England. He was married to Kay Beck until his death in 1973. Beck died on 6 August 1973 from pancreatitis in Roehampton, Wandsworth, London, England, aged 44.

</doc>
<doc id="425486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425486" title="Ian Lavender">
Ian Lavender

Arthur Ian Lavender (born 16 February 1946), better known as Ian Lavender, is an English stage, movie and television actor. He is best known for his role as Private Frank Pike in the BBC comedy series "Dad's Army". He is the last surviving cast member to have played one of the seven main characters within the platoon.
Lavender was born in Birmingham, England on 16 February 1946. He studied at the Bournville Boys Technical School and later Bournville Grammar-Technical School for Boys. 
His first television appearance was as the lead in a Rediffusion play entitled "Half Hour Story: Flowers at my Feet" in 1968. In 1968, aged 22, Lavender was cast as Private Pike, the youngest member and 'stupid boy' of the platoon in the BBC sitcom "Dad's Army". He appeared in the entire run of the series, and in the spinoff movie released in 1971.
Lavender starred in the movie, "31 North 62 East" (released September 2009), an independent psychological thriller starring John Rhys-Davies, Marina Sirtis, Heather Peace and Craig Fairbrass. In August 2013 Lavender made his Edinburgh Fringe debut in a stage version of "The Shawshank Redemption".
Lavender was married to actress Sue Kerchiss from 1967 until they divorced in 1973. He married his second wife, the American Miki Hardy in 1993.
Lavender was diagnosed with bladder cancer in 1993. It was removed in an operation and he has recovered. He had a heart attack in 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="425489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425489" title="Survivor Series (2004)">
Survivor Series (2004)

Survivor Series (2004) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 14, 2004 at the Gund Arena in Cleveland, Ohio. It was the eighteenth Survivor Series event held by the WWE.

</doc>
<doc id="425491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425491" title="Category:Former unrecognized countries">
Category:Former unrecognized countries


</doc>
<doc id="425500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425500" title="Isaiah Wohlgemuth">
Isaiah Wohlgemuth

Isaiah Wohlgemuth wrote a widely read book, "A Guide to Jewish Prayer". He was from Germany and came to the United States after World War II. He studied at a religious school in Berlin. He was ordained as a rabbi. His synagogue was destroyed. The building was burned on Kristallnacht. He was imprisoned in a concentration camp. As soon as the war was over, he came to the United States and lived in Boston. In Boston he went back to school. He studied for many years and received a doctorate (an advanced degree) in education. He taught students in Boston for more than 50 years. Because he was a rabbi and had a doctorate, he was called "Rabbi Dr. Wohlegemuth." 
Rabbi Wohlgemuth, died January 6, 2008. He had Parkinson's disease. 

</doc>
<doc id="425504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425504" title="HIStory: Past, Present and Future">
HIStory: Past, Present and Future

HIStory: Past, Present and Future is the ninth studio album by Michel Jackson. It was released in 1995. It is Jackson's first album on his record label MJJ Productions. The album has two discs. The first disc is a 'greatest hits' of fifteen popular singles Jackson had released from his previous albums. The second disc is fifteen new songs. Two of them are Jackson's versions of songs that have already been made by people. The album has sold 25 million copies around the world. It is the best selling album with more than one disc. On November 13 2001 the first disc was released again on its own as "Greatest Hits: HIStory, Volume I". It has sold 4 million copies. 
Six singles were released around the world from the second disc. The first single "Scream" was a duet with Jackson's sister Janet Jackson. It reached number one in New Zealand, Italy, and Spain. 
The second single "You Are Not Alone" was written and produced by R. Kelly. It was the first song ever to go straight to number one in the "Billboard" Hot 100. 
The third single "Earth Song" did not reach the Billboard Hot 100. However, it is Jackson's best selling single in the United Kingdom. It was number one there for six weeks.
The sixth single was "Stranger in Moscow". It reached number one in Italy and Spain.
The fourth single, "This Time Around", had the Notorious B.I.G. rapping in it.
"They Don't Care About Us" was released on March 31, 1996. It was number one in Germany for three weeks.
"Stranger in Moscow" was the last single released from the album. It was the least successful single in the United States.
"Rolling Stone" gave the album four stars out of five. "The Seattle Times" gave the second disc of HIStory a bad review.
Jackson did the HIStory World Tour to promote the album. It was Jackson's last tour.

</doc>
<doc id="425505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425505" title="Forever, Michael">
Forever, Michael

Forever, Michael is the fourth studio album by Michael Jackson. It was released in 1975. It was his last album to be released by Motown Records. The album was produced by Edward Holland, Jr., Brian Holland, Hal Davis, Freddie Perren, and Sam Brown III.
Three singles were released from the album. The first single "We're Almost There" reached number two in Turkey and number four in Australia. "Just a Little Bit of You" was released as "Forever Michael"'s second single. It reached number 23 in the US "Billboard" 100. The third single "One Day in Your Life" reached number one in the United Kingdom, Ireland and the Netherlands.

</doc>
<doc id="425506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425506" title="Got to Be There">
Got to Be There

Got to Be There is the debut studio album by Michael Jackson. It was released in 1971. It has sold over 3.2 million copies around the world. Four singles were released from the album.

</doc>
<doc id="425507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425507" title="Invincible">
Invincible

Invincible is the tenth and last studio album by Michel Jackson. It was released in October 2001. It was the last studio album by Jackson to be released while Jackson was alive. It reached number one in eleven countries. Three singles were released from the album. The first single was "You Rock My World". "Cry" was released as the second single. It was written by R. Kelly. The Notorious B.I.G. rapped on the first song on the album, "Unbreakable". The album was unsuccessful compared to Jackson's previous albums. It sold thirteen million copies. "Rolling Stone" gave the album a rating of three out of five stars. "You Rock My World" was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Performance - Male.

</doc>
<doc id="425509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425509" title="Earth Song">
Earth Song

"Earth Song" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was the third single from . In 1996 Jackson performed the song at the BRIT Awards. Jarvis Cocker ran onto the stage and gave Jackson the V sign. Cocker explained, "My actions were a form of protest at the way Michael Jackson sees himself as some kind of Christ-like figure with the power of healing..."
Jackson wrote the song in a hotel in Austria when he was on tour.
It was the last song ever performed by Jackson. The video was filmed in the Amazon Rainforest, Karlovac, Tanzania, and New York. "Earth Song" is Jackson's best-selling single in the UK. 
The song was performed at the 2010 Grammy Awards by Jennifer Hudson, Carrie Underwood, Smokey Robinson, Celine Dion and Usher.

</doc>
<doc id="425510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425510" title="Heal the World">
Heal the World

"Heal the World" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as a single from his album "Dangerous". The video does not have Jackson in it. In a 2001 Internet chat with fans, Jackson said "Heal the World" is the song he was most proud to have created. In the documentary Living With Michael Jackson, he said that he wrote the song in his "Giving Tree" at his Neverland Ranch. It reached No.1 in Spain. 
Jackson performed the song at the Super Bowl XXVII half-time show.
In 1992 Jackson made Heal the World Foundation, named after the song.

</doc>
<doc id="425511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425511" title="Black or White">
Black or White

"Black or White" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the first single from Jackson's eighth album "Dangerous" on November 11, 1991. Slash plays guitar at the start. Michael wrote the song with Bill Bottrell. It reached number one in the United States.
In 1992, Weird Al Yankovic made a song called "Snack All Night". The song was never released, but he performed it at a concert. 
The video was directed by John Landis. It is eleven minutes long. 500 million people watched it when it was shown for the first time in 27 different countries at once. This was the most people to ever watch a music video at once. The video starts with Macaulay Culkin. Tyra Banks is at the end of the short version of the video.

</doc>
<doc id="425516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425516" title="Happy (Michael Jackson song)">
Happy (Michael Jackson song)

"Happy" is a song by Michael Jackson. It is the fourth song on his third album "Music & Me". It was released as a single in Australia in 1973. It was written by Michel Legrand and
Smokey Robinson.

</doc>
<doc id="425530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425530" title="Girlfriend (Wings song)">
Girlfriend (Wings song)

"Girlfriend" is a song written by Paul McCartney. It was originally recorded by his band Wings in 1978. Michael Jackson covered the song on his 1979 album "Off the Wall". It was released in the UK as the album's fifth single.

</doc>
<doc id="425535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425535" title="The Way You Make Me Feel">
The Way You Make Me Feel

"The Way You Make Me Feel" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was the third single from Jackson's seventh album "Bad". It was produced by Quincy Jones. Like the two singles before it, it reached number 1 in the "Billboard" Hot 100. It was also number 1 in Spain. He performed the song at the 1988 Grammy Awards. After Jackson died in 2009 the song entered the charts again.
In the video Jackson follows a girl called Tatiana Thumbtzen around and sings "The Way You Make Me Feel". La Toya Jackson appears as one of the girl's friends.

</doc>
<doc id="425537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425537" title="Man in the Mirror">
Man in the Mirror

"Man in the Mirror" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was written by Siedah Garrett
and Glen Ballard. It was released as the fourth single from Jackson's seventh album, "Bad". It was nominated for Record of the Year at the Grammy Awards. It reached number one in the "Billboard" Hot 100. 
In 2009 Michael Jackson died and the song entered the charts again. It reached number two in the UK Singles Chart. This was much higher than when the song was first released in 1988.

</doc>
<doc id="425538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425538" title="Dirty Diana">
Dirty Diana

"Dirty Diana" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the fifth single from "Bad" April 18, 1988. It is about groupies. Steve Stevens plays guitar in it.

</doc>
<doc id="425539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425539" title="Another Part of Me">
Another Part of Me

"Another Part of Me" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was in Jackson's 1986 3-D film "Captain EO". It was released as the sixth single from Jackson's seventh album "Bad" on July 11, 1988. "Another Part of Me" was not going to be on "Bad". But after Jackson's manager Frank DiLeo danced along to the song, it was decided that the song would be featured on the album. The song reached number eleven in the "Billboard" Hot 100.

</doc>
<doc id="425540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425540" title="Smooth Criminal">
Smooth Criminal

"Smooth Criminal" is a song written by Michael Jackson. It is the theme song of Jackson's 1988 movie "Moonwalker". It reached number 1 in the Netherlands, Flanders, and Spain.
On April 10, 2006 it was released again as a single from the "Visionary: The Video Singles" box-set. It was number 1 in Spain again.
In 2001, Alien Ant Farm released a cover version of the song. It was their first single. It was a number-one hit.

</doc>
<doc id="425541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425541" title="Leave Me Alone">
Leave Me Alone

"Leave Me Alone" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the eighth single from Jackson's seventh album "Bad" in 1987. It reached number two in the UK Singles Chart. In Ireland it reached number one. The video won a Grammy Award in 1990 for Best Short Form Music Video.

</doc>
<doc id="425542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425542" title="Liberian Girl">
Liberian Girl

"Liberian Girl" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was the ninth single from "Bad". It was only released in Europe and Australia. It starts with the South African female singer Letta Mbulu saying "Nakupenda pia- nakutaka pia-mpenziwex", Swahili for "Love you too. I want you too, my love." Swahili is not actually spoken in Liberia. It reached number 1 in Ireland. The music video has lots of Jackson's celebrity friends in it. In 2009 the song came back into the charts in the UK, France, and Switzerland after Michael Jackson died.

</doc>
<doc id="425543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425543" title="Remember the Time">
Remember the Time

"Remember the Time" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the second single from his album "Dangerous" on January 14, 1992. It was written by Teddy Riley, Jackson, and Bernard Belle. When the single was released Jackson dedicated the song with love to Diana Ross. The music video is nine minutes long. John Singleton directed it. In 2006 the song was released again. It reached number 2 in the Spanish chart.

</doc>
<doc id="425546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425546" title="Who Is It (Michael Jackson song)">
Who Is It (Michael Jackson song)

"Who Is It" is a song by Michael Jackson.
It was released as the fifth single from "Dangerous". Jackson wrote the song and he produced it with Bill Bottrell. He didn't perform the song in any of his tours.

</doc>
<doc id="425549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425549" title="Gone Too Soon">
Gone Too Soon

"Gone Too Soon" is a song made popular by Michael Jackson. It was written by Larry Gossman and Buzz Kohan.
In 1993, Jackson performed it at the celebration for Bill Clinton becoming the President of the United States.
In 1997, when Princess Diana died, Jackson let the song be put on an album called "Tribute". The album was a collection of songs made to remember her. The money made from the album was given to the Diana, Princess of Wales Memorial Fund.
Usher performed the song at Jackson's memorial service in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="425551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425551" title="Stranger in Moscow">
Stranger in Moscow

"Stranger in Moscow" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the fifth single from "". Jackson wrote the song in September 1993 when he was in Moscow doing his Dangerous World Tour. The single reached number one in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="425552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425552" title="They Don't Care About Us">
They Don't Care About Us

"They Don't Care About Us" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the fourth single from "" on March 31, 1996. Two videos were made for the song. This was the first time Jackson made two videos for a single. The first video was filmed in two places in Brazil, Dona Marta and Salvador. It was number 1 in Germany for three weeks.
Jackson was going to perform the song in his This Is It concerts in 2009.
In 2009, Northern Kings published their own version of the song on their album "Rethroned".

</doc>
<doc id="425554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425554" title="Smile (Charlie Chaplin song)">
Smile (Charlie Chaplin song)

"Smile" is a song with music composed by Charlie Chaplin. This music was the theme for the soundtrack of one of Chaplin's movies, "Modern Times" (1936). The music had no lyrics. It was originally written in D minor. John Turner and Geoffrey Parsons added lyrics and a title in 1954. The lyrics are based on lines and themes from the movie. The singer is telling the listener to smile and be optimistic. "Smile" has become a popular song since its original use in Chaplin's movie.
The song, with its lyrics, was originally sung by Nat King Cole in 1954. Michael Jackson recorded his own version of the song in March 1993 for his album "" in 1995.

</doc>
<doc id="425555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425555" title="You Are Not Alone">
You Are Not Alone

"You Are Not Alone" is a song sung by Michael Jackson. R. Kelly wrote it. The video was directed by Wayne Isham. Lisa Marie Presley, who was Jackson's wife at the time, is in the video. It is the first song to go straight to number 1 on the "Billboard" Hot 100. It was also number one in the United Kingdom, Wallonia, France, New Zealand, Spain and Switzerland.
Diana Ross sung a cover version of the song on her 1996 album "Voice of Love".
On November 15, 2009, the last twelve acts from the sixth series of the British talent show "The X Factor" released a cover of the song.

</doc>
<doc id="425557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425557" title="Is It Scary">
Is It Scary

"Is It Scary" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was written to be on the soundtrack to "Addams Family Values". It was released to radio stations and clubs on November 8, 1993.

</doc>
<doc id="425558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425558" title="Blood on the Dance Floor (song)">
Blood on the Dance Floor (song)

"Blood on the Dance Floor" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the first single from "". Jackson made the song for his 1991 album "Dangerous".

</doc>
<doc id="425565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425565" title="Hold My Hand (Michael Jackson and Akon song)">
Hold My Hand (Michael Jackson and Akon song)

"Hold My Hand" is a song by Michael Jackson featuring Akon. It was recorded in 2008. It was released posthumously in 2010, a year after Jackson's untimely death. It reached ten in the UK Singles Chart.

</doc>
<doc id="425566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425566" title="Hollywood Tonight">
Hollywood Tonight

"Hollywood Tonight" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released posthumously on the album "Michael", after Jackson's untimely death.

</doc>
<doc id="425567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425567" title="Behind the Mask (song)">
Behind the Mask (song)

"Behind the Mask" is a synthpop song by the band Yellow Magic Orchestra. It was written by the band's keyboardist, Ryuichi Sakamoto. It was first produced in 1978 for a Seiko advertisement. It was later released in 1979 on the band's album "Solid State Survivor". English lyrics were added by Chris Mosdell.
Michael Jackson sang his own version of it. It was released in 2010, a year after Jackson's death on the album "Michael". Jackson's version was released as a single in France.

</doc>
<doc id="425578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425578" title="Too Young (popular song)">
Too Young (popular song)

"Too Young" is a popular song. The music was written by Sidney Lippman. The lyrics were written by Sylvia Dee. The song was published in 1951.
Many people have sung their own versions of it. One of the best-known versions of the song was recorded by Nat King Cole in 1951. It reached the number 1 position on the "Billboard" charts. A version by Donny Osmond in 1972 was also successful. It spent eight weeks on the record charts, with a peak position of #13. Michael Jackson also recorded a version of the song.

</doc>
<doc id="425587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425587" title="We Are the World">
We Are the World

"We Are the World" is a song written by Michael Jackson and Lionel Richie. It was first performed by the band USA for Africa in 1985. It was produced by Quincy Jones. It was meant to raise funds and awareness for the poor in Africa. It sold over 20 million copies. 800,000 records were sent out when the single was released. They were all sold in three days. It won three Grammy Awards. At the 1985 MTV Video Music Awards it won Best Group Video and Viewer's Choice.
The video showed the song being recorded at A&M Recording Studios. It was sold as a video cassette.
The group Artists for Haiti released their own version of the song in 2010. It was titled "We Are the World 25 for Haiti". It was a charity song to help victims of the earthquake in Haiti.

</doc>
<doc id="425598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425598" title="Why (3T song)">
Why (3T song)

"Why" is a song by 3T. Kenneth "Babyface" Edmonds wrote the song. The single was produced by Michael Jackson. This song was well received in European and Asian charts.

</doc>
<doc id="425603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425603" title="Heaven Can Wait (Michael Jackson song)">
Heaven Can Wait (Michael Jackson song)

"Heaven Can Wait" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released October 30, 2001 on Jackson's album "Invincible". It is one of Jackson's slowest songs. Teddy Riley and Jackson wrote the song for the group BLACKstreet. Jackson asked Riley to give the song to him.

</doc>
<doc id="425606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425606" title="Fall Again">
Fall Again

"Fall Again" is a song written and composed by Walter Afanasieff and Robin Thicke in 1999. They made it for Michael Jackson to perform. Jackson recorded a demo (draft) of the song in 1999 for his album "Invincible". He never finished it, however, and the song was never added to the album. It has since been performed by many other artists.

</doc>
<doc id="425619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425619" title="Don't Be Messin' 'Round">
Don't Be Messin' 'Round

"Don't Be Messin' 'Round" is a song by Michael Jackson which did not make the cut for his "Bad" album. It was included in the track listing of "Bad 25".

</doc>
<doc id="425630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425630" title="Cee-Lo Green... Is the Soul Machine">
Cee-Lo Green... Is the Soul Machine


</doc>
<doc id="425632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425632" title="Cee Lo's Magic Moment">
Cee Lo's Magic Moment

Cee Lo's Magic Moment is the first Christmas studio album and overall fourth studio album by American singer Cee Lo Green on October 29, 2012 in the United Kingdom. It was released in the US on October 30 by Elektra Records. Green's versions of "Mary, Did You Know?" and "What Christmas Means to Me" were well-liked by the listeners. The album has sold many copies.
In the album, Green sings classic Christmas and seasonal songs in his own way. Rod Stewart, Christina Aguilera, Straight No Chaser, Trombone Shorty and The Muppets also sing with Green in the album. Stewart and The Muppets performed with Green the album's tracks at the Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino in Las Vegas on October 10, 2012.
A music video was produced for "All I Need Is Love", which featured Cee-Lo, many of The Muppets and Craig Robinson.

</doc>
<doc id="425633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425633" title="Michael Jackson singles discography">
Michael Jackson singles discography

This page lists singles released by Michael Jackson. It is a partial list only. It includes singles released physically (those that could be bought at a record shop) and other singles released on radio. It does not include re-issues.
The list shows how successful each single was on national record charts by listing the highest position each single reached on each chart. The national charts included are for the United States, Australia, Austria, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, New Zealand, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
Listed at the bottom are the record sales certifications for each single, which marks how many copies of each single were sold. The certifications are by RIAA, ARIA, Music Canada, IFPI Denmark, SNEP, BVMI, IFPI Norway, Recorded Music NZ, PROMUSICAE, IFPI Switzerland, and BPI.
This list includes:

</doc>
<doc id="425646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425646" title="Thriller">
Thriller

Thriller can refer to several things:

</doc>
<doc id="425657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425657" title="Penile cancer">
Penile cancer

Penile cancer is cancer of the penis. It is relatively rare in developed countries. In developing countries, however, it is much more common. It can be dangerous.

</doc>
<doc id="425681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425681" title="Carl Rogers">
Carl Rogers

Carl Ransom Rogers (January 8, 1902 – February 4, 1987), was a 20th-century humanistic (client-centered) psychologist. His 1969 collection of essays, "Freedom to Learn", was influential for a young generation in the late 1960s and through the 1970s. Rebellions against college teaching methods, the deschooling movement, flower power and the alternative society often referred to Roger's ideas in their various pamphlets. Rogers is regarded as the second most influential therapist (clinical psychologist) of the 20th century (behind Freud).
Rogers was born and raised in Oak Park, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago. His parents were Walter Rogers and Julia Cushing. He was the fourth of six children. Rogers was educated in a strict, religious environment. He was first interested in studying agriculture at the University of Wisconsin-Madison with a focus on history and religion. His interest changed from agriculture to religion. He received a bachelor's degree in 1924. After that, he entered a liberal Protestant seminary in New York City. That went against the views of his conservative father. Rogers spent two years in seminary. He later transferred to Columbia University Teachers College, where he worked with John Dewey. Rogers received his master's degree in 1928. In 1931, he received a PhD in clinical psychology from Columbia University.
After receiving his PhD, Rogers worked at Ohio State University, the University of Chicago, and the University of Wisconsin. During that time, he developed what was later known as client-centered therapy. After his work at the University of Wisconsin, Rogers worked at the Western Behavioral Studies Institute in LaJolla, California. From there he and several other people formed the Center for Studies of the Person (CSP). He remained there until his death in 1987.
During the last ten years of his life, Rogers used his person-centered approach in a broader field of work. He used helping relationships in the resolution of inter-group and international conflict. He and his colleagues conducted many experiments in cross cultural communication and peacemaking in the Carl Rogers Peace Project. For this work, Rogers was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. The work is not widely known, but it puts Rogers' contributions into a wider social and political context.

</doc>
<doc id="425689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425689" title="Survivor Series (2003)">
Survivor Series (2003)

Survivor Series (2003) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 16, 2003 at the American Airlines Center in Dallas, Texas. It was the seventeenth Survivor Series event held by the WWE.

</doc>
<doc id="425703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425703" title="Newark Liberty International Airport">
Newark Liberty International Airport

Newark Liberty International Airport , first named Newark Metropolitan Airport and later Newark International Airport, is an airport located in New Jersey. It is located between Newark and Elizabeth. It is around 15 miles (24 km) southwest of Midtown Manhattan in New York City. It is owned by the city of Newark and run by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. It was the first major airport in the United States. It is the busiest airport in the New York metropolitan area by number of flights.
The New York City metropolitan area's John F. Kennedy International Airport, LaGuardia Airport, and Newark Liberty International airports are the largest airport system in the United States. They are the second busiest system of airports in the world by number of passengers. They are the busiest in the world in terms of total flight operations. In 2012, the airport had just under 34 million million passengers. JFK had 49.3 million, and LaGuardia had 25.7 million.
On September 11, 2001, United Airlines Flight 93 left Newark on its way to San Francisco International Airport. Two hours later, it crashed into a field just outside of Shanksville, Pennsylvania, killing all crew members and passengers on the plane. The passengers had tried to take over the plane from a team of terrorists who took over it. Had it not crashed in Pennsylvania, it is believed that the plane would have crashed into the United States Capitol or the White House. In 2002, to honor the people who were killed on September 11, the airport's name was changed from "Newark International Airport" to "Newark Liberty International Airport". 

</doc>
<doc id="425715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425715" title="Cinquillo">
Cinquillo

The cinquillo is a syncopated rhythm found in a number of Afro-Latin musical styles. It is present in the Cuban habanera and danzón, and in the Argentine tango. It is, with polyrhythms, a characteristic African influence on Latin music.

</doc>
<doc id="425718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425718" title="Home theater">
Home theater

A home theater or home theatre is a theater built in a home. Home theaters are designed to be like watching a movie at a movie theatre. 

</doc>
<doc id="425723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425723" title="Wireless access point">
Wireless access point

In computer networks, a wireless access point is a device that allows people to connect devices on a wireless LAN to a wire-based network.

</doc>
<doc id="425731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425731" title="Section.80">
Section.80

Section.80 is the first studio album by Kendrick Lamar. It was released on July 2011 through Top Dawg Entertainment. Its lyrics tell stories about two different women "Keisha" and "Tammy". It was supported by the promotional conscious hip hop song "HiiiPoWeR".
The album was a success, It caught the attention of Dr. Dre who discovered Kendrick Lamar and sighned him to Aftermath Records and Interscope Records. 
The album Section.80 is a concept album which lyrics revolve around two different women: "Keisha" and "Tammy". Keisha is a fictional prostitute who seeks prostitution only to her demise. Tammy is women who had a boyfreind and leaves him after discovering she was unfaithful and kills him and also talks about another women going through the same thing, These two women then become lesbian and become afraid of all males. HiiiPoWeR is a protest song that was the only single realeased from Section.80, The music veidio was realeased with the begin showing a statment from Lamar, saying that he was ordered to write the album and claims Tupac Shakur was in his dream and gave him advise. The lyrics to the album deal with racism as well as many other topics. Lamar said in a interveiw that Section.80 is for people who are from the 1980s which is probably the reason why the album is called that. 
The album cover shows ammuntion to a rifle with the bible covered with weed and a lighter. This sparked some controversy, saying it is disrespectful to the bible. Lamar responded lightly to this and apoligized.

</doc>
<doc id="425734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425734" title="Good Kid, M.A.A.D City">
Good Kid, M.A.A.D City

Good Kid, M.A.A.D. City (written as good kid, m.A.A.d city) is the second studio album by Kendrick Lamar. It was released on October 22, 2012 through Top Dawg Entertainment, Aftermath Records and Interscope Records. After the realease of Lamar's mixtape "Overly Dedicated" (2010), Dr.Dre quickly sighned him to his record label Aftermath.
The lyrics are about Lamar's childhood, living in Compton. He experienced gang violence and the use of drugs, which left him stuck on that type of style. It was supported by several singles, including: "Bitch, Don't Kill My Vibe", "Swimming Pools (Drank)", "Money Trees", "Backseat Freestyle", "m.A.A.d. city", and "The Recipe". Other musicians featured on the album include Dr.Dre, Jay-Z, Schoolboy Q, MC E, Black Hippy, Jay Rock and Drake.
Tracklisting

</doc>
<doc id="425739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425739" title="Suicide prevention">
Suicide prevention

Suicide prevention refers to the efforts of local organizations, mental health doctors and nurses and psychologists to stop people from attempting suicide. One thing to do is stop people who are about to attempt suicide. Another way to stop people from attempting suicide is to treat the symptoms of depression, help people to cope during a time of crisis, reduce the issues that put people at risk of attempting suicide, and give people hope for a better future. 
Suicide is not just a medical or mental health issue. Making sure people have friends and family to help them and taking away dangerous items can also stop people from attempting suicide.
In the U.S., there is a National Strategy for Suicide Prevention. It was created by the Department of Health and Human Services in 2001. Suicide prevention activities include messages aimed at people and messages for everyone in the community.
In 2001, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services created a National Strategy for Suicide Prevention. The document looks at how suicide can be stopped in the community. The strategy does not say how to help individual people. The document has the following goals:
To help stop people from attempting suicide, many methods have been used:
It has also been suggested that news media can help prevent suicide by linking suicide with negative results, such as pain for the pain felt by the family.
Many methods of stopping suicide exist. These include talking to the person, looking for risks, and making it harder for people to get dangerous items.
The World Health Organization says a good way to help people who are suicidal is to talk to them. The person can also be asked about depression, and if they plan to attempt suicide. Talking with people about suicide does not create suicidal thoughts.The doctor has to show concern and compassion. Doctors should try to reduce sadness and let the person know that people care. The WHO says not to not say everything will be all right. However, some people who have talked about suicide have attempted it. This means that doctors need to make sure the person is comfortable talking about his or her feelings.
The U.S. Surgeon General says there are ways to find out which people are at risk of suicide. This may be the best way to stop children and adolescents from attempting suicide.
There are tools like questionnaires to help doctors to know who is at risk. One example is the Beck Hopelessness Scale. These questionnaires are good for finding adolescents and young adults who might want to attempt suicide. Doctors should interview people who seem to be at risk. Questionnaires may not always tell doctors which person will attempt suicide Asking about suicide does not increase the risk.
In approximately 75 percent of suicides, the people had seen a doctor in the last year. About 45 to 66 percent of people saw a doctor the month they committed suicide. About 33 to 41 percent of those who committed suicide had used mental health services in the prior year. About 20 percent used mental health services in the month before they committed suicide. This shows that doctors need to get better at knowing which people will attempt suicide.
An important part of suicide prevention is making it hard for people to get dangerous items. Making it hard for people to get dangerous items can lead to less suicides. Putting up fences at bridges and cliffs reduces suicides. Putting up signs or increasing patrols is not so helpful One example of making dangerous items less available is coal gas in the United Kingdom. Until the 1950s, the most common way of committing suicide in the UK was poisoning by inhaling coal gas. In 1958, natural gas was used instead. Natural gas is much less dangerous. So less people committed suicide.
In the United States,studies show that firearms increase suicide risk. Because guns are quick and more dangerous than other suicide method, they lead to more suicides.
Treatments to reduce the risk of suicide can include medical approaches, prescription medicine, and talk therapy.
About 10% of people with psychiatric problems may have a medical condition that the doctor does not know about which is causing their symptoms. About 50% may have a medical condition that the doctor does not know about which is making their symptoms worse. Illegal drugs and prescribed medications may also cause problems. Treating medical conditions may reduce the risk of suicidal ideas. 
Recent research shows that lithium lowers the risk of suicide for people with bipolar disorder.
Talk therapy can reduce suicidal ideas such as Dialectical behavior therapy (DBT). Benefits include a reduction in self-harm behaviour and suicidal ideas. Cognitive Behavior Therapy for Suicide Prevention (CBT-SP) helps adolescents at high risk of suicide attempts.
The World Health Organization states that "worldwide, suicide is among the top five causes of mortality in the 15- to 19-year age group. In many countries it ranks first or second as a cause of death among both boys and girls in this age group". The organization says teens need help with difficult and stressful life situations." It also says that teachers need to prevent bullying and violence at schools.
Many non-profit organizations exist that try to prevent suicide. Examples include the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention in the United States, which provide crisis hotlines. In addition, some groups such as To Write Love on Her Arms use social media to reach more people.

</doc>
<doc id="425743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425743" title="Dialectical behavior therapy">
Dialectical behavior therapy

Dialectical behavior therapy (DBT) is a form of psychotherapy developed by Marsha M. Linehan, a psychology researcher at the University of Washington. Linehan originally developed DBT to help people with borderline personality disorder (BPD).
DBT uses cognitive-behavioral techniques to get patients to control their emotions and test what reality is. It also tests the patient's tolerance for distress, and tries to get them to accept their situation and be aware of their feelings.
Linehan's ideas about how to be aware of your feelings come from Buddhist meditation. DBT may be the first therapy that has been shown to be effective in treating BPD. It can also help patients with spectrum mood problems, including self-injury. DBT may help victims of sexual abuse and people addicted to drugs.

</doc>
<doc id="425750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425750" title="National Library of Greece">
National Library of Greece

The National Library of Greece is the national library of Greece. It is located in Athens. It was created in 1832.

</doc>
<doc id="425753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425753" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Sourav Nanda">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Sourav Nanda


</doc>
<doc id="425755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425755" title="Obstetrics">
Obstetrics

Obstetrics is the medical speciality that deals with helping a woman during pregnancy and childbirth. It is part of gynaecology

</doc>
<doc id="425758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425758" title="Transgender Day of Remembrance">
Transgender Day of Remembrance

Transgender Day of Remembrance (TDoR) is an event that happens every year on November 20 around the world. It is about remembering transgender people who were killed by people who do not like transgender people (transphobes). It was started in 1998 by Gwendolyn Ann Smith, a transwoman. Smith made the event because a transwoman called Rita Hester was murdered. It happens on the last day of Transgender Awareness Week.

</doc>
<doc id="425759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425759" title="National Library of Spain">
National Library of Spain

The National Library of Spain () is the national library of Spain. It is located in Madrid. It is Spain's largest library. It is also one of the world's largest libraries. It was started by King Philip V of Spain in 1712.

</doc>
<doc id="425760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425760" title="Category:People from Manila">
Category:People from Manila


</doc>
<doc id="425768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425768" title="Jack T. Chick">
Jack T. Chick

Jack Thomas Chick (April 13, 1924 – October 23, 2016) was an American publisher, writer, and comic book artist. He mainly wrote evangelical Christian fundamentalist tracts and comic books. His comics have been described as hate literature by the "Los Angeles Magazine". He was born in Los Angeles, California.
Chick's company, Chick Publications, claims to have sold over 750 million tracts, comics tracts and comic books, videos, books, and posters designed to spread Protestant evangelism from a fundamentalist Christian point of view. Many of his tracts are controversial. For example, some of the tracts accuse Roman Catholics, Freemasons, Muslims and many other groups of murder and conspiracies. Chick says his views are just not politically correct.
His views have been spread around the world, mostly through the tracts and now online. They have been translated into more than 100 languages. Chick is an Independent Baptist who follows a premillennial dispensationalist view of the end times. He is an firm believer in the King James Only movement, which says that every English translation of the Bible more recent than 1611 promotes heresy.
Chick tracts are used to spread Evangelicalism and evangelical Christian ideas. The most known of tracts is This Was Your Life!, which was made in 1964. They are known for spreading fundamentalist beliefs and even banned in some countries as hate literature. Some of his tracts are shown in the Smithsonian Institution.
Chick died on October 23, 2016 in Los Angeles from complications of diabetes, aged 92.

</doc>
<doc id="425778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425778" title="Hatfield, Herefordshire">
Hatfield, Herefordshire

Hatfield is a small village near Leominster in Herefordshire. In the village is a caravan site called Fair View caravan site. It has a small church called Hatfield St. Leonard, built . It is of Norman design. It is built of local sandstone. Other nearby and towns include Bockleton, Bromyard and Leominister. The city of Hereford is south of Hatfield. The Herefordshire Trail (walking trail) runs through the village.

</doc>
<doc id="425789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425789" title="Lindsey (kingdom)">
Lindsey (kingdom)

The kingdom of Lindsey was in approximately what is now Lincolnshire. At the time of the Roman conquest of Britain, it was a part of the territory of the Corieltauvi tribe. Lindsey appears in the 7th century list called the Tribal Hidage, where it is shown to be the same size as Essex and Sussex, all of which were set at 7,000 hides. It was a lesser Anglo-Saxon kingdom which was disputed over by Northumbria and Mercia. It ceased to exist as an independent kingdom during the reign of Offa of Mercia.
Lindsey was between the River Humber on the north and the Witham on the south. To the east lay the North Sea and the west border was the River Trent. The Roman canal called Foss Dyke connected the Witham with the Trent on the southwestern border. Also to the west was Hatfield Chase, a low lying area of marshes. This meant Lindsey was completely surrounded by water. This led to the popular belief that Lindsey was an Island.
The name Lindsey comes from the word "Lindissi" (also spelled "Lindesse" and "Lindesig"). Lindsey is a British name and not an Old English (or the Anglo-Saxon language) name. Lindsey was an Anglo-Saxon kingdom but it had a strong Celtic population. Lindsey seems to have been an independent kingdom with its own Celtic rulers for a time. It came under the control of Northumbria from –658. Then it was subject to Mercia from –. It returned to Northumbrian control again from –679. In 679 it was taken over by Mercia. Its kings were reduced in rank to Ealdormen.
The conversion to Christianity in Lindsey began by Paulinus. Bishop Wilfrid was appointed the bishop of Northumbria, which included Lindsey, in 665. After a delay, he was installed as bishop in 669. When he was expelled from Northumbria in 678, his diocese was divided up. Archbishop Theodore formed Lindsey into a separate diocese with its own bishop. According to the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, in the year 678 Eadhed was the first bishop of Lindsey. In the 9th century, the Danes (Vikings) colonized Lindsey. This marked the end of the diocese of Lindsey.
"Haethfieldlande" or Hatfield was another minor Anglo-Saxon kingdom listed in the Tribal Hidage. Very little is known about Hatfield and nothing of its kings. Unlike other petty kingdoms in this area of Britain, the name here is of Anglo-Saxon origin and not British. According to the Tribal Hidage, 'Hatfield-land' was merged with Lindsey into a single kingdom. Afterwards it became known simply as Hatfield Chase, an area on the west part of Lindsey, later part of Yorkshire and Lincolnshire. Hatfield was the site of a synod held by Theodore, the Archbishop of Canterbury . It was a royal residence of several kings of Northumbria. Edwin of Northumbria was killed here at the Battle of Hatfield Chase on 12 October 633. Later, Hatfield became a part of the East Riding of Yorkshire.
The Anglian collection is a collection of royal genealogies and regnal lists. It was put together during the reign of Alhred of Northumbria (765-774). It records the kings of Deira and Bernicia (which became Northumberland), Mercia, Lindsey, Kent, East Anglia and Wessex. These genealogies all trace back to Woden. The most trustworthy name in the Lindsey genealogy is Caedbaed, according to most modern historians. The family of Aldfrið is also considered fairly certain. The other names are simply from the list with little or no additional information. The list of kings of Lindsey begins with:
None of dates are certain. With regard to Aldfrith, the witness list for an Anglo-Saxon charter includes an "Ealfrid rex". This dates to some time between 787 and 796.

</doc>
<doc id="425794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425794" title="Rick Ross">
Rick Ross

William Roberts Leonard II(born January 28, 1976), better known by the stage name Rick Ross, is an American rapper and former civil servant. He is the founder of Maybach Music Group. This group has helped release three of Ross' albums, including "Deeper Than Rap" (2009), "Teflon Don" (2010), and "God Forgives, I Don't" (2013). MTV named him the "Hottest MC in the Game" in 2012.
In July 2008, "The Smoking Gun" claimed that Ross used to work in a prison. They also released a photograph of him in prison officer clothes. At first, Ross said that that was a lie; but after more proof was published in the media, Ross admitted to having worked as a correctional officer in Florida before.

</doc>
<doc id="425798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425798" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Category:Gene Siskel">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Category:Gene Siskel


</doc>
<doc id="425799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425799" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Category:Roger Ebert">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Category:Roger Ebert


</doc>
<doc id="425800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425800" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Category:Walt Disney">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Category:Walt Disney


</doc>
<doc id="425802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425802" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/User:Nilpaul">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/User:Nilpaul


</doc>
<doc id="425809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425809" title="Social cognitive theory">
Social cognitive theory

Social cognitive theory emphasizes how cognitive, behavioral, personal, and environmental factors interact to determine motivation and behavior. Social cognitive theory was presented by Albert Bandura in response to his dissatisfaction with the principles of behaviorism and psychoanalysis. His research is primarily focused on self-efficacy, the beliefs regarding one's capabilities of completing tasks or goals successfully.
Albert Bandura (born December 4, 1925) is a psychologist who did work on social learning. He is credited for "social learning theory". This theory was renamed "social cognitive theory".
His theory defines human behavior as a three-way, dynamic, and reciprocal interaction of personal factors, behavior, and the environment. According to this theory, the behavior of an individual is determined by three factors with more emphasis on the cognitive processes that mediate learning. Response consequences of a behavior are used as expectations of behavioral outcomes. It is the ability to form these expectations that give humans the capacity to predict the outcomes of their behavior, before the behavior is performed. In addition, the social cognitive theory posits that most behavior is learned vicariously. Bandura's social cognitive theory suggests that humans can learn through observation without imitating the observed behavior. Bandura is also credited with the theoretical construct of self-efficacy and is responsible for the research in the influential 1961 Bobo doll experiment.
Social cognitive theory explains psychosocial functioning in terms of triadic reciprocal causation. In this causal model, behavior, personal factors and the environment operate as interacting determinants that influence each other bi-directionally. Bandura deemed that individuals can learn through observing others without the need for imitating such behavior. With vicarious learning capabilities, an individual could learn through observing others' behaviors and the rewards or consequences of those behaviors. The bi-directional influences of this causal model results in the remarkable intercultural and intracultural diversity evident in our planet. Social cognitive theory calls to mind that learning occurs when an individual takes the observed behavior and incorporates it into their own knowledge.
Social cognitive theory suggests people are neither driven by global traits nor automatically shaped and controlled by the environment. They serve as contributors to their own motivation, behavior, and development within a network of reciprocally interacting influences.
The social cognitive theory explains behavior in terms of a three-way interaction between the environment, personal factors, and behavior. It does not imply that one factor may be stronger than others. They do not all occur simultaneously. Bandura states that the interaction between the three factors will differ based on the individual, the particular behavior being examined, and the specific situation in which the behavior occurs.
The person-behavior interaction involves the bi-directional influences of one's thoughts, emotions, and biological properties and one's actions. A person's expectations, beliefs, self-perceptions, goals, and intentions give shape and direction to behavior. The behavior expressed will affect one's thoughts and emotions. The social cognitive theory accounts for biological personal factors, such as sex, ethnicity, temperament, and genetic predisposition and the influences they have on behavior.
In addition, a two-way interaction occurs between the environment and personal characteristics. Human expectations, beliefs, and cognitive competencies are developed and modified by social influences and physical structures within the environment. The social factors can express information and trigger emotional reactions through modeling, instruction, and social persuasion. Humans evoke different reactions from their social environment as a result of their physical characteristics, such as age, size, race, sex, physical attractiveness.
The final interplay takes place between behavior and the environment. Bandura argues that people are both products and producers of their environment. A person's behavior will determine the aspects of their environment to which they are exposed. The behavior is modified by that environment. An individual's behavior can affect the way in which they experience the environment through selective attention. Selective attention refers to the vast range of possibilities of how humans select whom they interact with and the activities they participate in. The environment partly determines which forms of one's behavior are developed and activated.
Observational or "social" learning is regulated by four component process, which results in a person translating a modeled event into a performance that is matched with the model. According to Bandura, a model can be either an actual person or symbolic, such as a book, a picture, or a set of instructions. The process consists of four variables: "attention", "retention", "behavior production", and "motivation". Each of these components has a function to engage either in the attainment of information about events or in the decision to put this information to use in guiding behavior.
Psychologists use the term "self-efficacy" to describe beliefs about one's ability to accomplish particular tasks. Individuals with higher self-efficacy are more confident in their abilities to accomplish a given task. It is often associated with greater decision making strategies, quick recovery from a setback, and a stronger sense of commitment to their interests and activities. According to Bandura, there are four major sources of self-efficacy:
Bandura explains that the most effective way of developing a strong sense of self-efficacy is through "mastery experiences". Successfully completing a task strengthens our sense of self-efficacy. However, failing to adequately complete a challenge can undermine and weaken self-efficacy. "Social modeling" is the act of witnessing other people successfully completing a task. The second influential way of creating and strengthening self-efficacy beliefs is through "vicarious experiences" provided by social models. Bandura suggests that watching people similar to oneself succeed with sustained effort raises the observers' beliefs that they also have the ability to master similar activities to succeed.
In addition, research shows that social comparison of one's own performance to the performance of others, especially peers or siblings, serve as a strong source of self-efficacy. Schools are also considered a strong source of self-efficacy. It is good to note that schools are based on the evaluation of students by comparing individual performance to the group's performance. However, this type of evaluation can result in severe problems in self-efficacy for those who lag behind or have trouble with academics.
Television reality shows can manipulate abstract portrayals of human nature, social relations, and the norms and the structure of society. Social cognitive theory states that humans can learn by observing how other people behave. In research about mass media, the social cognitive theory is referenced as a framework that might explain certain behaviors and influences from media effects. Bandura suggests that television influences the viewers' beliefs about reality. It is not because people watch too much television but rather the content of the televised show. To see the world as the televised messages portray it is to harbor some misconceptions. New behaviors and their potential consequences can be represented, observed and imitated because of the influences of television or the internet.
In one study, researchers argued that the positive correlation between television viewing and the initiation of youth smoking was a result of the rarity with which television portrays the negative consequences of smoking. In another study, researchers theorized that the positive relationship between exposure to women's magazine and women's drive for thinness is a function of the tendency for women's magazines to link thinness to positive consequences, thus engendering extrinsic motivation for dietary behavior. There are also studies that reference social cognitive theory to explain the possible effects of mass media regarding race and gender. Though these studies did not test social cognitive theory directly, but instead drew from its concepts to assume how it would explain the effect acknowledged in their study.
Social cognitive theory suggests goals influence people's cognitive and emotional reactions to performance outcomes because goals indicate the requirements for personal success. People have created guides and motivators for activities that lead to their desired outcome. Bandura found that goal systems gain motivating power through self-evaluative and self-efficacy mechanisms that are activated by cognitive comparison. It can improve an individual's cognitive well-being and accomplishments in several ways.
Goals have strong motivational effects. They provide an individual with a sense of direction and purpose. They also help to build an individual's self-efficacy. Successfully completing a goal increases an individual's self-beliefs in their capabilities. Bandura links this effect with the increase interest in what an individual is doing and the increase in self-satisfaction. Motivation through goals provide an ongoing source of self-efficacy, interest, and satisfaction. Those without these characteristics are often unmotivated and uncertain about their abilities.

</doc>
<doc id="425810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425810" title="Absolute threshold of hearing">
Absolute threshold of hearing

The absolute threshold of hearing (ATH) is the minimum loudness of a pure tone that an average ear with normal hearing can hear with no other sound present. The absolute threshold relates to the sound that can just be heard by the organism. This is also known as the auditory threshold.
The threshold of hearing in humans is 20 µPa (micropascals) = 2×10 pascal (Pa). The tympanic membrane of the ear operates as a sound pressure sensor, as does a microphone
Measurement of the absolute hearing threshold provides some basic information about our auditory system. The tools used to collect such information are called psychophysical methods.
Because human hearing is more sensitive to some frequency bands than others, thresholds vary depending on the frequency of the stimulus tone.

</doc>
<doc id="425812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425812" title="International Bank Account Number">
International Bank Account Number

The International Bank Account Number is an internationally-recognised way of identifying bank account numbers. Its abbreviation is "IBAN". The IBAN was developed to enable people in the European Union to send money to a bank account in another country. When a person uses a computer to make a money transfer, the IBAN has features that allow the person’s computer to check for typing errors.
The IBAN is now used in all European countries and also in many developing countries. Developed countries outside Europe such as the United States, Australia and Canada do not use the IBAN.
IBANs are usually written in groups of four characters. This makes it easy for people to copy the numbers.
The first four characters in an IBAN have the same meaning throughout the world. Each country has its own layout for the rest of the IBAN. For example "" is a British IBAN for a bank account at the National Westminster Bank. The parts of this IBAN are described below:
The letters in the second row have the following meanings: 
A computer can check an IBAN by changing it into an integer and dividing the number by 97. If the IBAN is valid, the remainder equals 1. The rules for changing the IBAN to an integer are:
For Example check that "codice_1" is a valid IBAN. 
Many computer programs have been written to check whether or not an IBAN is valid. These programs do not check whether or not an IBAN is genuine. They do check that a genuine IBAN has been copied correctly. UNESCO maintains one such program and have made the source code public. It will detect a large number of mistakes that users might make when they are copying a genuine IBAN by hand. These mistakes include: 
The IBAN was developed to make it easier to transfer money from a bank in one EU country to a bank in another EU country. This was important when people bought goods from other countries. 
The rules for the IBAN were drawn up by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in 1997. They were revised in 2003 and again in 2007. The rules that were written in 2007 consist of two rule books:
All bank accounts within the European Union must have an IBAN. Bank accounts can also have a domestic bank account identifier. The domestic bank account identifier in the United Kingdom is the sort code and bank account number. During 2014 all banks in Europe that use the euro must start using the IBAN for customer account numbers. They will no longer be allowed to use older national systems.
The IBAN is also used in many developing countries including Brazil, Pakistan. Turkey and many counties in the Middle East.

</doc>
<doc id="425856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425856" title="Yonkers (song)">
Yonkers (song)

"Yonkers" is a song by Odd Future's frontman Tyler, The Creator. It is from his debut studio album "Goblin". It features hardcore lyrics and also contains insults directed at singers Hayley Williams of the band Paramore, Bruno Mars and rapper B.o.B.. This song is the one that Odd Future gained mainstream success with. It was high on the Billboard charts, but lost to Katy Perry's Firework. In response to the insults, B.o.B. made a song entitled "No Future".

</doc>
<doc id="425859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425859" title="Channel Orange">
Channel Orange

Channel Orange (written as channel, ORANGE) is the first studio album by Frank Ocean. It was released in July 2012 through Def Jam. The cover shows an orange box that is almost full, which is a reference to the summer that Ocean had first fallen in love. It featured the song "Thinkin Bout You" as well as the other successful songs "Lost", "Pyramids", "Sweet Life" and "Super Rich Kids". The lyrics are dealing with Oceans experience with unrequited love, sex, drugs and nostalgia. It won a Grammy Award.
1."Start-0:46
2."Thinkin Bout You"-3:18
3."Fertilizer-0:40

</doc>
<doc id="425862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425862" title="Odd Future Records">
Odd Future Records

Odd Future Records is a record label founded by Tyler The Creator in 2011. It is based on the group Odd Future. It has signed acts such as Odd Future as well as its . It also has signed other acts such as The Jet Of Tommorow and Internet.

</doc>
<doc id="425866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425866" title="HiiiPoWeR">
HiiiPoWeR

"HiiiPoWeR" is the debut single by Kendrick Lamar. It is a conscious hip hop song. It was released in April 2011 through Top Dawg Entertainment. It was a promotional single that was produced by J.Cole. Its lyrics make references to African-American activists such as Martin Luther King and are about racism and the media. HiiiPoWeR was the only single realeased out of the album "Section.80". The reason why the title has 3 ‘i’s is because it stands for Honor, Respect and Heart according to Lamar. Lamar was influenced by Thug Life, a hip hop group led by Tupac Shakur.

</doc>
<doc id="425867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425867" title="Syrian civil war">
Syrian civil war

The 
Syrian civil war, also known as the Syrian uprising or Syrian crisis (), is an ongoing armed conflict in Syria. It is a conflict between forces of the Ba'ath government and forces who want to remove this government. The conflict began on 15 March 2011, with demonstrations. These demonstrations were like demonstrations held in other Arab countries, which has been called the Arab Spring. Protesters in Syria demanded the resignation of President Bashar al-Assad. His family has held the presidency in Syria since 1971. Many of Assad's supporters are Shia while the majority of the government opposition is Sunni.
In April 2011, the Syrian Army fired on demonstrators across the country. After months of military battles, the protests turned into an armed rebellion. Opposition forces were soldiers who had left the Syrian army and civilian volunteers. Opposition fighters had no central leadership. Battles took place in many towns and cities across the country. In late 2011 the Islamist group al-Nusra Front began to have a bigger role in the opposition forces. In 2013 Hezbollah entered the war in support of the Syrian army.
The Syrian government received military support from Russia and Iran. Qatar and Saudi Arabia gave weapons to the rebels. By July 2013, the Syrian government controlled approximately 30–40 percent of the country's territory and 60 percent of the Syrian population. A 2012 UN report said the battles were between different sects or groups. The battles were between Shia groups against Sunni rebel groups.
According to the United Nations, over 100,000 people were killed by June 2013. A total of 120,000 were killed by September 2013. In addition, tens of thousands of protesters were put in jail. There were reports that the Syrian government was torturing prisoners. International organizations accused both government and opposition forces of breaching human rights. The UN said most of the abuses were carried out by the Syrian government. More than 4 million Syrians were forced to relocate because of the battles and more than 2 million refugees left their country. Millions of citizens are still short of electricity, food and drinking water.
In 2013 the Syrian regime used Chemical weapons against the rebels. This drew attention from the international community. The government reportedly surrendered their chemical weapons in 2014 but continued the war using other weapons. Later in 2014, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant became the most powerful opposing army, controlling more territory than the Syrian government itself.

</doc>
<doc id="425902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425902" title="Art music">
Art music

Art music is a term which includes classical music, and various kinds of serious modern music. Other terms for it are serious music, and legitimate music.
The need for such terms came with the modern movement in the arts. Clearly the music of, say, Schonberg was serious, bur not classical in the sense of Bach and Beethoven. Stravinsky's music was a bridge between the two genres. It was classical music in part, and touched with African-influenced syncopations and dischords. So terms like "art music" and "modern music" were used by art critics and academics in their writing.
It is an umbrella term for serious music with a written musical tradition. The notion of art music is a frequent and well defined term, referred to by musicologist Philip Tagg as one of an "axiomatic triangle consisting of 'folk', 'art' and 'popular' musics". He explains that each of these three is distinguishable from the others according to certain criteria. The main tradition in the Western world is usually called classical music. In this regard, it is frequently used as a contrasting term to popular music and traditional or folk music.

</doc>
<doc id="425906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425906" title="Soap&amp;Skin">
Soap&amp;Skin

Soap&Skin (born 5 April 1990) is an Austrian singer. Her real name is Anja Franziska Plaschg. She plays piano and sings in English and sometimes German. She has released two albums.
Plaschg grew up in a village called Gnas. She started playing piano when she was six. When she was fourteen she started playing violin.
In 2008 she released an EP called "Untitled".
In 2009 she released her first album, "Lovetune for Vacuum". Pitchfork gave it a good rating, 7.3. It was No.5 in the Austrian chart.
In 2010, "Brother of Sleep" and "Marche Funèbre", songs from "Lovetune for Vacuum", were used in the soundtrack for the movie "War Games: At the End of the Day".
In 2011 she sung on the song "Goodbye" on Apparat's album "The Devil's Walk". The song was played in the last episode of Season 4 of "Breaking Bad".
In February 2012 she made a chocolate for Zotter. It has cumin, red wine, and pig's blood.
She released her second album "Narrow" in March 2012. It reached No.1 in the Austrian chart. A BBC music critic compared its sound to that of Bjork. NME gave it 7/10.
In 2012 she acted in a film for the first time. The film is called "Stilleben". She plays a prostitute called Carmen.
On March 11 2013 "Sugarbread", Soap&Skin's second EP, was released. It has three songs. The second song, "Me and the Devil", is a Robert Johnson cover. Drowned in Sound gave "Sugarbread" 7/10.

</doc>
<doc id="425917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425917" title="Dutch resistance">
Dutch resistance

The Dutch resistance was a movement of Dutch people who fought against the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands during World War II. They fought the Nazis in many different ways, mostly without using violence. The resistance helped to hide 300,000 people in the autumn of 1944.
Dutch resistance developed slowly. In 1941, Dutch people organized a strike, called the February strike, to protest against the Nazis deporting over 400 Jews. This encouraged the resistance. The Dutch communists set up a system of cells (small groups of resistance members). Some other very amateur groups also formed, like De Geuzen, set up by Bernard IJzerdraat. Some military groups started, such as the Ordedienst ('order service'). Most groups were discovered by the Nazis during the first two years of the war.
Dutch resistance groups gathered counterintelligence (information about the Nazis), committed sabotage, and formed communications networks. This helped the Allied forces, beginning in 1944 and continuing until the Netherlands was liberated. About 75% (105,000 out of 140,000) of Dutch Jews were killed in the Holocaust, most of them murdered in Nazi death camps. A number of resistance groups specialized in saving Jewish children. Somewhere between 215 and 500 Dutch Romanis were also killed by the Nazis.
The Dutch defined several types of resistance. They did not think of these things as resistance:
Only active resistance in the form of spying, sabotage, or fighting with weapons was considered resistance.
Thousands were arrested by the Nazis and jailed for months, tortured, sent to concentration camps, or killed.
The Dutch February Strike of 1941, protesting deportation of Jews from the Netherlands, was the only such strike in Nazi-occupied Europe. It was not defined as resistance by the Dutch. 
After the war, the Dutch created and awarded a Resistance Cross to only 95 people.
Before the Germans invaded, the Netherlands were neutral. The Dutch had not fought in a war with any European nation since 1830. During World War I, the Netherlands were not invaded by Germany. The German ex-Kaiser even fled to the Netherlands in 1918. Because of this, the German invasion in World War II was a great shock. The Netherlands ordered its army to get ready in September 1939.
Even thought Netherlands was still neutral, and had not gotten involved with any side during World War II, the country's large merchant fleet was attacked by the Germans after the beginning of World War II. The Nazis sank the Dutch passenger ship SS "Simon Bolivar" in November 1939, killing 84 people. This shocked the Netherlands. This was not the only Dutch ship that was destroyed.
On 10 May 1940, German troops started to attack the Netherlands. The Germans invaded with about 750,000 men. This was three times the size of the Dutch army. The Germans invaded with 1,100 planes (the Dutch army had 125) and six armoured trains. They destroyed 80% of the Dutch military aircraft by bombing, although the Germans did lose over 500 planes in the attack. 
The Nazis tried the first large-scale paratroop attack in history, which failed. The Dutch retook control of the three airfields the Germans had captured. The Dutch army owned only one tank.
Major areas of military resistance were in: 
After four days, the Germans had invaded 70% of the country. Adolf Hitler ordered Rotterdam to be destroyed. Nazi bombing left about 85,000 Dutch civilians homeless. The Dutch surrendered.
About 2,000 Dutch soldiers died fighting the Nazi invasion. So did at least 800 civilians, who died in Rotterdam.
The Nazis' goal was to make the Dutch into Nazis. The country's wide-open areas made it difficult to hide illegal activities - unlike, for example, the "Maquis" in France, who had many hiding places.
The first German round-up of Jews in February 1941 led to the first general strike against the Germans.
Dutch social democrats, Catholics, and communists started the resistance movement. At first, if the Germans discovered people were involved in the resistance, they put them in jail. However, if a person was a member of an armed or military group, the Nazis could send them to concentration camps. After mid-1944, Hitler ordered his soldiers to shoot all resistance members. The Nazis also did revenge attacks against civilians, where they killed innocent civilians after resistance activities happened.
The Nazis deported the Dutch Jews to concentration and extermination camps. They started building fortifications along the coast and constructed 30 airfields. They forced adult males between 18 and 45 to work in German factories or on public work projects. In 1944, most trains were sent to Germany and 550,000 Dutch people were sent to Germany as laborers. Resistance became better organized and more forceful. The resistance killed high-ranking Dutch officials, such as General Seyffardt.
In the Netherlands, the Germans managed to kill many Jews.
On 25 February 1941, the Communist Party of the Netherlands called for a general strike, the 'February Strike'. German troops reacted by fired on unarmed crowds, and taking many prisoners. However, the strike was important because resistance against the Nazi occupation got stronger afterward. 
Dutch resistance was usually secret. Resistance in the Netherlands included sabotage (like cutting phone lines, distributing anti-German leaflets, or tearing down posters). Some small groups collected intelligence and published underground papers such as "De Waarheid", "Trouw", "Vrij Nederland", and "Het Parool." They also sabotaged phone lines.
Another important resistance activity was hiding Jewish families like Anne Frank's, resistance fighters, men and Allied aircrew. The resistance hid over 300,000 people from the Nazis.

</doc>
<doc id="425925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425925" title="Tyler The Creator">
Tyler The Creator

Tyler Okonma, better known by his stage name Tyler, The Creator, is an American rapper. He is best known for his albums "Bastard", "Goblin" and his recent album "Wolf". He is also known for creating the rap group called "OFWGKTA", w

</doc>
<doc id="425930" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425930" title="Kika">
Kika

Kika is a 1994 comedy movie. The title character gets involved in relationships with different men and is assaulted several times. One of these assaults is by a pornographic movie actor with a very low IQ. He assaults Kika with serious force and is then pulled from her by two unknown people.
The movie originally received an NC-17 just before its release in the United States half a year after completion. The rating, though, was surrendered, and "Kika" was then released unrated.

</doc>
<doc id="425941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425941" title="Maurice Vachon">
Maurice Vachon

Maurice Vachon (September 14, 1929 - November 21, 2013) was a Canadian professional wrestler. He is best known under his ring name, "Mad Dog" Vachon
He was known for competing in American Wrestling Association (AWA) where he played one of the all-time great heels. He spent four decades wrestling and retired in 1986. He is a member of the Vachon wrestling family with his brother Paul and sister Vivian Vachon, and the uncle of wrestler Luna Vachon. He died on November 21, 2013.
He was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame by Pat Patterson in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="425946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425946" title="Kearney, Nebraska">
Kearney, Nebraska

Kearney is a city in Nebraska, United States. It is in the south-central part of Nebraska. The city began in the late 19th century. The previous name of the city was Dobytown, but the area was later renamed "Kearney". 
The 2010 Census recorded the population of Kearney at about 30,800. The city has grown in recent years.

</doc>
<doc id="425949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425949" title="Pavel Bobek">
Pavel Bobek

Pavel Bobek (16 September 1937 − 20 November 2013) was a Czech singer. He worked with many musical artists such as Lou Reed, Johnny Cash, Frank Zappa, Kenny Rogers, and John Denver. 
Bobek was born on 16 September 1937 in Prague, Czechoslovakia. He studied to become an architect. Bobek died on 20 November 2013 from a long illness in Prague, Czech Republic, aged 76.

</doc>
<doc id="425950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425950" title="Hell house">
Hell house

Hell houses are attractions normally run by Christian churches. They show sin, the torture of the damned in hell, and usually end with a depiction of heaven. They are normally run on Halloween.
A hell house is like a haunted house attraction. It is a building used for actors attempting to frighten people with gruesome exhibits and scenes. They are presented as a series of short vignettes with a guide. Unlike haunted houses, hell houses focus on the effects of sin or the fate of unrepentant sinners in the afterlife. They occur during the month of October to take advantage of the similarities between hell houses and haunted houses.

</doc>
<doc id="425962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425962" title="Field Mob">
Field Mob

Field Mob is an American hip hop group from Albany, Georgia. The members of the group are Shawn Timothy Johnson and Darion Crawford, better known by their stage names "Shawn Jay" and "Smoke". Field Mob is currently a part of T-Pain's label Nappy Boy Entertainment.

</doc>
<doc id="425966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425966" title="Crooks, South Dakota">
Crooks, South Dakota

Crooks is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Minnehaha County, and 1,269 people lived there at the 2010 census.

</doc>
<doc id="425969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425969" title="Survivor Series (2002)">
Survivor Series (2002)

Survivor Series (2002) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 17, 2002 at Madison Square Garden in New York City. It was the sixteenth Survivor Series event held by the WWE.

</doc>
<doc id="425972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425972" title="Kimberly Hamilton">
Kimberly Hamilton

Kimberly Hamilton (born January 30, 1977) is an American television writer of soap operas. She has written for the series "Guiding Light". She was part of the series' writing team that was nominated for an Emmy Award in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="425973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425973" title="Cura Mori District">
Cura Mori District

Cura Mori District is one of nine districts of the province Piura in Peru.

</doc>
<doc id="425977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425977" title="International Association of Fire Fighters">
International Association of Fire Fighters

International Association of Fire Fighters (IAFF) is an international organization dedicated to the firefighters. It was established in 1918 in the United States. The IAFF is a part of the AFL-CIO in the United States and the Canadian Labour Congress in Canada. They are based in Washington, DC.

</doc>
<doc id="425991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425991" title="Society for American City and Regional Planning History">
Society for American City and Regional Planning History

Society for American City and Regional Planning History (SACRPH) is an American non-profit organization for the history of urban planning. It was established in 1986 in Ohio, United States. The organization's members includes urban planners, architects, historians, environmentalists, landscape designers, preservationists, students and scholars from across the country and around the world. The organization also publishes books and the "Journal of Planning History". It has award ceremonies and gives advice to governments about architecture and urban conservation.

</doc>
<doc id="426026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426026" title="Winx Club: The Secret of the Lost Kingdom">
Winx Club: The Secret of the Lost Kingdom

Winx Club: The Secret of the Lost Kingdom is an animated movie based on the television series "Winx Club". The story poola continues from after the events of the first three seasons. It is an Italian movie. It was first shown on November 30, 2007 in Italian cinemas.

</doc>
<doc id="426027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426027" title="Indian gooseberry">
Indian gooseberry

The Indian gooseberry is a deciduous tree of the family Phyllanthaceae. It is known for its edible fruit of the same name.

</doc>
<doc id="426037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426037" title="Survivor Series (2001)">
Survivor Series (2001)

Survivor Series (2001) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on November 18, 2001 at Greensboro Coliseum in Greensboro, North Carolina. It was the fifteenth Survivor Series event held by the WWF.

</doc>
<doc id="426039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426039" title="Survivor Series (2000)">
Survivor Series (2000)

Survivor Series (2000) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on November 19, 2000 at Ice Palace in Tampa, Florida. It was the fourteenth Survivor Series event held by the WWF.

</doc>
<doc id="426058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426058" title="Whitehorse">
Whitehorse

Whitehorse is the capital of Yukon, Canada. It is the also largest city in northern Canada. It is on the Alaska Highway and the Yukon River.

</doc>
<doc id="426061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426061" title="The End of the World">
The End of the World

"The End of the World" is a song about feeling sad and breakups. The song was released in late 1962, though it did not become a hit until spring of the following year. The song was first performed by Skeeter Davis. It was later recorded by other artists including Nancy Sinatra, Brenda Lee, Johnny Mathis, Loretta Lynn and Anne Murray. In several cases the song had a strong chart play and performance in the United States, United Kingdom and several other areas.

</doc>
<doc id="426062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426062" title="Baltic, South Dakota">
Baltic, South Dakota

Baltic is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Minnehaha County, and 1,089 people lived there at the 2010 census. Baltic became a city in 1907.

</doc>
<doc id="426063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426063" title="Janet Mock">
Janet Mock

Janet Mock (born 1984 in Honolulu, Hawaii) is an American writer and activist for transgender rights.
In 2012 she started #GirlsLikeUs. It is a Twitter campaign for transgender women. In 2012's Black History Month, "The Grio" put her in their list of most influential people in the African-American community. Until 2012, Mock was a journalist for "People" magazine. 
In March and April 2013, she was a guest on "The Melissa Harris-Perry Show" on MSNBC. In April 2013 We Happy Trans and This Is H.O.W released the first Trans 100 list. Trans 100 is a list of one hundred American transgender activists. Mock was on the list. In June 2013 "The Out List", a documentary about LGBT Americans, was released. Mock was in it.
Her first book, "", was published February 4, 2014. Mock was on "Piers Morgan Tonight" on the day of the book's release. She was on the show again on February 5.
She lives in New York City with her boyfriend Aaron Tredwell.
In 2011, Mock wrote an article talking about being transgender for "Marie Claire". Before this people did not know that she was born male. That year she made a video for Dan Savage's It Gets Better Project.

</doc>
<doc id="426066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426066" title="Bohol (province)">
Bohol (province)

The Province of Bohol (; ) is an island province of the Philippines in the Central Visayas region, consisting of one main island, Bohol, and more than 70 smaller islands. Its capital is Tagbilaran.
The province is a popular place among tourists with its beaches and resorts. The Chocolate Hills, many small hills of limestone formations, is the most popular attraction. There are many hotels in the southern beaches.
It is the home province of Carlos P. Garcia, the eighth president of the Republic of the Philippines (1957–1961) who was born in Talibon.
The people of Bohol are said to be the descendants of a group of inhabitants who settled in the Philippines called "pintados" or "tattooed ones".
The earliest significant contact of the island with Spain occurred in 1565. In that year, a Spanish explorer named Miguel López de Legazpi came to Bohol looking for spices and gold. He made a peace pact with Datu Sikatuna in a place called Bool. This pact was signed with a blood pact between the two men. This event, called the "Sandugo" ("one blood"), is celebrated in Bohol every year during the Sandugo Festival. The "Sandugo" or blood compact is also depicted on Bohol's provincial flag and the Bohol provincial seal.
Bohol was administered as a "residencia" of Cebu. It became a separate politico-military province on July 22, 1854 together with Siquijor. A census in 1879 found Bohol with a population of 253,103 distributed among 34 municipalities.
The Bohol province was created on March 10, 1917.
The Bohol island has many small hills. There are two mountain ranges that run roughly parallel on the northwest and the southeast. The main mountain range of the island is "Sierra Bullones" on the southeast, along the south coast. It begins near Loboc, goes to the east and then to the northeast to end near Candijay. The highest point of this range and in the entire province is Mount Mayana, high.
A plateau in the interior plateau of the island has many limestone hills. In Carmen, Batuan and Sagbayan, these hills form near perfect cones in great numbers and are known as the Chocolate Hills.
The are many white sandy beaches along the coast of the main island and in other islands of the province. The most well known of these beaches are in Panglao Island, and there, numerous islets have similar, yet untouched and beautiful beaches.
The Panglao island is relatively flat with two hills. The island is known for its beautiful beaches, and the most famous of these is "Alona Beach" on the south side of the island.
The Lapinig island is to the northeast of the Bohol island, in front of the municipality of Pres. Carlos P. Garcia. The island is flat with hills in the middle to a height of .
There are four main rivers that flow through Bohol:
Numerous waterfalls and caves are scattered across the island, including the beautiful "Mag-Aso" falls in Antequera.
The islands surrounding mainland Bohol that are part of the province of Bohol are:
Bohol has, like the rest of the Philippines, a tropical climate. The average temperature is high and the humidity is also high. The dry and the wet seasons are very similar. The province is in the path of typhoons; it can be affected by them but is somewhat protected by the mountains of surrounding islands, as Leyte, Samar and Mindanao. The northeast monsoon ("Amihan") is from November to April and the average temperatures are slightly lower than the temperatures during the southwest monsoon ("Habagat"), from August to October.
The main language spoken in Bohol is Boholano, a dialect of Cebuano. In addition, Tagalog and English are also spoken by many people.
The majority of the population of Bohol is Roman Catholic. Protestants and Iglesia ni Cristo form a large part of the remainder.
The Bohol province had a population, in 2010, of 1,255,128, for a population density of inhabitants/km.
The municipality with more people living in is the capital, Tagbilaran (96,792), followed by Ubay (68,578) and Talibon (61,373).
The province of Bohol is divided into 47 municipalities and 1 city.It has 1,109 barangays.

</doc>
<doc id="426072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426072" title="Help:Convert messages">
Help:Convert messages

This page describes the error and warning messages reported by if a problem is detected while using to convert a value from one unit of measurement to another.
If a problem cannot readily be resolved, please report it at one of the following.
Mouseover the message to see further information.
An input number is required. In the first example above, the input number is codice_3.
Pages with this error are automatically placed in .
Mouseover the message to see further information.
The first input number was specified, but the range used requires another number.
Pages with this error are automatically placed in .
Mouseover the message to see further information.
A number to be converted can be entered as in these examples: codice_9 or codice_10 or codice_11.
Fractions are entered as in these examples: codice_12 (1⁄) or codice_13 (−1⁄) or codice_14 (⁄).
Pages with this error are automatically placed in .
Mouseover the message to see further information.
This error occurs if a number exceeds the range of values available for calculations. The number 1e290 means 1×10.
Pages with this error are automatically placed in .
Mouseover the message to see further information.
A precision value is entered after the conversion information. For example, gives a result that is rounded to two decimal places, while rounds to the nearest 100 so that two zeroes occur at the end of the number. This message will only appear if warnings have been enabled.
Pages with this error are automatically placed in .
Mouseover the message to see further information.
Generally there is no reason to use a precision of more than a few decimal places, however, larger values may be used. The error shown occurs if the requested precision is higher than the maximum supported by the server.
A negative precision rounds to the nearest 10 (parameter ), or nearest 100 (), or nearest 1000 (), etc. A large negative precision produces a zero output.
Using a very small input value can cause the default precision to exceed the limit (codice_24 is 1.234×10). For such very small values, it is better to use the option.
Pages with this error are automatically placed in .
Mouseover the message to see further information.
The number of significant figures in the result can be specified. For example, requests three significant figures. The number of significant figures must be a whole number with value 1 or more. This message will only appear if warnings have been enabled.
Pages with this error are automatically placed in .
Mouseover the message to see further information.
The option specifies that US spelling should be used ("meters" instead of "metres"). However, is ignored as no value is specified. This message will only appear if warnings have been enabled.
Pages with this error are automatically placed in .
Mouseover the message to see further information.
The option specifies that abbreviations are off, that is, unit names will be used instead of symbols. By contrast, is ignored because "abr" is not the name of an option. This message will only appear if warnings have been enabled.
Pages with this error are automatically placed in .
Mouseover the message to see further information.
A unit code must be specified following the input number or numbers.
Pages with this error are automatically placed in .
Mouseover the message to see further information.
Each unit code must exactly match a known unit, case sensitive. A simplified list of unit codes is at , and all available unit codes are .
Pages with this error are automatically placed in .
Mouseover the message to see further information.
It is only possible to convert between units that have the same type. For example, codice_45 and codice_46 are each of type "pressure" so a codice_45 value can be converted to codice_46. However, a codice_45 value cannot be converted to a unit of a different type, such as codice_50 (hectare) which has type "area".
Pages with this error are automatically placed in .
Mouseover the message to see further information.
Some unit codes are not supported; using them results in an message indicating that a different unit code should be chosen.
Pages with this error are automatically placed in .
Mouseover the message to see further information.
Some units can only be used as outputs. For example "codice_60" displays a temperature in Celsius and Fahrenheit. Such a unit cannot be used with an input value, because, for example, there is no such temperature as "codice_61". Some output combinations are predefined—"codice_60" is one example, and "codice_63" (miles and kilometres) is another. It is also possible to construct an output combination by joining unit codes with "codice_64". However, individual units have to be specified, and an output combination cannot be used.
Pages with this error are automatically placed in .

</doc>
<doc id="426073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426073" title="Category:Convert invalid units">
Category:Convert invalid units


</doc>
<doc id="426074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426074" title="Category:Convert invalid options">
Category:Convert invalid options


</doc>
<doc id="426075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426075" title="Chittenden County, Vermont">
Chittenden County, Vermont

Chittenden is a county of Vermont in the United States. The county seat is Burlington. In the 2010 count, 156,545 people lived in this county.

</doc>
<doc id="426076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426076" title="Chemung County, New York">
Chemung County, New York

Chemung is a county of New York in the United States. The county seat is Elmira. In the 2010 count, 88,830 people lived in this county.

</doc>
<doc id="426077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426077" title="Concordia Parish, Louisiana">
Concordia Parish, Louisiana

Concordia is a parishes of Louisiana in the United States. The parish seat is Vidalia. In the 2010 count, 20,822 people lived in this parish.

</doc>
<doc id="426078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426078" title="Jackson Parish, Louisiana">
Jackson Parish, Louisiana

Jackson is a parish of Louisiana. The parish seat is Jonesboro. In the 2010 count, 16,274 people lived in this parish.

</doc>
<doc id="426079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426079" title="Webster Parish, Louisiana">
Webster Parish, Louisiana

Webster Parish is a parish of Louisiana in the United States. The parish seat is Minden. In the 2010 count, 41,207 people lived in this parish.

</doc>
<doc id="426080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426080" title="Brewster County, Texas">
Brewster County, Texas

Brewster County is a county in the state of Texas in the United States. In 2010, 9,232 people lived there. The county seat is Alpine. The county was named for Colonel Henry Percy Brewster, who was Secretary of War for the Republic of Texas.

</doc>
<doc id="426082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426082" title="La Salle Parish, Louisiana">
La Salle Parish, Louisiana

La Salle is a parish of Louisiana in the United States. The parish seat is Jena. In the 2010 count, 14,890 people lived in this parish.

</doc>
<doc id="426083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426083" title="Avoyelles Parish, Louisiana">
Avoyelles Parish, Louisiana

Avoyelles is a parish of Louisiana in the United States. The parish seat is Marksville. In the 2010 count, 42,073 people lived in this parish.

</doc>
<doc id="426084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426084" title="Allen Parish, Louisiana">
Allen Parish, Louisiana

Allen is a parish of Louisiana in the United States. The parish seat is Oberlin. In the 2010 count, 25,764 people lived in this parish.

</doc>
<doc id="426085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426085" title="Bienville Parish, Louisiana">
Bienville Parish, Louisiana

Bienville is a parish of Louisiana in the United States. The parish seat is Arcadia. In the 2010 count, 14,353 people lived in this parish.

</doc>
<doc id="426086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426086" title="Arcadia, Louisiana">
Arcadia, Louisiana

Arcadia is a large town in Louisiana, United States. It is the parish seat of Bienville Parish.

</doc>
<doc id="426088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426088" title="Wilfried Martens">
Wilfried Martens

Wilfried Achiel Emma Martens (19 April 1936 – 9 October 2013) was a Belgian politician. 
He was born in Sleidinge (East Flanders). During his political career, Martens served as the Prime Minister of Belgium from 3 April 1979 to 6 April 1981 and 17 December 1981 to 7 March 1992.
Martens died of lung cancer which may had been caused by asbestos exposure on 9 October 2013, at his home in Lokeren. He was 77. 

</doc>
<doc id="426089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426089" title="Piet de Jong">
Piet de Jong

Petrus Jozef Sietse "Piet" de Jong (April 3, 1915 – July 27, 2016) was a Dutch politician. He was for the Catholic People's Party (KVP) now merged into the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA).
Petrus Josef Sietse de Jong was born on April 3, 1915 in Apeldoorn in the Netherlands Province of Gelderland. He studied at the Royal Netherlands Navy as a midshipman in 1931 and soon attended the Royal Netherlands Naval College in Den Helder. 
He served as Prime Minister of the Netherlands from April 5, 1967 until July 6, 1971.
De Jong is known for his dry wit and quick remarks. His abilities as a team leader were greatly admired. The Cabinet De Jong was the first cabinet after World War II that completed a full term without any internal conflicts.
de Jong was married to Anneke Bartels from 1947 until her death in 2010. They had three children. He lived at The Hague. de Jong died at his The Hague home from natural causes on July 27, 2016, aged 101.
Until his death in July 2016, he was the oldest and earliest serving former Prime Minister of the Netherlands and the oldest living state leader at the age of . Over forty years after he left office, De Jong was comment on political affairs as an elder statesman.

</doc>
<doc id="426091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426091" title="Howard Cooke">
Howard Cooke

Sir Howard Felix Hanlan Cooke, ON, GCMG, GCVO, CD, K.St.J (13 November 1915 – 11 July 2014) was the Governor-General of Jamaica from 1 August 1991 until 15 February 2006 when he became the first governor-general to invest his own successor, Professor Kenneth Octavius Hall. He was styled His Excellency while in office as governor-general.

</doc>
<doc id="426093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426093" title="Đỗ Mười">
Đỗ Mười

Đỗ Mười (born 2 February 1917, in Thanh Tri District) is a Vietnamese communist politician. He served as the General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Vietnam from 27 June 1991 through 29 December 1997.
Muoi was born on 2 February 1917 in Dong Phu, Thanh Trì, Hanoi as Nguyễn Duy Cống. 

</doc>
<doc id="426102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426102" title="Harold Holzer">
Harold Holzer

Harold Holzer (born February 5, 1949 in Brooklyn, New York) is an American historian and writer. He is known for being an educator of the life of Abraham Lincoln and the Civil War era. He was the script consultant to the Steven Spielberg movie, "Lincoln". Holzer is the chairman of the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission.

</doc>
<doc id="426103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426103" title="Constantine Mitsotakis">
Constantine Mitsotakis

Constantine Mitsotakis or Konstantinos Mitsotakis (born 18 October 1918) is a Greek politician. He is the former Prime Minister of Greece from 11 April 1990 through 13 October 1993. 
He was born in Chania, Crete, to a political family: his father and grandfathers were members of parliament, and the great liberal leader Eleftherios Venizelos was his uncle. He graduated in law and economics from the University of Athens.
He was married to Marika Mitsotakis (née Giannoukou) from 1953 until her death on 6 May 2012. They had four children.
In January 2004 Mitsotakis announced that he would retire from Parliament at the 7 March election, 56 years after his first election.

</doc>
<doc id="426105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426105" title="Patricio Aylwin">
Patricio Aylwin

Patricio Aylwin Azócar (November 26, 1918 – April 19, 2016) was a Chilean retired politician. He served as President of Chile from March 11, 1990 through March 11, 1994. He was the first president of Chile after democracy was restored in 1990. He was also a lawyer and former senator. 
Aylwin was born in Viña del Mar, Chile on November 26, 1918. He married Leonor Oyarzún in 1948. They had five children. Aylwin died on April 19, 2016 at his home in Santiago from heart failure, at the age of 97.

</doc>
<doc id="426106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426106" title="Leonor Oyarzún">
Leonor Oyarzún

Leonor Oyarzún Ivanovic (born 10 March 1919) was the First Lady of Chile. She was the wife of former President Patricio Aylwin.
Oyarzún was born on 1919 in Temuco. She married Aylwin in 1948 and they have five children. They have 14 grandchildren (among them, telenovela actress Paz Bascuñán). Aylwin died in April 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="426107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426107" title="Émile Derlin Zinsou">
Émile Derlin Zinsou

Émile Derlin Zinsou (born 23 March 1918 in Ouidah) is an Beninese politician. Zinsou served as the President of Benin from 17 July 1968 until 10 December 1969. He was previously Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1962 to 1963 and again from 1965 to 1967. He is said to have opposed the one-party Marxist policies of Mathieu Kérékou, who ruled Benin from 1972 to 1990.

</doc>
<doc id="426108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426108" title="Hyun Soong-jong">
Hyun Soong-jong

Hyun Soong-jong (born 26 January 1919) is a South Korean politician. He served as Prime Minister from October 1992 through 1993. He was nominated by then-President of South Korea Roh Tae-woo. Soong-jong is one of the oldest former world leaders alive today.

</doc>
<doc id="426110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426110" title="Mohammed Karim Lamrani">
Mohammed Karim Lamrani

Mohammed Karim Lamrani (born 1 May 1919) was the Prime Minister of Morocco three times. Lamrani is one of the oldest former living world leaders who are still alive today. 
Lamrani was born in Fes on 1 May 1919.
Lamrani served as the Prime Minister three times: from 6 August 1971 to 2 November 1972, then from 30 November 1983 and 30 September 1986 and lastly from 11 August 1992 to 25 May 1994. 

</doc>
<doc id="426112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426112" title="Mitja Ribičič">
Mitja Ribičič

Mitja Ribičič (19 May 1919 – 28 November 2013) was a Slovenian former politician.
He was the only Slovenian prime minister of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (1969–1971). Between 1945 and 1957, he was at the top of the repressive system in Slovenia, and has been accused of violations of human rights and crimes against humanity.
He was born in a Slovene-speaking family in Trieste, Italy on 19 May 1919. Ribičič died on 28 November 2013 in Ljubljana, Republic of Slovenia, aged 94.

</doc>
<doc id="426114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426114" title="Category:Vermont counties">
Category:Vermont counties


</doc>
<doc id="426117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426117" title="CrazySexyCool: The TLC Story">
CrazySexyCool: The TLC Story

CrazySexyCool: The TLC Story is a television movie about the R&B/hip hop group TLC. The title comes from the group's second album, "CrazySexyCool". It aired on VH1 on October 21, 2003.
The film got 4.5 million viewers when it aired on VH1, making it the highest-rated television movie of 2013, and the highest-rated television movie in VH1 history.

</doc>
<doc id="426119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426119" title="Mount Daniel">
Mount Daniel

Mount Daniel is the highest peak of the Ammergau Alps. It is above sea level. It is in Tyrol, Austria above the villages Ehrwald and Leermoos. It is near two other peaks, Upsspitze and Hochschrutte.
The climb to Mount Daniel first goes to Tuftalm, a small lodge. From there, there are two paths to Mount Daniel, a easier one, and a more difficult one. Tuftalm is above Lermoos. To get there there is a path from Erwhald or from Lermoos.

</doc>
<doc id="426134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426134" title="Category:People from Ile-de-France">
Category:People from Ile-de-France


</doc>
<doc id="426141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426141" title="U Can't Touch This">
U Can't Touch This

"U Can't Touch This" is a song by American rapper MC Hammer. It is part of his 1990 album "Please Hammer, Don't Hurt 'Em". It was released on January 13, 1990. This song is considered to be his signature song. It is one of his most popular songs.

</doc>
<doc id="426149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426149" title="Category:Museums in Haifa">
Category:Museums in Haifa


</doc>
<doc id="426152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426152" title="Category:Museums in Tel Aviv">
Category:Museums in Tel Aviv


</doc>
<doc id="426158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426158" title="TNA Bound for Glory">
TNA Bound for Glory

Bound for Glory is a yearly pay-per-view made by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). The event is usually produced in October and is similar to their rival WWE's WrestleMania. The first Bound for Glory event took place on October 23, 2005 at the TNA Impact! Zone in Orlando, Florida. 

</doc>
<doc id="426159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426159" title="Jerusalem Nature Museum">
Jerusalem Nature Museum

The Jerusalem Nature Museum is a children's museum dedicated to nature. It was established in 1962 in the German Colony in Jerusalem.

</doc>
<doc id="426160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426160" title="Bloomfield Science Museum">
Bloomfield Science Museum

The Bloomfield Science Museum in Jerusalem is a museum about science for children. It is in Givat Ram, Jerusalem. It was established in 1992.

</doc>
<doc id="426162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426162" title="ISOCARP">
ISOCARP

The International Society of City and Regional Planners (ISOCARP) is an international association of people who work in urban planning. It was created in 1965. It now has members from more than 80 countries. ISOCARP is formally recognised by the United Nations and Council of Europe. It works with UNESCO. It is not under the control of any government.

</doc>
<doc id="426163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426163" title="Sikorsky UH-60 Blackhawk">
Sikorsky UH-60 Blackhawk

The Sikorsky UH-60 Blackhawk or Sikorsky S-70 is a U.S. military helicopter. It is used by the U.S. Army as a standard assault helicopter. It replaced the Bell UH-1 Iroquois. Sikorsky SH-60 Seahawk and Sikorsky VH-60N White Hawk are specialized variants of it.

</doc>
<doc id="426167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426167" title="Journal of Planning History">
Journal of Planning History

The Journal of Planning History is an academic journal about urban planning and design. It is published in the United States by the Society for American City and Regional Planning History. A new issue is published four times each year.

</doc>
<doc id="426168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426168" title="Sherman, South Dakota">
Sherman, South Dakota

Sherman is a town in the far eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Minnehaha County, and 78 people lived there at the 2010 census. Sherman became a town in 1888.

</doc>
<doc id="426169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426169" title="Worksop">
Worksop

Worksop is a town in Nottingamshire, England. It is the biggest town in the district of Bassetlaw. Worksop is located on the River Ryton, north of Sherwood Forest. Around 39,800 people live in the town.

</doc>
<doc id="426170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426170" title="Hudson, South Dakota">
Hudson, South Dakota

Hudson is a town in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Lincoln County, and 296 people lived there at the 2010 census. People first started to live in Hudson in 1868.

</doc>
<doc id="426173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426173" title="TNA Lockdown">
TNA Lockdown

Lockdown is a yearly pay-per-view made by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). The event is usually produced in April. The first Slammiversary event took place on April 24, 2005 at the TNA Impact! Zone in Orlando, Florida. 
The event features a Six Sides of Steel cage when the ring still had 6 sides. They switched to a normal, 4-sided steel cage in 2010. They also have gimmick matches such as the "Lethal Lockdown" (which is a variant of the WarGames match that was popularized in World Championship Wrestling), the "Xscape match" which is a multi-competitor elimination cage match where the last two remaining competitors must climb over or use the door to escape the cage, and the "Queen of the Cage match" which featured TNA Knockouts.

</doc>
<doc id="426174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426174" title="Lacuna Coil">
Lacuna Coil

Lacuna Coil is an Italian gothic metal band. They started in 1994 in Milan with the name Sleep of Right. Then they changed their name to Ethereal in 1997. They found that there was already a band with that name. So they changed their name to Lacuna Coil that year. They are known for making music with male and female vocal harmonies. Cristina Scabbia joined the band in 1996. She does the main vocals with Andrea Ferro. The band has released seven albums.

</doc>
<doc id="426176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426176" title="Area code 318">
Area code 318

Area code 318 is a telephone area code that covers northern and central Louisiana.
its headquarters and largest city in Shreveport, is the parish seat of Caddo Parish

</doc>
<doc id="426177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426177" title="Stan (song)">
Stan (song)

"Stan" is the third single from "The Marshall Mathers LP", Eminem's third album. It was No. 1 in the UK and Australia. It is about an Eminem fan who kills himself after Eminem does not respond to his letters. Devon Sawa plays the fan in the music video. Eminem performed the song at the 2001 Grammy Awards. Elton John played the piano at the performance. The album version of the song is 6 minutes and 39 seconds long. The video is 8 minutes and 15 seconds. On "The Marshall Mathers LP 2", the song "Bad Guy" is a sequel to "Stan"; it is about Stan's brother, Matthew, taking revenge on Eminem.

</doc>
<doc id="426181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426181" title="Winnfield, Louisiana">
Winnfield, Louisiana

Winnfield is the parish seat of Winn Parish, Louisiana, United States.

</doc>
<doc id="426189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426189" title="Brasenose College, Oxford">
Brasenose College, Oxford

Brasenose College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. The college is on the site of the earlier Brazenose hall. It is not known when Brasenose Hall became Brasenose College. The college uses the year 1509 as the date of its foundation as a college. That is the earliest written record of the college. A royal charter was issued for the "King's Hall and College at Brasenose" on 15 January 1512.
The name of the college is believed to refer to an ornate brass doorknocker in the shape of a nose, that was once on the door of its main hall. The name was in use at least as early as the 1330s. It is believed that the original doorknocker was removed by students in the 14th Century and taken to Stamford in Lincolnshire. In 1890, the college purchased a house in Stamford. The house had been referred to as "Brasenose" since the 17th Century. The house had a 12th-Century doorknocker, believed to be the doorknocker removed from the college. The college had the doorknocker returned to the college, and it now hangs in the college's main hall.

</doc>
<doc id="426191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426191" title="Category:1438 establishments">
Category:1438 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="426192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426192" title="Slammiversary">
Slammiversary

Slammiversary is a yearly pay-per-view made by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). The event is usually produced in June. The first Slammiversary event took place on June 19, 2005 at the Impact Zone in Orlando, Florida. The name of the pay-per-view is a reference to the anniversary of the first TNA event which took place on June 19, 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="426193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426193" title="Corpus Christi College, Oxford">
Corpus Christi College, Oxford

Corpus Christi College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1517. The full name of the college is "The President and Scholars of the College of Corpus Christi in the University of Oxford".

</doc>
<doc id="426196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426196" title="Category:1517 establishments">
Category:1517 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="426198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426198" title="Fairview, South Dakota">
Fairview, South Dakota

Fairview is a town in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Lincoln County, and 60 people lived there at the 2010 census. Fairview was started in 1886.

</doc>
<doc id="426199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426199" title="Manuel &quot;Flaco&quot; Ibáñez">
Manuel &quot;Flaco&quot; Ibáñez

Manuel "Flaco" Ibañez (born Manuel Ibáñez Martínez; on October 17, 1946, in Acatlán de Pérez Figueroa, Oaxaca, Mexico) is a Mexican actor and comedian. He has appeared in over 140 movies and television shows including "La Red".

</doc>
<doc id="426202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426202" title="Instructions Not Included">
Instructions Not Included

Instructions Not Included is a 2013 Mexican comedy-drama movie. It was co-written, directed by, and starring Eugenio Derbez. It was released on August 30, 2013. It was released to mixed reviews.

</doc>
<doc id="426203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426203" title="Eugenio Derbez">
Eugenio Derbez

Eugenio Derbez (born Eugenio González Derbez; September 2, 1961 in Mexico City, Mexico) is an Mexican television actor. He created the television series of "XHDRBZ", "Vecinos", and "La familia P. Luche". Derbez is also a Formula Three Auto racing driver. In 2013, Derbez made his director debut in the comedy-drama movie "Instructions Not Included".

</doc>
<doc id="426205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426205" title="Georges Lautner">
Georges Lautner

Georges Lautner (24 January 1926 – 22 November 2013) was an French movie director and screenwriter. He is known for directing the famous French movie "Les Tontons flingueurs".
Lautner was born in Nice, France on 24 January 1926. He died on 22 November 2013 in Paris, France from a long illness, aged 87.

</doc>
<doc id="426206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426206" title="Spencer, South Dakota">
Spencer, South Dakota

Spencer is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in McCook County, and 154 people lived there at the 2010 census. Spencer became a city in 1917. On the night of May 30, 1998, a tornado rated F4 on the Fujita scale struck the city. It killed six people and destroyed most of the buildings in the city.

</doc>
<doc id="426207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426207" title="Category:Île-de-France">
Category:Île-de-France


</doc>
<doc id="426208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426208" title="Bruce Almighty">
Bruce Almighty

Bruce Almighty is a 2003 American comedy movie starring Jim Carrey, Jennifer Aniston, and Morgan Freeman.
It is about a news journalist, Bruce Nolan, complaining about his life to God, so Nolan himself is offered to become god himself and see his responsibilities. It was released on May 23, 2003 to mixed reviews. A spin-off movie was released entitled "Evan Almighty" and a sequel is in the works.

</doc>
<doc id="426209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426209" title="Evan Almighty">
Evan Almighty

Evan Almighty is a 2007 American comedy movie and a spin-off sequel to "Bruce Almighty". It stars Steve Carell, Morgan Freeman, Molly Shannon, John Goodman, Wanda Sykes, and Jonah Hill. 
It is about congressman, Evan Baxter, trying to save many animals before a massive flood wipes-out an entire forest after he was sent by God. It was released on June 22, 2007 to negative reviews.

</doc>
<doc id="426213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426213" title="Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues">
Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues

Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues is a 2013 American comedy movie. It was directed by Adam McKay and was produced by Judd Apatow and Will Ferrell. It stars Will Ferrell, Steve Carell, Paul Rudd, David Koechner, Christina Applegate, and Fred Willard. It is narrated by Bill Kurtis. It is the sequel to "".
After the 1970s brought prosperity to the Channel 4 news team, the group disbands and hits rock bottom until a 24-hour news channel is being put together and in the 1980s the group is recruited to join the channel.
Appearing as Sea World Kids are the children of McKay and Ferrell: Pearl McKay, Axel Ferrell, Magnus Ferrell, and Mattias Ferrell. Liam Neeson's son Michael has a credited cameo as a History Channel Reporter.

</doc>
<doc id="426214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426214" title="Dominic Chianese">
Dominic Chianese

Dominic Chianese (; born February 24, 1931 in The Bronx, New York) is an American actor, singer, musician, activist, and philanthropist. He is best known for his role as Corrado "Junior" Soprano on the HBO TV series "The Sopranos". In 2010, Chianese received the Ellis Island Medal of Honor in recognition of his humanitarian efforts. 

</doc>
<doc id="426215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426215" title="Category:1509 establishments">
Category:1509 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="426222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426222" title="Kelowna">
Kelowna

Kelowna is a city in British Columbia, Canada. It is on Okanagan Lake in the Okanagan Valley. The name "Kelowna" comes from the Okanagan word for "grizzly bear". Kelowna is the 22nd largest metropolitan area in Canada. In 2011, it had a population of 179,839.
The communities nearby include the district municipality of West Kelowna (also called Westbank, Westside) to the west across Okanagan Lake. Lake Country and Vernon are to the north. Peachland is to the southwest and Summerland and Penticton further south. 
Kelowna is also sometimes called "Ktown" for short.

</doc>
<doc id="426234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426234" title="Colfax, Louisiana">
Colfax, Louisiana

Colfax is a the parish seat of Grant Parish, Louisiana, United States. In the 2000 census, 1,659 people lived in the city.

</doc>
<doc id="426235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426235" title="Farmerville, Louisiana">
Farmerville, Louisiana

Farmerville is a town that is the parish seat of Union Parish, Louisiana. As of the 2000 census count, 3,808 people lived in the town.

</doc>
<doc id="426237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426237" title="Bastrop, Louisiana">
Bastrop, Louisiana

Bastrop is a city that is the parish seat of Morehouse Parish, Louisiana. As of the 2000 census count, 11,365 people lived in the city. The city is the home of the Morehouse Parish School District.

</doc>
<doc id="426238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426238" title="Oberlin, Louisiana">
Oberlin, Louisiana

Oberlin is a town that is the parish seat of Allen Parish, Louisiana. As of the 2010 census count, 1,770 people lived in the city.

</doc>
<doc id="426240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426240" title="St. John the Baptist Parish, Louisiana">
St. John the Baptist Parish, Louisiana

St. John the Baptist Parish is a parish in the state of Louisiana. The parish seat is Edgard. As of the 2010 census, 45,924 people lived in the parish.

</doc>
<doc id="426241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426241" title="Malheur County, Oregon">
Malheur County, Oregon

Malheur is a county in the state of Oregon. The county seat is Vale. As of the 2010 census count, 31,313 people lived in this county.

</doc>
<doc id="426242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426242" title="Harney County, Oregon">
Harney County, Oregon

Harney is a county in the state of Oregon. The county seat is Burns. As of the 2010 census count, 7,422 people lived in this county. Harney is located in southwestern Oregon. It is Oregon's largest county.

</doc>
<doc id="426248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426248" title="Survivor Series (1999)">
Survivor Series (1999)

Survivor Series (1999) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on November 14, 1999 at Joe Louis Arena in Detroit, Michigan. It was the thirteenth Survivor Series event held by the WWF.

</doc>
<doc id="426254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426254" title="Earl (disambiguation)">
Earl (disambiguation)

Earl is a title of nobility.
Earl can refer to several other things:

</doc>
<doc id="426257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426257" title="Category:People from Aquitaine">
Category:People from Aquitaine


</doc>
<doc id="426259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426259" title="Sociocultural theory">
Sociocultural theory

Sociocultural theory was created by Lev Vygotsky as a response to Behaviorism. The main idea of the theory is that the ways people interact with others and the culture they live in shape their mental abilities. Vygotsky believed that parents, relatives, peers and society all have an important role in forming higher levels of functioning. Sociocultural theory, as stated by Cole, John-Steiner, Scribner and Souberman, is the belief that "every function in the child's cultural development appears twice: first, on the social level, and later, on the individual level." This means that the skills children learn first are related to interactions with others and they then take that information and use it within themselves.
Lev Vygotsky was born in 1896 in Russia. He graduated from Moscow University in 1917 and started his career as a psychologist during the Russian Revolution. He taught literature and psychology for seven years. Vygotsky went against the leading scientists of his time by suggesting that scientific psychology should not ignore the role of consciousness. Most scientists at the time disagreed with his ideas, however, he was still offered a job at the Institute of Psychology in Moscow. There he worked on his new ideas of psychology. 
On June 11, 1934, Vygotsky died from an illness. Although his work did get some attention during his lifetime, it was not until the 1960s when Joseph Stalin died and politics did not have a large role in academics, that his views were widely known in Russia. Vygotsky's ideas did not gain fame in the United States until around twenty years later.
The main desire of Vygotsky was to design a new way to look at and come up with a solution to educational and social problems of the time. He believed other factors, besides biological instincts, caused humans to act the way they do. He was the first modern psychologist to suggest a way in which culture plays a part in each person's nature. Vygotsky believed the inclusion of sign systems from a child's culture changes behavior and connects early and later forms of individual development. Vygotsky was a strong supporter of the idea that what children learned from other people in their own culture helped them develop. He considers human thought processes to be based on social interactions and language. Three key areas of sociocultural theory are the zone of proximal development, private speech and make-believe play.
Vygotsky felt learning in children should be related to their developmental level. This caused him to argue that learning takes place within a zone of proximal development (ZPD), which is made up of functions that are not yet fully formed, but are on the way to being established. 
The ZPD draws attention to three important issues. First, it focuses attention on children's mental functions that are currently going on, but are not yet complete. Second, it recognized help from peers or adults as a method of learning. Third, it helped to separate between actual and potential learning ability. The actual ability of a child is what they can do without any help from others, while potential learning ability is when a child needs help in order to complete a task. Three assumptions are often discussed in relation to the ZPD. They include generality assumption, assistance assumption and potential assumption.
The ZPD is mainly used for two types of cognitive development analysis. One reason ZPD is used is to pick out the functions needed for learning as a child ages. The second test done by ZPD is to figure out where the child is at the moment, mentally, in relation to where they are supposed to be or where they will be as they grow.
In the 1970s, Bruner, Wood and Ross created the term "scaffolding" to add to sociocultural theory. Scaffolding describes the interaction between a child and an adult who helps them finish a task that they could not do alone. Scaffolding relates to Vygotsky's sociocultural theory because it recognizes the role of social interaction on learning and how other people affect the development of children. It involves changing the way a more skilled person helps a child in doing a task based on their available learning ability. Just like physical scaffolding is used to support buildings as they are being made, scaffolding in sociocultural theory helps support a child as their mental processes develop.
Private speech takes place when children talk to themselves. Vygotsky saw this as the starting point for all mental developments. According to Lantolf, Vygotsky believed "it is the process of privatizing speech that higher forms of consciousness arise on the inner plane and in this way our biological capacities are organized into a culturally mediated mind." 
In simpler terms, Vygotsky thought that it was by using private speech that a child's biological instincts were made into culturally acceptable ways of acting. He suggested that children spoke to themselves as a way of guiding themselves through an action. Vygotsky suggested that private speech changes as children age, beginning as external (out loud) speech when they are younger but then becoming more internal (within themselves) as they age. Through relationships with more capable people, children get information and use that understanding in their private speech. Vygotsky thought private speech showed how children use the support given to them by others to assist their own way of thinking and how they act.
Vygotsky saw make-believe play as an important part of child development. It is one of the main ways of developing during the preschool years. Children use make-believe play to test multiple skills and achieve important cultural abilities. Vygotsky suggested that as children take part in made up situations they learn how to act in agreement with their internal ideas, not just external ideas. 
During play children put themselves into the adult roles of their culture and practice how they will act in the future. Play takes place before development so children can start to gain the motivation, abilities and attitudes needed for social participation, which can be done only with the help of peers and adults. Make-believe play allows children to practice how they would act in the real world. It provides them with a way to gain the basic skills needed to function in their society before they become adults. However, learning these roles and skills is only done with help from others in their culture.

</doc>
<doc id="426260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426260" title="Mahendra Singh Dhoni">
Mahendra Singh Dhoni

Mahendra Singh Dhoni (born 7 July 1981), commonly known as M. S. Dhoni, is a cricket player and the captain of the current Indian cricket team. Dhoni is a right-handed batsman. He is known as the greatest captain of all time, having achieved more success than any other captain in the history of cricket. 
The Indian cricket team won the 2011 Cricket World Cup under his captainship. His Test cricket and One Day International records are the best among all Indian captains to date. He took over the ODI captaincy from Rahul Dravid in 2007 and led the team to its first ever inter-country ODI series wins in Sri Lanka and New Zealand. Dhoni also holds the post of Vice-President of India Cements Ltd. after resigning from Air India. India Cements is the owner of the Indian Premier League team Chennai Super Kings, and Dhoni has been its captain since the first edition of IPL. 
Dhoni has also been given many awards, such as the ICC ODI Player of the Year award in 2008 and 2009 (the first Indian player to achieve this), the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award in 2007 and the Padma Shri, India's fourth-highest civilian honour, in 2009.
On 6 February 2015, Dhoni's daughter was born.
M.S Dhoni is a right-handed batsman and also plays the role of a wicket-keeper. He mostly plays shots in the back foot, that is, he plays shots shifting his body weight on the right leg. He has his own famous cricket shot, called the "Helicopter", that can pick balls and send them in the galleries for six runs.

</doc>
<doc id="426283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426283" title="Alvaro Vitali">
Alvaro Vitali

Alvaro Vitali (born 3 February 1950) is an Italian actor. He was born in Rome. He starred in the "Pierino" series of movies and in "Roma" and "Amarcord", directed by Federico Fellini.

</doc>
<doc id="426285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426285" title="James Thurber">
James Thurber

James Grover Thurber (December 8, 1894 – November 2, 1961) was an American author, journalist, and cartoonist. Thurber was best known for his cartoons and short stories. He published his stories mainly in The New Yorker magazine. One of the most popular humorists of his time, Thurber celebrated the comic frustrations and eccentricities of ordinary people.
Thurber died on November 2, 1961 from complications from pneumonia and a stroke, aged 66. His last words, aside from the repeated word "God," were "God bless... God damn," according to his wife.

</doc>
<doc id="426286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426286" title="Category:American cartoonists">
Category:American cartoonists


</doc>
<doc id="426294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426294" title="Jeff Bennett">
Jeff Bennett

Jeffrey Glen "Jeff" Bennett (born October 2, 1962 in Houston, Texas) is an American voice actor and singer. He has voiced over 100 television characters and has appeared in over 200 television shows. He was in "Dexter's Laboratory", "Johnny Bravo", "Scooby Doo!", "Adventure Time", "Regular Show", and had a role in "".

</doc>
<doc id="426295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426295" title="Assembler">
Assembler

In computer science an assembler is a program that turns assembly language into machine code.
An assembler is a program that takes basic computer instructions and converts them into a pattern of bits that the computer's processor can use to perform its basic operations. Some people call these instructions assembler language and others use the term assembly language.
Most computers come with a specified set of very basic instructions that correspond to the basic machine operations that the computer can perform. For example, a "Load" instruction causes the processor to move a string of bits from a location in the processor's memory to a special holding place called a register. Assuming the processor has at least eight registers, each numbered, the following instruction would move the value (string of bits of a certain length) at memory location 3000 into the holding place called register 8:
The programmer can write a program using a sequence of these assembler instructions.
This sequence of assembler instructions, known as the source code or source program, is then specified to the assembler program when that program is started.
The assembler program takes each program statement in the source program and generates a corresponding bit stream or pattern (a series of 0's and 1's of a given length).
The output of the assembler program is called the object code or object program relative to the input source program. The sequence of 0's and 1's that constitute the object program is sometimes called machine code.
The object program can then be run (or executed) whenever desired.
In the earliest computers, programmers actually wrote programs in machine code, but assembler languages or instruction sets were soon developed to speed up programming. Today, assembler programming is used only where very efficient control over processor operations is needed. It requires knowledge of a particular computer's instruction set, however. Historically, most programs have been written in "higher-level" languages such as COBOL, FORTRAN, PL/I, and C. These languages are easier to learn and faster to write programs with than assembler language. The program that processes the source code written in these languages is called a compiler. Like the assembler, a compiler takes higher-level language statements and reduces them to machine code.
A newer idea in program preparation and portability is the concept of a virtual machine. For example, using the Java programming language, language statements are compiled into a generic form of machine language known as bytecode that can be run by a virtual machine, a kind of theoretical machine that approximates most computer operations. The bytecode can then be sent to any computer platform that has previously downloaded or built in the Java virtual machine. The virtual machine is aware of the specific instruction lengths and other particularities of the platform and ensures that the Java bytecode can run.

</doc>
<doc id="426296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426296" title="The Secret Life of Walter Mitty (2013 movie)">
The Secret Life of Walter Mitty (2013 movie)

The Secret Life of Walter Mitty is an American adventure comedy-drama movie. It was directed by Ben Stiller, who also stars as the main character. The movie is based on James Thurber's 1939 short story of the same name. It was released on December 25, 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="426297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426297" title="Maleficent (movie)">
Maleficent (movie)

Maleficent is an American Disney movie. It is a dark fantasy movie based on the villain Maleficent from "Sleeping Beauty". It stars Angelina Jolie and Elle Fanning. It was released on May 30, 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="426298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426298" title="Noah (movie)">
Noah (movie)

Noah is a Biblical epic movie. It is directed by Darren Aronofsky and written by Aronofsky and Ari Handel. It stars Russell Crowe, Anthony Hopkins, Emma Watson, Jennifer Connelly, Douglas Booth, Logan Lerman, and Ray Winstone. The movie is based on the story of Noah's Ark. The movie was released in North American cinemas on March 28, 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="426299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426299" title="The Book Thief (movie)">
The Book Thief (movie)

The Book Thief is an American drama movie released in 2013. It is based on the novel of the same name by Markus Zusak. It is directed by Brian Percival. The screenplay was written by Michael Petroni. The movie's score is composed by John Williams. The movie stars Emily Watson, Geoffrey Rush, Sophie Nélisse, Ben Schnetzer, Roger Allam, Nico Liersch, and Joachim Paul Assböck. It was on November 15, 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="426300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426300" title="Milk (movie)">
Milk (movie)

Milk is an American biographical-drama movie. It was released in 2008. It is based on the life of gay politician Harvey Milk. It was directed by Gus Van Sant. It stars Sean Penn, Victor Garber, Emile Hirsch, James Franco, and Josh Brolin. 
The movie's score was composed by Danny Elfman. The movie was released on November 26, 2008 to very positive reviews. It was nominated for many awards including for Best Picture. Penn won the Academy Award for Best Actor for his role as Harvey.

</doc>
<doc id="426302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426302" title="Mulatu Teshome">
Mulatu Teshome

Mulatu Teshome Wirtu (born 1955 or 1956) is a Ethiopian politician and the current President of Ethiopia.
Mulatu Teshome was born in 1955 or 1956, in Arjo, Ethiopia.
He went to school in China at Peking University where he received a bachelor's degree in philosophy of political economy and doctorate in international law.
He served as the Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Cooperation under Girma Birru, and was the Minister of Agriculture in 2001. He also served as the Speaker of the House of Federation from 2002 to 2005 and was Ethiopia's Ambassador to China, Japan, and Turkey.
He was elected as President of Ethiopia by a unanimous parliamentary vote on 7 October 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="426304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426304" title="Kalix">
Kalix

Kalix is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Kalix Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426305" title="Öregrund">
Öregrund

Öregrund is an urban area in the county of Uppsala in Sweden. Once a town, it became a part of Östhammar Municipality in 1971.

</doc>
<doc id="426306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426306" title="W. (movie)">
W. (movie)

W. is a 2008 American biographical drama movie directed by Oliver Stone. It is about the life and the presidency of George W. Bush. It stars Josh Brolin, Ellen Burstyn, Elizabeth Banks, James Cromwell, Thandie Newton, Jeffrey Wright, Scott Glenn, and Richard Dreyfuss. It was released to negative reviews on October 17, 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="426308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426308" title="Olofström">
Olofström

Olofström, earlier Holje by, is an urban area in the county of Blekinge in Sweden. It is the seat of Olofström Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426309" title="Sölvesborg">
Sölvesborg

Sölvesborg is an urban area in the county of Blekinge in Sweden. It is the seat of Sölvesborg Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426311" title="Battle of Honkaniemi">
Battle of Honkaniemi

The Battle of Honkaniemi was fought between Finnish and Soviet forces on 26 February 1940. This battle was fought by tanks. It was only time they were used in the Winter War.
The commander of the Finnish II Corps, General Harald Öhquist, had put the Jaeger Battalion 3 with the 4th company of the Armoured Battalion and the 23rd Division.
At 10:15 pm, the commander of the Jaeger Battalion 3, Captain I. Kunnas and Lieutenant O. Heinonen of the 4th Armoured Company were ordered to attack.
The original plan was to attack the Soviets with six Infantry Battalions, four artillery battalions and the 4th Armoured Company. However, only four Infantry Battalions, two artillery battalions and the 4th Tank Company did the attack.
On the nights of February 25 and 26, members of the Jaeger Battalion went by truck and by skiing to get to the battle. The tank company lost five of their 13 Vickers 6-Ton tanks due to engine failure. There was another problem. When the Finns started to use their artillery guns, they accidentsllt killed or wounded 30 Finns.
Another two Finnish tanks stopped working. This meant that the Finnish only had six tanks for the battle. Even after all these set-backs, there were more to come. The 1st Jaeger Battalion was fired on by the Soviets. Then this battalion came to a railway track, but they could not cross it. The 2nd and 3rd Jaeger Battalions also stopped.
The 4th Armoured Company got a tank stuck in a ditch. The remaining five tanks were hit by T-26s, T-28s and 45 mm anti-tank guns". 
The tank of Corporal E. Seppälä hit two Soviet tanks. However, the crew had to abandon the tank because it stopped working. The other Finnish tank destroyed one Soviet tank before being damaged.
Captain Kunnas got orders at 10:00 pm to stop the attack and retreat. The Finns' first tank battle was not a success. The tank battle had been fought with crews who did not have much experience. As well, they had almost no radio communication.
The battle caused the deaths of one NCO. Two officers and two NCOs were injured. As well, three privates were reported missing. The Finnish troopers kept on trying to attack the Soviets.

</doc>
<doc id="426313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426313" title="Kungsbacka">
Kungsbacka

Kungsbacka is an urban area in the county of Halland in Sweden. It is the seat of Kungsbacka Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426314" title="Varberg">
Varberg

Varberg is an urban area in the county of Halland in Sweden. It is the seat of Varberg Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426317" title="Scott Glenn">
Scott Glenn

Theodore Scott Glenn (born January 26, 1941 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania) is an American actor. He is known for his roles in "Urban Cowboy", "The Right Stuff", "The Silence of the Lambs", "Surfer, Dude", "Bourne Ultimatum", and in "W.".

</doc>
<doc id="426318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426318" title="Laholm">
Laholm

Laholm is an urban area in the county of Halland in Sweden. It is the seat of Laholm Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426320" title="Hyltebruk">
Hyltebruk

Hyltebruk is an urban area in the county of Halland in Sweden. It is the seat of Hylte Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426324" title="Vindeln">
Vindeln

Vindeln is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Vindeln Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426327" title="Ånge">
Ånge

Ånge is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Ånge Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426329" title="Åsele">
Åsele

Åsele is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Åsele Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426331" title="Åmsele">
Åmsele

Åmsele is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is in the municipality of Vindeln.

</doc>
<doc id="426332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426332" title="Hallstahammar">
Hallstahammar

Hallstahammar is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Hallstahammar Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426333" title="Surahammar">
Surahammar

Surahammar is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Surahammar Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426336" title="Seasoning">
Seasoning

Seasoning is when salt, herbs, or spices is added to food to make it taste better. There are many ways of adding seasoning in different cultures. For example, in some cultures, meat may be seasoned by pouring sauce over the dish when it is on the table.

</doc>
<doc id="426337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426337" title="Gällivare">
Gällivare

Gällivare is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Gällivare Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426338" title="Malmberget">
Malmberget

Malmberget is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is in the municipality of Gällivare.

</doc>
<doc id="426339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426339" title="Munkfors">
Munkfors

Munkfors is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Munkfors Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426341" title="Storfors">
Storfors

Storfors is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Storfors Municipality. Storfors is the home of the Lundsbergs boarding school.

</doc>
<doc id="426342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426342" title="Hofors">
Hofors

Hofors is an urban area in the county of Gävleborg in Sweden. It is the seat of Hofors Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426343" title="Centerville, South Dakota">
Centerville, South Dakota

Centerville is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 882 people lived there at the 2010 census. Centerville became a city in 1894.

</doc>
<doc id="426344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426344" title="Hällefors">
Hällefors

Hällefors is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Hällefors Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426345" title="Paulinus of York">
Paulinus of York

Paulinus (also St. Paulinus) (died 644) was the first Bishop of York. He was named Archbishop of York by the pope, but had left Northumbria before the news reached him. He then became the Bishop of Rochester, in Kent. After his death he was venerated as a saint.
Paulinus was a monk living in Rome when he was sent to Britain in 601 by Pope Gregory I. He was part of a group of missionaries sent to aid Augustine in his mission as the first Archbishop of Canterbury. Little is known of Paulinus' in Kent. But 24 years later he was the Chaplain to Ethelberga of Kent, daughter of King Athelbert I of Kent. She was promised in marriage to King Edwin of Northumbria. In order to marry a Christian woman he promised he would consider converting to Christianity himself. As part of the agreement her chaplain Paulinus came north to Northumbria with her. Before leaving Canterbury in 625, Paulinus was consecrated a bishop by Justus, Archbishop of Canterbury. 
Paulinus was the first Bishop of York. He had little success in converting the pagans for the first year. In 626, an assassin named Eumer was sent by Cwichelm of Wessex to kill King Edwin. Eumer found the king at his royal estate on the river Derwent on Easter Day. Pretending to have a message from his master he was allowed to see the king. He had a two-edged knife treated with poison and tried to attack King Edwin. But he killed the king's thane and managed to only wound the king. That evening his first child was born, a daughter named Eanfled. In front of Bishop Paulinus King Edwin prayed to his gods in thanks for the safe delivery of his child. Paulinus told him that it was "his" prayers to God that gave the Queen a safe and almost painless delivery. The king was very pleased with this explanation made Paulinus a promise. If God would grant him a victory over his enemies who tried to assassinate him, he would accept Christianity and be baptised. As a guarantee of his promise he allowed his newborn daughter to become Christian. She was the first of the Northumbrians to be baptised. The baptism took place at Pentecost and in the ceremony several members of the royal family were also baptised. 
Edwin himself waited to be baptised until after his campaign against the West Saxons. Edwin raided into Wessex and punished those who had attempted to assassinate him. Although Cwichelm still lived he returned to Northumbria. Edwin had the pagan sanctuary at Goodmanham destroyed. In 627 Edwin was baptised into the Christian faith along with all the nobles of his kingdom. Paulinus then traveled all over Northumbria converting the people. He built a stone church at Drewsbury. Paulinus also traveled to Lindsey and had a church built at Lincoln. The pope in Rome heard of the great success in Northumbria. He decided to raise York from a bishopric to an archbishopric with Paulinus as the first Archbishop of York. But the pallium apparently did not reach Paulinus in time. At the Battle of Hatfield Chase King Edwin was killed by Cadwallon and Penda. Paulinus along with Queen Ethelberga and her children fled south to Kent. Paulinus was then made Bishop of Rochester in Kent. Bishop Paulinus died on 10 October 644.

</doc>
<doc id="426346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426346" title="Flen">
Flen

Flen is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Flen Municipality.
Other things which made Flen famous is "Violen från Flen", a song written by Ulf Peder Olrog in the 1940s. The town also plays an important role in "Du ringde från Flen", 1992 dansband song by Grönwalls. The town is also mentioned in the Kent songs "Flen/Paris" on the 2005 EP "The Hjärta & Smärta EP" and "Ensam lång väg hem" on the 2010 album "En plats i solen".

</doc>
<doc id="426347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426347" title="Hälleforsnäs">
Hälleforsnäs

Hälleforsnäs is an urban area in the county of Södermanland in Sweden. It is located within the municipality of Flen.

</doc>
<doc id="426348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426348" title="Lesjöfors">
Lesjöfors

Lesjöfors is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is located within the municipality of Filipstad.

</doc>
<doc id="426349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426349" title="Aneby">
Aneby

Aneby is an urban area in the county of Jönköping in Sweden. It is the seat of Aneby Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426350" title="Norberg">
Norberg

Norberg is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Norberg Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426351" title="Sala">
Sala

Sala is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Sala Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426353" title="Arvidsjaur">
Arvidsjaur

Arvidsjaur is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Arvidsjaur Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426354" title="Arjeplog">
Arjeplog

Arjeplog is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Arjeplog Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426355" title="Dorotea">
Dorotea

Dorotea is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Dorotea Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426357" title="Storuman">
Storuman

Storuman is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Storuman Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426360" title="Vilhelmina">
Vilhelmina

Vilhelmina is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Vilhelmina Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426361" title="Nykvarn">
Nykvarn

Nykvarn is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Nykvarn Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426363" title="Åseda">
Åseda

Åseda is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Uppvidinge Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426365" title="Hammarstrand">
Hammarstrand

Hammarstrand is an urban area in the county of Jämtland in Sweden. It is the seat of Ragunda Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426366" title="Strömsund">
Strömsund

Strömsund is an urban area in the county of Jämtland in Sweden. It is the seat of Strömsund Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426367" title="T-26">
T-26

The T-26 tank was a Soviet light infantry tank used during many wars of the 1930s as well as during World War II. It was an improved version of the British Vickers 6-Ton tank. It was one of the best tank designs of the 1930s. The tank started to have problems when new anti-tank guns were invented. The tank had thin armor which the new anti-tank guns could fire holes in.
More T-26s were produced than any other tank of the period. More than 11,000 were manufactured. During the 1930s, the USSR made 53 different types of T-26.
The T-26 together with the BT was the main tank of the Red Army in the 1930s. Even though it was no longer good enough to be used in battles at the beginning of World War II, the T-26 was the most important tank of the Spanish Civil War. It was also used during the Battle of Lake Khasan in 1938 and in the Winter War in 1939–40. The Red Army mostly had T-26s during the German invasion of the Soviet Union in June 1941. The T-26 was used against the Germans in the Battle of Moscow in winter 1941/1942, the Battle of Stalingrad and the Battle of the Caucasus in 1942–1943. Some tank units of the Leningrad Front used their T-26s until 1944. The Soviet T-26 light tanks were last used in August 1945, during the defeat of the Japanese in Manchuria.
The T-26 was sold to Spain, China and Turkey. In addition, captured T-26 light tanks were used by the Finnish, German, Romanian and Hungarian armies.
The T-26 was reliable and simple to maintain Its design was improved between 1931 and 1941. However, no new models of the T-26 were made after 1940.

</doc>
<doc id="426368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426368" title="Kramfors">
Kramfors

Kramfors is an urban area in the county of Västernorrland in Sweden. It is the seat of Kramfors Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426370" title="Pajala">
Pajala

Pajala is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Pajala Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426371" title="Övertorneå">
Övertorneå

Övertorneå is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Övertorneå Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426373" title="Överkalix">
Överkalix

Överkalix () is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Överkalix Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426374" title="Älvsbyn">
Älvsbyn

Älvsbyn is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Älvsbyn Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426377" title="Hipster (contemporary subculture)">
Hipster (contemporary subculture)

Hipster refers to a subculture of young, urban middle-class adults and older teenagers. Hipsters first appeared in the 1990s and became more noticeable in the 2010s. It is based on the earlier movements in the 1940s. Hipsters listen to independent music and alternative music. They dress in clothes that are different from other people. Hipsters wear vintage clothes and thrift store clothes. Hipsters believe in progressive or independent politics. They have an alternative way of living.
Hipster culture mixes styles, tastes and ways of behaving. Christian Lorentzen of "Time Out New York" says that hipsters copy many styles, including beat, hippie, punk, and grunge. Lorentzen says that hipsters are mostly white 18- to 34-year old people.
In a "Huffington Post" article entitled "Who's a Hipster?", Julia Plevin says that it hard to define who is a hipster.
As hipsters moved into suburbs near New York City, "The New York Times" made up the new word "Hipsturbia" to describe how hipsters live in suburbs.

</doc>
<doc id="426385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426385" title="Category:People from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur">
Category:People from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur


</doc>
<doc id="426387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426387" title="Matti Ranin">
Matti Ranin

Matti Helge Ranin (21 November 1926 – 24 November 2013) was a Finnish actor. He was well known for his role as Captain Kariluoto in Edvin Laine's "The Unknown Soldier".
Ranin was born in Tampere, Finland. He died on 24 November 2013 in Helsinki from natural causes, aged 87.

</doc>
<doc id="426389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426389" title="Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/TCN7JM">
Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/TCN7JM


</doc>
<doc id="426391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426391" title="Costanzo Preve">
Costanzo Preve

Costanzo Preve (14 April 1943 – 23 November 2013) was an Italian philosopher and a political theoretician. He was born in Valenza. He is thought to be as one of the most important anti-capitalist European thinkers and a renowned expert in the history of Marxism. He was influenced by Fichte, Hegel, and Marx. 
He was an atheist. Preve died in Turin where he lived on 23 November 2013, aged 70.

</doc>
<doc id="426394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426394" title="Category:People from Piedmont">
Category:People from Piedmont


</doc>
<doc id="426395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426395" title="Marion, South Dakota">
Marion, South Dakota

Marion is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 784 people lived there at the 2010 census. Marion became a city in 1881.

</doc>
<doc id="426414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426414" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Category:Movies by actor">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Category:Movies by actor


</doc>
<doc id="426421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426421" title="Bjurholm">
Bjurholm

Bjurholm is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Bjurholm Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426425" title="Malå">
Malå

Malå is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Malå Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426426" title="Nordmaling">
Nordmaling

Nordmaling is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Nordmaling Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426428" title="Norsjö">
Norsjö

Norsjö is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Norsjö Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426430" title="Robertsfors">
Robertsfors

Robertsfors is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Robertsfors Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426431" title="Sorsele">
Sorsele

Sorsele is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Sorsele Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426433" title="Vännäs">
Vännäs

Vännäs is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Vännäs Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426434" title="Krokom">
Krokom

Krokom is an urban area in the county of Jämtland in Sweden. It is the seat of Krokom Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426436" title="Sri Lanka cricket team">
Sri Lanka cricket team

Sri Lankan cricket team is the national cricket team of Sri Lanka. There have been a number of cricket playing legends from Sri Lanka. Two of the most famous players were Kumar Sangakkara and Sanath Jayasuriya.

</doc>
<doc id="426437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426437" title="Järpen">
Järpen

Järpen is an urban area in the county of Jämtland in Sweden. It is the seat of Åre Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426438" title="Bräcke">
Bräcke

Bräcke is an urban area in the county of Jämtland in Sweden. It is the seat of Bräcke Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426439" title="Svenstavik">
Svenstavik

Svenstavik is an urban area in the county of Jämtland in Sweden. It is the seat of Berg Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426440" title="Hudiksvall">
Hudiksvall

Hudiksvall is an urban area in the county of Gävleborg in Sweden. It is the seat of Hudiksvall Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426441" title="Bergsjö">
Bergsjö

Bergsjö is an urban area in the county of Gävleborg in Sweden. It is the seat of Nordanstig Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426443" title="Ockelbo">
Ockelbo

Ockelbo is an urban area in the county of Gävleborg in Sweden. It is the seat of Ockelbo Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426478" title="Ablutophobia">
Ablutophobia

Ablutophobia is a fear of bathing, washing, or cleaning. It is a type of specific phobia. It is most often seen in children and women.

</doc>
<doc id="426480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426480" title="Cyberphobia">
Cyberphobia

Cyberphobia is a fear of working with computers. People who have cyberphobia are afraid or not able to learn new technologies. It is a type of specific phobia. It was first used in 1985.

</doc>
<doc id="426497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426497" title="Staffanstorp">
Staffanstorp

Staffanstorp is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Staffanstorp Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426500" title="Hörby">
Hörby

Hörby is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Hörby Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426501" title="Höör">
Höör

Höör is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Höör Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426503" title="Åhus">
Åhus

Åhus is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is in Kristianstad Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426505" title="Broby">
Broby

Broby is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Östra Göinge Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426507" title="Bjuv">
Bjuv

Bjuv is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Bjuv Municipality. In November 1994, the place became well known for a murder kicking off a debate over role-playing games.

</doc>
<doc id="426508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426508" title="Åstorp">
Åstorp

Åstorp is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Åstorp Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426509" title="Klippan">
Klippan

Klippan is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Klippan Municipality. In September 1995, Klippan became famous for a racist murder.

</doc>
<doc id="426511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426511" title="War of the Spanish Succession">
War of the Spanish Succession

The War of the Spanish Succession was a war which was fought from 1701 to 1714. It was fought over who had the right to be king of Spain after the previous king, Charles II, died childless. France wanted Philip of Anjou, a relative of its king, to rule. Great Britain, the Dutch Republic and other states wanted to prevent that. 
The war was mostly fought in Europe but battles also happened in the West Indies, South America, and North America. In North America, it was called Queen Anne's War, since the ruler of Great Britain was Queen Anne. The war ended in Philip of Anjou ultimately winning and becoming the next king of Spain known as Philip V. Britain and its allies accepted Philip as King of Spain, who gave up his right to be king also of France. Austria got most of Spanish Italy. Britain got Spanish Majorca and Gibraltar. 

</doc>
<doc id="426512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426512" title="Örkelljunga">
Örkelljunga

Örkelljunga is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Örkelljunga Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426514" title="Kungälv">
Kungälv

Kungälv is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Kungälv Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426515" title="Mölndal">
Mölndal

Mölndal is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Mölndal Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426519" title="Category:Canadian thrash metal bands">
Category:Canadian thrash metal bands

This category is for bands from Canada who play a type of music called thrash metal.

</doc>
<doc id="426525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426525" title="Category:Canadian death metal bands">
Category:Canadian death metal bands

This category is for bands from Canada who play a type of music called death metal.

</doc>
<doc id="426529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426529" title="Survivor Series (1997)">
Survivor Series (1997)

Survivor Series (1997) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on November 9, 1997 at Molson Centre in Montreal, Quebec. It was the eleventh Survivor Series event held by the WWF.
The main event was shrouded in controversy after a real life event happened which was later dubbed the "Montreal Screwjob". Vince McMahon ordered the referee Earl Hebner to end the match when Shawn Michaels held Bret Hart in Hart's own finishing maneuver, the Sharpshooter, even though Hart did not submit.

</doc>
<doc id="426538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426538" title="Beth Ditto">
Beth Ditto

Beth Ditto (born February 19, 1981) is an American singer-songwriter. She is known for being the singer of the Gossip.
Ditto grew up in Searcy, Arkansas. She lived in a two-bedroom house with her mother and six siblings until she was 13. Then she went to live with her aunt Jannie. Ditto moved to Olympia, Washington in 1999 with friends.
In 1999 Ditto started Gossip with guitarist Nathan "Brace Paine" Howdeshell and drummer Kathy Mendonça. In August 2000 they played at the first Ladyfest in Olympia. There were over 2000 people there.
On January 23 2001 Gossip's first album "That's Not What I Heard" was released by Kill Rock Stars.
Their second album, "Movement", was released the next year.
In 2006 their third studio album "Standing in the Way of Control" was released. A remix of "Standing in the Way of Control" by Soulwax was used as the theme song of the UK teen drama Skins. The album was successful in the UK and Ditto became famous there.
In 2006 NME put her at the top of their year's Cool List. In 2009 she made a clothing collection for Evans, a UK store that sells clothes for plus-size women. In October 2012, "Coal to Diamonds", a book Ditto wrote with Michelle Tea about her life so far, was published. In May 2013 she did a video for Rookie magazine's Ask a Grown Woman. In June 2013 she sung on the single "A Rose By Any Name" by Blondie.
She is a feminist.
In March 2013 she was arrested.
When she was 15 she realized that she is a lesbian. She dated Freddie Fagula for nine years. She married Kristin Ogata in Hawaii in July 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="426540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426540" title="Lilla Edet">
Lilla Edet

Lilla Edet is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Lilla Edet Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426542" title="Ljungskile">
Ljungskile

Ljungskile is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is in Uddevalla Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426544" title="Stenungsund">
Stenungsund

Stenungsund is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Stenungsund Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426547" title="Marstrand">
Marstrand

Marstrand is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is in Kungälv Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426549" title="Henån">
Henån

Henån is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Orust Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426550" title="Survivor Series (2013)">
Survivor Series (2013)

Survivor Series (2013) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on November 24, 2013 at the TD Garden in Boston, Massachusetts. It was the twenty seventh Survivor Series event held by the WWE.

</doc>
<doc id="426551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426551" title="Skärhamn">
Skärhamn

Skärhamn is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Tjörn Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426552" title="Gagnef">
Gagnef

Gagnef is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Gagnef Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426553" title="Hedemora">
Hedemora

Hedemora is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Hedemora Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426554" title="Smedjebacken">
Smedjebacken

Smedjebacken is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Smedjebacken Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426555" title="Arvika">
Arvika

Arvika is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Arvika Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426557" title="Arboga">
Arboga

Arboga is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Arboga Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426558" title="Alvesta">
Alvesta

Alvesta is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Alvesta Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426559" title="Sunne">
Sunne

Sunne is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Sunne Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426560" title="Grums">
Grums

Grums is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Grums Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426561" title="Mönsterås">
Mönsterås

Mönsterås is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is the seat of Mönsterås Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426562" title="Målilla">
Målilla

Målilla is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is in Hultsfred Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426563" title="Hultsfred">
Hultsfred

Hultsfred is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is the seat of Hultsfred Municipality. Hultsfred is well-known for the Hultsfred Festival.

</doc>
<doc id="426564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426564" title="Slottsbron">
Slottsbron

Slottsbron is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is in Grums Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426565" title="Tylösand">
Tylösand

Tylösand is an urban area in the county of Halland in Sweden. It is in Halmstad Municipality. In the summertime, it is a well-known seaside resort.

</doc>
<doc id="426567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426567" title="Ed, Sweden">
Ed, Sweden

Ed is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Dals-Ed Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426568" title="Mellerud">
Mellerud

Mellerud is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Mellerud Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426569" title="Strömstad">
Strömstad

Strömstad is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Strömstad Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426570" title="Tanumshede">
Tanumshede

Tanumshede is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Tanum Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426573" title="Jukebox">
Jukebox

Jukeboxes are musical devices that play any selected song that is stored on it. They are partially automatic and usually operated by coin. The term "jukebox" came into use close to 1940, though in fact similar music devices were in use before that. The machines, however, have declined and been replaced by digital audio players and Internet music.

</doc>
<doc id="426574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426574" title="Enköping">
Enköping

Enköping is an urban area in the county of Uppsala in Sweden. It is the seat of Enköping Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426575" title="Söderköping">
Söderköping

Söderköping is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Söderköping Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426576" title="Köping">
Köping

Köping is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Köping Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426577" title="Seaside resort">
Seaside resort

A seaside resort is a resort town that is along the coast. Usually, there are several resort hotels there. A resort with a beach may also be called a beach resort.

</doc>
<doc id="426585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426585" title="Battle of the Malacca Strait">
Battle of the Malacca Strait

The Battle of the Malacca Strait, sometimes called the Sinking of the "Haguro", was a naval battle in World War II. The battle started because the British were searching for Japanese ships to sink. This May 1945 action was called "Operation Dukedom". It resulted in the sinking of the Japanese cruiser . "Haguro" had been supplying Japanese troops in the Dutch East Indies and the Bay of Bengal since 1 May 1945.

</doc>
<doc id="426588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426588" title="What's Eating Gilbert Grape">
What's Eating Gilbert Grape

The movie What's Eating Gilbert Grape is a 1993 romantic comedy-drama. This movie is about several men in Iowa, one of whom is mentally retarded. The title character, Gilbert (Johnny Depp), cares for his brother Arnie (Leonardo DiCaprio) because of his issue, and also for his mother who is very overweight. Juliette Lewis plays Becky. The release date of "What's Eating Gilbert Grape" was December 17, 1993, in limited release. It was released elsewhere in February-March 1994. The reviews were very positive. Its box office, however, was low.

</doc>
<doc id="426589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426589" title="Open city">
Open city

In war, when enemy forces are close to capturing a city, the government or military forces in control of the city will sometimes call the city an open city. This means that they will not try to defend the city. The attacking armies will be expected to not to bomb or attack the city. This approach aims to prevent historic landmarks from being destroyed and civilians from being killed.
An open city is not defended and not fortified. It is open to occupation by opposing forces with no resistance by the defenders. Under International law an open city may not be bombed or subject to artillery attack.
Attacking forces do not always respect cities that call themselves an "open city." Defensive forces may use it as a political tactic as well. In some cases, the declaration of a city to be "open" is made by a side which is close to defeat. In other cases, the city could be defended but the defenders do not want the city to be destroyed.
Several cities were declared open during World War II:

</doc>
<doc id="426593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426593" title="TLC: Tables, Ladders &amp; Chairs (2010)">
TLC: Tables, Ladders &amp; Chairs (2010)

TLC: Tables, Ladders & Chairs (2010) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment. It was held on December 19, 2010 at the Toyota Center in Houston, Texas. It was the second TLC: Tables, Ladders & Chairs event held by the WWE.

</doc>
<doc id="426595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426595" title="Attrition warfare">
Attrition warfare

A war of attrition is a military strategy in which one side tries to cause so many losses of soldiers and so much destruction of military equipment that it wears down the enemy forces until they collapse. The side with more resources (soldiers and military equipment) is the side that usually wins.
Military experts like Sun Tzu say attrition is not the best way to win a war. A famous quote by Sun Tzu is "the supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting". In a war of attrition both parties think they can win. One is always wrong and often, both are wrong. They can both end up with fewer resources than when they began. Ideally, wars are won using the least numbers of soldiers and weapons possible. Another form of attrition warfare is the search and destroy operations used by the United States during the Vietnam War. That same conflict proved that wars of attrition do not work when your enemy is willing to absorb higher losses and continue a war indefinitely.
Union General Ulysses S. Grant began a war of attrition with the Battle of the Wilderness. This was a change for the Army of the Potomac. No longer going after the Confederate capital at Richmond, Virginia, Grant was directly going after Lee's Army of Northern Virginia. It was the first battle of the Union army's Overland Campaign and ended with neither side victorious. The combined casualties totaled 28,000. Grant knew that although his losses were greater, any losses for the Confederacy would reduce their capacity to fight. The North had a much larger pool of resources to work with. So Grant concluded any Confederate losses were worth the sacrifice made by the Union army.
One of the best examples of a war of attrition is World War I on the Italian and Western Fronts. Both sides were drained until one side did not have enough men, horses, food and other military resources to continue. The term was often used to show a lack of imagination in simply throwing soldiers at their enemy. While this implies attrition warfare can be avoided, unfortunately it often cannot. Attrition is frequently a key approach to winning a war. An army will use maneuver and position to its advantage so that when the fight does occur the enemy suffers the greater loss of resources. But attrition may be necessary to create the space in which to maneuver and position forces. For this reason, the two approaches to fighting a war are closely linked and attrition is often the more important.

</doc>
<doc id="426596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426596" title="Natillas">
Natillas

Natillas is a type of food. Natillas refers to a variety of dishes in Spanish-speaking countries.
In Spain natillas is a custard dish. In Colombia the dish called natilla is often served at Christmas. It is like a flan or pudding. In Peru dulce de leche is called natillas. Mexico uses the term for a thicker version of the dessert drink called "Atole leche". In Costa Rica it is a sour cream-like dairy product used as a condiment. 

</doc>
<doc id="426598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426598" title="Rhyolite">
Rhyolite

Rhyolite is a very strong igneous, volcanic rock.
German geologist Ferdinand von Richthofen named the rock. 

</doc>
<doc id="426601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426601" title="Viborg, South Dakota">
Viborg, South Dakota

Viborg is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 782 people lived there at the 2010 census. Viborg became a city in 1903.

</doc>
<doc id="426605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426605" title="Hurley, South Dakota">
Hurley, South Dakota

Hurley is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 415 people lived there at the 2010 census. Hurley became a city in 1883.

</doc>
<doc id="426610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426610" title="The Counselor">
The Counselor

The Counselor is a 2013 crime drama movie. It is about human nature, greed and death. Penélope Cruz plays Laura, Cameron Diaz plays Malkina and Rosie Perez plays Ruth. The movie got mixed reviews by the critics. It got back close to $47 million, $22 million past its budget. This movie, however, was considered a flop. It was released in October and November 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="426611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426611" title="Jah Wobble">
Jah Wobble

Jah Wobble (born 11 August 1958) is an English bass guitarist, singer, and poet. He was Public Image Ltd's first bass player. He left after making two albums with the band in 1980. He has worked with many musicians since. In September 2010 a book Wobble wrote about his life, "Memoirs of a Geezer", was published.
Wobble has two daughters, Hayley Angel Wardle and Natalie Wardle, and two sons.

</doc>
<doc id="426612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426612" title="Andrea del Sarto">
Andrea del Sarto

Andrea del Sarto (born 16 July 1486) was an Italian painter. He was considered an important artist during his lifetime. 
Perhaps the best known painting by Andrea del Sarto is the "Madonna of the Harpies". The painting shows the Virgin Mary and child on a pedestal, with angels and two saints by her side.

</doc>
<doc id="426614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426614" title="Andrea Mantegna">
Andrea Mantegna

Andrea Mantegna (born about 1431) was an Italian painter.
Mantegna's only known sculpture is a "Sant'Eufemia" in the Cathedral of Irsina, Basilicata. The rest of these are paintings:

</doc>
<doc id="426617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426617" title="Little Earthquakes">
Little Earthquakes

Little Earthquakes is the first solo album by Tori Amos. Five singles were released from it. The album got good reviews from music critics. It is the only Tori Amos album in the book "1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die". 
"Me and a Gun" was released as the first single from "Little Earthquakes". It is a song about when Amos was raped in Los Angeles when she was 21. "Silent All These Years" was released as the second single. It reached 21 in the UK Singles Chart. "China" was released as the third single from the album. The album's fourth single "Winter" was released March 9, 1992 in the United Kingdom. It reached 25 in the UK Singles Chart. "Crucify" was the album's last single. It reached 15 in the UK Singles Chart.

</doc>
<doc id="426618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426618" title="Shirley Ann Jackson">
Shirley Ann Jackson

Shirley Ann Jackson (born August 5, 1946) is an American physicist. She is President of "Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute". In 1973 she became the first African-American women to get a doctorate degree in nuclear physics. She was also the first to get this degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
She was named one of the 50 Most Important Women in Science by Discover magazine. In 2007 the National Science Board gave Jackson the Vannevar Bush Award for "a lifetime of achievements in scientific research, education and senior statesman-like contributions to public policy". 

</doc>
<doc id="426620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426620" title="TLC: Tables, Ladders &amp; Chairs (2011)">
TLC: Tables, Ladders &amp; Chairs (2011)

TLC: Tables, Ladders & Chairs (2011) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on December 18, 2011 at the 1st Mariner Arena in Baltimore, Maryland. It was the third TLC: Tables, Ladders & Chairs event held by the WWE.

</doc>
<doc id="426623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426623" title="From the Choirgirl Hotel">
From the Choirgirl Hotel

From the Choirgirl Hotel is the fourth album by Tori Amos. It was released May 5, 1998. It went straight to No.6 in the UK Albums Chart. The album's third single "Raspberry Swirl" was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Female Rock Vocal Performance in 1999. "Rolling Stone" rated the album four stars.

</doc>
<doc id="426624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426624" title="Category:Tori Amos albums">
Category:Tori Amos albums


</doc>
<doc id="426625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426625" title="American Doll Posse">
American Doll Posse

American Doll Posse is the ninth album by Tori Amos. It was released May 1, 2007. It was Amos' last album on Epic Records. "Rolling Stone" gave it 3 stars. The album has 23 songs.

</doc>
<doc id="426629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426629" title="Under the Pink">
Under the Pink

Under the Pink is the second solo album by singer-songwriter Tori Amos. It was released January 31, 1994. Four singles were released from it. The third single, "Cornflake Girl", reached number 4 on the UK Singles Chart. The album went straight to number 1 in the UK. 
In Australia and New Zealand a special version of "Under the Pink" was released called "More Pink: The B-Sides". It had a second disc with the album's fourteen B-sides.

</doc>
<doc id="426630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426630" title="Abnormally Attracted to Sin">
Abnormally Attracted to Sin

Abnormally Attracted to Sin is the tenth solo studio album by singer-songwriter Tori Amos. It was released May 19, 2009. Amos made the album in Cornwall.

</doc>
<doc id="426631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426631" title="Gold Dust (Tori Amos album)">
Gold Dust (Tori Amos album)

Gold Dust is the thirteenth solo studio album by singer-songwriter Tori Amos. It was released on October 1, 2012 by Deutsche Grammophon and Mercury Classics. One single was released from it, "Flavor".

</doc>
<doc id="426635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426635" title="Tavi Gevinson">
Tavi Gevinson

Tavi Gevinson (born April 21, 1996) is an American writer and blogger. In 2008 she started a blog called "Style Rookie". She posted pictures of herself wearing outfits and wrote about the latest fashion trends. The blog was successful. Due to its success Gevinson was asked to go to New York Fashion Week and Paris Fashion Week. In autumn 2011, Gevinson made a website called "Rookie". Rookie is an internet magazine for teenage girls. 
Gevinson was born in Chicago to a Jewish family. Gevinson is going to go to a university in the East Coast. She is a feminist.
Gevinson acted for the first time in the 2008 short film "First Bass". In September 2009 she was on the cover of Pop magazine. That month she was interviewed by Pixie Geldof for Love magazine.
In January 2011 Gevinson interviewed Gwen Stefani for Teen Vogue. In September 2011 Gevinson started an internet magazine called Rookie. She is also its editor. In 5 days it had been viewed over 1 million times. Lady Gaga called her the “future of journalism”. Gevinson was invited to TedxWomen in New York. She met Gloria Steinem there and gave her a short interview.
In January 2013 she was interviewed by CNN and Steven Colbert. A documentary about Kathleen Hanna called The Punk Singer was released in March 2013. Gevinson was interviewed in it. In May 2013 she interviewed Emma Watson. In June 2013 she interviewed Sofia Coppola and Greta Gerwig. In October 2013 "Enough Said", a movie she acted in, was released. In November 2013 Gevinson modelled for Cole Haan's christmas advert. Gevinson's face was on the cover of the first internet-only issue of BULLETT Magazine in November 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="426639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426639" title="Category:286 BC deaths">
Category:286 BC deaths


</doc>
<doc id="426641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426641" title="Category:286 BC">
Category:286 BC


</doc>
<doc id="426642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426642" title="Category:280s BC deaths">
Category:280s BC deaths


</doc>
<doc id="426643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426643" title="Category:369 BC births">
Category:369 BC births


</doc>
<doc id="426644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426644" title="Category:369 BC">
Category:369 BC


</doc>
<doc id="426645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426645" title="Category:360s BC">
Category:360s BC


</doc>
<doc id="426646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426646" title="Category:360s BC births">
Category:360s BC births


</doc>
<doc id="426647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426647" title="Tribal Hidage">
Tribal Hidage

The Tribal Hidage is generally considered to be a list dated to 7th or 8th century Anglo-Saxon England. It was a list of 35 tribes that made up the majority of the peoples living in southern England at that time. Each tribe or kingdom on the list had a rounded off number of hides (units of land measurement). Modern historians believe it was created by either Mercian or Northumbrian overlords to collect tribute from the other groups.
The Tribal Hidage is an important historical document. The oldest copies available were written in style of the 11th century. This is at a time when many of the names of the earlier regions had been forgotten. In some cases the list is the only evidence that a region or people of that name ever existed. There were probably older versions of the Tribal Hidage and may have dated back to when Penda of Mercia dominated Anglo-Saxon England (642–655).
Historians are mixed when it comes to where the document came from originally. It may have been written by Paulinus for King Edwin of Northumbria. It may have been created for the use of Offa of Mercia. Others have not suggested a place or reign, but a particular period of time for when it was probably written—between 670-690. Historians are not certain what the exact reason was for creating the list. Most seem to agree it was probably a tribute list. There are signs that the list was updated over a period of time. So it may have had more than one purpose.
The text in the original documents is corrupt. Not every name can be clearly read. The names on the list are for tribal groups of peoples and not for districts or regions they lived in. Three different revisions have been identified by historian David Dumville. These are called A, Recension B, and Recension C.
The first part of the list had 20 names. At the end of the first group is a total number of hides of land given as 66, 100. The numbers of hides for each group add up to 66,100 so the number is correct. The second group of 15 names has a total under it listed at 242,700 hides. But this is incorrect. If you add up the hides for each of the names in this group it totals 244,100. These are almost certainly math errors.
Of the first or primary part of the list contained several recognized peoples:
This part of the list seems to have been added:

</doc>
<doc id="426648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426648" title="Category:577 deaths">
Category:577 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="426649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426649" title="Category:577">
Category:577


</doc>
<doc id="426650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426650" title="Category:656 deaths">
Category:656 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="426651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426651" title="Category:656">
Category:656


</doc>
<doc id="426652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426652" title="Category:1183 deaths">
Category:1183 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="426653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426653" title="Category:1307 births">
Category:1307 births


</doc>
<doc id="426654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426654" title="Ed">
Ed

Ed, ed or ED can refer to several things:

</doc>
<doc id="426655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426655" title="Category:Radiohead">
Category:Radiohead


</doc>
<doc id="426656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426656" title="Category:1385 deaths">
Category:1385 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="426657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426657" title="Category:1470s BC deaths">
Category:1470s BC deaths


</doc>
<doc id="426658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426658" title="Category:1470s BC">
Category:1470s BC


</doc>
<doc id="426659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426659" title="Category:15th century BC">
Category:15th century BC


</doc>
<doc id="426660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426660" title="Category:15th century BC deaths">
Category:15th century BC deaths


</doc>
<doc id="426661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426661" title="Category:1490s BC deaths">
Category:1490s BC deaths


</doc>
<doc id="426662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426662" title="Category:1490s BC">
Category:1490s BC


</doc>
<doc id="426663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426663" title="Category:16th century BC births">
Category:16th century BC births


</doc>
<doc id="426666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426666" title="TLC: Tables, Ladders &amp; Chairs (2012)">
TLC: Tables, Ladders &amp; Chairs (2012)

TLC: Tables, Ladders & Chairs (2012) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on December 16, 2012 at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New York. It was the fourth TLC: Tables, Ladders & Chairs event held by the WWE.

</doc>
<doc id="426668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426668" title="Quvenzhané Wallis">
Quvenzhané Wallis

Quvenzhané Wallis (born August 28, 2003) is an American actress. Wallis' first movie was "Beasts of the Southern Wild". She got nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actress. This made her the youngest person ever to be nominated for the award. In January 2013, "Boneshaker", a short film, was released. Wallis plays Blessing in it. Wallis played Margaret Northup in the 2013 movie "12 Years a Slave". Wallis is going to play Annie in a remake of the musical "Annie". It is being filmed currently. It is going to be released in 2014. Wallis does the voice of Almitra in the animated movie "The Prophet". It will be released in 2014.
Wallis was born in Houma, Louisiana.

</doc>
<doc id="426672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426672" title="To Venus and Back">
To Venus and Back

To Venus and Back is the fifth album by Tori Amos. It was released on 20 September 1999 in the United Kingdom and on September 21, 1999 in the United States. The album has two discs. The first disc is called "Venus: Orbiting". It has eleven new songs. The second disc is called " Venus Live: Still Orbiting". It is thirteen recordings of song performances Amos made in her Plugged '98 tour. The album was nominated for Best Alternative Music Album and Amos was nominated for Best Female Rock Vocal Performance for the song "Bliss" at the 2000 Grammy Awards. In 1999, Amos did a tour for the album, the "Five and a Half Weeks Tour".

</doc>
<doc id="426673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426673" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Kobe 8">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Kobe 8


</doc>
<doc id="426679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426679" title="Steve McQueen (director)">
Steve McQueen (director)

Steven Rodney "Steve" McQueen, CBE (born 9 October 1969) is a British movie director and artist. He has directed three feature films. 
McQueen was born in London and is of Grenadan descent. He went to Drayton Manor High School. After doing A Level art at Hammersmith and West London College he went to Goldsmiths College, University of London. It was there that he made his first short films.
In 1993 his first major movie "Bear" was shown at the Royal College of Art in London. It is black and white and there is no sound in it. In 1999 McQueen won the Turner Prize. In 2008 "Hunger" was released. It was the first feature film directed and written by McQueen. McQueen is making a drama for HBO. He directed "Shame" (2008) and "12 Years a Slave" (2013).
McQueen lives in Amsterdam with Bianca Stigter. 

</doc>
<doc id="426685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426685" title="Adora Svitak">
Adora Svitak

Adora Lily Svitak (born October 15, 1997) is an American child prodigy. When she was seven her first book, "Flying Fingers", was published around the world. Her second book, "Dancing Fingers", was published in April 2008. In January 2009 Channel 4 showed a documentary about gifted children called "The World's Cleverest Child and Me". Svitak was in it. On March 14, 2011 her first novel, "Yang in Disguise", was published. In February 2010 Svitak gave a talk for TED called "What Adults Can Learn From Kids". 
Her mother, Joyce Can Zou Svitak, was born in China. She moved to the US in 1988. Her father, John Svitak, is a fourth generation Czech Republic migrant. He is a science and maths teacher.
Svitak is a feminist. She lives in Seattle. She goes to Redmond High School.

</doc>
<doc id="426689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426689" title="Louise Diane d'Orléans">
Louise Diane d'Orléans

Louise Diane d'Orléans (27 June 1716 – 26 September 1736) was the last child of Philippe d'Orléans, Duke of Orléans ("Regent of the Kingdom" from 1715 to 1723) and his wife, Françoise Marie de Bourbon, the youngest illegitimate daughter of King Louis XIV of France and his mistress, Madame de Montespan. The Princess of Conti by marriage, she died in childbirth at the age of twenty. Some sources refer to her as "Louis Diane". The princess used the name Louise.
Louise Diane d'Orléans was born in the Palais-Royal, the Paris residence of the House of Orléans, on 27 June 1716 as the youngest child of the Duke and Duchess of Orléans. Elizabeth Charlotte of the Palatinate was her fathers mother and was not impressed at the thought of having another granddaughter
Her siblings were:
Until her marriage, she was known as "Mademoiselle de Chartres ". known as "Mademoiselle de Chartres". She grew up with her younger sister Élisabeth with a convent education. Her sister would later become the Queen of Spain. 
Louise grew up in an era when her father, known as "Philippe d'Orléans" or simply "le Régent" was the ruler of France, him being in charge of the affairs of state since the death of Louis XIV. The Palais-Royal was where the Régent held his court and lived openly with his mistress.
In her youth, she was said to have been a very sensitive child and would grow up to be one of the more beautiful of the Regent's daughters. Despite her being another girl, (1 of 7 overall), her birth was not really greeted with the joy that had met her brother, Louis d'Orléans, Duke of Orléans.
In December 1731, it was decided that she should marry her distant cousin Louis François de Bourbon, Prince of Conti. Her marriage was arranged by her mother Françoise Marie, "Dowager Duchess of Orléans" and her first cousin (and subsequent mother in law) Louise Élisabeth, "Dowager Princess of Conti".
She was baptised on 19 January 1732 by the Cardinal of Rohan and she married the Prince of Conti three days later, on 22 January. The marriage ceremony took place at the Palace of Versailles. Louise was then fifteen years old. At her wedding, her cousin Élisabeth Alexandrine de Bourbon held her train.
After the marriage, she became known at court as Her Serene Highness, the Princess of Conti. Her husband had succeeded to the Conti title in 1727 upon the death of his father, Louis Armand II, Prince of Conti. In 1734, Louise gave birth to a son, heir to the Conti name, and, in 1736, to a second child who died at birth.
Louise died in childbirth on 26 September 1736 outside Paris. She was buried at the Saint-André-des-Arcs church. Her only surviving son, Louis François Joseph, was the last Prince of Conti.

</doc>
<doc id="426706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426706" title="Mjölby">
Mjölby

Mjölby is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Mjölby Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426708" title="Ödeshög">
Ödeshög

Ödeshög is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Ödeshög Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426710" title="Bollebygd">
Bollebygd

Bollebygd is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Bollebygd Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426711" title="Kinna">
Kinna

Kinna is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Mark Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426715" title="Nyasasaurus">
Nyasasaurus

Nyasasaurus ("Lake Nyasa lizard") is an extinct genus of Archosaur reptile from the Middle Triassic Manda Beds of Tanzania. It may be the earliest known dinosaur. The discovery was a handful of bones from two individuals, so its anatomy is only partly known. The bones were collected in the early 1930s, but have only recently been analysed.
Researchers said: ""Nyasasaurus" possesses a unique combination of dinosaur character states and an elevated growth rate similar to that of definitive early dinosaurs. It demonstrates that the initial dinosaur radiation occurred over a longer timescale than previously thought (possibly 15 million years earlier)".
The find was six vertebrae and a humerus from one specimen, and five vertebrae from another. The humerus has a muscle attachment which is characteristic of dinosaurs (a long 'deltopectoral crest'). Other features are consistent with its being a basal dinosaur.
Previously, the oldest record of dinosaurs was from Argentina and dated back to the Upper Triassic Carnian stage, about 231.4 million years ago (mya). "Nyasasaurus" comes from a deposit that dates back to the Middle Triassic Anisian stage, meaning that it predates other early dinosaurs by about 15 million years.

</doc>
<doc id="426724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426724" title="Degerfors">
Degerfors

Degerfors is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Degerfors Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426725" title="Österbymo">
Österbymo

Österbymo is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Ydre Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426727" title="Lerum">
Lerum

Lerum is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Lerum Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426729" title="Kungsängen">
Kungsängen

Kungsängen is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Upplands-Bro Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426730" title="Upplands Väsby">
Upplands Väsby

Upplands Väsby is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Upplands Väsby Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426733" title="Årjäng">
Årjäng

Årjäng is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Årjäng Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426734" title="Avesta, Sweden">
Avesta, Sweden

Avesta is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Avesta Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426736" title="Kumla">
Kumla

Kumla is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Kumla Municipality. Kumla is well-known for the Kumla Prison.

</doc>
<doc id="426738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426738" title="Hallsberg">
Hallsberg

Hallsberg is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Hallsberg Municipality. Hallsberg is well-known for its railroad junctions.

</doc>
<doc id="426739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426739" title="Laxå">
Laxå

Laxå is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Laxå Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426740" title="Munkedal">
Munkedal

Munkedal is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Munkedal Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426742" title="Emmaboda">
Emmaboda

Emmaboda is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is the seat of Emmaboda Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426743" title="Nödinge-Nol">
Nödinge-Nol

Nödinge-Nol is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Ale Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426744" title="Osby">
Osby

Osby is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Osby Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426745" title="Älmhult">
Älmhult

Älmhult is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Älmhult Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426746" title="Kil, Kil Municipality">
Kil, Kil Municipality

Kil is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Kil Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426747" title="Bengtsfors">
Bengtsfors

Bengtsfors is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Bengtsfors Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426748" title="Åkersberga">
Åkersberga

Åkersberga is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Östhammar Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426749" title="Vaxholm">
Vaxholm

Vaxholm is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Vaxholm Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426751" title="Skurup">
Skurup

Skurup is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Skurup Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426756" title="Bromölla">
Bromölla

Bromölla is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Bromölla Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426758" title="Eksjö">
Eksjö

Eksjö is an urban area in the county of Jönköping in Sweden. It is the seat of Eksjö Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426759" title="Gnosjö">
Gnosjö

Gnosjö is an urban area in the county of Jönköping in Sweden. It is the seat of Gnosjö Municipality. In business management, Gnosjö is well-known for the Gnosjö Spirit ().

</doc>
<doc id="426761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426761" title="Vara">
Vara

Vara is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Vara Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426762" title="Nybro">
Nybro

Nybro is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is the seat of Nybro Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426763" title="Sigtuna">
Sigtuna

Sigtuna is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is in Sigtuna Municipality. Sigtuna is famous for the Sigtuna boarding school.

</doc>
<doc id="426764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426764" title="Märsta">
Märsta

Märsta is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Sigtuna Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426765" title="Tumba">
Tumba

Tumba is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is within both Botkyrka Municipality and Salem Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426771" title="Sjöbo">
Sjöbo

Sjöbo is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Sjöbo Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426773" title="Fagersta">
Fagersta

Fagersta is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Fagersta Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426774" title="Forshaga">
Forshaga

Forshaga is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Forshaga Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426775" title="Heby">
Heby

Heby is an urban area in the county of Uppsala in Sweden. It is the seat of Heby Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426776" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426776" title="Lysekil">
Lysekil

Lysekil is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Lysekil Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426777" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426777" title="Alingsås">
Alingsås

Alingsås is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Alingsås Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426779" title="Skoghall">
Skoghall

Skoghall is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Hammarö Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426780" title="Alafors">
Alafors

Alafors is a former urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is in the Ale Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426781" title="Boxholm">
Boxholm

Boxholm is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Boxholm Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426782" title="Arlöv">
Arlöv

Arlöv is a place in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Burlöv Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426783" title="Båstad">
Båstad

Båstad is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Båstad Municipality. In July every year, the Swedish Open international tennis tournament is played here.

</doc>
<doc id="426785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426785" title="Charlottenberg">
Charlottenberg

Charlottenberg is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Eda Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426786" title="Ekerö">
Ekerö

Ekerö is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Ekerö Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426787" title="Eslöv">
Eslöv

Eslöv is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Eslöv Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426789" title="Nossebro">
Nossebro

Nossebro is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Essunga Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426790" title="Finspång">
Finspång

Finspång is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Finspång Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426791" title="Färgelanda">
Färgelanda

Färgelanda is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Färgelanda Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426792" title="Gnesta">
Gnesta

Gnesta is an urban area in the county of Södermanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Gnesta Municipality. Parts of the urban area span into Södertälje Municipality within Stockholm County.

</doc>
<doc id="426793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426793" title="Grästorp">
Grästorp

Grästorp is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Grästorp Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426794" title="Gullspång">
Gullspång

Gullspång is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Gullspång Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426795" title="Mölnlycke">
Mölnlycke

Mölnlycke is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Härryda Municipality. Parts of the urban area are located within Mölndal Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426796" title="Götene">
Götene

Götene is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Götene Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426797" title="The Simpsons Skateboarding">
The Simpsons Skateboarding

The Simpsons: Skateboarding is a sports video game based on the animated television show "The Simpsons". It was released for the PlayStation 2 in 2002. The game involves the different characters of the show taking part in a skateboarding contest across Springfield. 

</doc>
<doc id="426799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426799" title="Töreboda">
Töreboda

Töreboda is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Töreboda Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426800" title="Markaryd">
Markaryd

Markaryd is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Markaryd Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426801" title="Hagfors">
Hagfors

Hagfors is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Hagfors Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426802" title="Handen">
Handen

Handen is an place in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Haninge Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426803" title="Herrljunga">
Herrljunga

Herrljunga is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Herrljunga Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426804" title="Hässleholm">
Hässleholm

Hässleholm is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Hässleholm Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426807" title="Höganäs">
Höganäs

Höganäs is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Höganäs Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426809" title="Högsby">
Högsby

Högsby is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is the seat of Högsby Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426810" title="Jakobsberg">
Jakobsberg

Jakobsberg is a place in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Järfälla Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426811" title="Kisa">
Kisa

Kisa is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Kinda Municipality. In May 1999, a bank robbery was carried out here, famous for its connection to the Malexander Police Murders.

</doc>
<doc id="426812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426812" title="Knivsta">
Knivsta

Knivsta is an urban area in the county of Uppsala in Sweden. It is the seat of Knivsta Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426813" title="Kungsör">
Kungsör

Kungsör is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Kungsör Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426814" title="Kävlinge">
Kävlinge

Kävlinge is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Kävlinge Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426815" title="Fjugesta">
Fjugesta

Fjugesta is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Lekeberg Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426816" title="Lessebo">
Lessebo

Lessebo is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Lessebo Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426818" title="Ljungby">
Ljungby

Ljungby is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Ljungby Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426819" title="Lomma">
Lomma

Lomma is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Lomma Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426820" title="Kopparberg">
Kopparberg

Kopparberg is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Ljusnarsberg Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426821" title="Orsa">
Orsa

Orsa is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Orsa Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426822" title="Ludvika">
Ludvika

Ludvika is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Ludvika Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426824" title="Perstorp">
Perstorp

Perstorp is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Perstorp Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426825" title="Partille">
Partille

Partille is a former urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Partille Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426826" title="Salem, Sweden">
Salem, Sweden

Salem is a place in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Salem Municipality, and part of the Tumba urban area.

</doc>
<doc id="426827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426827" title="Simrishamn">
Simrishamn

Simrishamn is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Simrishamn Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426828" title="Skinnskatteberg">
Skinnskatteberg

Skinnskatteberg is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Skinnskatteberg Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426829" title="Kungshamn">
Kungshamn

Kungshamn is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Sotenäs Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426830" title="Svalöv">
Svalöv

Svalöv is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Svalöv Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426832" title="Svedala">
Svedala

Svedala is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Svedala Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426834" title="Svenljunga">
Svenljunga

Svenljunga is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Svenljunga Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426835" title="Bollmora">
Bollmora

Bollmora is a former urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Tyresö Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426836" title="Säffle">
Säffle

Säffle is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Säffle Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426838" title="Sävsjö">
Sävsjö

Sävsjö is an urban area in the county of Jönköping in Sweden. It is the seat of Sävsjö Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426839" title="Säter">
Säter

Säter is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Säter Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426840" title="Tibro">
Tibro

Tibro is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Tibro Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426841" title="Tierp">
Tierp

Tierp is an urban area in the county of Uppsala in Sweden. It is the seat of Tierp Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426842" title="Tingsryd">
Tingsryd

Tingsryd is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Tingsryd Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426843" title="Tomelilla">
Tomelilla

Tomelilla is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Tomelilla Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426844" title="Torsby">
Torsby

Torsby is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Torsby Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426845" title="Torsås">
Torsås

Torsås is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is the seat of Torsås Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426846" title="Tranemo">
Tranemo

Tranemo is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Tranemo Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426848" title="Trosa">
Trosa

Trosa is an urban area in the county of Södermanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Trosa Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426849" title="Täby">
Täby

Täby is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Täby Municipality, but parts of it span into Danderyd Municipality and Sollentuna Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426850" title="Valdemarsvik">
Valdemarsvik

Valdemarsvik is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Valdemarsvik Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426851" title="Vallentuna">
Vallentuna

Vallentuna is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Vallentuna Municipality, but also spans into Täby Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426852" title="Vansbro">
Vansbro

Vansbro is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Vansbro Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426853" title="Vellinge">
Vellinge

Vellinge is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Vellinge Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426855" title="Vingåker">
Vingåker

Vingåker is an urban area in the county of Södermanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Vingåker Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426856" title="Vårgårda">
Vårgårda

Vårgårda is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Vårgårda Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426857" title="Åtvidaberg">
Åtvidaberg

Åtvidaberg is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Åtvidaberg Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426858" title="Öckerö">
Öckerö

Öckerö is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Öckerö Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426859" title="Östhammar">
Östhammar

Östhammar is an urban area in the county of Uppsala in Sweden. It is the seat of Östhammar Municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="426871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426871" title="Breathe Carolina">
Breathe Carolina

Breathe Carolina is an American electronic rock group from Denver, Colorado. It formed in early 2006. Its members are lead vocalist David Schmitt, drummer Eric Armenta, keyboardist Luis Bonet, and guitarist Tommy Cooperman. The band is best known for their successful single "Blackout", released in June 2011. It peaked at number 17 on the U.S. Billboard Pop Songs chart. Since 2008, the band has released three full-length studio albums: "It's Classy, Not Classic", "Hello Fascination", and "Hell Is What You Make It".
The group has also been featured on many compilation albums, such as "Punk Goes Pop 2", "Warped Tour 2010", "Punk Goes Pop 3", "Tis the Season to be Fearless", and "Punk Goes Pop 5". Breathe Carolina's covers include "Down" by Jay Sean, "See You Again" by Miley Cyrus, and "Billie Jean" by Michael Jackson. 
On July 6, 2013, the band released a mixtape titled "Bangers", featuring three songs.
The band is set to released their upcoming fourth studio album, "Savages", in early 2014. The single "Savages" was released on November 26, 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="426872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426872" title="It's Classy, Not Classic">
It's Classy, Not Classic

It's Classy, Not Classic is the debut studio album by electronicore band Breathe Carolina. It was released on September 16, 2008 in the United States. It was released by Rise Records. The single "Diamonds" was released in February, 2009. The album charted at No. 186 on the U.S. Billboard 200 albums chart.
The album has been compared to other artists such as Jeffree Star and Blood on the Dancefloor. 

</doc>
<doc id="426875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426875" title="Hello Fascination">
Hello Fascination

Hello Fascination is an album by electronicore band Breathe Carolina. It is their second full-length studio album. It was released on August 18, 2009 through Fearless Records in the United States and Canada.
The lead single "Welcome to Savannah" was released on July 7, 2009. The second single, "Hello Fascination", was released on February 2, 2010. It gained the group minor success. The third and final single, "I.D.G.A.F.", was released in July of 2010. The album charted at number 43 on the U.S. Billboard 200 albums chart. It also peaked at number 2 on the Billboard Dance/Electronic Albums chart.
The album was produced by Mike Green and Matthew Squire. They have also worked with Good Charlotte, All Time Low, 3OH!3, Boys Like Girls, and Panic! At the Disco.
The album was released on August 18, 2009. It peaked at number 43 on the Billboard 200. It spent about two weeks on the chart. It also appeared in the Rock, Alternative, Independent, and Dance/Electronic Album Charts.
A deluxe edition was released exclusively through iTunes on July 6, 2010. It includes five bonus songs, three remixes, and a music video. "Hello Fascination" and "The Dressing Room" can be downloaded for the iPhone application Tap Tap Revenge.

</doc>
<doc id="426888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426888" title="NXT Championship">
NXT Championship

The NXT Championship is a professional wrestling championship in the WWE. The title is a NXT-only championship.
The title was introduced by NXT Commissioner Dusty Rhodes. Rhodes said that there would be a "Gold Rush" tournament that would feature 4 developmental roster NXT Superstars and 4 main roster WWE Superstars and that they would compete to be crowned as the inaugural NXT Champion. Seth Rollins became the first champion after he defeated Jinder Mahal in the final round.
Bo Dallas is the youngest champion, winning the title 2 days before his 23rd birthday. The current champion, shinsuke nakamura]], is the oldest champion at 37 years old. He defeated Samoa Joe at an NXT takeover brocklyn II in Lowell, Massachusetts on August ,21.

</doc>
<doc id="426892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426892" title="Category:Politics of Sweden">
Category:Politics of Sweden


</doc>
<doc id="426895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426895" title="David Sedaris">
David Sedaris

David Sedaris is an American comedian and writer. His first book, "Barrel Fever", was published 1994. Half of the book is short stories. The other half is essays Sedaris wrote about himself. In 1997, he published another collection of essays, "Naked". It won the Randy Shilts Award for Gay Non-Fiction in 1998. In 1999, "Me Talk Pretty One Day" was published. "Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim" was published 2004. Sedaris was recorded reading the book for the "Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim" audiobook. It was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Comedy Album.
In 1992 Sedaris read an essay that he wrote called "SantaLand Diaries" on NPR. People liked it. After this he read an essay for NPR each month. Little, Brown and Company agreed to publish his first two books.
Sedaris was born in Binghamton in New York. He grew up in Raleigh, North Carolina.

</doc>
<doc id="426899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426899" title="River Don, South Yorkshire">
River Don, South Yorkshire

The River Don (also called the "Dun" in some sections) is a river in South Yorkshire, England. It begins in the Pennines and flows for eastwards, through the Don Valley. It originally joined with the Trent, but was re-engineered in the 1620s, and now joins the River Ouse at Goole in the East Riding of Yorkshire. 
The Don can be divided into sections by the different types of structures built to restrict its passage. The upper section has dams built to provide a public water supply. The middle section contains many weirs, which were built to power water wheels. The lower section contains weirs and locks, designed to allow for river navigation. 
The Don's major tributaries are the Loxley, the Rivelin, the Sheaf, the Rother and the Dearne. The Don gets its name from Dôn (or Danu), a Celtic mother goddess. The river gave its name to the Don River in Ontario, which runs through Toronto, Canada.

</doc>
<doc id="426900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426900" title="Artpop">
Artpop

Artpop (or ARTPOP) is the third studio album by Lady Gaga. It was released on November 6, 2013. The album was mainly produced by Gaga along with DJ White Shadow and Zedd, among other producers. 
Two official singles have been released from the album. The first single "Applause" was released in August 2013 and has reached #4 on the "Billboard" Hot 100 and Canadian Hot 100, while reaching number five in the United Kingdom. The second single, "Do What U Want," was released on October 21, 2013. Written with R. Kelly, it has peaked at #13 on the Hot 100. The song also reached the top ten in Canada and the UK.
Both singles reached the top ten of "Billboard"'s Mainstream Top 40 (Pop Songs) radio chart, reaching #4 and #7, respectively.
The album debuted at #1 in many countries, particularly in the United States on the "Billboard" 200 album chart and the UK Albums Chart. "Artpop" sold 258,000 copies in its first week in America and became Gaga's second number-one album in the US, after "Born This Way".

</doc>
<doc id="426903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426903" title="Tony Sirico">
Tony Sirico

Genaro Anthony "Tony" Sirico, Jr. (born July 29, 1942) is an American character actor. He is known for his role as the mobster Paulie "Walnuts" Gualtieri in the television series "The Sopranos". He also provided the voice of Vinny Griffin on the sitcom "Family Guy.

</doc>
<doc id="426904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426904" title="Chico Hamilton">
Chico Hamilton

Chico Hamilton (Foreststorn Hamilton, September 20, 1921 – November 25, 2013) was an American jazz drummer and bandleader.
Hamilton was born Foreststorn Hamilton in Los Angeles, California on September 20, 1921. His brother was actor Bernie Hamilton. Hamilton died on November 25, 2013 in Manhattan, New York from unknown causes, aged 92.

</doc>
<doc id="426905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426905" title="Bloody Sunday (1972)">
Bloody Sunday (1972)

Bloody Sunday ()—sometimes called the Bogside Massacre—happened on 30 January 1972, in the Bogside area of Derry, Northern Ireland. In this event, 26 unarmed civil-rights protesters and people who were watching were shot by soldiers of the British Army. Thirteen males, seven of whom were teenagers, died immediately or soon after. A fourteenth man died from his injuries four-and-a-half months later. Two protesters were also run down by army vehicles. Five of the wounded were shot in the back. The incident happened during a Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association march. The soldiers involved were members of the First Battalion of the Parachute Regiment (1 Para).
Two investigations have been held by the British government. The Widgery Tribunal, held soon after the event, said that the soldiers and British authorities were almost reckless. Critics said the report made it seem like the British did nothing wrong. The Saville Inquiry was held in 1998 to investigate the events a second time. The inquiry took 12 years. The report was made public on 15 June 2010. The report said that some soldiers were wrong to have shot the protesters. The report found that all of the people shot were unarmed, and that the killings were "unjustified". When the Saville report was published, the British prime minister, David Cameron, said sorry to the victims.
The Provisional Irish Republican Army's (IRA) war against the partition of Ireland had begun in the two years before the incident. The incident helped the IRA to recruit new members. Bloody Sunday remains among the most important events in the Troubles of Northern Ireland. The reason it is seen as so important is because those who died were shot by the British army rather than paramilitaries.

</doc>
<doc id="426910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426910" title="Silliness">
Silliness

Silliness is when a person acts like a fool, or shows a lack of good sense or judgment. In television, movies, and the circus, silliness such as exaggerated, funny behavior is used to make audiences laugh. Clowns and jesters act in a silly way to make people feel better.
In "The Art of Roughhousing", Anthony DeBenedet and Larry Cohen say that "wild play" between a child and a parent can cause "joy, love and a deeper connection". They say parents should be silly and pretend, for example, to fall over.
Michael Christianson from New York's Big Apple Circus teaches jesters, clowns and comedians how to help hospital patients feel better. A doctor named Patch Adams travels to places where there is crisis or suffering to help people feel better.
In the U.S. and Mexico, the practical joke group Improv Everywhere has created an "international celebration of silliness" by asking people to get on the New York and Mexico City subways without trousers on a specific day.

</doc>
<doc id="426913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426913" title="Maven (wrestler)">
Maven (wrestler)

Maven Klint Huffman (born November 26, 1976) is a retired American professional wrestler. He is best known for working with World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment under his real first name. 
He was the co-winner of the first season of Tough Enough along with Nidia Guenard. During his time in the WWF/E, he had notable feuds with The Undertaker after eliminating after Maven eliminated Undertaker from the 2002 Royal Rumble and Evolution. He also won the WWF Hardcore Championship three times.
He currently works as a bouncer in New York City.

</doc>
<doc id="426917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426917" title="Saar Offensive">
Saar Offensive

The Saar Offensive was a French ground offensive (attack) into Saarland during World War II. It was done from 7 to 16 September 1939. This area of Saarland was defended by the German 1st Army. The purpose of the attack was to help Poland, which was under attack at the time. The offensive was to have been done by 40 divisions, including one armored division, three mechanised divisions, 78 artillery regiments and 40 tank battalions. The offensive was stopped and the French forces eventually retreated when the Germans attacked them on 17 October.

</doc>
<doc id="426921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426921" title="Battle of Hatfield Chase">
Battle of Hatfield Chase

The Battle of Hatfield Chase was fought on 12 October 633 at Hatfield Chase near Doncaster in present-day Yorkshire. The pagan King Penda of Mercia and the Christian king of Gynedd, Cadwallon ap Cadfan joined forces to attack Northumbria. King Edwin met them in the southern part of his kingdom. In the battle Edwin was killed and his army was defeated. Cadwallon destroyed as much of Northumbria as he could. This led to the end of Northumbrian dominance over southern England for a short time.
Edwin of Northumbria (ruled 616–633) was recognized as overlord over all of Britain. In his wars he conquered the kingdom of Elmet (western Yorkshire). He then drove out its king, Cerdic. This gave him access all the way to the Irish Sea. Elmet was one of the last kingdoms of the Britons. He next moved against Wales when he invaded the Welsh north and captured Anglesey. He drove Cadwallon to the far eastern part of the island and laid siege to him at Priestholme. This caused Cadwallon, a Christian king, to ally himself with Penda, the pagan king of Mercia. Cadwallon's motive was revenge on the powerful Northumbrian ruler who had invaded his kingdom. Penda resented Northumbria's being Christianized by Kent. He also wanted Edwin's power over the other kingdoms.
The site of the battle suggests Edwin and his forces may have had to fight on ground not suited for defense. He may have been trapped by the grassy wetlands to the north and the river Don to the east. The armies of Cadwallon and Penda came at him from the west. In the battle one of Edwin's sons, Osfrid, was killed before his father. Edwin was killed and his army scattered. Another son, Eadfrith, was taken prisoner by Penda. Edwin's queen escaped to Kent with two of her children, Osfrid's young son and Bishop Paulinus.
Cadwallon and Penda began slaughtering the people of Northumbria. This included men, women and children. Cadwallon, according to Bede, although Christian was more barbarous than any pagan. Northumbria fell apart and divided back into its two former kingdoms of Deira and Bernicia. Oswald reunited Deira and Bernicia back into Northumbria. As King he restored Northumbria to the power it had under Edwin.

</doc>
<doc id="426931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426931" title="Big John Studd">
Big John Studd

John Minton (February 19, 1948 – March 20, 1995) was an American professional wrestler and actor. 
He is known for competing in the World Wrestling Federation from 1982 to 1986 and from 1988 to 1989. Minton was also an actor in both .
Minton died on March 20, 1995 from liver cancer and Hodgkin's disease. Lou Albano revealed in 2000 that Minton had also suffered from Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.
Minton was inducted into the WCW Hall of Fame in 1995 and the WWE Hall of Fame by Big Show in 2004.
World Wide Wrestling Federation/World Wrestling Entertainment

</doc>
<doc id="426935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426935" title="What About Your Friends">
What About Your Friends

"What About Your Friends" is a song by TLC. It is the third single from their debut album, "Ooooooohhh... On the TLC Tip". It reached #7 on the Billboard Hot 100. This made it the group's third consecutive top-ten single.

</doc>
<doc id="426939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426939" title="The Favor">
The Favor

The Favor is a 1994 romantic-comedy movie. It is about friendship betrayals and heartbreak. "The Favor" was shot in 1990 although not released until late April-early May in 1994. Elizabeth McGovern and Brad Pitt are part of the cast. The reviews of the movie were not good.

</doc>
<doc id="426945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426945" title="Anne Anastasi">
Anne Anastasi

Anne Anastasi (December 19th 1908-May 4th 2001) is one of the founders of American Psychology and contributed to Psychometrics. She helped improve psychological testing. She wrote a textbook, Psychological Testing, which is still used today. She made psychological testing more reliable and personal. She also helped improve the number of women in going into psychology.
Anne Anatasi was born on December 19th 1908 in New York City. Annes father was Anthony Anastasi and her mother was Theresa Gauiosi. When Anne was young her father died, which left her and her mother very distant from her father’s side of the family. Due to Anne’s father death, the family was in need of money. Anne's mother took on many different jobs such as bookkeeping, opening up her own piano store, and working for an Italian newspaper to support the family. Since her mother was always busy working, Anne’s grandmother took care of her and taught her at home because she believed that public education was bad for her. Due to her home schooling, when she went to public school she had difficulties because the classes were overcrowded. Eventually, Anne would go to public school. The school Anne went to was PS 3 and Evander Childs High School Bronx, New York. Due to the difficulty of public school and family problems she was often in and out of school but eventually graduated and went to a private school called Rhodes Preparatory school. At the age of 15, in 1923, she was accepted into Barnard College.
Annie’s favorite subject was math. Once she entered Barnard College she fell in love with psychology and switched subjects because of a famous psychologist named Charles Spearman and her college Professor Harry Hollingworth. Anne would eventually become a professor at Barnard. During her stay at Barnard College, Anne completed her PH.D at Columbia University. Later on she would teach at Queens College and Fordham College in New York.
Anne made many contributions to psychology. She changed the way people thought about human action and emphasized that humans are unique people. She was more interested in individual differences among people than in descriptions of average people. Individual differences are the behaviors and ways of thinking that make one person different from another. On May 4th 2001 in New York, Anne died but her ideas and her scientific research continue to influence psychology.
In 1937 Anastasi wrote a book about the role of genes and environment and how it affects people. During this time, this issue caused many arguments. Anne believed that labeling psychological traits, like intelligence, was unreliable because of the current methods used to define and measure was wrong. This caused Anne to change the way people define psychological traits and how it was measured. Her main theory on the matter is that people should understand how genetic works first before defining psychological traits because they can be wrong.
Anne pointed out that there were two problems when talking about genetics. The first problem was how people thought that genes were only from your parents. She said genes are not just from the parents but from relatives and extended families. The second problem was people believed that certain gene affects the body and will make certain traits appear. She says that it may be true but not all the times. She talks about how the lack of traits can cause and effect developmental issues but genes are not always involved.
She also contributed to other factors in psychology like give children with disabilities better care, study different behavior, and the development of babies.
In 1957 Anne wrote a book called "Psychological Review" and said "heredity and environment are inseparable because there would be no one in an environment without heredity and there would be no place to see the effects of heredity without environment". Anne refined her theory on Heredity and Environment and wrote a paper to the American psychological association to talk about how genes and environment effect psychological testing and what future actions should be taken. She talks about how the past research on heredity and environment has been lacking because of faulty research.
Anne believed that the people doing the research are doing it the wrong way. During this time Anne believed that the way to view the research is “How” genes and environment effect behavior, instead of “Why” genes and environment effect behavior. Once Anne started her research, she believed that there is an indirect relationship between genes and behavior.
Anne believed that environmental factors affect the genetic and behavior of a human. Genetics is more of an indirect factor were it affects behavior indirectly. Behavior is more of a direct factor where it affects the environment directly.
The understanding of “How” hereditary and environment affected each other was looked at by seven different ways and that these should be studied and looked into.
In 1991, Annie was interested in Psychometrics which is the study of testing. She had published a journal article within the journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences called “The Gap Between Experimental and Psychometric Orientations”. She used this article to tell other psychologists and researchers that psychology testing is becoming more popular but because of its other psychology parts are not being advanced researchers need to concentrate on other parts as well.
Anne was worried that if other parts were not improved psychology testing will come to a stop in advancement and that the research will be lost. She talks about how psychometric tests have random things to consider, but to be able to do reliable experiments the researchers have to be specialized in certain areas and not the general issues.
Anne is considered to be a test expert. Her second book published, "Psychological Testing", is considered to be the guide for her field. She has published more than 150 books within her lifetime that remain a staple for the psychological community. Anne won many awards for her contributions to research. Anne was the president for the Eastern Psychological Association. Eventually she became the third woman to be President of the American Psychological Association (APA) and was on the board of directors for the APA and Psychonomic Society. Anne was honored with honorary doctrines from multiples colleges and universities, such as La Salle University, University of Windsor, Villanova University, Cedar Crest College, and Fordham. She was a member of the Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi honor societies.
Anne believed that intelligence tests served three purposes. The first purpose is to assess the availability of knowledge. The second purpose is to provide an indirect way of how a person has developed learning approaches, problem solving methods, and work habits. Lastly, the third purpose is to gain a prerequisite of intellectual skills.
Anne said one of the most important parts of intelligence tests is the counselor or the person giving the test. The person giving the test plays a big role in the proper and effective application of psychological testing. Since knowledge of both testing technology and psychological behavior are growing, the counselor has to be up to date with the new advances in testing. Two of the most important advances is being able to understand mathematical and technical knowledge about tests and understanding psychological behavior. A portion of the accuracy of the test relies on the counselor.
Anne did criticized intelligence testing in her article called "Indestructible Strawperson". She believed there is a developing range of disabilities which interacts with the results of the test. She talks about the main problem of intelligence test lies in the ability of communication and understanding that everyone is different and take test differently.
In order for these tests to be statistically evaluated the test itself must be done under strict standards. In order to accomplish this she set ethical restrictions that were eventually adopted by the APA. The misuse of these tests become valueless and could cause harm to the individual or group that is taking these tests.
Eventually, Anne Anastasi’s theories about Psychological Testing would be addressed by Robert Sternberg, Frank Yekovich, and Raymond Cattell. All of these researchers represented Anastasi’s work.
There have been many breakthroughs, improvements and setbacks made in research upon the conclusion of what contributes to a person’s intelligence test, whether it is genetics or environmental factors. The following researchers have shown evidence for their particular theories about intelligence testing.
There are some researchers who believe intelligence testing results is due to only genes. One way psychologists came to this conclusion by doing twin and adoption studies. Psychologists believe if identical twins have similar intelligence scores than fraternal twins we can assume that genes are correlated with intelligence. Bouchard and Mcgue (1981) looked at twins and how they were raised, whether it was in the same home or different homes. The study concluded that identical twins who were raised in separate homes had more similar intelligence test scores than fraternal twins raised in separate homes. Polmin, Fulker, Corely, and Defries (1997) found that adoptive children's intelligence scores are highly correlated with their biological parents suggesting that IQ is based on genetics instead of environment.
There are some researchers who believe intelligence testing results is due to environmental factors. One way researchers came to this conclusion is by conducting twin and adoption studies. In the same study conducted by Bouchard and Mcgue (1981), found that identical twins who were raised with their biological parents had better intelligence scores than those twins living with adoptive parents. Waldman, Weinberg, and Scarr (1994) studied adoptive children and found that those raised by their poor biological parents had lower intelligence scores than those raised by adoptive middle-class families.
Malnutrition during a pregnancy and the early years of a child's life limits the neurological development of a child. Ricciuti (1993) and Rose (1994) found that malnutrition which caused neurological effects has long term impact on a child's cognitive development and intelligence. Sigman and Whaley (1998) found that adverse effects of malnutrition have more damaging effects which affect attention, memory, abstract reasoning, and general school achievement.
Different types of toxic substances that are present during pregnancy or early post pregnancy environments can have damaging effects on a child's intelligence scores. A study completed by Michel (1989), Neisser (1996), Streussguth (1994), Vogel (1997), and Vorhess (1987) showed that alcohol, drugs, radiations, lead based paint dust affected the neurological development which contributed to the lower scores of children's intelligence scores.
Children who grow up in home environments that have poor financial resources and low levels of education are correlated with low intelligence scores. Bradely and Calwell (1984) did correlational studies which showed that a stimulating home environment is associated with higher intelligence scores. These researchers said that those children who had frequent interactions with their parents, had access to many learning and reading materials and were encouraged to grow new skills were better off.
The Flynn Effect is a recent trend found in how general intelligence scores of the population have increased over time. Flynn (1987,1999,2003) discovered that the recent changes in the industrialized world has increased peoples average psychological test performances.

</doc>
<doc id="426952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426952" title="Lesser Sunda Islands">
Lesser Sunda Islands

The Lesser Sunda Islands (or Nusa Tenggara) are a group of islands in southern Southeast Asia, north of Australia. Together with the Greater Sunda Islands to the west they make up the Sunda Islands. The islands belong to Indonesia and East Timor.
The Sunda Islands are part of a volcanic arc, the Sunda Arc. This arc is formed by subduction along the Java Trench in the Java Sea.
The Lesser Sundas are made up of many islands. Most of these islands are part of Indonesia. The islands that are part of Indonesia are governed as the provinces of Bali, West Nusa Tenggara, East Nusa Tenggara and southern part of Maluku.
The eastern half of Timor, is part of East Timor.
In the Lesser Sunda Islands there are two geologically different groups of islands. The northern group is volcanic. It is made up of Bali, Lombok, Sumbawa, Flores and Wetar. Some of the volcanoes, like Mount Rinjani on Lombok, are still active. However, there are some other volcanoes, such as Kelimutu on Flores, which are extinct. The northern group of islands started forming during the Pliocene, about 15 million years ago. They formed because of the collision between the Australian and the Asian tectonic plates.
The southern group of islands include Sumba, Timor and Babar. They are not volcanic and are probably part of the Australian plate. 
Since colonial times in Indonesia, people have been studying the geographical history of the islands. However, we still do not fully understand how the islands were formed. Ideas of how the islands were formed changed in many ways during the last decades of the 20th century.
At the point where two tectonic plates collide, the Lesser Sunda Islands are some of the most geologically complex and active regions in the world. There are several volcanoes located on the Lesser Sunda Islands.
The Lesser Sunda Islands are different from the large islands of Java or Sumatra because it is made of many small islands. These small islands are sometimes divided by deep oceanic trenches. Because flora and fauna cannot move between the islands easily, there are many localised species like the Komodo dragon because of evolution. In "The Malay Archipelago", Alfred Wallace writes about the "Wallace Line" that passes between Bali and Lombok, along the deep waters of the Lombok Strait. In this imaginary line between Bali and Lombok, even when sea levels were lower, the sea stopped flora and fauna from moving between islands. The islands east of the Lombok Strait are part of Wallacea, and have wildlife of Asian and Australasian origin in this region. In the Lesser Sundas, there are many plants and animals that come from Asia, because Weber's Line, which separates the parts of Wallacea that have both Asian and Australasian species, is east of the Lesser Sundas. These islands have the driest climate in Indonesia.
Some of the islands east of the Wallace line, from Lombok and Sumbawa east to Flores and Alor, have original vegetation of dry forest and not the rain forest that covers most parts of Indonesia. These islands have been designated by the World Wildlife Fund as the Lesser Sundas deciduous forests ecoregion. The higher slopes of the islands contain forests of tall Podocarpus conifers and Engelhardias with an undergrowth of lianas, epiphytes, and orchids such as Corybas, Corymborkis, and Malaxis (Adder's Mouth). The islands' coastal plains used to be savanna grasses like the savanna with Borassus flabellifer palm trees on the coasts of Komodo, Rincah and Flores. While most of the vegetation on these islands is dry forest there are small areas of rainforest on these islands too, especially in lowland areas and riverbanks on Komodo. There is also a special area of dry thorny forest on the southeast coast of Lombok. Thorn trees used to be more common in coastal areas of the islands but have mostly been cleared.
Man unique species live on the Lesser Sundas. They include seventeen endemic birds (of the 273 birds found on the islands). The endemic mammals are the endangered Flores Shrew "(Suncus mertensi)", the vulnerable Komodo Rat "(Komodomys rintjanus)", and Lombok Flying Fox "(Pteropus lombocensis)", Sunda Long-eared Bat "(Nyctophilus heran)" while the carnivorous Komodo dragon, which is the world's largest lizard, is found on Komodo, Rincah, Gili Motang, and the coast of northwestern Flores.
More than half of the original vegetation of the islands are cleared. This is because people cleared the forest to grow food, like rice, for settlements or because there were forest fires. Only Sumbawa now contains a large area of intact natural forest, while Komodo, Rincah and Padar are now protected as Komodo National Park.
General observations about small islands that can be applied to Nusa Tenggara include:

</doc>
<doc id="426962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426962" title="Pixie Geldof">
Pixie Geldof

Little Pixie Geldof (born 17 September 1990) is a British model and singer-songwriter. She was born in London to Paula Yates. She is the youngest daughter of Bob Geldof and the second youngest of Yates' four daughters. When she was 17 she was on the cover of "Tatler" magazine. This was the first magazine cover she was on. She has a band called Violet. She is the singer and writes the songs. They released their first single in 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="426968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426968" title="Peaches Geldof">
Peaches Geldof

Peaches Honeyblossom Geldof (13 March 1989 – 7 April 2014) was a British journalist, television presenter and model. 
She was Paula Yates' and Bob Geldof's second daughter. She was born in Westminster. She was raised in Chelsea and Faversham, Kent. She wrote for the UK version of "Elle Girl" until it stopped being made in October 2005. In September 2007, she modeled on a catwalk for the first time at London Fashion Week. Geldof presented a show on ITV2 called "OMG! with Peaches Geldof" in 2011.
On 5 August 2008, Geldof married Max Drummey in Las Vegas. She had met him one month before. On 7 February 2009, Geldof and Drummey said that they were going to divorce. 
She married Thomas Cohen on 8 September 2012 at the church in Davington, Kent, where her parents married. They lived in North London before moving to Wrotham, Kent. On 21 April 2012, Geldof had her first son with Cohen, Astala Dylan Willow. On 24 April 2013, their second son, Phaedra Bloom Forever, was born.
Geldof was found dead on 7 April 2014 at her house in Wrotham, Kent. She was 25 years old. Her cause of death was an accidental heroin overdose.

</doc>
<doc id="426970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426970" title="Category:People from Dartford">
Category:People from Dartford


</doc>
<doc id="426971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426971" title="Category:Settlements in Skane County">
Category:Settlements in Skane County


</doc>
<doc id="426972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426972" title="Category:Settlements in Sodermanland County">
Category:Settlements in Sodermanland County


</doc>
<doc id="426973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426973" title="Category:Settlements in Stockholm County">
Category:Settlements in Stockholm County


</doc>
<doc id="426974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426974" title="Category:Settlements in Uppsala County">
Category:Settlements in Uppsala County


</doc>
<doc id="426975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426975" title="Category:Settlements in Norrbotten County">
Category:Settlements in Norrbotten County


</doc>
<doc id="426976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426976" title="Category:Settlements in Orebro County">
Category:Settlements in Orebro County


</doc>
<doc id="426977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426977" title="Category:Settlements in Ostergotland County">
Category:Settlements in Ostergotland County


</doc>
<doc id="426978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426978" title="Category:Settlements in Blekinge County">
Category:Settlements in Blekinge County


</doc>
<doc id="426979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426979" title="Category:Settlements in Dalarna County">
Category:Settlements in Dalarna County


</doc>
<doc id="426980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426980" title="Category:Settlements in Halland County">
Category:Settlements in Halland County


</doc>
<doc id="426981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426981" title="Category:Settlements in Jamtland County">
Category:Settlements in Jamtland County


</doc>
<doc id="426982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426982" title="Category:Settlements in Jonkoping County">
Category:Settlements in Jonkoping County


</doc>
<doc id="426983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426983" title="Category:Settlements in Kalmar County">
Category:Settlements in Kalmar County


</doc>
<doc id="426984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426984" title="Category:Settlements in Kronoberg County">
Category:Settlements in Kronoberg County


</doc>
<doc id="426985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426985" title="Category:Settlements in Gavleborg County">
Category:Settlements in Gavleborg County


</doc>
<doc id="426986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426986" title="Category:Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County">
Category:Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County


</doc>
<doc id="426987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426987" title="Category:Settlements in Varmland County">
Category:Settlements in Varmland County


</doc>
<doc id="426988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426988" title="Category:Settlements in Vasterbotten County">
Category:Settlements in Vasterbotten County


</doc>
<doc id="426989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426989" title="Category:Settlements in Vasternorrland County">
Category:Settlements in Vasternorrland County


</doc>
<doc id="426990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426990" title="Category:Settlements in Vastmanland County">
Category:Settlements in Vastmanland County


</doc>
<doc id="426994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426994" title="Clipstone">
Clipstone

Clipstone is a village near Mansfield, in the county of Nottinghamshire, England. It was built in the early 20th century as a model village for the workers of the nearby colliery.

</doc>
<doc id="426995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426995" title="Gillian Flynn">
Gillian Flynn

Gillian Flynn (born 1971) is an American writer. Her first novel, "Sharp Objects", was published in 2006. It is being made into a movie. In 2009 she was fired from her job as a writer for Entertainment Weekly. "Dark Places", Flynn's second novel, was published May 2009. It is a mystery novel. In June 2012, "Gone Girl" was published. It is about a serial killer in Missouri. In 2013, it was nominated for the 2014 Impac Dublin International Literary Award. 
She was born in Kansas City, Missouri. She lives in Ukrainian Village, Chicago with her husband and two children.

</doc>
<doc id="427002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427002" title="Highgate School">
Highgate School

Sir Roger Cholmeley's School at Highgate (commonly referred to as Highgate School) is a private school in Highgate in North London, England. It was started as a charity called the Free Grammar School in 1565 by Sir Roger Cholmeley. It is still a charity. It is a member of the Eton Group. Girls and boys aged 3–18 go there. People who were students at the school become a part of the Cholmeleian Society.

</doc>
<doc id="427005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427005" title="John Galbraith Graham">
John Galbraith Graham

The Reverend John Galbraith Graham MBE (16 February 1921 – 26 November 2013) was a British crossword maker. He wrote his first crossword for "The Guardian" in July 1958. From 1970 until he died, he made crosswords for "The Guardian" under the name "Araucaria". Araucaria is a monkey puzzle tree. In 1984, he made a crossword magazine called "1 Across". He died of oesophagal cancer in 2013. Collections of his crosswords have been published. In 2005 he was made a MBE (Member of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire).
Graham went to King's College, Cambridge in 1939. In 1942 he joined the Royal Air Force. His job was flying planes. In 1946 he went back to King's College. He studied theology there. Then he went to Ely Theological College. In 1948, the Church of England made him a priest.

</doc>
<doc id="427006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427006" title="Roger Squires">
Roger Squires

Roger Squires (born 22 February 1932) is a British crossword maker. He lives in Shropshire with his wife Anna. He has made more crosswords than anyone else in the world. He makes the Monday crossword for "The Telegraph". On 22 February 2012, it was Squires' 80th birthday. "The Guardian" and "Financial Times" held a party for him at "The Guardian"'s offices in London. "The Telegraph" held a lunch party for him in Birmingham. John Galbraith Graham wrote him a sonnet.
Squires has two sons. He is married to Anna Squires.

</doc>
<doc id="427007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427007" title="Neutral Milk Hotel">
Neutral Milk Hotel

Neutral Milk Hotel is an American indie rock band. They started in 1989. They were formed by singer, songwriter, and guitarist Jeff Mangum. He was the only member at first. Then Robert Schneide joined the band for its first album, "On Avery Island". It was released on Merge Records. After "On Avery Island" was released, Julian Koster, Scott Spillane and Jeremy Barnes joined the band. They then released an album called "In the Aeroplane Over the Sea" in 1998. Pitchfork scored their second album 10/10 when it was released again in 2005. In 2009, Amazon.com's editors put "In the Aeroplane Over the Sea" at number two on their list of "The 100 Greatest Indie Rock Albums of All Time".
On December 11, 2011, the band released their first release since 1998. It was an EP called "Ferris Wheel on Fire".
They are going to perform at the 2014 Primavera Sound Festival in Barcelona.
In "Will Grayson, Will Grayson", a 2010 novel by John Green and David Levithan, Will Grayson 1 is a Neutral Milk Hotel fan.
"Oh Comely" magazine is a named after the song of the same name on "In the Aeroplane Over the Sea".

</doc>
<doc id="427010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427010" title="John Green">
John Green

John Michael Green (born August 24, 1977) is an American writer. He writes young-adult fiction novels. 
His first novel, "Looking For Alaska", was published by Dutton Children's Books in 2005. 
It won the 2006 Michael L. Printz Award. 
Green's second novel, "An Abundance of Katherines", was published in 2006. 
On October 2 2008, "Let It Snow" was published. It was a book that Green wrote with Maureen Johnson and Lauren Myracle. 
On October 16 2008 "Paper Towns" was published. In 2009 it was given the Edgar Award for best Young Adult novel.
Green wrote a book with another young adult novel writer called David Levithan, "Will Grayson, Will Grayson". It was published in 2010. It is about two boys who are both called Will Grayson. Half of the book is written from the perspective of Will Grayson 1. The other half is written by Will Grayson 2. Green wrote half of the book and Levithan wrote the other half.
"The Fault in Our Stars" was released in 2012. It is about a girl with cancer. It got very good reviews. "Time" magazine called it "damn near genius". "Booklist" called it his best novel yet. It won Teen Book of the Year at the 2013 Children's Choice Book Awards. A movie of it was released in June 2014.
Green's fans are called nerdfighters. He has a younger brother called Hank Green. The brothers have made video blogs (vlogs) on YouTube since 2007.
He lives with his wife in Indianapolis, Indiana. They have two children, Henry and Alice.

</doc>
<doc id="427024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427024" title="Auditorio de Tenerife">
Auditorio de Tenerife

The Auditorio de Tenerife "Adán Martín", better known simply as Auditorio de Tenerife, is a performing arts centre in Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain. It includes several performance venues. It was designed by architect Santiago Calatrava.
Building of the centre began in 1997. It was completed in 2003. The auditorium was opened on 26 September of that year. It was opened in the presence of Felipe de Borbón, Prince of Asturias. It was later visited by former U.S. President Bill Clinton. The design of the auditorium has become an architectural symbol of the city of Santa Cruz de Tenerife and the Canary Islands.

</doc>
<doc id="427028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427028" title="Category:British rock singers">
Category:British rock singers


</doc>
<doc id="427029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427029" title="John C. Pemberton">
John C. Pemberton

John Clifford Pemberton (August 10, 1814 – July 13, 1881), was a career officer in the United States Army. He fought in the Seminole Wars and the Mexican–American War. He was commended (rewarded) for his performance in the Mexican–American War.
He also fought in the American Civil War. He commanded the Confederate army in the Siege of Vicksburg. He surrendered on July 4th, 1863.

</doc>
<doc id="427031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427031" title="Category:Rock singers">
Category:Rock singers


</doc>
<doc id="427032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427032" title="Category:English rock guitarists">
Category:English rock guitarists


</doc>
<doc id="427033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427033" title="Category:British rock guitarists">
Category:British rock guitarists


</doc>
<doc id="427034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427034" title="Category:Rock guitarists">
Category:Rock guitarists


</doc>
<doc id="427035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427035" title="Category:English rock singers">
Category:English rock singers


</doc>
<doc id="427042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427042" title="Grypania">
Grypania

Grypania is an early, tube-shaped fossil from the Proterozoic eon. It is regarded by some as the first known eukaryote. 
"Grypanias status as a eukaryote is not absolutely proven. It might have been a giant bacterium or bacterial colony. Its size (over one centimeter) and consistent form, suggest it is a eukaryotic alga. The oldest known "Grypania" fossils come from an iron mine near Negaunee, Michigan. The fossils were originally dated as 2100 million years ago, but later research showed the date as about 1874 million years ago. "Grypania" lasted into the Mesoproterozoic era. 

</doc>
<doc id="427049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427049" title="Celtis">
Celtis

Celtis is a genus of about 60–70 species of deciduous trees. They are commonly called hackberries. They grow in temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere, in southern Europe, southern and eastern Asia, south to central Africa, southern and central North America, and northern and central South America. 

</doc>
<doc id="427058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427058" title="Combat stress reaction">
Combat stress reaction

Combat stress reaction is a medical problem that happens to some soldiers because of the trauma of war. In the past, it was called battle shock, war neurosis, or battle fatigue. It causes both mental and physical problems. It is similar to acute stress disorder, and can often become post-traumatic stress disorder.
Combat stress reaction does not affect everyone equally. Sometimes it causes soldiers to be very unhappy. Sometimes it causes soldiers severe disability.
The acute (early) stage of combat stress reaction is the best time to keep things from getting worse. Since World War I, soldiers in early stages of combat stress reaction have usually been treated on the front lines - close to where combat is happening.
Combat stress reaction can have many different symptoms. These symptoms can affect the soldier's body (physical symptoms), feelings (emotional symptoms), and behaviors (behavioral symptoms). Depending on how bad these symptoms are, combat stress reactions are labeled from mild (not too bad) to severe (very bad).
Mild physical symptoms may include:
These symptoms may not cause safety problems, or keep the soldier from working. However, if the soldier does not get help, the symptoms can become severe.
Severe symptoms may include: 
Emotional symptoms may include:
Behavioral symptoms may include:
Sigmund Freud studied the effects of "war neurosis." He believed that without too much stress, people can balance impulses (what they want to do) and prohibitions (what they know they should not do). However, he thought that traumatic stress can cause powerful impulses that a person can no longer control. In combat situations, he thought this could cause soldiers to run away, or to blindly attack. He believed that soldiers would try to stop these impulses, which would lead to emotional symptoms and even loss of physical abilities.
During World War I, combat stress reaction was called "shell shock." By early 1916 (just halfway through the war), the number of British soldiers with "shell shock" was huge. Few of these soldiers returned to battle. About 30-40% of shell-shocked soldiers sent to hospitals in France returned to battle. Only about 4-5% of soldiers sent to hospitals in the United Kingdom returned.
Because of this, new units were created. They were called "Not Yet Diagnosed, Nervous Centers." These centers did not use terms like "war neurosis" or "shell shock." They used a new treatment model called "PIE" to treat soldiers with combat stress reaction. "PIE" stood for "Proximity, Immediacy, and Expectancy":
The PIE treatment model was developed by Thomas W. Salmon. After "PIE" treatment was started, about 80% of soldiers treated at the "Not Yet Diagnosed, Nervous Centers" returned to combat. (However, some of these soldiers were not able to do a good job when they returned to combat.)
British forces did not use the PIE principles during World War II. Instead, they sent soldiers with combat stress reaction to psychiatric hospitals.
The United States military did not expect their soldiers to have combat stress reactions when they entered the war. They tested soldiers when they were enlisting (being signed up for military duty). They believed that this testing would show which people were 'psychologically weak,' and that these people would not be allowed to go to war. However, because combat stress reaction is not caused by weakness, this did not work, and many American soldiers had combat stress reactions.
To treat these soldiers, Captain Frederick Hanson began to use the PIE principles again. He said that 70% of the 494 patients he treated returned to duty after 48 hours of PIE treatment. General Omar Bradley decided to call combat stress reaction "exhaustion" and also decided to give "exhausted" soldiers seven days of rest.
The main goal of PIE was to return "exhausted" soldiers to combat, not to treat the trauma causing the disorder. Because of this, many of the soldiers who returned to duty - possibly as many as 70% - returned in non-combat positions.
During the Korean War, the United States started using the PIE principles within the first 8 weeks of the war. Reports show that 65-75% of soldiers with combat stress reactions returned to duty. However, only 44% were able to do their jobs at an average level or better.
At the start of the Vietnam War, the United States military had effective psychiatric services in place within 8 weeks of the start of the war. Treatments were based on the PIE principles. Special mobile psychiatric units - soldiers who could give PIE treatment in different places - were created.
During the war, not many cases of combat stress reaction were reported. Because of this, many people thought that combat stress reactions would no longer play a large part in warfare.
However, after soldiers returned home, many had problems with combat stress reaction. Alienation lead to substance abuse, which hid combat stress reactions that had never been treated. If the rates of post-traumatic stress disorder in Vietnam veterans are correct, the PIE principles did not prevent an epidemic of psychiatric disorders.
The United States military went into this war expecting high numbers of psychological causalities. The treatment included traditional psychiatry, as well as attention to family issues. Because this war moved so fast, diagnosing soldiers with combat stress reaction was difficult.
Some commanders used combat stress reaction as an excuse to keep soldiers from returning or kick them out of the military. This eventually added to the stigma attached to mental health problems in the military.
Today, the United States Army uses the acronym BICEPS, which stands for brevity, immediacy, contact, expectancy, proximity, and simplicity:
Today's treatment also includes the "5 R's": 
Today, soldiers are treated for their response to combat stress, not like they have emotional problems.

</doc>
<doc id="427060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427060" title="Hatfield Chase">
Hatfield Chase

Hatfield Chase is a low-lying area in South Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire, England. It was often flooded. Hatfield chase was a royal hunting ground until Charles I tried to have it drained. He hired a Dutch engineer to drain the water in 1626. The engineer's name was Cornelius Vermuyden. He also changed the courses of the rivers Don, Idle and Torne. This included making drainage channels. But the project was not completely successful. More work was done in the 1760s to see to the problem of winter flooding. Modern pumps now work to drain the area. The history of Hatfield chase goes back to the end of Roman Britain.
On the west Hatfield Chase is bordered by the M18 motorway. The River Ouse is its northern border. The River Idle is to the south, and the Isle of Axholme borders the area to the east. It covers an area of around , including two large peat bogs known as Thorne and Hatfield Moors. Hatfield chase is part of the once vast Humberhead Levels, a wetland which originally covered some .
Originally the region was called "Haethfieldlande" or Hatfield. It was another minor Anglo-Saxon kingdom listed in the Tribal Hidage. Very little is known about Hatfield and nothing of its kings. Unlike other petty kingdoms in this area of Britain, the name here is of Anglo-Saxon origin and not British. According to the Tribal Hidage, 'Hatfield-land' was merged with Lindsey into a single kingdom. Afterwards it became known simply as Hatfield Chase, an area on the west part of Lindsey, later part of Yorkshire and Lincolnshire. Hatfield was the site of a synod held by Theodore, the Archbishop of Canterbury . It was a royal residence of several kings of Northumbria. Edwin of Northumbria was killed here at the Battle of Hatfield Chase on 12 October 633. Later, Hatfield chase became a part of the East Riding of Yorkshire.
Before the drainage and lowering of the water levels Hatfield chase was home to large numbers of aquatic birds. The waters were full of fresh-water fish.

</doc>
<doc id="427065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427065" title="Sport psychology">
Sport psychology

Sport psychology means applying parts of psychology to sports and athletes. One of the main ways that sports psychologists use is to help athletes meet their goals. The main group of people that sports psychologists try to help are professional athletes. They can help non-professional athletes as well. Sports psychologists mainly focus on problems the athlete has on the field but they can also help athletes with problems that they have off the field. Sports psychology did not become a recognized area of study until recently, but it has been used in the past. 
Sports psychology began at the end of the nineteenth century in Europe. Sports and the body were now a more important part of people’s lives. During the 1880s, more sports were a part of the lifestyle of the people. But, the word psychology was not used in connection with the word sport before the late 1890s. In 1899 and 1900, the phrase, psychology of sport, appeared in the titles of two journal articles. The first one was by Balduin Groller. It was published in two parts in 1899, in the journal Die Wage under the title “Zur Psychologie des Sportes” (translated About the Psychology of Sport). This article said that there were parts of psychology that had not been researched at that time, that could be connected to sports and physical activities. Then in May 1900, an essay by the founder of the modern Olympic movement, Pierre de Coubertin, was published. It was titled “Le Psychologie du Sport” (translated The Psychology of Sport). 
In 1875, Pyotr Francevich Lesgaft started a system of physical education. Lesgaft was a Russian scientist who studied the human body. His aim was to promote harmony between the body and soul or mind. The method Lesgaft suggested was to learn conscious control of the body; being able to think about controlling the body and then actually doing it. Then in 1884-1885, Karoly Budinsky wrote an article called “About Gymnastic Activity and the Development of Will”. The article was about how self-control and willpower could make the nervous system stronger through physical exercise. 
Two scientists were at the beginning of European sport psychology: Angelo Mosso and Philippe Tissie. Angelo Mosso was an Italian who studied the human body. He was also interested in using science to study physical education, exercise, and sport. In his experiments, Mosso found that mental work causes weakness of the muscles. He also found that physical work causes weakness in mental performance. In 1894, Mosso conducted an experiment with his brother, Ugolino Mosso. He had ten Italian Mountain soldiers climb to the top of the mountain and live in a hut for ten days. He also had them perform physical exercises. There are two parts of his results that are related to sports psychology. The first one is called the pioneer effect. The pioneer effect is when in mountain climbing, the person who is leading the group will be more tired than all the others. The second is called the rivaling effect. The rivaling effect is when the soldiers, especially in periods of boredom, would begin to compete with each other in their weight lifting tests. Philippe Tissie viewed sports as a way to treat mental disorders. He published several articles between 1894 and 1909. These articles talked about how sports could help people with mental disorders. He thought that a combination of sports, gymnastics, and psychology could help people with mental disorders. He also thought that playing in too many sports could cause people to have mental disorders and behavioral problems. 
In 1896, a French doctor named Charles du Pasquier published an article about how sports could help people with depression. In 1900, Eduard Bertz said that sports could help people maintain a healthy body and soul or mind. Later in 1913, Toby Cohn believed sports was a way for people to develop self-confidence, emotional health, and goal orientation. In 1914, Bernhard Berliner conducted the first study on what effect sports and exercise had on the mind and psychology. In his study, he looked at children who exercised and played sports while at a camp. His study found that children who played sports and exercised were able to concentrate better.
The first sports psychology laboratory was opened in 1920 in Berlin, Germany by Carl Diem. That same year, a psychological lab was opened by Robert Werner Schulte at the Deutsche Hochschue fur Leibesubungen near Berlin. This was a college for physical education. The lab was used to study the natural ability that people had for doing good in sports. Schulte also included sports psychology in his talks to students who took physical education. Then in 1921, he published his first book. This book was named Body and Mind in Sport. He then continued to go on to write many books about the topic of sport psychology. One of these books was called Aptitude and Performance Testing in Sport. The next development, in 1926, was the first psychoanalysis of what motivated people to want to play sports. This was done by Helene Deutsch. She found that playing in sports could help people with depression, anxiety and overcoming fears. 
There were also major developments to the field of sports psychology that took place in Russia. In 1925, Russian sports psychologist Petr Antonovic Rudik did research on the development of skills and on reaction times. A reaction time is how quickly someone responds to something. In 1926, Alexander Netchayev did research on how perception, memory, imagination, and attention are influenced by sports and physical activities.
Sports psychology in North America began in the 1890s. E. W. Scripture began to study the reaction times of runners in his Yale lab. He also watched how athletes could be helped by experimental psychology. Experimental psychology uses experiments and science to study the brain and the mind. He also wrote papers about how sports affected who a person was. In his papers he argued that prisoners who participated in sports while in jail got a better attitude. 
George Wells Fitz was also active in sports psychology at this time. Fitz created the first known physical education lab in North America. In 1895, Fitz ran an experiment. This experiment focused on studying the reaction times of people. He found one thing in his results: people who had quicker and more accurate reaction times would be better at sports. Fitz was the first to run experiments on reaction times in North America.
The next major event in sports psychology was an idea known as transfer of training. Transfer of training happens when you exercise one arm or one side of the body to make it stronger and the other side also becomes stronger without having any exercise. This area was first studied by Walter Wells Davis in the late 1800s. Davis ran an experiment that involved having people lift weights with one arm and not the other. His results proved the theory of transfer of training. William G. Anderson also studied this concept. In his experiments he found that people who squeezed an object on one side of the body also got stronger on the opposite side of the body. 
The next developments came from Norman Tripplett. Norman Tripplett worked at the University of Indiana as a psychologist. He conducted an experiment that focused on competition. This experiment started to connect sports and psychology. His experiment also began to combine them into one field. In 1897, Tripplett started his study. He focused on how the performance of one person is influenced by other people being around. In 1898, he wrote about his results in his article, “The Dynamogenic Factors Involved in Pace-making and Competition”. His beliefs and findings were that cyclists were more likely to cycle faster when in the presence of a pacemaker or a competitor. People were more likely to cycle faster because the presence of another person caused them to put in more effort and use energy that they were not before. In 1898, Tripplett tried to confirm his predictions and beliefs he came up with during the cycling study by running an experiment in laboratory. This experiment consisted of people winding fishing line as fast as they could in order to move a flag around a course. The results of this experiment confirmed the results and predictions that were found in the cycling study. 
In 1903, G.T.W Patrick studied the psychology of American football and why people loved the game so much. Next in 1912, Howard wanted to discover why people became so emotional while watching sports. Then in 1915, Karl S. Lashley and John B. Watson started a study that focused on the learning curve of people in sports. A learning curve is how people learn the skills they need to in order to succeed in sports. The sport that they focused their study on was archery. The results of their study lead them to argue that when people were participating in harder tasks, like archery, they were more likely to work harder to complete the task. 
Sportswriter Hugh S. Fullerton is involved in the next development in the history of sports psychology. Fullerton brought New York Yankees player Babe Ruth to a psychology laboratory at Columbia University. Fullerton brought Ruth there to participate in a study run by Albert Johanson and Joseph Holmes. He wanted Ruth to participate in the study because he wanted to find a reason for why Ruth hit so many home runs. He also wanted to prove to other baseball scouts whether or not other players like Ruth existed. The study that Ruth participated in was used to study sensory-motor performance. Sensory-motor performance is how things that we perceive with our senses influence our movements. The study involved measuring the power of Ruth’s swing, his reaction time, his attention, his memory, and his motor skills. The results of this study offered a reason for why Ruth hit so many home runs. His skill for hitting home runs could be because on the tests his motor skills and reflexes scored above average. The next development that came regarded football. At Stanford University, B.C. Graves, a psychology graduate student, Walter Miles, a professor, and Glenn “Pop” Warner, a college football coach started an experiment. Their experiment studied reaction time. They ran their ran experiment so they could find the fastest way to get the offense to move together when the center hiked the ball. This led to the use of psychology as a way to gain an advantage over your opponent in a competition.
Even though there were many developments to this field prior to this point, the most important did not come until the time of Coleman Griffith. Griffith was a professor at the University of Illinois. He is considered to be the father of sports psychology in North America. Griffith's first contribution was that he started a section in his introductory to psychology class that only athletes could take. Then in 1921, he gave the first public talk about psychology and athletics. In 1923, he started a special course focusing on psychology and sports. It was called Psychology and Athletics. The textbook that was used for this class was Griffith’s third book, called Psychology of Coaching. Later in 1924, Griffith began meeting with Knute Rockne, who was a football coach at Notre Dame. He met with Rockne to explore how coaching was affected by psychology.
The next major contribution that Griffith made was in 1925, when he opened the first sports psychology lab in North America. This lab was only able to stay open for six years. After the closure of the laboratory, Griffith was contacted in 1937 by Philip Wrigley. Wrigley was the owner of the Major League Baseball team the Chicago Cubs. He contacted Griffith to offer him a job. Griffith accepted the job. He called the project Experimental Laboratories of the Chicago National League Ball Club. While with the Cubs, Griffith studied how psychological factors influenced performance. Based on the results of his research Griffith made recommendations to Wrigley. These recommendations included psychological clinics for the players, holding fielding practice, and having achievement tests to measure the athletes’ basic skills. However, Wrigley did not follow these recommendations but was still impressed by Griffith’s work. Wrigley offered Griffith a full-time position as a sports psychologist in 1939. Griffith refused the job to stay with his family. After this Griffith did not conduct anymore major research in the area of sports psychology. Griffith was an important part of sport psychology's history. He was an important part because not only was he the first sports psychologist but he also opened the first laboratory in America that studied the relationship between sports and psychology.
In the 1920s and 1930s, psychology was beginning to be taught at coaching schools. Some coaches used what they were learning about sports psychology while coaching their teams. Paul Brown was head coach of the Cincinnati Bengals. He began using psychological testing with his players. His tests eventually became known as the beginning of the National Football League’s tests that are still used today. During the 1940s, psychology was starting to be used as a way for athletes to improve their performance. Psychology professor Dorothy Hazeltine Yates helped a boxer try to improve his skills through psychology; the boxer then went on to have the best fights of his career. Also during the 1940s, hypnosis was starting to be used to help athletes to relax. During the 1950s, David F. Tracy began using psychological methods to help players on the St. Louis Browns, a major league baseball team, now known as the Baltimore Orioles.
In the late 1950s and early 1960s, sports were becoming more important to people. So, psychology of sports was more accepted because it helped athletes. Four things were important to expand the field of sports psychology. These were textbooks, graduate programs, associations, and journals. One of the main areas that was being studied during this time period was the affect stress had on athletes and their performance. In 1960, Warren R. Johnson continued the research he started in 1949. This research was about the effect stress had on an athlete. He continued this research by creating the first textbook on the topic. In 1961, Maxwell Howell started the first graduate school program in physical education. He did this at the University of Alberta in Canada. The creation of associations and journals was the next development of this time period. In 1967, the North American Society for the Psychology of Sport and Physical Activity or (NASPSPA)was created. It was created by a group of sport psychologists led by Warren Johnson. One of the first things that this organization did was to start publishing the "Sport Psychology Bulletin". The "Sport Psychology Bulletin" included research reports and the writings of the members of the NASPSPA. Then in 1970, the "International Journal of Sport Psychology" was started. During the 1970s and 1980s, there were many associations and journals that were started. These were the Association for the Advancement of Applied Sport Psychology, the American Psychological Association's Division 47 of Exercise and Sport Psychology, the Sport Psychology Academy of the American Alliance for Health, Physical Education, Recreation, and Dance, the "Journal of Sports Psychology", the "Journal of Sport Science", the "Sport Psychologist", and the "Journal of Applied Sport Psychology". The next major developments involved the United States Olympic Committee. In 1978, they started a Sports Medicine Council that included sports psychologists. In 1985, they created the first registry or list of sports psychologists. 
Now there are two types of sports psychology, academic and applied. Academic sports psychology does the research. Applied sports psychology uses that research to teach coaches and trainers. There are three main areas of need in applied sports psychology. They are what kinds of certification, education, or licenses are necessary to practice applied sports psychology, the need to provide proper training for people who are studying applied sports psychology, and developing new ways to help athletes. 
Today the number of sports psychologists that are being used by athletes is increasing. In fact, so many athletes are being helped by sports psychologists, that some organizations are starting to limit how many coaches can be on the field during a game. Many athletes are now using sports psychology as part of their everyday lives and training for games.

</doc>
<doc id="427081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427081" title="Alexa Vega">
Alexa Vega

Alexa Vega (born August 27, 1988) is an American singer, musician and actress. She starred in lots of movies and TV series, among which are "Ghost Whisperer", "Evening Shade", "Twister", "The Glimmer Man", "Nine Months" and the "Spy Kids" movie series. Vega was born in Miami.

</doc>
<doc id="427090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427090" title="NXT Tag Team Championship">
NXT Tag Team Championship

The NXT Tag Team Championship is a professional wrestling championship in the WWE. The title is a NXT-only championship.
The title was introduced by special guest Shawn Michaels on the January 23, 2013 edition of NXT. He announced that there would be a tournament held to crown the inaugural champions.
The current champions are #DIY (Johnny Gargano and Tommaso Ciampa). They are in their first reign, both as a team and individually.

</doc>
<doc id="427091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427091" title="Al Plastino">
Al Plastino

Al Plastino (December 15, 1921 – November 25, 2013) was an American comic book artist. He was best known as one of the most important Superman artists of the 1950s, along with his DC Comics colleague Wayne Boring. Plastino also worked as a comics writer, editor, letterer and colorist. 
He co-created the DC characters Supergirl and Braniac, as well as the teenage team the Legion of Super-Heroes.
Plastino lived for many years in Shirley, New York, on Long Island. At the time of his death on November 25, 2013, after suffering from prostate cancer, aged 91. 

</doc>
<doc id="427093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427093" title="Category:1980s comedy-drama movies">
Category:1980s comedy-drama movies


</doc>
<doc id="427094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427094" title="William Atherton">
William Atherton

William Atherton (born William Atherton Knight; July 30, 1947) is an American movie, stage and television actor. He is known for his roles as Richard "Dick" Thornburg in "Die Hard" and in "Die Hard 2" and as Walter Peck in "Ghostbusters". 
Atherton was born on July 30, 1947 in Orange, Connecticut. He studied acting at the Drama School at Carnegie Tech and graduated from Carnegie-Mellon University in 1969.

</doc>
<doc id="427098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427098" title="Category:Prison movies">
Category:Prison movies


</doc>
<doc id="427099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427099" title="Troubadour">
Troubadour

A troubadour was someone who composed and performed Old Occitan lyric poetry during the High Middle Ages. A female troubadour is usually called a trobairitz.
Troubadour songs were mainly about chivalry and courtly love. Many were humorous or vulgar satires. A Troubadour was considered a profession with great honor.

</doc>
<doc id="427105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427105" title="Pope Dionysius">
Pope Dionysius

Pope Dionysius (??? − 26 December 268) was pope of the Roman Catholic Church from 22 July 259 until he died on 26 December 268. He was born in Greece.

</doc>
<doc id="427106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427106" title="Food group">
Food group

A food group is a collection of foods that have nutritional properties or biological classifications that are almost the same. People have written nutrition guides to put different foods into food groups and recommend daily servings of each group for a healthy diet.
The number of "common" food groups can change depending on who is defining them. Canada's Food Guide, which has been printed every year since 1942 and is the second most requested government document (after the income tax form) in Canada, recognizes only four official food groups, with all other foods called "another." Some of these "others" include:

</doc>
<doc id="427113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427113" title="Anne Morrow Lindbergh">
Anne Morrow Lindbergh

Anne Morrow Lindbergh (née Anne Spencer Morrow; June 22, 1906February 7, 2001) was an American writer and aviator. She was married to Charles Lindbergh. She wrote poetry and non-fiction. She wrote about many different things. Lindbergh's "Gift from the Sea" was an important feminist book.
Anne Spencer Morrow was born on June 22, 1906 in Englewood, New Jersey. She was the second of four children. Her father was Dwight W. Morrow, a partner in J.P. Morgan & Co.. He became United States Ambassador to Mexico and United States Senator from New Jersey. Her mother, Elizabeth Reeve Cutter Morrow, was a poet, teacher, and acting president of Smith College.
Lindbergh attended Smith College. She graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1928. She received the Elizabeth Montagu Prize for her essay on women of the 18th century and Madame d'Houdetot. She received the Mary Augusta Jordan Literary Prize for her piece of fiction called "Lida Was Beautiful".
Anne and Charles Lindbergh met on December 21, 1927, in Mexico City. Her father was Lindbergh's financial adviser at J. P. Morgan and Co.. He invited Lindbergh to Mexico in order to help create good relations between that country and the United States. Anne later wrote in her diary:
Anne Morrow and Charles Lindbergh married on May 27, 1929. The ceremony was a private one at her parents' home in Englewood, New Jersey.
That year, Anne flew a plane by herself for the first time. In 1930, she became the first American woman to earn a first-class glider pilot license. In the 1930s, Anne and Charles explored and charted air routes between continents. The Lindberghs were the first to fly from Africa to South America. They explored polar air routes from North America to Asia and Europe.
The Lindbergh's first child, Charles Augustus Lindbergh, Jr., was born on June 22, 1930. On March 1, 1932, he was kidnapped from their home in East Amwell, New Jersey. The following May 12, a baby's body was found from the Lindberghs' home. Bruno Richard Hauptmann was tried, convicted, and executed for the murder of the Lindberghs' son.
Because of the kidnapping of their son and other things, a lot of attention was paid to the Lindberghs. That made them decide to move. First they went to England. Later they went France.
While in Europe, the Lindberghs started to believe that the United States should not be involved with other countries. Many people disliked them because of that. Lindbergh thought the United States should not be involved in war in Europe. In 1940, Anne wrote a booklet called "The Wave of the Future" in support of her husband. The booklet became one of the most hated writings of the time. Anne also wrote about Hitler, saying that he was "a very great man, like an inspired religious leader—and as such rather fanatical—but not scheming, not selfish, not greedy for power."
In 1938, the Lindberghs moved back to the United States. They later had five more children: sons Jon, Land and Scott, and daughters Anne and Reeve.
After the war, Anne and Charles wrote books that made people think better of them again. Anne's 1955 book "Gift from the Sea" earned Anne's place as "one of the leading advocates of the nascent environmental movement". It became a national best seller.
During their 45-year marriage, Charles and Anne lived in New Jersey, New York, England, France, Maine, Michigan, Connecticut, Switzerland, and Hawaii. In the early 1950s, Anne had a three-year affair with her doctor. Charles died on Maui in 1974.
In the early 1990s, Anne had a series of strokes which left her confused and disabled. After that, she continued to live in her home in Connecticut with round-the-clock caregivers. In 1999, she came down with pneumonia, after which she went to live in a small home built on her daughter Reeve's Vermont farm. In 2001, at the age of 94, Anne died there from another stroke. Reeve Lindbergh's book, "No More Words", tells the story of her mother's last years.
In 1933, Lindbergh received the U.S. Flag Association Cross of Honor for surveying transatlantic air routes. The following year, she received the Hubbard Medal from the National Geographic Society for of exploratory flying with her husband. In 1993, Women in Aerospace gave her an Aerospace Explorer Award for her achievements and contributions in aerospace.
She was added to the National Aviation Hall of Fame (1979), the National Women's Hall of Fame (1996), the Aviation Hall of Fame of New Jersey, and the International Women in Aviation Pioneer Hall of Fame (1999).
Lindbergh's first book, "North to the Orient" (1935) won a National Book Award for the Most Distinguished General Nonfiction of 1935. Her second book, "Listen! The Wind" (1938), won the same award. She received the Christopher Award for "War Within and Without", the last book of her published diaries.
Lindbergh received honorary degrees from her alma mater Smith College. She also received honorary degrees from Amherst College, the University of Rochester, Middlebury College, and Gustavus Adolphus College.

</doc>
<doc id="427117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427117" title="Taipei Grand Mosque">
Taipei Grand Mosque

The Taipei Grand Mosque () is a mosque in Taipei, Taiwan. It is the first and largest mosque in Taiwan. The original building of the mosque was built in 1947.
After the handover of Taiwan from Japan to the Republic of China (ROC) in 1945, the Chinese Muslim Association (CMA) in ROC capital, Nanking, established the preparatory committee to create the Taiwan branch of the CMA in 1947. Since there was no place for Chinese Muslim to pray in Taiwan at that time, they raised money to build the very first mosque in Taiwan which was located at Lishui Street in Taipei City. After they have finished constructing the mosque, Muslims started to pray there in August 1948.
After the Chinese Civil War in 1949, there were many Chinese Muslims fled Mainland China to Taiwan with the Nationalist (Kuomintang) government army. The first mosque was not enough to accommodate all of them, therefore they had to find a new place to rebuild the mosque. The new mosque was proposed by CMA Director-General Bai Chongxi and ROC Minister of Foreign Affairs George Yeh. The mosque was finally built at the Xinsheng South Street in Taipei. The mosque was inaugurated on 13 April 1960 by ROC Vice President Chen Cheng.
The mosque was designed by Taiwanese famous architect Yang Cho-cheng, the same architect who had designed the Taipei Grand Hotel, Chang Kai-shek Memorial Hall, National Theater and Concert Hall and many other buildings in Taiwan. The mosque was registered as a historic landmark by the Taipei City Government on 29 June 1999.
The mosque houses the Chinese Muslim Association, the largest Islamic organization in Taiwan. It houses also the headquarter for the Chinese Islamic Cultural and Educational Foundation.

</doc>
<doc id="427118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427118" title="Kaohsiung Mosque">
Kaohsiung Mosque

The Kaohsiung Mosque () is a mosque in Kaohsiung, Taiwan. It is the second mosque to be built in Taiwan.
The original building of the mosque was built in 1949 by the Nationalist Muslims whom mostly came with the Nationalist Army who fled from Mainland China after their defeat in the Chinese Civil War by the Communist Army. This wave of migration is considered to be the second wave of Muslim migration to Taiwan in the 1950s. The construction of the mosque was initially suggested by the Muslim public officers working for the Nationalist government.
The first mosque building was built at Wufu 4th Road in Kaohsiung City. After two years, they moved the mosque to a new bigger place at Linsen 1st Road in 1951 to accommodate larger crowds. In 1990, they moved the mosque again to its current location at the Jianjun Road. The mosque was opened on April 1992.

</doc>
<doc id="427119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427119" title="Taipei Cultural Mosque">
Taipei Cultural Mosque

The Taipei Cultural Mosque () is a mosque in Taipei, Taiwan. It is the third mosque in Taiwan.
The mosque was originally built in 1950 at Roosevelt Road in Taipei. Because of the expansion of roads a few year later, the mosque was moved to Xinhai Road. It was reopened in 1983. The mosque was inaugurated by the Ambassador of Saudi Arabia to the ROC, Assad Abdul Aziz Al-Zuhair. The mosque was renovated on April 2010 with help from the Indonesian Economic and Trade Office to Taipei. 
The mosque is a building with five floors. It has Islamic traditional culture and modern architecture.
The mosque serves as the headquarters of the Chinese Muslim Youth League. It also houses the office of the Taiwan Halal Integrity Development Association, a group that issues Halal certification to food products produced in Taiwan for Muslims to eat. The mosque also has dormitories for Muslim travelers and foreign missionaries to stay.
It is not like Taipei Grand Mosque, which is heavily supported by the ROC government and Kuomintang. Taipei Cultural Mosque depends heavily on private donations. This makes it a purely civilian mosque concentrating on religious affairs.

</doc>
<doc id="427120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427120" title="Taichung Mosque">
Taichung Mosque

The Taichung Mosque () is a mosque in Taichung, Taiwan. It is the fourth mosque in Taiwan. The original building of the mosque was built in 1951.
After fleeing Mainland China at the end of Chinese Civil War in 1949, some of the Nationalist Muslim army resided in Changhua. Most of them did their prayers in some residential houses. To accommodate the growing number of Muslims in Taiwan, a mosque was planned to be built in 1951. The first location of the mosque was at Zhongxiao Road in Taichung City. When the number of Muslims grew, the new Taichung Mosque was constructed and reopened in 1990 at Dadun South Road.
Taichung Mosque is a building with three floors. It has shop, restaurant, dormitories and classroom.
The library at the mosque is used as a place to spread information about Islam to the public.

</doc>
<doc id="427121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427121" title="Longgang Mosque">
Longgang Mosque

The Longgang Mosque or Lungkang Mosque () is a mosque in Taoyuan County, Taiwan. It is the fifth mosque in Taiwan. The original building of the mosque was built in 1967.

</doc>
<doc id="427124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427124" title="Victor Hasselblad">
Victor Hasselblad

Fritz Victor Hasselblad (8 March 1906 in Gothenburg – 5 August 1978 in Gothenburg) was a Swedish camera designer and photographer. He was the founder and CEO of Victor Hasselblad AB, and the creator of the Hasselblad camera 1948. The U.S. space agency NASA chose the Hasselblad camera to be its official "place camera" and it was later used by astronauts on the moon.

</doc>
<doc id="427128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427128" title="Feeling Good">
Feeling Good

"Feeling Good" (or "Feelin' Good") is a jazz ballad. It was first performed, written and released in 1964. It was first done by Nina Simone. The ballad was then performed again and covered by Michael Bublé and Muse, along with others throughout the years. The song has been also sampled in other recording artists' music.

</doc>
<doc id="427130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427130" title="God Bless the Child">
God Bless the Child

"God Bless the Child" is a popular jazz ballad. It was first written in 1939 though not released until 1942. Billie Holiday sang the first version. Lisa Simpson (voiced by Yeardley Smith), made this ballad more popular in 1990-1991.

</doc>
<doc id="427131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427131" title="The Simpsons Sing the Blues">
The Simpsons Sing the Blues

The Simpsons Sing the Blues is an album of songs sung by the characters from "The Simpsons". The songs are not on the television series, except for "Moaning Lisa Blues". The album was released in early December 1990. It included many songs, including "Do the Bartman" and "Deep Deep Trouble". The most notable, however, was Lisa Simpson's version of "God Bless the Child" (originally by Billie Holiday). That song was a major hit during early 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="427134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427134" title="George Monbiot">
George Monbiot

George Joshua Richard Monbiot (born 27 January 1963) is an English writer and activist. He writes for "The Guardian" every week about environment issues. Seven of his books have been published. In 1995, Nelson Mandela gave him a United Nations Global 500 Award. In January 2010 he started a website called "ArrestBlair.org". The website offers money to people who are trying to have Tony Blair arrested for crimes against peace.
Monbiot was born in Kensington, London. Both his parents worked in politics. He grew up in a house in Henley-on-Thames. He went to Stowe School. He then won a scholarship to study at Brasenose College, Oxford. He did a Master's degree in zoology there.
After he got his degree, Monbiot made radio programmes about natural history for the BBC Natural History Unit. Then he left and joined the BBC's World Service. He left to write his first book, "Poisoned Arrows".
Monbiot was in the 2009 movie "The Age of Stupid".
In 2013, Monbiot's book "Feral: Searching for Enchantment on the Frontiers of Rewilding" was published.
In July 2013, he gave a TED talk about "Feral".
Monbiot lives in Wales with his wife Angharad Penrhyn Jones.

</doc>
<doc id="427151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427151" title="Bat For Lashes">
Bat For Lashes

Natasha Khan (born 25 October 1979) is a British singer-songwriter better known as Bat For Lashes. She is the daughter of Pakistani squash player Rehmat Khan. Her first album, "Fur and Gold", was released by The Echo Label on 11 September 2006 in the United Kingdom. It got good reviews. It was nominated for the 2007 Mercury Prize. In 2008 Khan performed at some of the shows in Radiohead's tour. She did a cover of The Cure's song "A Forest". It was put on "Perfect as Cats: A Tribute to the Cure". On 3 April 2009 her second album "Two Suns" was released. It went straight to No.5 in the UK Albums Chart. Like "Fur and Gold" it was nominated for the Mercury Prize but didn't win. The first single from the album, "Daniel", is her best-selling single so far. It has sold over 46,000 copies around the world. It won Best Contemporary Song at the 2010 Ivor Novello Awards. Khan sang a song with Beck called "Let's Get Lost" for the soundtrack to the 2010 movie "". Bat For Lashes' third album, "The Haunted Man", was released on 11 October 2012. Pitchfork gave it 8.4 out of 10.
In July 2013 Bat For Lashes released a single with Toy called "The Bride".
In 2013 Khan wrote and sung a song with Jon Hopkins called "Garden's Heart". It was released as a single. It is on the soundtrack to the film "How I Live Now". Khan directed the music video.

</doc>
<doc id="427155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427155" title="Ola Orekunrin">
Ola Orekunrin

Ola Orekunrin is a Nigerian-British doctor and entrepreneur. 
Orekunrin was raised by foster parents in Lowestoft. She started studying Medicine at the University of York in England when she was fifteen.
Orekunrin became a doctor when she was twenty one. This made her one of the United Kingdom's youngest doctors. She started a charity called Flying Doctors Nigeria Lt in Lagos in 2007. It is West Africa's first air ambulance service. In 2008 she was given the MEXT Japanese Government Scholarship. In 2012 she gave a talk at TEDxSendai and TEDxVictoriaIsland. She was on the cover of "Ladybrille magazine". In 2013 the World Economic Forum put her on their list of Young Global Leaders.

</doc>
<doc id="427168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427168" title="Julianna Barwick">
Julianna Barwick

Julianna Barwick is an American singer. She was born in Louisiana. She has released three albums. 
In 2006 Barwick released "Sanguine". Her first album "The Magic Place" was released by Asthmatic Kitty Records on February 21, 2011. It got good reviews. Pitchfork gave it 8.5 out of 10. On June 14 2011, "FRKWYS Vol. 6" was released. It is an album that Barwick made with Ikue Mori. On August 20, 2013, "Nepenthe" was released by Dead Oceans Records. Amiina play string instruments in it. There is also a choir of teenage girls in it. "Pitchfork" said that it 'sounds like nobody else'. They gave it 8.5 out of 10. Barwick is currently doing a tour for the album.

</doc>
<doc id="427172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427172" title="Dolmabahçe Palace">
Dolmabahçe Palace

Dolmabahçe Palace is a palace in the Beşiktaş district of Istanbul, Turkey. It was the main administrative center of the Ottoman Empire from 1856 to 1922. Construction of the palace started in 1843.

</doc>
<doc id="427180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427180" title="Siraj ud-Daulah">
Siraj ud-Daulah

Mirza Muhammad Siraj ud-Daulah, more commonly known as "Siraj ud-Daulah" (1733 – July 2, 1757), was the last independent Nawab of Bengal. The end of his reign marked the start of British East India Company's rule over Bengal and later almost all of South Asia.
Mirza Muhammad Siraj-ud-Daulah was the grandson of Nawab Alivardi Khan and son of Amina Begum and Zainuddin Ahmed Khan. He was born in 1733 and soon after his birth Alivardi Khan appointed as the deputy governor of Bihar. So Siraj-ud-Daula was regarded as a "fortune child" in the family and his grandfather had special affection and favour for him. It is stated that Alivardi had given his heart to Siraj ud Daula from the day of his birth and "never kept him apart from himself".
Siraj ud-Daulah received the title of "Mansur-ul-Mulk, Seraj-ud-Daulla, Ghaseti Begum"(Victory of the Country, Light of the State, Horror in War). He was to succeed as the Nawab of Bengal in April 1756 AD at the age of twenty seven. Siraj ud-Daulah's nomination to the nawabship caused jealousy and enmity of "Mehar-un-nisa Begum" or "Ghaseti Begum"(eldest sister of Siraj's Mother Amina Begum), Raja Rajballabh, Mir Jafar Ali Khan and "Shaukat Jang"(Siraj's Cousin). Ghaseti Begum possessed huge wealth, which was the source of her influence and strength. On Perceiving serious opposition from her, Siraj ud-Daulah seized her wealth from Moti Jheel Palace and placed her in confinement. The "nawab" also made certain changes in high government positions giving them to his own favorites.

</doc>
<doc id="427182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427182" title="Exeter College, Oxford">
Exeter College, Oxford

Exeter College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. The full name of the college is "The Rector and Scholars of Exeter College at the University of Oxford". It was founded in 1314, making it the fourth oldest college at Oxford. The college was founded by the Bishop of Exeter, Walter de Stapledon.
Exeter first allowed women to enroll in 1979. In 1993, it became the first Oxford college to elect a female Rector, Marilyn Butler.
Famous people who attended Exeter college include authors J.R.R. Tolkien and Phillip Pullman.

</doc>
<doc id="427184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427184" title="Green Templeton College, Oxford">
Green Templeton College, Oxford

Green Templeton College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 2008, when Green College and Templeton College merged. It is the newest college at Oxford.
The former Green College was formed in 1979, and was named after one of its largest donors, Cecil H. Green, the founder of Texas Instruments. 
The former Templeton College was originally formed in 1965 as the Oxford Center for Management Studies. It was renamed Templeton College in 1983 after John Templeton donated a large endowment. In 1995, Templeton College was granted a charter as a graduate college of the University.
Green Templeton College is a graduate college only. It does not have any undergraduate students.
The college is located at the former Green College campus in North Oxford. Its most notable building is the Radcliffe Observatory at the center of the campus.

</doc>
<doc id="427185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427185" title="Harris Manchester College, Oxford">
Harris Manchester College, Oxford

Harris Manchester College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. Its formal name is "Manchester Academy and Harris College". It was founded in 1786 as the Manchester Academy in Manchester. The college moved from Manchester to York in 1803. It moved back to Manchester in 1840 and began an association with the University of London. The college moved to London in 1853. In 1889, the college moved to Oxford, and a new campus, designed by Thomas Worthington was completed in 1893.
The college became a full college of the University in 1996. At that time, it changed its name to Harris Manchester College.
Harris Manchester College only admits students who are at least 21 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="427189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427189" title="Hank Green">
Hank Green

William Henry "Hank" Green ll (born May 5, 1980) is an American YouTube celebrity and musician. He is the younger brother of John Green. 
He lives with his wife Katherine Green, in Missoula, Montana. He was born in Alabama. 
Hank and John have a YouTube channel called VlogBrothers. The brothers began the channel on January 1, 2007, when Hank made the channel's first video blog. Since then, Hank and John have been active on the channel, making videos back and forth. In the beginning of their channel's history, the videos were being made as a way to talk to each other without having to text. The two brothers made their goal to do this for a year, as a way to grow close to each other again, and called the project "Brotherhood 2.0."
Once 2007 ended, the brother said that the Brotherhood 2.0 project would end, but that they would continue making video blogs on the channel. Since then, the amount of fans of the channel, or as Hank and John call them, "Nerdfighters," have grown.
In 2007, Hank and John started "Project 4 Awesome," a charity fundraiser that takes place every year through the internet. Hank and John also started VidCon, a conference and convention held every year, beginning 2010.
In 2011, YouTube gave the Greens funds to start two educational channels, "Crash Course", and "SciShow". Hank hosts "SciShow", which has videos on different science topics. On "Crash Course", Hank teaches viewers science subjects, and started with biology.
In 2012, Hank made "The Lizzie Bennet Diaries", a present-day adaptation of "Pride and Prejudice", with producer Bernie Su. The show put up its episodes on YouTube, in a vlog diary style. Hank was an executive producer and a writer on the show. In 2013, the show won a Creative Arts Emmy Award in the "Interactive Media" category.
Hank started a record label called DFTBA Records with Alan Lastufka in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="427190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427190" title="Kellogg College, Oxford">
Kellogg College, Oxford

Kellogg College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1990 as "Rewley House". It was renamed as Kellogg College in 1994 to honor large financial donations from the W.K. Kellogg Foundation. 
Kellogg College only admits graduate students. It does not have any undergraduate students. It was the first college at the University to allow part-time students. 

</doc>
<doc id="427195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427195" title="Palace of Fine Arts">
Palace of Fine Arts

The Palace of Fine Arts () is the most important cultural center in Mexico. It is located in the historic center of Mexico City. The building has several murals by Diego Rivera, Siqueiros and others. Exhibitions and theatrical performances take place here, including performances of the Ballet Folklorico de Mexico.

</doc>
<doc id="427200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427200" title="Operation Restore Hope">
Operation Restore Hope

The Operation Restore Hope was an operation of the United States and many of its allied countries in Somalia. The operation was protected by the United Nations. The United States was the leader of this operation. Somalia was in civil war and many people were dying from hunger in this country. The goal of this operation was creating suitable conditions and calming down the situation in Somalia for helping the Somali people who needed food in the southern part of this country.
After the killing of several Pakistani peacekeepers, the Security Council ordered the allied forces by the Resolution 837, that they can do anything for sending the humanitarian aid to the Somalian people in accordance to Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. This operation was successful.

</doc>
<doc id="427204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427204" title="Category:2000s teen drama movies">
Category:2000s teen drama movies


</doc>
<doc id="427208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427208" title="Apollo 8 Genesis reading">
Apollo 8 Genesis reading

On December 24, 1968, the crew of Apollo 8 read from the Book of Genesis on a television broadcast of their mission as they orbited the moon. Bill Anders, Jim Lovell, and Frank Borman read verses 1 through 10, using the Authorized King James Version text. This was the most watched television broadcast at the time of its broadcast.

</doc>
<doc id="427218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427218" title="Electric power distribution">
Electric power distribution

Electric power distribution is the delivery system of electricity to places that use it, such as homes and other buildings. It is done mainly by power lines, transformers, substations and meters. The electricity comes from the power station at high voltage and is delivered at medium to low voltage levels. 
In early days, electricity was distributed as direct current (DC). Alternating current (AC) was later introduced during the War of Currents. DC distribution disappeared because transformers can easily convert AC to high voltage for electric power transmission and low voltage to use at home.

</doc>
<doc id="427220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427220" title="Electricity meter">
Electricity meter

An electricity meter (or energy meter) is a device that measures the amount of electricity used by a house or business. Measurements are usually taken in kilowatt hours (kWh).
Electricity meters became popular when more and more houses were connected to electricity in the 1880s. Instead of charging the homes based on how many electricity loads they had, charging on how much electricity they used became more accurate and fair.
This type electricity meter uses the force generated by current when passing through magnetic field to rotate a spinning disk inside the meter. The disk is then turn the number to indicate how much electricity has been used which is recorded by the meter.
This type of electricity meter converts electricity directly with an analogue-to-digital converter inside a microprocessor to get the exact electricity usage reading.
Electricity meters can easily be tampered with. This may allow the customers to use electricity for free. Tampering with electricity meters is illegal and can carry fines or legal actions.

</doc>
<doc id="427221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427221" title="High-voltage direct current">
High-voltage direct current

A high-voltage direct current (HVDC) is a transmission system which uses direct electric current (DC) to transmit electricity. It is more efficient over long distances distances than the usual high-voltage alternating current (HVAC).
HVDC was first demonstrated in 1882 in Germany. The technology was further developed during the 1930s in Sweden and Nazi Germany. Early commercial uses were in the Soviet Union and Sweden in 1951.
The converter in HVDC system performs the task of converting AC electricity to DC electricity or vice versa.
Types of HVDC converters:
The transformer at the converter station ensures that the station is isolated from the AC system connected to the HVDC system. It also provides the correct voltage level which will be converted to DC voltage.
Because harmonics are always produced in electronic equipment, harmonic filters are used at the AC terminal of the converter. The DC harmonic filters can also be used at the DC line after the AC/DC conversion.
The electrode provides a ground return path for line current in monopolar configuration and unbalanced current in bipolar configuration.
In HVDC monopole configuration, one of the terminals of the rectifier is connected to earth ground. The other terminal is connected to the transmission line. The earthed terminal may be connected to the corresponding connection at the inverting station by means of a second conductor.
In HVDC bipolar configuration, a pair of conductors are used, each at a high potential with respect to ground in opposite polarity. The DC current flows via the positive pole and returns via the negative pole. The connection point between the positive and negative poles is grounded to the earth.
In this configuration, virtually no earth or neutral current is flowing. When one pole is broken, half of its transfer capability is still available.
A back-to-back HVDC station is a HVDC station in which both converters are located within the same building area where the length of the DC line is being kept as short as possible.

</doc>
<doc id="427222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427222" title="Ronda Rousey">
Ronda Rousey

Ronda Jean Rousey (born February 1, 1987) is an American mixed martial artist. 
She used to be the UFC Female Bantamweight Champion until November 2015 when she got defeated by American Holly Holm. It was her first ever loss. In December 2016 she tried to win the championship back but she got defeated by TOTAL KNOCKOUT (TKO) just 48 seconds into the first round, this time by Brazilian Amanda Nunes.
She is expected to also act in movies beginning in summer 2014. She will act in the movies of Expendables 3 and Fast & Furious 7.
She was born in the city of Riverside, California. 
She has endorsed Bernie Sanders' presidential campaign for the 2016 United States presidential election.

</doc>
<doc id="427224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427224" title="Alicia Vikander">
Alicia Vikander

Alicia Vikander (born October 3, 1988) is a Swedish actress. She will play Alice Deane in "Seventh Son". She has also been in lots of other movies, such as the 2015 "Ex Machina".
Vikander was born in Gothenburg, Sweden.

</doc>
<doc id="427226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427226" title="Seventh Son">
Seventh Son

Seventh Son is a 2015 fantasy-action movie. The movie is set during the medieval period. In this movie are Julianne Moore, Alicia Vikander and Jeff Bridges. This movie was released in the United States in February 2015. The studio which distributes "Seventh Son" is Universal Pictures.

</doc>
<doc id="427232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427232" title="Hau Pei-tsun">
Hau Pei-tsun

Hau Pei-tsun (; born 13 July 1919) was the Premier of the Republic of China from May 30, 1990 to February 10, 1993. He was also a 4-star general in that country's army.
He was born on 13 July 1919 in Yancheng, Jiangsu. He studied at the Chinese Military Academy.
In the 1996 elections, he ran for vice-president as an independent. He ran with Lin Yang-kang, who was running for president. His party later collapsed and was expelled from the elections. His party's membership was restored in 2005.
He married Kuo Wan-hua and has two sons and three daughters. One of his sons is politician Hau Lung-pin, the former chairman of the New Party, and current Mayor of Taipei.

</doc>
<doc id="427233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427233" title="Skin effect">
Skin effect

Skin effect is the tendency of an alternating electric current to flow towards the perimeter of a conductor and leave the center part of the conductor without (or barely) any electricity flow.

</doc>
<doc id="427234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427234" title="Utility frequency">
Utility frequency

Utility frequency, line frequency or mains frequency is the frequency level of the AC electricity used in transmission and distribution from electricity generation sources to customers. The world's two major utility frequencies are 50 Hz and 60 Hz.

</doc>
<doc id="427235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427235" title="Rogelio Guerra">
Rogelio Guerra

Hildegardo Francisco Guerra Martínez (born 8 October 1936 in Aguascalientes, Mexico) or Rogelio Guerra, is a Mexican movie actor and television actor. He has also sometimes worked as a voice actor. 
He appeared in over 200 Spanish sitcoms since his career began in 1957. He has also appeared on several international movies as a Spanish-dub actor such as Perry White in "Superman Returns".
Guerra was born on 8 October 1936 in Aguascalientes, Mexico. He is married to Maribel Robles. 

</doc>
<doc id="427236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427236" title="Power system harmonics">
Power system harmonics

Power system harmonics are the harmonic contents from the utility frequency. Harmonics are one kind of distortion to a voltage or current's waveform. This distortion is produced by non-linear devices connected to the power system. Since equipment is made to work at the utility frequency, harmonics can make it work wrong. This one kind of power quality problem. It increases heating in power equipment.
Harmonics can be eliminated or reduced by using harmonic filter.

</doc>
<doc id="427237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427237" title="Eric del Castillo">
Eric del Castillo

José Eduardo Eric del Castillo Negrete-Galván (born July 22, 1934 in Celaya, Guanajuato) is a well-known Mexican actor who appeared in many telenovelas and movies. He appeared in over 200 television or movies related to Mexico or voice dubbing since 1960. He has won several awards throughout his career.
del Castillo was born on July 22, 1934 in Celaya, Guanajuato, Mexico. He is married to Kate Trillo. They have two children. He now lives in Mexico City, Mexico. 

</doc>
<doc id="427238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427238" title="New College of Florida">
New College of Florida

New College of Florida is a public liberal arts college in Sarasota, Florida, in the United States. It started as a private college in 1960. In 2001, it became public.

</doc>
<doc id="427239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427239" title="Changhua County">
Changhua County

Changhua County () is a county in Taiwan. It is the smallest county on the island, though there are smaller counties on some of Taiwan's other islands. The capital is Changhua City.
About 1.3 million people live in this county. It has the second-largest population after Taoyuan City.

</doc>
<doc id="427240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427240" title="Chiayi County">
Chiayi County

Chiayi County () is a county in Taiwan. It is in the south-west of the island. It surrounds Chiayi City, but does not include it. The seat of the county's government is in Taibao. Chiayi is the sixth largest county in Taiwan. The National Chung Cheng University is in this county.

</doc>
<doc id="427241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427241" title="Dušan Dragosavac">
Dušan Dragosavac

Dušan Dragosavac (; born 1 December 1919 - died 21 December 2014) was a former Yugoslav politician. He was a Serb from Croatia. He was the Chairman of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia from 20 October 1981 until 20 June 1982.
He died on 21 December 2014 aged 95.

</doc>
<doc id="427242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427242" title="Pope Eleuterus">
Pope Eleuterus

Pope Eleuterus (??? − 189) was thirteenth Pope, the official title is the Bishop of Rome of the Catholic Church from c. 174 to his death in 189. He was born in Nicopolis, Epirus, Greece.
According to "Liber Pontificalis", they ascribe a decree to Pope Eleutherius that no kind of food should be despised by Christians (Et hoc iterum firmavit ut nulla esca a Christianis repudiaretur, maxime fidelibus, quod Deus creavit, quæ tamen rationalis et humana est).

</doc>
<doc id="427243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427243" title="Underground cable">
Underground cable

An underground cable is a cable that is buried below the ground. They distribute electrical power or telecommunications. Such cables are an alternative to overhead cables, which are several metres above the ground. Overhead cables are often replaced with underground cables. This is mainly for aesthetic purposes, because underground cables can not be seen. They are also less dangerous to people because they are out of the way. They cost more to install, but last longer. 

</doc>
<doc id="427248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427248" title="Pope Gelasius II">
Pope Gelasius II

Pope Gelasius II (??? − 29 January 1119) was pope of the Roman Catholic Church from 24 January 1118 to his death in 29 January 1119. 
He was born in Gaeta, Principality of Capua and died in Cluny, Duchy of Burgundy, Kingdom of France. He was ordained a priest on 9 March 1118 after he fled to Gaeta. He returned to Rome in July under Norman protection after he excommunicated Henry V and the antipope.

</doc>
<doc id="427249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427249" title="Hualien County">
Hualien County

Hualien County () is a county in Taiwan. It is the largest county in Taiwan in terms of area. It is located on the mountainous eastern coast.
It contains the Port of Hualien. It is famous for tourism.

</doc>
<doc id="427250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427250" title="Kinmen">
Kinmen

Kinmen (or Quemoy) is a small group of islands close to the coast of China. It is governed by the Republic of China (Taiwan). It forms a county, Kinmen County (), of Fujian Province. The capital is Jincheng Township.
The county is claimed by the People's Republic of China (PRC) as part of its own Fujian Province. It is very close to Xiamen, no more than 2 kilometres.

</doc>
<doc id="427251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427251" title="Matsu Islands">
Matsu Islands

The Matsu Islands () are a small group of islands in the Taiwan Strait. There are 19 islands.
They are governed as a county of the Republic of China (Taiwan), Lienchiang County (). This county is part of Fujian Province. It is the smallest county in the ROC.

</doc>
<doc id="427255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427255" title="Category:1314 establishments">
Category:1314 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="427256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427256" title="Cross-Strait relations">
Cross-Strait relations

Cross-strait relations () is the relations between the governments of the People's Republic of China (PRC) and the Republic of China (ROC). Neither government recognises one another. Both officially use the One-China policy. Under this policy, there is only one legitimate government of China. Both the PRC and the ROC claim to be that government.
Cross-strait relations are not international relations, where matters are handled by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is because both governments claim that each other's territory is part of their country. However, the relations are not purely domestic relations either.
Any interaction by the PRC's government with Taiwan is done by the Association of Relations Across the Taiwan Strait (ARATS). This is under the Taiwan Affairs Office of the PRC. Any interaction by the ROC's government with Mainland China is done by Strait Exchange Foundation (SEF) under the Mainland Affairs Council of the ROC.
The PRC's view is that Taiwan is part of PRC under the "One Country, Two Systems" () policy. This policy was introduced by Deng Xiaoping in 1984. The ROC's view is that Mainland China is part of the ROC under the "'One Country, Two Areas" () policy. This policy was introduced by Wu Po-hsiung in 2012.
However, currently both sides temporarily agree that both countries belong to One China. This was agreed under the "1992 consensus" () to facilitate cross-strait matters. The PRC regards Taiwan as part of the PRC, while the ROC regards Mainland China as part of the ROC.

</doc>
<doc id="427257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427257" title="Tainan Mosque">
Tainan Mosque

The Tainan Mosque () is a mosque in Tainan, Taiwan. It is the sixth mosque in Taiwan, and the first and only mosque in Tainan. The mosque was built in 1996.
A land was initially donated by an Chinese Muslim living in the United States to Taipei Grand Mosque. It was then transferred to Kaohsiung Mosque which managed the construction of the Tainan Mosque. Starting in 1983, they collected money for 10 years for the mosque construction, and the construction finally started in 1993 and the mosque was opened in 1996.
The mosque has four floors, which consists of prayer hall, shop, meeting room, ablution room and office.

</doc>
<doc id="427258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427258" title="At-Taqwa Mosque">
At-Taqwa Mosque

The At-Taqwa Mosque () is a mosque in Dayuan Township, Taoyuan County, Taiwan. It is the seventh and latest mosque in Taiwan. The mosque was built in 2013.
The construction of the mosque was started by an Indonesian-Taiwanese couple who has an Indonesian shop around Dayuan. The couple purchased a land beside their shop to build a mosque. After collecting all of the money needed to make the mosque, the mosque was finally constructed and opened on 9 June 2013.
The establishment of the mosque shows that the number of Muslim is growing in Taiwan, where many of them work in factories, shops or houses. Many of those Muslims come from Indonesia. This can be considered as the fourth Muslim migration to Taiwan.
The mosque area is 130 square meter. It has three floors, where it consists of male prayer hall, female prayer hall, guess room, classes and dormitories.

</doc>
<doc id="427259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427259" title="Jamia Mosque">
Jamia Mosque

The Jamia Mosque or Shelley Street Mosque () is a mosque in Hong Kong, People's Republic of China. It is the first and oldest mosque in Hong Kong.
The original building of the mosque was built in 1890 during the British Hong Kong government as the Mohammedan Mosque on a piece of land rented by the government in 1850. In 1915, the building of the mosque was expanded and it was renamed to Jamia Mosque after World War II.
The mosque building is included into the Grade I Building in which it is considered as a historical building which needs to be protected and conserved.

</doc>
<doc id="427260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427260" title="Kowloon Mosque and Islamic Centre">
Kowloon Mosque and Islamic Centre

The Kowloon Mosque and Islamic Centre () is a mosque and Islamic center in Hong Kong, People's Republic of China. It is the largest mosque and second mosque to be built in Hong Kong.
The original building of the mosque was built in 1896 at the site where the Tsim Sha Tsui police station now is located. The mosque served the Indian Muslim troops in British Hong Kong stationed at Whitfield Barracks. In the late 1970s, the mosque was relocated to its current site at Nathan Road by compensation given by MTR Corporation and donations from Muslims around Hong Kong.
The mosque was designed by architect I. M. Kadri. The building was designed with traditional Muslim architecture. The unique feature of this mosque are the four 11-meters-high minarets. There are three prayer halls, community hall, clinic and library. Around 3,500 people can fit into this mosque for prayer.
The mosque primarily serves the Hong Kong Muslims with origin from South Asia. Therefore, the most becomes an important place for the non-Chinese Muslims in Hong Kong.

</doc>
<doc id="427261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427261" title="Ammar Mosque and Osman Ramju Sadick Islamic Centre">
Ammar Mosque and Osman Ramju Sadick Islamic Centre

The Ammar Mosque and Osman Ramju Sadick Islamic Centre () or Wan Chai Mosque is a mosque and Islamic center in Hong Kong, People's Republic of China. It is the third mosque in Hong Kong. The original building of the mosque was built in 1967.
The original building of the mosque was a small mosque besides a cemetery at 7 Seymore Street. In 1978, the mosque was relocated to a new place at Oi Kwan Road because the land was needed by the government to construct Aberdeen tunnel. The new mosque building was reopened on September 1981.
The mosque was designed by architect Ramju Sadick. The mosque has eight floors which consists of prayer hall, Chinese restaurant, bakery, clinic, classrooms, library and seminar room.
The mosque is the headquarter place for Incorporated Trustees of the Islamic Community Fund of Hong Kong (the main Islamic organization in Hong Kong) and the Hong Kong Islamic Youth Association.

</doc>
<doc id="427269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427269" title="Category:Indian monarchs">
Category:Indian monarchs


</doc>
<doc id="427272" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427272" title="Atoms for Peace (band)">
Atoms for Peace (band)

Atoms for Peace is a band from California. They started in 2009. They did not have a name until February 2010. The members are Thom Yorke, Flea, Nigel Godrich, Joey Waronker, and Mauro Refosco. In February 2013, they released their first album, "Amok" on XL Recordings. The album charted at number 1 in nine countries. "Pitchfork" scored it 6.9/10.

</doc>
<doc id="427278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427278" title="Coal mining">
Coal mining

Coal mining is the process of getting coal out of the ground. It is part of the mining industry. Coal is used as a resource for making electricity.
Surface mining is done when the coal is near the surface. Coal miners remove the soil above the coal. The coal can then be removed without the coal miners having to go deep underground.
Underground mining is when the coal is farther underground, making it too expensive to remove soil. In this process, coal miners and all of the coal mining equipment are brought deep underground and coal is carried up out of the ground.
Before coal can be used, it must be processed in a coal processing plant. It is made smaller using a sizer and crusher. Parts that might be harmful to any equipment which will use the coal later on, such as the screening for metallic parts inside the mined coal.
Coal is delivered to customers in several ways. Trucks, conveyors, trains and ships transport coal to be used in factories and power plants.

</doc>
<doc id="427280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427280" title="Mustafa Abdul Jalil">
Mustafa Abdul Jalil

Mustafa Abdul Jalil (born 1952) is a Libyan politician. He was the Chairman (leader) of the National Transitional Council from 5 March 2011 until it ended on 8 August 2012. He supported the Libyan revolution. He was born in Badya. He is a Sunni Muslim.

</doc>
<doc id="427290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427290" title="PJ Harvey">
PJ Harvey

Polly Jean Harvey MBE (born 9 October 1969) is an English musician. She is best known for being a singer and guitarist. Her music is usually released under the name PJ Harvey. She plays lots of instruments as well as the guitar. These include piano, organ, bass, saxophone, harmonica, and most recently, the autoharp. She has a contralto singing range. In June 2013, she made a Member of the Order of the British Empire for her music.
Harvey was born in Bridport, Dorset, England. She grew up on a farm in Corscombe, Dorset. 
In 1988, Harvey became a member of a band called Automatic Dlamini. The band was started by John Parish in 1983. She left it in January 1991. This was to make her own band with Rob Ellis and Steve Vaughan. The band was called the PJ Harvey Trio. 
Their first extended play was "Dress". In March 1992, she released her first album with them on Too Pure Records. It was called "Dry". It entered the UK Albums Chart at number 3. It got good reviews. The album's first single, "50ft Queenie", was released in April 1992.
The PJ Harvey Trio's second album "Rid of Me" was released by Island Records in May 1993. It reached number 27 in the UK Singles Chart. It was produced by Steve Albini and Head.
In August 1993, the band broke up. 
In 1995, Harvey released her first album on her own, "To Bring You My Love". It is her best-selling album in the United States. Three singles were released from it. The album was produced by Harvey, Flood, and John Parish. Parish also played guitar, organ, drums, and percussion on it.
In 1996, she released an album with John Parish. It was called "Dance Hall at Louse Point". That year she also sung on two songs called "Death is Not the End" and "Henry Lee" on Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds' album "Murder Ballads". "Henry Lee" was released as a single.
In 1998, she released "Is This Desire?". The reviews it got from critics were not as good as for "To Bring You My Love". However, "Is This Desire?"'s first single "A Perfect Day Elise" was Harvey's best-selling single in the UK so far. The album was nominated for Best Alternative Music Performance. Parish played guitar and keyboards on it. Harvey produced the album with Flood and Head.
Harvey acted in the 1998 movie "The Book of Life" and a short movie called "A Bunny Girl's Tale".
On 23 October 2000, "Stories from the City, Stories from the Sea" was released. In won the 2001 Mercury Prize. It is PJ Harvey's best-selling album in the UK so far. Thom Yorke is on three of the songs. In 2005 Rolling Stone put it at number 431 in their list Greatest Albums of All Time. The album's third single "This Is Love" was nominated for Best Rock Album and Best Female Rock Performance at the Grammy Awards.
Harvey's sixth album "Uh Huh Her" was released in 2004. In 2007 a band started called Uh Huh Her. They got their name from the album's title.
In 2007, "White Chalk" was released. Parish played instruments on it and sang. Harvey produced the album with Flood and Parish. Harvey released three singles from the album.
Harvey released her second album with John Parish, "A Woman a Man Walked By", in 2009.
"Let England Shake" was released in 2011. It got good reviews. "Pitchfork" gave it 8.8/10. It won the 2011 Mercury Prize. Two singles were released from it. John Parish plays instruments on it.

</doc>
<doc id="427296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427296" title="Mallika Sherawat">
Mallika Sherawat

Mallika Sherawat (born on October 24, 1976 as Reema Lamba) is an Indian actress. She was born in Rohtak to a Jatt family. The first movie she acted in was the 2002 Bollywood movie "Jeena Sirf Merre Liye". She acted in the 2005 Chinese movie "The Myth". In 2010, "Hisss" was released. It was her first English movie. Sherawat played the main character, Naagin. In 2011, she was in another English movie, "The Politics of Love".

</doc>
<doc id="427299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427299" title="Yeah Yeah Yeahs">
Yeah Yeah Yeahs

Yeah Yeah Yeahs is an indie rock band from New York City. They are two boys, Nick Zinner and Brian Chase, and one girl, Karen O. Karen O is the singer. They started in the world of music in 2000. In 2009 a second guitarist, David Pajo, joined the band and replaced Imad Wasif. They have four albums, which are: "Fever to Tell", the first, "Show Your Bones", the second, "It's Blitz!", the third, and the fourth, "Mosquito". They play different genres of music: alternative rock, indie rock, art punk, dance punk and post punk revival. They were nominated to the Grammy Awards on 3 occasions: "Fever to tell", "Show your bones" and "It’s blitz!". And they have had 7 nominations to the MTV Awards for three of their works: "Maps" in 2004, "Heads will roll" in 2009 and "Sacrilege" in 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="427303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427303" title="Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford">
Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford

Lady Margaret Hall is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was established in 1878 as the first women's college at the University. It first admitted male students in 1979.

</doc>
<doc id="427305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427305" title="Bonfire Night">
Bonfire Night

Bonfire Night is an event dedicated to celebration with bonfires or fireworks. Different traditions celebrate Bonfire Night on different days. In Great Britain, it is celebrated as Guy Fawkes Night on 5th November. Other versions of Bonfire Night are also celebrated on this date in several other Commonwealth countries. A similar bonfire tradition is celebrated in parts of Scandinavia and is known as Walpurgis Night.

</doc>
<doc id="427307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427307" title="Collateral">
Collateral

Collateral is a 2004 American crime thriller movie. This movie is set in Los Angeles. It is about a hit-man named Vincent who is out to murder several witnesses and a prosecutor. His main hostage, taxi driver Max, reluctantly agrees to do some harsh things along with him. Max, though, eventually has enough. He then shoots Vincent, killing him. Jamie Foxx plays Max and Tom Cruise plays Vincent. The movie was released in late August 2004. It became a success in the U.S. box office and worldwide. The reviews were excellent.

</doc>
<doc id="427309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427309" title="Passenger name record">
Passenger name record

Passenger name record is the name for a set of data in a database, which contains the path a passenger travelling with one or more airlines takes. In some cases, groups of people travelling together are stored in the same passenger name record. Passenger details often contain more information than that which is strictly necessary. Additional information stored includes the gender of the passenger, if the passenger is part of a frequent flyer programme, details about the ticket, or if the passenger has special meal requirements - for example vegetarian.
United States–European Union Agreement on Passenger Name Records.
On January 16, 2004, the Article 29 Working Party released their "Opinion 1/2004 (WP85)" on the level of PNR protection ensured in Australia for the transmission of Passenger Name Record data from airlines.
In 2010 the European Commission's Directorate-General for Justice, Freedom and Security was split in two. The resulting bodies were the Directorate-General for Justice (European Commission) and the Directorate-General for Home Affairs (European Commission).
On the 4th of May 2011, Stefano Manservisi, Director-General at the Directorate-General for Home Affairs (European Commission) wrote to the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) with regards to a PNR sharing agreement with Australia, a close ally of the US and signatory to the UKUSA Agreement on signals intelligence.
The EDPS responded on the 5th of May in "Letter 0420 D845":
The Article 29 Working Party document "Opinion 1/2005 on the level of protection ensured in Canada for the transmission of Passenger Name Record and Advance Passenger Information from airlines (WP 103)", 19 January 2005, offers information on the nature of PNR agreements with Canada.
In India PNR is used by Indian Railway as Passenger Name Record. Usually Travellers need it to check their confirmation of their seats. It is a 10 Digit Number which has to be entered on website for checking PNR Status .

</doc>
<doc id="427321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427321" title="David Karp">
David Karp

David Karp (born July 6, 1986) is an American entrepreneur who started the website Tumblr in 2007. He sold the website to Yahoo! for US$1.1 billion in 2013. He was born in New York City. He started learning HTML when he was 11. When he was 15 he stopped going to high school. He was taught at home instead. In 2013, "Forbes" said that Karp's net worth is more than $200 million. His cultural and ethnic background is Jewish.

</doc>
<doc id="427323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427323" title="Kwame Kilpatrick">
Kwame Kilpatrick

Kwame Malik Kilpatrick (8 June, 1970) is an American politician. He was a Michigan state representative and mayor of Detroit. He is a Democrat. Kilpatrick was mayor of Detroit from 2002 until he resigned in 2008. In spring 2013, Kilpatrick was sentenced to almost 28 years in prison after being declared guilty on many criminal charges, including fraud. He went to federal prison in eastern Michigan.

</doc>
<doc id="427326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427326" title="John of Damascus">
John of Damascus

Saint John of Damascus ( 675 or 676 – 4 December 749) was a Christian leader from Damascus. He was a monk and a priest (a Christian preacher). He was born and raised in Damascus, which is today the capital of the country of Syria. He died in the Jerusalem in Palestine, at the Mar Saba monastery.
John of Damascus studied religion. He also studied law, theology, philosophy and music. He is said by some sources to have served as a Chief Administrator to the Muslim caliph of Damascus before he became a priest. He wrote works about Christianity. He composed hymns that are still used by Greek Orthodox churches around the world. He is considered "the last of the Fathers" of the Eastern Orthodox church. He is best known for arguing to let people use pictures of Greek Orthodox saints, which are called "icons". He is also honored by Catholic churches, specifically the Roman Catholic Church.

</doc>
<doc id="427328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427328" title="Pope Leo IV">
Pope Leo IV

Pope Saint Leo IV (790 – 17 July 855) was pope of the Roman Catholic Church from 10 April 847 until he died in 855. 
He was born in Rome. He died in Rome on 17 July 855 and was buried in St. Peter's Basilica. There was a medieval tradition that had claimed that a woman, Pope Joan, had succeeded him by disguising herself as a man but she is believed to be fictitious.

</doc>
<doc id="427331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427331" title="Rosamund Pike">
Rosamund Pike

Rosamund Pike (born January 27, 1979) is an English actress. She became known in the 2002 movie "Die Another Day" in which she played the Bond girl Miranda Frost. She also played Helen in the 2012 melodrama movie "Jack Reacher". Pike was born in London.

</doc>
<doc id="427333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427333" title="Pope John XV">
Pope John XV

Pope John XV (??? − March 996) was pope of the Roman Catholic Church from August 985 to his death in 996. 
He was born in Rome, Papal States and died in March 996 in Rome, Papal States, Holy Roman Empire.
During his time as pope, there was a dispute that arose over the deposition in 991 of Arnulf, Archbishop of Reims. Arnulf was made archbishop of Reims in 988 by Hugh Capet of France. Arnulf was the nephew of the King's bitter rival, Charles of Lorraine and considered Arnulf a turncoat. He demanded his deposition by John XV. Hugh Capet captured both Charles and Archbishop Arnulf and convoked a synod at Reims in June 991. He deposed Arnulf and chose as his successor Abbot Gerbert of Aurillac who would later be known as Pope Silvester II.
At the synod, Arnulf, Bishop of Orléans accused John XV:

</doc>
<doc id="427334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427334" title="Die Another Day">
Die Another Day

Die Another Day is a 2002 British melodrama thriller movie. It is about James Bond going across North Korea trying to get redemption. Pierce Brosnan plays James Bond and Rosamund Pike plays the double agent Miranda Frost. The movie got negative reviews. The box office of the movie, however, was positive. The movie was released in November 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="427335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427335" title="Black Friday">
Black Friday

Black Friday is the day after Thanksgiving in the United States. Even though it falls on a Friday, which is the last day before the weekend, and comes right after Thanksgiving Thursday, it is not a federal holiday. There are some states, however, that observe this day instead of Columbus Day for workers of the state government.
The name "Black Friday" started to be used sometime after World War II, but it was not popular outside of Philadelphia until around 1975.
Many Americans see Black Friday seen as the official beginning of the Christmas holiday season, a time when many people go shopping for gifts to give to their family and friends on Christmas Day. On Black Friday, many stores have big sales, and it is common to see long lines of people waiting outside stores and in malls to get the best deals first before they run out. Because of this, stores usually open around 6 am in the morning or later. Some stores, though, started opening at 5 am and even 4 am in the late 20th century. Now, a few stores even open at midnight. Shoppers like to stay out all day to get what they need, making Black Friday the busiest shopping day of the year. 
On the first Monday after the long weekend is Cyber Monday, when many people go online shopping.

</doc>
<doc id="427336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427336" title="Lions in heraldry">
Lions in heraldry

Lions appear in heraldry more often than any other animal. It traditionally symbolises bravery, valour, strength, and royalty.
They may appear as a charge on the shield or as a crest. They are described in the "blazon" (heraldic description) by their "tincture" (color) and "attitude" (position). Sometimes the teeth and claws of a lion can be colored differently from the rest of its body; it is said to be "armed" of that color (e.g. "A lion Or armed gules" is a gold lion with red teeth and claws). Sometimes the tail is even described, if it is shown in an unusual way. One reason why lions are shown in so many different ways is because when heraldry developed, a lot of people wanted a lion on their coat of arms, but no two coats of arms can be the same. The purpose of heraldry in the Middle Ages was to identify people with bold images over the outside of their armour. Since a lot of people started putting lions on their coats of arms, they placed them in a lot of different positions and in every color used in heraldry. In France and Germany, they even made patterns of colors on some of their lions, as if they were painted.
French heralds refer to lions in the walking positions as "leopards", but this term is seldom used by British heralds.
Although there are many "attitudes" or positions now used in heraldry, very few of these were known to medieval heralds, who simply wanted to draw a lion to fill the space provided on the shield. The following table describes the different attitudes of heraldic lions:
Other terms are used to describe the lion's position in further detail. The lion's head is normally seen in agreement with the overall position, (facing left) unless otherwise stated. If a lion's "whole body" is turned to face right, he is "to sinister" or "contourné". If his "whole body" faces the viewer, he is "affronté". If his "head only" faces the viewer he is "guardant" or "gardant", and if he looks back over his shoulder (body facing left but head turned to face right) he is "regardant". These words follow the main description of position, and then the lion is further described as "armed" (teeth and claws) of another color, if another color is used. And finally, the tail may be described if it is unusual. A lion (or other beast) "coward" carries its tail between its hind legs. The tail also may be "nowed" (knotted), or the lion may be "queue fourchée" (forked tail) or "double-queued" (two tails).

</doc>
<doc id="427340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427340" title="Monkwearmouth–Jarrow Abbey">
Monkwearmouth–Jarrow Abbey

Monkwearmouth–Jarrow was a combination of two English monasteries run as a single community. Both were founded by Benedict Biscop. Monkwearmouth, built first, was a magnificent example of the Roman style of architecture. It housed one of the first stained glass works in England. Jarrow became the center of Anglo-Saxon learning in the north of England and contained the largest library in Anglo-Saxon England. Bede, the great Anglo-Saxon scholar, studied, taught and wrote there. The sister Anglo-Saxon monasteries were the UK nomination for World Heritage Site status in 2011.
In 674 Benedict Biscop, a Northumbrian nobleman, built a monastery known as Monkwearmouth. Egfrith, King of Northumbria gave him fifty hides of land at the mouth of the River Wear. This monastery would be dedicated to Saint Peter and came to be called St. Peter's at Monkwearmouth. Benedict wanted his monastery to be a center of both learning and religion. Benedict used Frankish stonemasons who he brought over to England to construct the monastery. Monkwearmouth was the first (and Jarrow the second) church structures to be built of stone in England. Benedict them brought over glassmakers from Frankia to fit the windows of the church and chapels with fine stained glass. They established a workshop there at Monkwearwolf. Within a year the monastery was completed. In 678 a letter from Pope Agatho exempted the monastery from external control. Benedict got all the , sacred vessels, decorations and . Some he found locally while others he bought in Francia and Rome. In 682 King Egfrith gave another forty hides of land to Benedict for a second monastery. It was to be at the mouth of the River Trent at Jarrow. The dedication ceremony for Jarrow abbey was held on 23 April 685. Named for Saint Paul when the sister monastery was completed Benedict assigned Ceolfrith to the abbot. Bede, who was about ten years old at the time, was one of the monks who went with him. King Egfrid, who was at the dedication, died in battle against the Picts less than a month later. The two sister abbeys, only seven miles apart, were thought of as one. 
The library that Benedict started made it possible for Bede to write his works including his famous "Ecclesiastical History of the English People".information from. There wasn't another library like it in England. By the time of his death in 689 Benedict had completed four trips to Rome and the south and brought back large collections of books each time. The full extent of Bede's work would still not be possible if not for Ceolfrid, the fourth abbot. He doubled the size of the library left by Benedict Biscop.
The at Monkwearmouth-Jarrow was kept very busy. There was a growing demand for copies of bibles, books, documents and especially the works of Bede. Requests came in from other parts of England and the . Works from the scriptorium would be found in Leningrad, Rome, and other parts of Europe. Under increasing requests for its products, the Monkwearmouth-Jarrow scriptorium adopted a faster script style used in later works.
In 794, just a year after the Vikings sacked Lindisfarne, the Vikings attacked Monkwearmouth and Jarrow. The flames were so hot the glass was melted. Both sites were abandoned for a time. Their location on the coast of Northumbria made them easy targets for Viking raids. The twin monasteries were rebuilt. Unlike many old ruins that disappear over time, the old walls of Monkwearmouth and Jarrow can still be seen. They are next to or part of the modern buildings that replaced the original buildings built in 674 and 682.

</doc>
<doc id="427345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427345" title="Wrecking Ball (Miley Cyrus song)">
Wrecking Ball (Miley Cyrus song)

"Wrecking Ball" is a song performed by Miley Cyrus. It was released on August 25, 2013. "Wrecking Ball" is a pop song which is about the ending of a relationship. It was thought to be inspired by Cyrus' former engagement to Australian actor Liam Hemsworth. "Wrecking Ball" was the Vevo record with most views in the first 24 hours after its release, and the record for being the fastest clip to reach 100 million views on the service. The record was broken in 2014 by Anaconda of Nicki Minaj.

</doc>
<doc id="427347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427347" title="Troublemaker (Olly Murs song)">
Troublemaker (Olly Murs song)

"Troublemaker" is a song by Olly Murs. He also wrote the song. It was released on October 12, 2012. The song features Flo Rida. "Troublemaker" was a major commercial success. It was a success across the United Kingdom and the United States. It also served as the closing song at Murs's 2013 arena tour.

</doc>
<doc id="427355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427355" title="Category:670s establishments">
Category:670s establishments


</doc>
<doc id="427356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427356" title="Category:1540s disestablishments">
Category:1540s disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="427357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427357" title="Green Acres">
Green Acres

Green Acres is an American sitcom starring Eddie Albert and Eva Gabor. It is about a couple who move from New York City to a rural country farm. Produced by Filmways as a sister show to "Petticoat Junction". The series was first broadcast on CBS, from September 15, 1965 to April 27, 1971.

</doc>
<doc id="427358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427358" title="Category:1540 disestablishments">
Category:1540 disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="427360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427360" title="Hal Linden">
Hal Linden

Hal Linden (born Harold Lipshitz; March 20, 1931 in New York City, New York) is an American stage and screen actor, television director and musician. Linden is known for his role as Cpt. Barney Miller in "Barney Miller". He won two special Daytime Emmy Awards and a Tony Award. Linden is the spokesman for the Jewish National Fund, a position he has held since 1997.

</doc>
<doc id="427364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427364" title="Theodore Kaczynski">
Theodore Kaczynski

Theodore John "Ted" Kaczynski (born May 22, 1942 in Evergreen Park, Illinois) is an American mathematician and serial murderer. He was known as The Unabomber. Between 1978 and 1995, Kaczynski engaged in a nationwide bombing campaign against people involved with modern technology, planting or mailing numerous home-made bombs, ultimately killing a total of three people and injuring 23 others.
Kaczynski was born and raised in Evergreen Park, Illinois, a Chicago suburb. Kaczynski was accepted to Harvard University at the age of 16. He earned an undergraduate degree. He then earned a PhD in mathematics from the University of Michigan. He became an assistant professor at the University of California, Berkeley in 1967 at age 25. He resigned two years later.
In 1971, he moved to a cabin without electricity or running water, in Lincoln, Montana. He lived there while learning survival skills. From 1978 to 1995, Kaczynski sent 16 bombs to targets including universities and airlines, killing three people and injuring 23. 
Kaczynski sent a letter to The New York Times on April 24, 1995. He promised "to desist from terrorism" if the Times or the Washington Post published his stories about his killing spree.
Kaczynski was arrested in his cabin on April 3, 1996. His brother, David, called the police so that they could arrest him. He pleaded guilty for his crimes on January 22, 1998. He is an inmate of ADX Florence, Fremont County, Colorado. 

</doc>
<doc id="427365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427365" title="Opposing Viewpoints series">
Opposing Viewpoints series

Opposing Viewpoints is a series of books on current events. It tries to explore the many different opinions of each event in the style of a debate. The series tries to encourage critical thinking and public awareness by providing opposing views on issues that have been debated.

</doc>
<doc id="427369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427369" title="Evergreen Park, Illinois">
Evergreen Park, Illinois

Evergreen Park is a village in Cook County, Illinois, United States. It is a suburb of Chicago. The population was 19,852 at the 2010 census. Serial killer Theodore Kaczynski was born here in 1942 and Playboy model Jenny McCarthy was also born here in 1972.

</doc>
<doc id="427372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427372" title="Price Tower">
Price Tower

The Price Tower is a nineteen-story, 221-foot-high tower in Bartlesville, Oklahoma. It was designed by Frank Lloyd Wright. It is the only well-known skyscraper by Wright, and is one of only two vertically buildings designed by Wright. The Price Tower was commissioned by Harold C. Price of the H. C. Price Company, a local oil pipeline and chemical firm. It opened to the public in February 1956.

</doc>
<doc id="427373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427373" title="Imperial Hotel, Tokyo">
Imperial Hotel, Tokyo

The Imperial Hotel, Tokyo is a hotel in Tokyo. It was built in the late 1880s at the request of the Japanese aristocracy to increase Western visitors to Japan. It was designed by Frank Lloyd Wright. The hotel site is located just south of the Imperial Palace grounds, next to the previous location of the Palace moat. 
The modern hotel overlooks the Palace, the western-style Hibiya Park, and the Ginza neighborhood. Three buildings have stood on the hotel site, each of which embodied the finest western design of its era. The hotel eventually slipped into decay as time took its toll. In a controversial decision, it was decided to demolish the old hotel and replace it with a high-rise structure, to maximize the use of land.

</doc>
<doc id="427374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427374" title="Category:Unitarians">
Category:Unitarians


</doc>
<doc id="427375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427375" title="Yury Yakovlev">
Yury Yakovlev

Yury Vasilyevich Yakovlev (25 April 1928 – 30 November 2013) was a Russian movie and stage actor. Yakovlev appeared in over 100 Russian-language movies. 
His most popular movies include; "The Irony of Fate", "Anna Karenina", "", and in "Hussar Ballad". He has won many awards throughout his career including Russia's highest civilian honor the Order of Lenin.
Yakovlev was born on 25 April 1928 in Moscow, Soviet Union. He studied at the Vakhtangov Theatre. Yakovlev was married three times. He had one son, Anton. Yakovlev now lived in Moscow, Russia.
Yakovlev felt ill in early morning of 29 November 2013. He soon fainted in his home. He was rushed to a Moscow hospital where he died there on 30 November 2013 from heart failure, aged 85.

</doc>
<doc id="427393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427393" title="Arnold Peralta">
Arnold Peralta

Arnold Peralta (29 March 1989 – 10 December 2015) was a Honduran football player. He played as a defensive midfielder for C.D.S. Vida, Rangers F.C. and Olimpia. He also played for the Honduras national football team. He represented Honduras in seven FIFA World Cup qualification games.
Peralta was shot dead sixteen times by an unknown gunman on 10 December 2015 in his hometown of La Ceiba, aged 26. 

</doc>
<doc id="427402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427402" title="Fujian Province, Republic of China">
Fujian Province, Republic of China

Fujian Province or Fukien Province () is a province of the Republic of China. The capital of the province is Jincheng Township in Kinmen County.

</doc>
<doc id="427403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427403" title="Taiwan Province, Republic of China">
Taiwan Province, Republic of China

Taiwan Province () is a province of the Republic of China. The capital of the province is Chung Hsing New Village in Nantou County.

</doc>
<doc id="427405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427405" title="Palais Royal">
Palais Royal

The Palais Royal is a building in Paris. It was once a palace of the French royal family. It was built in the 1630s by Cardinal Richelieu to hold his art collection. When Richelieu died in 1642, it became the property of the young King Louis XIV.
From 1649, the exiled Henrietta Maria of France and her daughter Henrietta lived here. The two had escaped England during the English Civil War. They were sheltered here by King Louis XIV, who was Henrietta Maria's nephew.
In 1692, when the Duke of Chartres married Françoise Marie de Bourbon, the King gave the Palais-Royal to his brother, Philippe, Duke of Orléans.
Louis Philippe I, future King of the French, was born here. He was the son of the young Philippe Égalité and his wife Louise Marie Adélaïde de Bourbon.
Louise Henriette de Bourbon also died here. She was married to Louis Philippe, Duke of Orléans.
The future Louis Philippe I was also born here. 

</doc>
<doc id="427408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427408" title="Category:Palaces in France">
Category:Palaces in France


</doc>
<doc id="427410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427410" title="Julia Serano">
Julia Serano

Julia Serano is a transsexual American writer, biologist, musician, poet, and activist. She lives in Oakland, California. In 2007 her first full-length book Whipping Girl: A Transsexual Woman on Sexism and the Scapegoating of Femininity" was published by Seal Press. In October 2013 was published. Her essays have also been published on websites and in magazines and books about feminism.
Serano did a PhD in biochemistry and molecular biophysics at Columbia University. Serano worked at UC Berkeley as a researcher for seventeen years.
She was a member of the indie rock band Bitesize.
Serano is a feminist. She is bisexual.
For years she was a crossdresser. She wore clothes made for women but still called herself a man. In 1998 Serano moved to the San Francisco Bay Area. There she met her wife Dani. Around this time Serano started identifying as bigender and transgender. In 2001 she started identifying as a trans woman. She calls herself a "femme tomboy".
In 2002 made a chapbook called "Either/Or". In 2004 she made a chapbook called "Draw Blood".
In 2005 Serano made a chapbook called "On the Outside Looking In: A Trans Woman's Perspective on Feminism and the Exclusion of Trans Women from Lesbian and Women-only Spaces".
Serano's first book "Whipping Girl" talks about transmisogyny. Transmisogyny is a word that Serano uses to talk about a kind of misogyny (woman-hating) that is experienced by trans women. "Whipping Girl" has updated versions of three of the four essays in "On the Outside Looking In".
In her second book "Excluded", Serano wrote about how feminist and queer movements have left out transgender women, feminine people, bisexuals, sex workers, and others.
In both of her books Serano talks about how gender is not a performance.

</doc>
<doc id="427416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427416" title="Judith Butler">
Judith Butler

Judith Butler (born February 24, 1956) is an American philosopher. She was born in Ohio. She got her Ph.D. in philosophy from Yale University in 1984. She lives in Berkeley, California, with her partner Wendy Brown. In 1990 "Gender Trouble" was published by Routledge. It is considered one of the key works of contemporary feminism. In the book Butler talks about her theory of gender performativity, which is that gender, along with sex and sexuality, is something you "perform" rather than an expression of human biology.
Butler was born in Ohio. She went to Hebrew school. She studied Philosophy at Yale University.

</doc>
<doc id="427420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427420" title="Melissa Harris-Perry">
Melissa Harris-Perry

Melissa Victoria Harris-Perry (born October 2, 1973) is an American television host and writer. She hosts a television programme on MSNBC called "Melissa Harris-Perry". 
She got a Ph.D. in political science from Duke University in 1999. That year she married Dennis Lacewell. She divorced him in 2005. She is a professor of political science at Tulane University. In 2004 her first book "Barbershops, Bibles, and BET: Everyday Talk and Black Political Thought" was published. In 2011 Yale Press published Perry's book "Sister Citizen: Shame, Stereotypes, and Black Women in America".

</doc>
<doc id="427436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427436" title="Enrico Letta">
Enrico Letta

Enrico Letta (born 20 August 1966) was the Prime Minister of Italy (head of government) from 2013 to 2014. Previously, he had also been a member of several Italian governments, as of 1998. In April 2015 he announced that he was not going to be a professional politician anymore, and that he wanted to concentrate on academia.
He was born in Pisa, Tuscany. He is married to Gianna Fregonara and has 3 children.

</doc>
<doc id="427437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427437" title="Category:1119 deaths">
Category:1119 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="427438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427438" title="Category:1565 establishments">
Category:1565 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="427439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427439" title="Category:1619 establishments">
Category:1619 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="427440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427440" title="Category:189 deaths">
Category:189 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="427441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427441" title="Chancellor, South Dakota">
Chancellor, South Dakota

Chancellor is a town in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 264 people lived there at the 2010 census. Chancellor was started in 1886.

</doc>
<doc id="427442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427442" title="Category:189">
Category:189


</doc>
<doc id="427443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427443" title="Category:180s deaths">
Category:180s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="427444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427444" title="Prime Minister of Italy">
Prime Minister of Italy

The Prime Minister of Italy, officially President of the Council of Ministers, is the head of government of Italy. Paolo Gentiloni became Prime Minister on 12 December 2016. The one before him was Matteo Renzi.

</doc>
<doc id="427447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427447" title="Category:WWE TLC: Tables, Ladders &amp; Chairs">
Category:WWE TLC: Tables, Ladders &amp; Chairs


</doc>
<doc id="427448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427448" title="Davis, South Dakota">
Davis, South Dakota

Davis is a town in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 85 people lived there at the 2010 census. Davis became a town in 1896.

</doc>
<doc id="427449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427449" title="Dolton, South Dakota">
Dolton, South Dakota

Dolton is a town in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 37 people lived there at the 2010 census. Dolton became a town in 1909.

</doc>
<doc id="427451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427451" title="Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport">
Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport

Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport , is a major airport in the United States. It is in the Detroit area and serves all the city. It is one of the busiest airports in the United States and gets many passengers. It has many international and domestic destinations. It is one of Delta Airlines biggest airport hubs after Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport in Atlanta. It is also a hub of Spirit Airlines. Its many destinations include cities in North America, South America, Europe, and Asia.

</doc>
<doc id="427452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427452" title="Helipad">
Helipad

A helicopter landing pad (helipad) is a landing area for helicopters, like a runway for an airplane.

</doc>
<doc id="427453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427453" title="Korean Air">
Korean Air

Korean Air is the flag carrier and largest airline of South Korea. Its headquarters are in Seoul. It has two hubs at both airports in Seoul, the major international airport Incheon International Airport and the smaller domestic airport Seoul Gimpo. Korean Air has planes from both Boeing and Airbus, including the Boeing 747 and Airbus 380. These fly to destinations all over the world, including places in Asia, Africa, Europe, South America, and North America.

</doc>
<doc id="427454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427454" title="Titanic II">
Titanic II

Titanic II is a disaster-drama movie from 2010. It is not a sequel to the movie from 1997. Certain movie websites, however, say this movie may be a mock of the 1997 hit movie. The movie "Titanic II" is about the "SS Titanic II" luxury liner sent on a maiden voyage exactly 100 years after the original RMS "Titanic", except the "Titanic II" is operating in reverse opposite the original ship. The more recent ship exits New York City and heads to United Kingdom at Southampton. Like the earlier ship, however, she crashes into an iceberg killing most of the ship's passengers and crew. Only a handful of people survive. "Titanic II" was condemned by many critics as a rip-off of James Cameron's 1997 movie. The criticisms involved mostly plot and movie directions.

</doc>
<doc id="427457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427457" title="Brooke Burns">
Brooke Burns

Brooke Burns (born 16 March, 1978, though some sources cite 1977) is an American actress, fashion model and television personality She acts mostly in movies which are direct to video and in certain television programs. She starred as Jennifer Cullen in the television movie "The Most Wonderful Time of the Year" in 2008. Burns was born in Dallas, Texas.

</doc>
<doc id="427461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427461" title="Linacre College, Oxford">
Linacre College, Oxford

Linacre College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1962, and was the third graduate-only college at the University. It was the first graduate college founded at Oxford to admit both male and female students. 

</doc>
<doc id="427463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427463" title="Botanical name">
Botanical name

A botanical name is a formal scientific name which follows the "International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants" (ICN). If it concerns a plant cultigen, the additional cultivar term must follow the "International Code of Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants". 
The code of nomenclature covers "all organisms traditionally treated as plants, whether fossil or non-fossil, e.g. blue-green algae (Cyanobacteria); fungi, including chytrids, oomycetes, and slime moulds; photosynthetic protists and taxonomically related non-photosynthetic groups".
The purpose of a formal name is to have a single name which is accepted and used worldwide for a particular plant or plant group. For example, the botanical name "Bellis perennis" was given to a plant species which is native to most of the countries of Europe and the Middle East, where it has various names in many languages. Later it has been introduced worldwide, bringing it into contact with more languages.
Some English names for this plant species are: daisy, English daisy, lawndaisy. In other languages, some examples are: , , , .
The cultivar "Bellis perennis" 'Aucubifolia' is a golden-variegated horticultural selection of this species. 
Depending on rank, botanical names may be in one part (genus and above), two parts (species and above, but below the rank of genus) or three parts (below the rank of species):
A name in three parts, i.e., an infraspecific name (a name for a taxon below the rank of species), needs a "connecting term" to indicate rank. In the "Calystegia" example above, this is "subsp." (for subspecies). In botany there are many ranks below that of species (in zoology there is only one such rank, subspecies, so that this "connecting term" is unnecessary there). A name of a "subdivision of a genus" also needs a connecting term (in the "Acacia" example above, this is "subg.", subgenus). The connecting term is not part of the name itself. 
For botanical nomenclature, the "ICBN" prescribes a two-part name or binary name for any taxon below the rank of genus down to, and including the rank of species. Taxa below the rank of species get a three part name. 
A binary name consists of the name of a genus and an epithet.

</doc>
<doc id="427464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427464" title="Jean Kent">
Jean Kent

Jean Kent (Joan Mildred Summerfield; 29 June 1921 – 30 November 2013) was a British movie and television actress. She was also known as Jean Carr. She was born in Brixton, London. Kent was known for her role as Mille Harris in "The Browning Version".
Kent died in Bury St. Edmunds, Suffolk on 30 November 2013, aged 92. She died following a fall a few days earlier at her home in Westhorpe, Suffolk.

</doc>
<doc id="427465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427465" title="House of Orléans">
House of Orléans

The House of Orléans was a French noble and royal family. It descends from Louis XIV of France and his only brother Philippe, Duke of Orléans. The families main traditional home was the Palais Royal in Paris. The family later became very powerful during the reign of Louis Philippe I. He ruled France under the title "King of the French". The king successfully married his children into other royal families of Europe.
The present head of the house is Prince Henri of Orléans. He is known as the Count of Paris. He also claims the title King of the French, but is known simply as "His Royal Highness The Count of Paris" and sometimes the "Duke of France". However, the titles are not officially recognised because France is no longer a monarchy. Henri has been a claimant to the throne since 1999. The Count was married to Duchess Marie Thérèse of Württemberg. She is herself a daughter of a one-time claimant to the throne of Württemberg.

</doc>
<doc id="427466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427466" title="Vicente Aleixandre">
Vicente Aleixandre

Vicente Pío Marcelino Cirilo Aleixandre y Merlo' (April 26, 1898 – December 14, 1984) was a Spanish poet. He was born in Seville. Aleixandre was a Nobel Prize laureate for Literature in 1977. He was part of the Generation of '27. He died in Madrid from tuberculosis in 1984.

</doc>
<doc id="427469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427469" title="Airline alliance">
Airline alliance

An airline alliance is when two or more airlines make an agreement to work with each other. The three largest airline alliances are Star Alliance, SkyTeam, and Oneworld. Airline alliances make it easier for passengers to travel around the world, reducing their stops or connections. The biggest alliance is Star Alliance, which has 28 member airlines such as United, Lufthansa, and Air Canada. The second biggest is SkyTeam, which has 19 members including Delta, KLM, and Air France. The third biggest alliance is Oneworld, which has 13 members including American Airlines, British Airways, and Qantas.
Membership and market data for the largest airline alliances (as of March 2013) 

</doc>
<doc id="427470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427470" title="Category:Airline alliances">
Category:Airline alliances


</doc>
<doc id="427472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427472" title="Star Alliance">
Star Alliance

Star Alliance is the world's first and largest airline alliance. Its headquarters are in Frankfurt, Hesse, Germany. It was founded in 1999 by five airlines: Scandinavian Airlines, Thai Airways International, Air Canada, Lufthansa, and United Airlines. Varig Brazilian Airlines was the first airline to join, in 1997. In 2013, the alliance now has 28 member airlines with more than 21,100 daily departures combined. These flights fly to 1,329 airports in more than 150 countries, carrying 678.5 million passengers.
Founding member. 

</doc>
<doc id="427480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427480" title="Grand Prairie, Texas">
Grand Prairie, Texas

Grand Prairie is a city in Dallas County, Tarrant County, Ellis County in the state of Texas. It is a rather big city with a population or 175,336 people in 2010. Grand Prairie is part of a bigger region known as the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex made up of Dallas and Fort Worth and their suburbs or cities outside of them.

</doc>
<doc id="427484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427484" title="Dallas County, Texas">
Dallas County, Texas

Dallas County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas. In 2010, the population was 2,368,139. 
The head of the county and biggest city is Dallas. It is the second most populated county in Texas after Harris County. It is the ninth most populated in the whole United States.

</doc>
<doc id="427489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427489" title="People's Liberation Army">
People's Liberation Army

The People's Liberation Army (or simply PLA) is the armed forces of the People's Republic of China. The army was established (founded) on August 1, 1927. The People's Liberation Army is the largest military force in the world. It has about 2,250,000 personnel or employees (about 0.18% of the population of China).
The PLA consists of five main branches: the PLA Ground Force, PLA Navy (PLAN), PLA Air Force (PLAAF), Second Artillery Corps (strategic missile force), and the PLA Reserve Force. Military service is compulsory (required) of for all men and women who reach the age of 18.

</doc>
<doc id="427492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427492" title="Taiwan Province, People's Republic of China">
Taiwan Province, People's Republic of China

Taiwan Province () is the claimed province by the People's Republic of China (PRC) government to be part of PRC, although officially it is currently under the control of the Republic of China (ROC) government. The recognized capital of the province is Taibei City.
Taiwan Province of the PRC doesn't include Kinmen County and Lienchiang County (as currently under the control of ROC government) because those countries are considered to be part of the Fujian Province of the PRC.

</doc>
<doc id="427497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427497" title="Quake">
Quake

Quake usually means an earthquake, a shaking of the earth's surface.
Quake can also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="427499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427499" title="No Ordinary Love">
No Ordinary Love

"No Ordinary Love" is a 1992 ballad. It is from the album "Love Deluxe" by singer Sade. It was in the 1993 movie "Indecent Proposal". The song hit #26 in Ireland, United Kingdom and Scotland. In June 1993, the song became a hit across the world. Sade won a Grammy Award for this ballad in early 1994. The full ballad is seven minutes and 21 seconds in length. The single edit is five minutes and 22 seconds.

</doc>
<doc id="427501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427501" title="Paul Walker">
Paul Walker

Paul William Walker IV (September 12, 1973 – November 30, 2013) was an American actor and philanthropist. He is best known for portraying "Brian O'Conner" in "The Fast and the Furious" film series. The first movie that he acted in was "Monster in the Closet" where he portrayed ""Professor" Bennett". Before he died, he appeared on the National Geographic Channel series Expedition Great White. 
Walker was born in Glendale, California. His parents were Cheryl (née Crabtree), a fashion model, and Paul William Walker III, a sewer contractor and a fighter who was a two-time Golden Gloves champion, He had English ancestry, with a smaller amount of German, and possible Irish ancestry. His paternal grandfather, a professional boxer, had English immigrant grandparents. One of his grandfathers raced factory cars for Ford in the 1960s. He was the oldest of five siblings. Walker was raised primarily in the Sunland community of Los Angeles and attended high school in the San Fernando Valley, graduating from Sun Valley's Village Christian School in 1991. He was raised as a member of Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. After high school, Walker attended several community colleges in Southern California, majoring in marine biology.
On the afternoon of November 30, 2013, it was reported that Walker was the passenger in a friend's car when the driver lost control and crashed into a tree. The car exploded and burst into flames, killing both Walker and the driver.

</doc>
<doc id="427503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427503" title="Hexakosioihexekontahexaphobia">
Hexakosioihexekontahexaphobia

Hexakosioihexekontahexaphobia is a fear of the number 666. It comes from the Biblical verse Revelation 13:18, which says that the number 666 is the number of the beast, associated with Satan or the Antichrist.
A well-known example of this fear is Nancy and Ronald Reagan, who, in 1989, when moving to their home in Bel-Air, Los Angeles, had its address changed from 666 St. Cloud Road to 668 St. Cloud Road.

</doc>
<doc id="427504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427504" title="Category:Subdivisions of Taiwan">
Category:Subdivisions of Taiwan


</doc>
<doc id="427507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427507" title="Category:Aviation infrastructure">
Category:Aviation infrastructure


</doc>
<doc id="427508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427508" title="Category:Aviation safety">
Category:Aviation safety


</doc>
<doc id="427509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427509" title="Category:Air traffic control">
Category:Air traffic control


</doc>
<doc id="427511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427511" title="British hip hop">
British hip hop

British hip hop (also British rap) is a genre of music. The style happens across Ireland, Northern Ireland, Scotland, Wales and England. British rap music was officially observed from the 1980s-afterward, though it might have begun far earlier. Among UK rap artists who moved to the United States at young ages are Slick Rick and Young MC (aka Marvin Young).

</doc>
<doc id="427512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427512" title="Category:Aviation authorities">
Category:Aviation authorities


</doc>
<doc id="427514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427514" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Category:Black British footballers">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Category:Black British footballers


</doc>
<doc id="427516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427516" title="Help:Shortened footnotes">
Help:Shortened footnotes

Shortened footnotes are a mix of and (Harvard). They use in-text that link to a shortened reference in a list and a separate full reference list. The shortened reference may link to the full reference.
Shortened footnotes are used for more reasons: they let the editor to cite many different pages of the same source without having to copy the entire citation; they avoid the inevitable clutter when citations are inserted into the source text.
In this short example, note that an in-text cite such as links to the shortened citation in the Notes list, which in turn links to the long citation in the References list:
The brontosaurus is thin at one end. Then it becomes much thicker in the middle.
The Norwegian Blue Parrot will not move if its feet are nailed to the perch. Its metabolic processes are a matter of interest only to historians.
The browser back button or the backspace key can be used to navigate back.
This example uses . There is also .

</doc>
<doc id="427517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427517" title="American Colony, Jerusalem">
American Colony, Jerusalem

The American Colony in Jerusalem was a colony in Jerusalem. It was established by an American and Swedish Christian utopian group in 1881. During the British Mandate of Palestine, the colony was occupied by Jordan until the Six-Day War in 1967. 
The cemetery of the colony is located in the National Garden of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in Mount Scopus.

</doc>
<doc id="427518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427518" title="Russian Compound">
Russian Compound

The Russian Compound in Jerusalem is an old district in central Jerusalem. It began as a Russian colony in the 19th century. It is centred around a large Russian Orthodox church. The main square in the Russian Compound is Moscow Square.

</doc>
<doc id="427519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427519" title="Maumee, Ohio">
Maumee, Ohio

Maumee is a city in northwest Ohio. It is close to Toledo. At the 2010 census, almost 14,300 people lived there. The name of the city is pronounced "mommy". The name was derived from an Native American tribe. It was established in the 19th century.

</doc>
<doc id="427522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427522" title="Brendan O'Neill (journalist)">
Brendan O'Neill (journalist)

Brendan O'Neill is the editor of "Spiked Online", an internet magazine about politics. He also writes for "The Big Issue", "The Australian", and "The Daily Telegraph".

</doc>
<doc id="427523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427523" title="Speciesism">
Speciesism

Speciesism is thinking that humans are better than animals (although humans are technically also animals). It is also treating animals worse than humans. For example, humans often kill animals to eat. Humans rarely kill and eat other humans. The word 'speciesism' was first used in 1970 by Richard D. Ryder, an English philosopher, in a pamphlet called "Speciesism". It was made popular by Peter Singer's 1975 book "Animal Liberation". In the book the name of the fifth chapter was "Man's Dominion ... a short history of speciesism". The word 'speciesism' was first put in the "Oxford English Dictionary" in 1985.
In 2013 a documentary movie about speciesism called "" was released. It was made by Mark Devries. In it he compares factory farming to slavery and the Holocaust.

</doc>
<doc id="427526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427526" title="German Colony, Jerusalem">
German Colony, Jerusalem

The German Colony in Jerusalem is a neighbourhood in Jerusalem. It began as a colony established by German Templars in 1873. The colony was built in the Valley of Rephaim on the way to Bethlehem, next to the Greek Colony. The main street of the neighbourhood today is Emek Refaim Street. The Rephaim River passes through the valley. It is also known as "White Valley".

</doc>
<doc id="427528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427528" title="Greek Colony, Jerusalem">
Greek Colony, Jerusalem

The Greek Colony is a neighbourhood in Jerusalem. It started as a colony of Greeks in 1900. The Greek Colony is next to the German Colony at the end of Emek Refaim Street.

</doc>
<doc id="427531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427531" title="Richard D. Ryder">
Richard D. Ryder

Richard Hood Jack Dudley Ryder (born 1940) is a British writer and psychologist. In 1969 he became involved with animal rights; he protested against an otter hunt in Dorset. In 1970 he made a new word, "speciesism". He used it in a pamphlet called "Speciesism". It is now in the Oxford Dictionary. Ryder made a theory called painism in 1990. In 2001 a book that Ryder wrote about his theory of painism was published. It was called "Painism: A Modern Morality". Painism is the idea that any being that feels pain deserves rights.
Ryder was born in Purbeck in Dorset. He grew up in Corfe Castle. 
In 1971 an essay that Ryder wrote about animal testing was published in the book "Animals, Men and Morals".
In 1972 he joined the Council of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (RSPCA). Ryder helped to organize the first academic conference about animal rights. The conference was in August 1977 at Trinity College, Cambridge. In 1977 he became the chairman of the RSPCA. He stopped being the chairman in 1979.
His first book, "Victims of Science", was first published in 1975. It is about how animals were used in scientific research at the time it was written.

</doc>
<doc id="427534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427534" title="Clare Balding">
Clare Balding

Clare Balding OBE (born 29 January 1971) is a British television presenter. She was born in Kingsclere, Hampshire. She is openly lesbian. In 2009, she was diagnosed with thyroid cancer. She recovered later that year. In 2012, a book she wrote about her life was published. It was called "My Animals and Other Family". In February 2013 Woman's Hour, a programme on BBC Radio 4, put her on their list of the most powerful women in the UK. Balding presents "Britain's Brightest".

</doc>
<doc id="427541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427541" title="De Colores">
De Colores

De Colores is a common folk song in the Spanish-speaking world. Today, it is the anthem of the United Farm Workers movement.
No one knows for sure when the song first began to be sung in the Americas. The melody is thought to have been used in North and South America since the 16th century, having been brought over from Spain in the colonial era. However, the version of the lyrics sung today is thought to have been created by a group of Cursillo participants in Majorca, Spain, after one of the earliest Cursillo retreats in the 1940s.
Today, in addition to being used as the unofficial anthem of the United Farm Workers movement, and as an inspirational song in Cursillo workshops, the song is often taught in schools in the United States—from elementary school to community colleges—as an example of a common American folk song. It often appears in collections of children's songs.
"De colores" is usually sung in Spanish, but there are different English translations of the song. The song has also been translated into other languages. The lyrics depict an expression of joy and a celebration of all creation with its many bright colors. Below are four of the most commonly heard verses. Many additional verses (and variations of these verses) are known to exist, some including Christian references and some including more specific to farm life or labor union issues to be used as a rallying-song for farm-laborers. 
Spanish Version:
<poem>"     De colores, de colores
Se visten los campos en la primavera.
Son los pajaritos que vienen de afuera.
Es el arco iris que vemos lucir.
De muchos colores me gustan a mí.
De muchos colores me gustan a mí.
Brillantes y finos se viste la aurora.
Son los mil reflejos que el sol atesora.
Se viste el diamante que vemos lucir.
De muchos colores me gustan a mí.
De muchos colores me gustan a mí.
Con el quiri, quiri, quiri, quiri, quiri.
Con el cara, cara, cara, cara, cara.
Con el pío, pío, pío, pío, pí.
De muchos colores me gustan a mí.
De muchos colores me gustan a mí.
Vivamos en gracia puesto que se puede.
La sed ardorosa del Rey que no muere.
Llevemos a Cristo un alma y mil más.
La gracia divina del gran ideal.
La gracia divina del gran ideal.
Sí, de blanco y negro y rojo y azul y castaño.
De gente que ríe, y estrecha la mano.
De gente que sabe de la libertad.
De muchos colores me gustan a mí.
De muchos colores me gustan a mí."</poem>
English Version 
<poem>"     In colors, in colors
The fields are dressed in the spring.
Are the little birds that come from outside.
Is the rainbow that we see shining.
The great loves of many colors
The great loves of many colors.
Brilliant and delicate is dressed the dawn.
Are the thousand gleams the sun treasures.
Is dressed the diamond we see shining. 
The great loves of many colors.
The great loves of many colors.
The rooster sings, the rooster sings
With a cock-a-doodle, cock-a-doodle-doo.
With a cluck, cluck, cluck, cluck, cluck.
With a cheep, cheep, cheep, cheep, cheep.
The great loves of many colors.
The great loves of many colors.
Let us live in grace since we can.
The burning thirst of the King who does not die.
Let us bring to Christ a soul and thousand more.
The divine grace from the great ideal.
The divine grace from the great ideal.
Yes, black and white and red and blue and brown.
From people laughing, and shaking hands.
From people who know freedom.
The great loves of many colors
The great loves of many colors."</poem>

</doc>
<doc id="427544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427544" title="Shirley Manson">
Shirley Manson

Shirley Ann Manson (born 26 August 1966) is a Scottish singer, songwriter, musician and actress. She was born in Edinburgh. She is best known for being the main singer of the rock band Garbage. They have released five albums. 
Between 1992 and 1994 Manson was a member of a rock band called Angelfish. In 1994 Manson joined Garbage. They released their first album, "Garbage", the next year. The first single released from the album was "Vow". The single "Stupid Girl" reached number four in the UK. It was their best selling single in the United States. In 1998 Garbage's second album "Version 2.0" was released. It was number one in the United Kingdom, France, Belgium, and New Zealand. Six singles were released from the album. "Beautifulgarbage" was released in 2001. In 2005 "Bleed Like Me" was released. "Not Your Kind of People", Garbage's fifth album, was released in 2013.
In 2013 Manson made a cover of "Because the Night" with Screaming Females.
Manson acted in eighteen episodes of "".
She is a feminist. 
Her first relationship was with her music teacher when she was fifteen years old. She married Billy Bush in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="427548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427548" title="Subantarctic">
Subantarctic

The Subantarctic is a region in the southern hemisphere that is just north of the Antarctic region. This covers the part of the world roughly to a latitude of between 46° – 60° south of the Equator. The subantarctic region includes many islands in the southern parts of the Indian Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, and Pacific Ocean.

</doc>
<doc id="427549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427549" title="Nils Petter Molvær">
Nils Petter Molvær

Nils Petter Molvær (born September 18, 1960) is a Norwegian jazz trumpeter. He plays a kind of jazz called future jazz. He has won Spellemannprisen in the Open Class three times. In 1983 he joined Jazzpunkensemblet, a Norwegian jazz orchestra. He released his first solo album "Khmer" in 1998 in the United States on ECM Records. It has sold more copies than any of his later albums. Molvær played trumpet on the 2008 Hector Zazou album "Corps Electriques". Molvær was a member of a post-rock band called Jaga Jazzist.

</doc>
<doc id="427550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427550" title="Prince Edward Islands">
Prince Edward Islands

The Prince Edward Islands are two islands in the subantarctic Indian Ocean. They are part of South Africa. The two islands are called Marion Island and Prince Edward Island. The only people on the islands are meteorologists and biologists.
The islands were discovered in 1663 by a Dutch explorer. Different people visited the islands over the years but no one settled there. The British claimed the islands in 1908, then gave the islands to South Africa in 1948.

</doc>
<doc id="427551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427551" title="River Tyne">
River Tyne

The River Tyne is a river in North East England. It is used for water sport in the summer. More than 43,500 people come and visit it every year. There is a famous bridge that crosses it called the "Tyne Bridge". Another bridge that crosses it is the Millennium Bridge. The bridges connect Gateshead to Newcastle upon Tyne.

</doc>
<doc id="427556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427556" title="Frobisher Bay">
Frobisher Bay

Frobisher Bay is an inlet of the Labrador Sea in Nunavut, Canada. It is in the southeastern corner of Baffin Island. The capital of Nunavut, Iqaluit, is near the bay. Frobisher Bay is 230 kilometers (140 miles) long and is 40 kilometers (25 miles) wide at its widest point. There are many small islands in the bay.
The bay was discovered in 1576 by Martin Frobisher, an English navigator who was looking for the Northwest Passage.

</doc>
<doc id="427558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427558" title="Vitamin String Quartet">
Vitamin String Quartet

The Vitamin String Quartet is a music group from Los Angeles. The group is known widely for tribute and cover records of rock, pop or R&B acts. The group started in 1999. They have covered songs of Lady Gaga, Natasha Bedingfield, Adele and many others. Other musicians covered by the Vitamin String Quartet include Bruce Springsteen and Madonna. The 

</doc>
<doc id="427562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427562" title="Midnight Memories">
Midnight Memories

Midnight Memories is the third album by the British-Irish boy band One Direction. The album was made released or made public on 25 November 2013. It is their the third album after "Up All Night" and "Take Me Home".

</doc>
<doc id="427569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427569" title="Peter Dinklage">
Peter Dinklage

Peter Hayden Dinklage (born June 11, 1969) is an American actor. He is known for his roles in "Elf" (2003), "Find Me Guilty" (2006), "Underdog" (2007), "Death at a Funeral" (2010), and in "" (2012). He has won a Golden Globe Award and an Emmy Award for his role as Tyrion Lannister in "Game of Thrones".
Dinklage was born in Morristown, New Jersey. He was born with achondroplasia, a form of dwarfism. He studied at Bennington College. In 2005, he married Erica Schmidt. They have one daughter. He is a Catholic. He is a vegetarian and a supporter of animal rights.

</doc>
<doc id="427573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427573" title="Elf (movie)">
Elf (movie)

Elf is an American 2003 Christmas comedy movie, directed by Jon Favreau. It stars Will Ferrell, James Caan, Bob Newhart, Zooey Deschanel, Peter Dinklage, Mary Steenburgen, Jon Favreau, Andy Richter, Ray Harryhausen, Leon Redbone, and Ed Asner. Will Ferrell plays a human named Buddy who is raised by elves in the North Pole. He lives the way the elves do and helps in Santa's workshop. He travels to New York City to find his father. He is used to how elves live, which is very different from how humans live, with New York being a perfectly opposite way of living compared to the North Pole.
The movie was released to very positive reviews on November 7, 2003 by Warner Bros. The film inspired the 2010 Broadway musical ' and NBC's 2014 stop-motion animated television special '.

</doc>
<doc id="427580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427580" title="Bellis perennis">
Bellis perennis

Bellis perennis is a very common European species of daisy, of the Asteraceae family, often considered the model type for the name "daisy".
Many related plants also share the name "daisy", so to distinguish this species from other daisies it is sometimes qualified as common daisy, lawn daisy or English daisy. The plant resembles Leucanthemum vulgare,a similar plant in the same family. "Bellis perennis" is native to western, central and northern Europe, but widely naturalised in most temperate regions including the Americas and Australasia.
Linnaeus named the plant species "Bellis perennis" in Sp. Pl. 2: 886. 1753
For common names, see the article in Wikispecies on "".
The following names are synonyms given by the Plant List:
It is an low herbaceous perennial plant with short rhizomes and of small rounded or spoon-shaped leaves that are long and grow flat to the ground.
The flower heads are in diameter. Although the 'flower' may appear to consist of a yellow centre with white petals, this is not the case. Each individual "petal" is itself an individual flower; these flowers are called ray flowers. In the centre (the "disk") there are also many tiny yellow flowers; these are called the disk flowers. The different colours and styles of flower work together in order to attract insects. The flower heads are produced on stems without leaves that are tall.
The chromosome number is 2n = 18.
"Bellis perennis" is native to Northern Africa (Morocco), Southwestern Asia, and Europe; widely introduced and naturalised elsewhere.
The species habitually colonises grasslands, including lawns, and is difficult to eradicate. Wherever it appears it is often considered an invasive weed.
This daisy may be used as a leaf vegetable. Young leaves can be eaten raw in salads or cooked, noting that the leaves become increasingly astringent with age. Flower buds and petals can be eaten raw in sandwiches, soups and salads. It is also used as a tea and as a vitamin supplement.

</doc>
<doc id="427582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427582" title="Wu Chinese">
Wu Chinese

Wu is a group of Chinese dialects spoken in the area around Shanghai in southern China. Wu dialects have been spoken by some important people such as Chiang Kai-shek. However, Wu speakers are similar to speakers of Spanish and French because they can not always understand each other. In fact, the name Wu is mainly used by people who study languages.
Like other types of Chinese, the Wu dialects are starting to be replaced by Mandarin as time goes on.

</doc>
<doc id="427585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427585" title="Military aircraft">
Military aircraft

A Military aircraft is an aeroplane made for military purposes. There are two basic types:

</doc>
<doc id="427589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427589" title="Category:One Direction">
Category:One Direction


</doc>
<doc id="427591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427591" title="Astraphobia">
Astraphobia

Astraphobia, also called astrapophobia, brontophobia, keraunophobia, or tonitrophobia, is a fear of thunder and lightning. It is a type of specific phobia. Both humans and animals can have this type of phobia.
A person with astraphobia often feels fear during a thunderstorm even if there is a low chance that they will be hurt during the storm. They will sometimes look for better shelter during the storm. They might hide under a bed, under blankets, in a closet, in a basement, or anywhere else where they feel safe. A sign that a person has astraphobia is if they are very interested in weather forecasts. A person with astraphobia will want to hear news of storms that are coming by watching the weather on television or watching the storms on the internet.

</doc>
<doc id="427595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427595" title="Up All Night">
Up All Night

Up All Night is the debut or first album from the British-Irish boy band One Direction. It was made available to fans and the public on 18 November 2011. 

</doc>
<doc id="427597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427597" title="Zenobia">
Zenobia

Zenobia (240 – c. 275 ) was a queen who ruled in the 3rd century over the Palmyrene Empire in what is today Syria. She led a famous revolt against the Roman Empire. She was the second wife of King Septimius Odaenathus. Zenobia became queen of the Palmyrene Empire after Odaenathus' death in 267. By 269, Zenobia had expanded the empire, taking over Egypt from the Romans. Tenagino Probus, a Roman soldier, had his head cut off after he led an attempt to recapture the territory. She ruled over Egypt until 274, when she was defeated and taken as a hostage to Rome by Emperor Aurelian.
Zenobia was Semitic. Many people think she was either Arab, Jewish or Aramean. She gave her son an Arabic name but her family spoke the Aramaic language, the language of the Arameans. She is known by other names, such as ' () in Arabic sources, "Zenobius" in Latin sources and ' () in Aramaic sources.

</doc>
<doc id="427601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427601" title="Whitehouse.gov">
Whitehouse.gov

Whitehouse.gov is the official website of the White House. It is owned by the United States government. It was started in October 1994. It has information about events in American history, as well as current news about the President, news conferences, announcements made by the President, executive orders, and speeches that the President has made on radio.
The website is the responsibility of the current administration. It is changed for each new president. The content of the website is in the public domain. It is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution license.

</doc>
<doc id="427604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427604" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Israeli">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Israeli


</doc>
<doc id="427612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427612" title="Carlos Ghosn">
Carlos Ghosn

Carlos Ghosn is a French-Lebanese businessman. He is currently the Chairman and chief executive officer of Renault, which is based in Paris. He holds the same positions at Nissan, based in Japan. Together, these companies produce more than 10% of cars sold around the world. Ghosn is also Chairman and CEO of the Renault-Nissan Alliance, the strategic partnership overseeing the two companies through a unique cross-shareholding agreement.
He was born in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="427613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427613" title="Manal al-Sharif">
Manal al-Sharif

Manal al-Sharif is a Saudi Arabian activist for women's rights in the kingdom. She helped start a women's right to drive campaign in 2011. A women's rights activist who had previously filmed herself driving, Wajeha al-Huwaider, filmed al-Sharif driving a car as part of the campaign. The video was posted on YouTube and Facebook.
Women are not allowed to drive in Saudi Arabia. Al-Sharif was arrested and released on 21 May and then rearrested the next day. On 30 May, al-Sharif was released on bail, on the conditions of returning for questioning if asked, not driving and not talking to the media. "The New York Times" and Associated Press reported the women's driving campaign as part of the Arab Spring. They reported the length of al-Sharif's detention with the Saudi government's fear of protests.
Following her driving campaign, al-Sharif remained an active critic of the Saudi government. She posted things on Twitter (known as tweeting) about imprisoned female foreign workers, the lack of elections for the Shura Council, and the murder of Lama al-Ghamdi. Her work has been praised by "Foreign Policy", "Time", and the Oslo Freedom Forum.

</doc>
<doc id="427615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427615" title="Category:Articles lacking sources from December 2013">
Category:Articles lacking sources from December 2013


</doc>
<doc id="427616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427616" title="Category:Clean up categories from December 2013">
Category:Clean up categories from December 2013


</doc>
<doc id="427618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427618" title="Category:Articles needing additional references from December 2013">
Category:Articles needing additional references from December 2013


</doc>
<doc id="427619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427619" title="Category:Articles that need to be wikified from December 2013">
Category:Articles that need to be wikified from December 2013


</doc>
<doc id="427620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427620" title="Category:Articles with unsourced statements from December 2013">
Category:Articles with unsourced statements from December 2013


</doc>
<doc id="427624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427624" title="Category:Pages in need of copyedit from December 2013">
Category:Pages in need of copyedit from December 2013


</doc>
<doc id="427625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427625" title="Category:Pages needing to be simplified from December 2013">
Category:Pages needing to be simplified from December 2013


</doc>
<doc id="427626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427626" title="Category:Neighbourhoods of Jerusalem">
Category:Neighbourhoods of Jerusalem


</doc>
<doc id="427645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427645" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Template:Percent-done">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Template:Percent-done


</doc>
<doc id="427649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427649" title="Kate Bornstein">
Kate Bornstein

Katherine Vandam "Kate" Bornstein (born March 15, 1948) is an American writer. She lives in New York City with her partner Barbara Carrellas. In 2012 she made a video for Dan Savage's It Gets Better Project. In August 2012 she was diagnosed with lung cancer.
Bornstein was born in New Jersey to a Jewish family.
In 1970 Bornstein joined the Church of Scientology. She left in 1981.
Bornstein does not feel male or female. She was born male. In 1986 she had sex reassignment surgery. She has written books about gender. The most well-known one is "Gender Outlaw".
In 2013 a documentary about Bornstein called "Kate Bornstein is a Queer & Pleasant Danger" was made.

</doc>
<doc id="427671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427671" title="Disconnecting switch">
Disconnecting switch

A disconnecting switch (or disconnector) is an electrical switch used in high-voltage electrical circuits to isolate the section which has electricity from the section with no electricity. This is done for a full safety method during electrical equipment maintenance or service.

</doc>
<doc id="427672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427672" title="House of Farnese">
House of Farnese

The House of Farnese was a noble family from Italy. They owned fine art collections within their many palaces throughout Rome. Two of their members became Popes. The famous Elisabetta Farnese was a member of the family and she had great political influence over her husband, Philip V of Spain. The family were also the rulers of the small Italian Duchy of Parma. The family's art collection was only rivalled by that of the Medici.

</doc>
<doc id="427673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427673" title="Electrostatic precipitator">
Electrostatic precipitator

An electrostatic precipitator (ESP) is a device to capture particles from a flowing gas. It uses the force produced by electrostatic charge. ESPs are used in many power plants which burn fuel to produce energy, such as in power stations. Any gas produced by fuel burning will pollute the air much less after being passed through an ESP.

</doc>
<doc id="427680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427680" title="Voltage spike">
Voltage spike

A voltage spike is a sudden increase in voltage value over a short time in power systems. It can be caused by several factors, but mostly it is due to external or internal disturbance. A voltage spike might cause an increase in current, but the increase in voltage might have been caused by the current increase as well.

</doc>
<doc id="427682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427682" title="Transmission tower">
Transmission tower

Transmission tower or pylon is a tall tower used to carry the high-voltage cable used in electric power transmission. The tower is high for a safe distance for people, animals or things below the high-voltage cable.
Most big towers are built as suspension towers. They only hold up the cables, not pull them. Tension towers pull on the cables. They work as terminal towers at the end of a transmission line, or on sharp turns, or as transposition towers. Most big towers are lattice structures. Smaller ones may be wood, concrete or steel poles. 

</doc>
<doc id="427683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427683" title="Donald Watson">
Donald Watson

Donald Watson (2 September 1910 – 16 November 2005) was an English woodwork teacher who made the word 'vegan'. He started the Vegan Society in 1944. 
In 1924, Watson saw a pig being killed on his uncle's farm. After this he became a vegetarian. He was fourteen years old. When Watson was fifteen he left school to be an apprentice woodworker. Watson was born in Mexborough, Yorkshire.

</doc>
<doc id="427684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427684" title="Overburden">
Overburden

Overburden is the material that sits on top of an area where miners or archaeologists want to dig. In mining, it is usually the soil or rock that sits on top of a coal or ore deposit. The soil needs to be removed to get to the minerals or objects below.

</doc>
<doc id="427686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427686" title="Coal preparation plant">
Coal preparation plant

A coal preparation plant (or coal handling plant) is a place where coal is prepared for use after it has been mined. The coal is washed and resized here, before it is transported to be sold, loaded on coal transport or used locally. It is then transported to coal-fired power plants, for example.

</doc>
<doc id="427687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427687" title="Boiler feedwater pump">
Boiler feedwater pump

A boiler feedwater pump is a pump that supplies water to a boiler. The water can be supplied freshly from a water source (such as a reservoir) or from water that has gone through the condensation process from the previous water cycle. The pump is a high-pressure pump, and it can be found in any plant that uses boiler, such as thermal power stations.

</doc>
<doc id="427688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427688" title="Three-phase electric power">
Three-phase electric power

Three-phase electric power is a method to generate, transmit and distribute AC electricity. It is the most common method in power systems to transfer power from generation to load. Three-phase systems are usually more economical to be used than equivalent single-phase or double-phase systems.

</doc>
<doc id="427689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427689" title="Power factor">
Power factor

In electrical engineering, the power factor (PF or cosφ) is the ratio between the power than can be used in electric circuit (real power, P) and the power from the result of multiplication between the current and voltage circuit (apparent power, S). The power factor is defined as:
PF ranges from zero to one. The higher the PF, the more efficient the circuit is because more power can be used, and vice versa. Factors that can cause PF to be less than one is non-linear load, which are capacitive load and inductive load.

</doc>
<doc id="427692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427692" title="Laverne Cox">
Laverne Cox

Laverne Cox is an American actress. She is best known for playing Sophia Burset in Orange Is the New Black, a Netflix series. Burset is a transgender woman in a women's prison.
She was born in Mobile, Alabama. She is a transgender woman. She has a twin brother, M Lamar.
Cox is making a documentary about CeCe McDonald, an African American transgender woman who was put in prison for killing a man who attacked her. On January 13 2014 Cox met CeCe to drive her home after she was released from prison. Cox spoke at the start of the 2014 National Gay and Lesbian Task Force conference Creating Change. Cox was chosen as one of the 2014 grand marshalls for the New York City Pride March.
Cox came fifth in the TIME 100 reader poll in 2014. After this happened Cox was put on the cover of "Time" magazine. She was the first transgender person to be on the cover.
Cox was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Comedy Series for her role as Sophie in Orange is the New Black.
Cox is a feminist.

</doc>
<doc id="427693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427693" title="Transit bus">
Transit bus

Transit buses (also city buses, town buses or public buses) are public transport vehicles that are used for short and moderate distances for transporting people within that metro region or city. Public transit buses often use large or multiple exit and entry doors for conveniences of boarding and exiting, minimal to moderate (sometimes no) luggage spaces, multimedia machines and air conditioner/heating for passengers and drivers. Pull chains or cords are also used on public buses. Fares are usually paid with cash, tickets or certain credit/debit cards. Many people prefer using public buses instead of driving their own automobile for many reasons (unable to drive or not wanting to drive).

</doc>
<doc id="427695" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427695" title="Category:1980s crime drama movies">
Category:1980s crime drama movies


</doc>
<doc id="427696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427696" title="Terry Funk">
Terry Funk

Terrence "Terry" Funk (born June 30, 1944) is an American semi-retired professional wrestler and former actor.
He is best known for working with National Wrestling Alliance (NWA), American Wrestling Association (AWA), World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment (WWF/E), World Championship Wrestling (WCW), Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW), Ring of Honor (ROH) and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). He is the first and only person to have been inducted into the WWE, WCW, Professional Wrestling, NWA, Hardcore, Wrestling Observer, and St. Louis Wrestling Halls of Fame.
He has had numerous "retirement matches" and was one of the primary subjects in the documentary movie "Beyond the Mat".

</doc>
<doc id="427700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427700" title="Leonid Gaidai">
Leonid Gaidai

Leonid Gaidai (30 January 1923 – 19 November 1993), was a Soviet comedy movie director. He was born in Svobodny, Amur Oblast.

</doc>
<doc id="427709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427709" title="Maria Bello">
Maria Bello

Maria Elena Bello (born April 18, 1967) is an American actress and singer. She has acted in the movies "Permanent Midnight" (1998), "Payback" (1999), "Coyote Ugly" (2000), "The Cooler" (2003), "A History of Violence" (2005), "Thank You for Smoking" (2006), and "The Jane Austen Book Club" (2007). In television, she acted in the medical drama "ER" from 1997 to 1998. She also acted in "Touch" in 2013.
She was born in Pennsylvania. In November 2013, Bello wrote about having a same-sex relationship with her partner Clare Munn.

</doc>
<doc id="427724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427724" title="Paiçandu">
Paiçandu

Paiçandu is a city in the state of Paraná in the south of Brazil. Paiçandu was founded in 1948.
During 1938 and 1940 the area of ​​land where is the the County Paiçandu was inhabited by Native Americans and caboclos. There was a small cemetery that was the point of reference in the dense virgin forest, where were buried those who died at that time.
In the period 1942–1944, the first explorers of Minas Gerais and São Paulo were attracted by the fertility of the land. It was suitable for growing coffee. At the time the land was cleared, coffee was the largest source of wealth in the region. Facing all sorts of difficulties, farmers built their small farms and formed their crops.
The prospects for progress attract residents from different parts of the country. Trade prospered dramatically with the installation of warehouses and general merchandise. The good quality land started the first agricultural productions, especially the coffee culture.
Its name is a honor to the Brazilian Army. In the Uruguayan War, the army conquered the Uruguayan city of Paysandú.

</doc>
<doc id="427728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427728" title="Susan Stryker">
Susan Stryker

Susan O'Neal Stryker is an American professor and activist. She is a lesbian transgender woman. Her first book, "Gay by the Bay: A History of Queer Culture in the San Francisco Bay Area", was published in 1996 by Chronicle Books. Stryker wrote the book with Jim Van Buskirk. It was nominated for a Lambda Literary Award.
She edited the 2003 essay collection "The Transgender Studies Reader". In 2005 "Screaming Queens: The Riot at Compton's Cafeteria" was released. Stryker got an Emmy Award for it. In 2008 Seal Press published Stryker's book "Transgender History". She wrote the 2013 documentary "Masculinity/Femininity". The Association for Queer Anthropology gave Stryker the 2013 Ruth Benedict Prize.

</doc>
<doc id="427735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427735" title="Gossip (band)">
Gossip (band)

Gossip is an American indie rock band. They started in 1999 in Olympia, Washington as The Gossip. The main singer is Beth Ditto. Brace Paine is the guitarist and Hannah Blilie is the drummer. The band became popular with their third album "Standing in the Way of Control" (2006). Three singles were released from the album. The first single, "Standing in the Way of Control", reached number seven in the UK Singles Chart. Gossip's fourth album "Music for Men" was released in 2009 by Columbia Records. Their 2009 single "Heavy Cross" reached number two in Germany's chart.

</doc>
<doc id="427737" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427737" title="House of Gonzaga">
House of Gonzaga

The House of Gonzaga were a noble family that ruled Mantua in Northern Italy from 1328 to 1708. They also ruled Monferrato in Piedmont, Nevers in France, and also many other lesser fiefs in Italy and Europe. Among their members was a saint, twelve cardinals and fourteen bishops of the Catholic Church.

</doc>
<doc id="427738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427738" title="Category:House of Gonzaga">
Category:House of Gonzaga


</doc>
<doc id="427754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427754" title="Longship">
Longship

Longships were vessels made and used for trade, exploring, and raiding. They are usually thought of as Viking ships but were used by early people on the Baltic Sea and the North Sea. It was the Vikings who mastered the design of light fast longships that could also go up rivers. At the beginning of the Anglo-Saxon period in Britain, the invading groups of Angles, Saxons, Frisians and Jutes arrived in longships. From that time on longships were also being built and used in the British Isles. When the Normans conquered England in 1066, William the Conqueror used a large fleet of longships to transport his army to England.
The earliest discovered longship built from traces back to BC. The ship was recovered from the Hjortspring bog in southern Denmark. Called the Hjortspring boat it was made of planks of wood sewn together with cord. The spaces between planks were filled with resin. The ship was about 59 feet (18 meters) long and was a very light and flexible design. It had a double bow and stern that looked like a bird's beak. The ship had places for 20 men to row and had a steering oar at both ends. A replica of this design was built and tested. It was very , fast and . In calm waters it averaged 6 knots (about 7 miles per hour) in speed. 
The next design was of construction (also called ). In this design overlapping boards are held together with nails. Named the Nydam ship for being found in the Nydam bog in 1863 in south Jutland. It measured 77 feet (23.5 meters) long, a little over 11 feet (3.5 meters) wide and was about 4 feet (1.2 meters) deep. This ship was sunk (and filled with weapons) between 350–400 AD. Unlike the Hjortspring boat, the planks are held together with nails (the tips being bent over). It did not have a mast, as later designs would, it had places for 30 men to row. It also did not have a . This kind of shallow open ship could cross open sea but could be swamped (filled with water) and sink. This was a classic Northern design that in different forms could range as far as Constantinople or Newfoundland.
The Viking designed longship could cross an ocean or could row up a shallow river. Over time the design changed. There were many different types of longships built for different purposes. The smallest ships were the "Faering" (four oars) and "Sexaeringer" (six oars) used around the fjords to move people and for fishing. 
Longships of from 12 to 32 oars were called "Karvi". The Gokstad Ship is a famous ship of the Karvi type. The Gokstad ship was excavated in 1880. Its mast was cut off but otherwise the ship was well preserved. It was 76 feet (23 meters) long and 17½ (5.3 meters) wide. The Gokstad ship had a keel and was made of oak. Its rudder was about 11 feet (3.3 meters) long; big enough to steer the ship in any weather. The mast stood about 40 feet (12 meters) tall.
A replica of the Gokstad ship sailed across the Atlantic ocean in 1893.
A specialized type of ship with at least 20 rowing benches was called a "snekkja", meaning 'thin and projecting.' It was a warship known to be used by both Swedish Vikings and Wends. It could carry 44 men and 2 horses. Snekkjas were one of the most common types of warship. Duke Ratibor of the Wends had 660 of this type of ship he used when he attacked Kongälf in 1135.
Skeid (skeið), meaning 'that which cuts through water,' ships were larger warships. Skeids usually had more than 30 rowing benches. These were the largest longships ever discovered. They had armour over the oar ports (openings for the oars) protecting the men rowing. King Aethelred of England ordered this type of ship to be made throughout England. Every district of 310 hides was to provide one such ship.
The largest warships of the era were of the Drakaar (dragon) type. King Olaf I of Norway had a famous longship of this design called "Long Serpent". King Olaf II of Norway had a longship named "Visunden" (the Ox). It had an Ox head carved in the . Matilda of Flanders had a ship built for her husband William the Conqueror of the Drakkar design. It was named the "Mora" and was built at Barfleur in Normandy in the summer of 1066. This type could operate in shallow water and was easy to beach.
Many of this type of ship were called "Knarrs". From the 9th century larger sailing ships were used for overseas trading. Many were specialized cargo ships. They were marked by having a small crew, few oars, and depended on sails for power. They had a large load capacity for a variety of cargo. An example would be the Klåstad ship. It was built in the last years of the 10th century. The ship was wrecked near Kaupang in Norway. It had a capacity of about 13 tons and a length of 69 feet (21 meters).
Another form of cargo ship was the horse transports used by William the Conqueror in 1066. In the "ship list" it gives a total of 776 vessels in the Conqueror's fleet. Many were for the knights and soldiers but others were used to haul the supplies and horses they needed. Earlier Vikings did not use horse transports and usually used the horses they found in the places they invaded. The Normans, however, used cavalry and needed to transport their war horses and palfreys. But the Normans in Sicily had used horse transports (1060–61) before possibly based on Byzantine ships of a similar design. The Byzantines had ships called "hippagogoi" designed to land horses which could go right into battle. Guy of Amiens observed that William's invasion force included men from Apulia, Calabria, and Sicily. William had familiar with building horse transports at his disposal. How many he built is unknown, but he did have such ships in his fleet.

</doc>
<doc id="427756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427756" title="Sabu (wrestler)">
Sabu (wrestler)

Terry Michael Brunk (born December 12, 1964) is an American professional wrestler.
He is best known for working with Extreme Championship Wrestling, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, and World Wrestling Entertainment's ECW brand under the ring name Sabu. He is known for competing in hardcore-type matches. He was trained by his uncle, Ed Farhat who was known by his ring name, The Sheik.

</doc>
<doc id="427762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427762" title="Hill House School">
Hill House School

Hill House School is a preparatory school in Knightsbridge, London, England. It was started in 1951 by Lt. Col. Stuart Townend. It is for boys and girls aged 4 to 11. The school only allowed male students until 1981.

</doc>
<doc id="427765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427765" title="Competitive advantage">
Competitive advantage

Competitive advantage is a term economists use. If a company can make something at a lower cost because of a resource it created, it has a competitive advantage.

</doc>
<doc id="427766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427766" title="Comparative advantage">
Comparative advantage

Comparative advantage is a term economists use. A country has a comparative advantage when it can make goods or services at a lower opportunity cost than another country.

</doc>
<doc id="427770" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427770" title="Hikikomori">
Hikikomori

Hikikomori is a Japanese word that describes people who withdraw from society and spend extreme amounts of time on their own. The withdrawal usually happens slowly. Tamaki Saitō was the first person to use the word. In 1998 his book "Shakaiteki hikikomori--Owaranai Shishunki" was published. An English translation by Jeffrey Angles, "Hikikomori: Adolescence without End", was published in 2013. The Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare defines hikikomori as people who refuse to leave their house for over six months. In 2010 there were 700,000 hikikomori. The average hikikomori was 31 years old. Tamaki Saitō thinks that there may be over 1 million hikikomori (1% of the Japanese population).
English words with similar meanings include recluse and agoraphobic.

</doc>
<doc id="427773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427773" title="Heinrich Boere">
Heinrich Boere

Heinrich Boere (27 September 1921 – 1 December 2013) was a convicted German-Dutch war criminal and former member of the Waffen-SS. He was one of the most wanted Nazis during the 1940s.
Boere was born in Eschweiler, Germany to a Dutch father and German mother.
Boere began serving his life sentence on 16 December 2011 at the age of 90. He died on 1 December 2013 in prison custody in Fröndenberg from natural causes, aged 92.

</doc>
<doc id="427775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427775" title="Donald Malarkey">
Donald Malarkey

Donald G. Malarkey (born July 31, 1921) is a former non-commissioned officer during World War II. Malarkey was portrayed in the HBO miniseries "Band of Brothers" by Scott Grimes. 
Malarkey was born in Astoria, Oregon on July 31, 1921.

</doc>
<doc id="427777" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427777" title="Tony Musante">
Tony Musante

Anthony Peter "Tony" Musante (June 30, 1936 – November 26, 2013) was an American actor. He was born in Bridgeport, Connecticut into an Italian-American family. He was known for his role as David Toma in the 1970s television series "Toma" and as Joe D'Angelo in "As the World Turns".
He died of complications following surgery on November 26, 2013, aged 77, in Manhattan, New York City.

</doc>
<doc id="427780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427780" title="Lewis Collins">
Lewis Collins

Lewis Collins (26 May 1946 – 27 November 2013) was an English actor. He was best known for his tough-guy role as Bodie in the ITV drama series "The Professionals". It ran from 1977 to 1983.
Collins died from cancer in Los Angeles, California on 27 November 2013, aged 67.

</doc>
<doc id="427781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427781" title="Edward Heffron">
Edward Heffron

Edward James Heffron (May 16, 1923 - December 1, 2013) was a former American World War II-veteran. Heffron was played in the HBO miniseries "Band of Brothers" by Robin Laing. He wrote some books about his view of the war. 
Heffron was born in South Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on May 16, 1923. He died on December 1, 2013 from natural causes in his home in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, aged 90. 

</doc>
<doc id="427789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427789" title="Alice Herz-Sommer">
Alice Herz-Sommer

Alice Herz-Sommer, also known as Alice Sommer (26 November 1903 – 23 February 2014), was a Czech-British music teacher and supercentenarian from Bohemia. She was a survivor of the Theresienstadt concentration camp. Herz-Sommer has lived Belsize Park in London since 1986. She was the world's oldest known Holocaust survivor.
Herz was born in Prague, Austria-Hungary on 26 November 1903. She was born along with her twin sister Mariana. She married the businessman and amateur musician Leopold Sommer in 1931. They had one son, Raphael Sommer. Leopold Sommer was later sent to Auschwitz. Although he survived the camp, he died at Dachau in 1944.
She lived in Israel and worked as a music teacher in Jerusalem. She then moved to London in 1986. Raphael Sommer, her only child, was a cellist and conductor. He died in 2001.
Herz-Sommer died on the morning of 23 February 2014 in London, England, from natural causes, aged 110.

</doc>
<doc id="427796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427796" title="Mister Donut">
Mister Donut

Mister Donut is a worldwide food franchise which sells pastries, soda, coffee, muffins and doughnuts. The company was established in the United States in 1956, though it is now based from Japan. The company was acquired in 1990, following which every North American outlet was renamed Dunkin' Donuts except for fewer than six by the start of 2010. Only one Illinois location continues using the "Mister Donut" corporate name.

</doc>
<doc id="427799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427799" title="Acid Black Cherry">
Acid Black Cherry

Acid Black Cherry is the solo project of Japanese musician, Yasu. He started the project in 2007. It was after his previous band, Janne Da Arc, announced that they were taking a break. Acid Black Cherry is often called ABC.

</doc>
<doc id="427802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427802" title="Olive Garden">
Olive Garden

The Olive Garden is an American casual dining restaurant. It serves Italian-American cuisine. The Olive Garden was established in December 1982 in Orlando, Florida. There are over 800 locations worldwide.

</doc>
<doc id="427810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427810" title="Ipovlopsychophobia">
Ipovlopsychophobia

Ipovlopsychophobia is a fear of having one's own photograph taken. It is a type of specific phobia.

</doc>
<doc id="427811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427811" title="Camera shyness">
Camera shyness

Camera shyness refers to when a person who does not want a photograph taken of them. Many people who are camera shy do not like to speak in public and/or perform in front of other people.
A fear of having one's own picture taken is called ipovlopsychophobia.

</doc>
<doc id="427813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427813" title="Availability factor">
Availability factor

Availability factor in a power plant is the amount of time that it is able to produce electricity over a certain period, divided by the amount of the time in the period. The availability factor depends on the type of power plant, the source of energy used and how the plant is operated. Newer types of power plants usually have higher availability factors than old power plants.

</doc>
<doc id="427815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427815" title="Base load power plant">
Base load power plant

A base load power plant is a power station that usually provides a continuous supply of electricity throughout the year with some minimum power generation requirement. Base load power plants will only be turned off during periodic maintenance, upgrading, overhaul or service. Base load power plant has the character of slow demand respond, a mechanism to match generation with the load it supplies.
Examples of base load power plants are coal-fired power plant, geothermal power plant, tidal power plant, nuclear power plant, etc.

</doc>
<doc id="427816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427816" title="Peaking power plant">
Peaking power plant

A peaking power plant (or peaker) is a power station that only runs during high demands of electricity throughout the day during peak hours. Because of that, the price of electricity it generates is generally higher than the electricity generated by base load power plant, which operates continuously throughout the year.
Examples of peaking power plants are a hydropower plant, pumped-storage hydro power plant and gas-fired power plant. Nuclear and solar power are not used in this way.

</doc>
<doc id="427817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427817" title="Analytical psychology">
Analytical psychology

Analytical psychology is the school of psychology that came from the ideas of Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung. Analytical psychiatry is related to self-care of any particular person, such as neuroticism, being wise, introversion, feeling abilities and sensations. The process consists of clinical theories, developmental or complex approaches and process-oriented psychology theory.

</doc>
<doc id="427819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427819" title="Load following power plant">
Load following power plant

A load following power plant is a power plant that can adjust the amount of electricity it generates to match the changing demand throughout the day. Load following power plants are usually in between base load power plant and peaking power plant in terms of construction cost, cost of the electricity it generates, efficiency and capacity.
Hydroelectric power plant can be considered load following power plant.

</doc>
<doc id="427820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427820" title="Cable tray">
Cable tray

A cable tray is a system to put insulated cables and other wiring (communication, network etc.) in building structures, such as in office buildings, residential, industries etc. A cable tray system gives easy access. This is useful when adding new cables or replacing the old cables on the tray.
Cable trays can be made out of galvanized steel, stainless steel, aluminum or plastic. The choice depends on how it will be used or where it will be placed.

</doc>
<doc id="427821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427821" title="Brownout (electricity)">
Brownout (electricity)

A brownout is a drop of voltage in an electrical power supply. Brownouts may be done intentionally in order to reduce the load during an emergency. This is done to prevent a total supply failure ("blackout"). Brownouts can also be caused accidentally by faults in the electrical grid which cause a drop in voltage.

</doc>
<doc id="427822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427822" title="Adams County, Indiana">
Adams County, Indiana

Adams County is a county in Indiana. Its county seat is Decatur.

</doc>
<doc id="427823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427823" title="Independent Power Producer">
Independent Power Producer

An Independent Power Producer (IPP) or Non-Utility Generator (NUG) is an organisation that owns a power-producing facility and can sell electricity to utility companies and electricity users. An IPP is usually a private company and is generally not a public utility company. Transaction of electricity between IPP with its customers are usually regulated under the power purchase agreement.

</doc>
<doc id="427824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427824" title="Allen County, Indiana">
Allen County, Indiana

Allen County is a county in Indiana. Its county seat is Fort Wayne.

</doc>
<doc id="427825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427825" title="Bartholomew County, Indiana">
Bartholomew County, Indiana

Bartholomew County is a county in Indiana. Its county seat is Columbus.

</doc>
<doc id="427826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427826" title="Al-Ma'mun">
Al-Ma'mun

Abū Jaʿfar Abdullāh al-Maʾmūn ibn Harūn (also spelled Almamon, Al-Maymun, Al-Ma’moon, and el-Mâmoûn; 13 September 786 – 9 August 833) was an Abbasid caliph. He reigned from 813 until his death in 833.
Al-Ma’mun was born on 13 September 786 AD in Baghdad. His father was Harun al-Rashid, who was an Abbasid caliph. He was a member of the third dynasty of the descendants of Muhammad who were caliphs of Islam. While his father ruled, al-Ma’mun was the governor of Khorasan. After al-Ma’mun was born his father had another son named al-Amin. Before his father died he announced that al-Amin would be the new caliph and al-Ma’mun would continue to be the governor of Khorasan even though al-Ma’mun was older. When Harun al-Rashid died and al-Amin became the caliph, he took away al-Ma’mun's ability to inherit the throne after he died. The two brothers went to war against each other. Al-Ma’mun defeated al-Amin. He cut off al-Amin's head. Since al-Amin had no other heir to the throne, al-Ma’mun became the new caliph.
During his reign al-Ma’mun tried to reunite Sunnis and Shiites. These are the two main brances of Islam that have different beliefs on who should lead Islam. Al-Ma’mun opened many learning centers in his empire. One big one was in Baghdad, which was called the House of Wisdom. Many other libraries and schools were built all over the empire. He was also a big sponsor of philosophy and astronomy.
He had one wife who he tried to divorce. However, his wife got a powerful judge who refused to allow the divorce. He had no children and no heirs with this wife. Instead, he chose another woman to provide an heir.
Al-Ma’mun died on August 9, 833. He remained caliph until his death. 

</doc>
<doc id="427828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427828" title="Anna Komnene">
Anna Komnene

Anna Komnene (sometimes spelled Comnena; , "") was a Greek princess, scholar and doctor. She was the eldest daughter of Emperor Alexios I Komnenos of Byzantium and Irene Doukaina.
Komnene was born in Constantinople on 2 December 1083. She was originally engaged to Constantine Ducas, heir to the throne. Unfortunately he died at a young age and Anna married Nicephorus Bryennius in 1097 AD. Anna wanted her husband to inherit the throne. Even when her father was dying she tried to persuade him to make her husband heir.
Anna's brother, John II Komnenos, took the throne in 1188. Anna then tried to remove her brother from the throne, and her husband refused to help her. Anna was caught. She then gave up her property and retired to a convent. While she lived there, Anna wrote her book, "The Alexiad". This is about the Byzantine Empire. The 15 books of "The Alexiad" were written in Greek. Her book is still important because Anna had access to the royal archives and had an inside view of politics.
Anna spent a large part of her life in a convent, but she did not become a nun until shortly before she died. She died in 1153 or 1154 AD.

</doc>
<doc id="427829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427829" title="Eleazar of Worms">
Eleazar of Worms

Eleazar of Worms (; c. 1176 – 1238), or Eleazar ben Judah ben Kalonymus, was a Jewish mystic. He was an important student of the Talmud. He was also the last major member of the Chassidei Ashkenaz, a group of German Jewish mystics.
Eleazar of Worms was born in Mainz. He traveled and studied at many centers of learning in Germany and northern France. He belonged to the Kalonymus family, which was one of the most important German-Jewish families at the time. His father, Judah B. Kalonymus, was one of the leading scholars of his generation. Eleazar learned from his father about Jewish law and theology.
Eleazar spent most of his life living in Worms. He was a Jewish pietist. Eleazar wrote many books and poems on praising god, and studied liturgical poetry, halakhah, theology, ethics and exegesis. Some of his works were printed but many have been lost. Eleazar witnessed and suffered the persecution of Jews. Eleazar's wife, two daughters were murdered, and he and his son were badly injured.

</doc>
<doc id="427833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427833" title="Xuanzang">
Xuanzang

Xuanzang (; ; about 602 – 664) was a Chinese Buddhist scholar, traveller and translator. He described the relations between China and India in the early Tang Dynasty.
Xuanzang was born in what is now Henan province in 602. He was the youngest of four sons. One of his older brothers, Changjie, was a Buddhist monk. Changjie was impressed by Xuanzang's scholarly nature and brought him to a monastery in Luoyang. He began the process to become a monk at the age of thirteen. He studied Mahayana Buddhism at the monastery. In 618, the Sui Dynasty fell. To escape the conflict, Xuanzang and his brother went to Chang'an, the new capital of the Tang Dynasty. He was not satisfied there so he travelled on to Chengdu in Sichuan. There, he joined the monastery and was made a monk at the age of 20. He returned Chang'an after a few years.
He later travelled all around China in search of sacred books of Buddhism. He wanted to learn from the roots of Buddhist practice. He became famous for his seventeen-year journey to India. His journey is recorded in the "Great Tang Records on the Western Regions". This in turn provided the inspiration for the novel "Journey to the West" written by Wu Cheng'en during the Ming Dynasty, around 900 years after Xuanzang's death.
Xuanzang traveled to Liang-chou, where he was a “guest lecturer”. The governor refused to let him go, but Xuanzang ignored the governor. He slipped out of town with the aid of two monks. Some guards told him about a detour he took that lead him to the Gobi Desert. Xuanzang made it to the town Hami and a Caravan. The king of Turfan wanted Xuanzang to be in his court. when he refused, the king sent him on his way with everything Xuanzang could possibly need. Xuanzang crossed the Tien Shan Mountains and descended to the Issyk-Kul lake in what is now the Republic of Kyrghyzstan. He traveled capital of Tashkent and the city of Samarkand and then through the Iron Gates to Bactria (modern Afghanistan). He visited the city of Balkh, where there were many famous relics of the Buddha. Xuanzang arrived in Bamian. He traveled down the Kabul River through the city of Peshawar to Taxila (now ruins near the Pakistani capital of Islamabad). Xuanzang then went to Srinigar, the capital of Kashmir.
He stayed in Srinigar and studied Buddhist texts with nine monks, each expert in a different field, until early 633. In eastern Punjab, Xuanzang and his party were assaulted by 50 bandits, and only escaped because Xuanzang was able to slip away to get help. He traveled on to the headwaters of the Ganges, the sacred river of India. Stopping at Kannauj, he stayed there for three months studying with a famous Buddhist master. Sailing down the Ganges to Kanpur, his boat was captured by pirates who wanted to sacrifice Xuanzang to their god. As he was preparing to die, the pirate boats were hit by a cyclone and destroyed, and they released him before even worse things happened. Xuanzang visited the sacred sites where the historical Buddha had lived in what had once been the Kingdom of Magadha. At the village of Kasia, he saw the place where the Buddha had entered Nirvana (a kind of heaven). At the great monastery of Nalanda, Xuanzang stayed for five years from 633 to 637 studying the sacred texts. Xuanzang continued down the Ganges to the port of Tamralipti. From there he sailed down the east coast of India and visited south India and Maharastra. He returned north and stopped at Nalanda again and then spent some time nearby studying non-religious subjects, such as mathematics and geography, with a famous teacher. Xuanzang was sent to Gauhati, the capital of Assam, to convert the King to Buddhism. Back in Nalanda he took leave of the monks and headed back to his native country in 643. He crossed the Thar Desert to reach the Indus River. Crossing the Indus, he made it across safely on the back of an elephant into central Asia. Xuanzang faced many hazards, though. He survived blizzards and storms and the death of his elephant, who drowned while fleeing an attack of bandits.
Xuanzang reached Kashgar in what is now the westernmost part of China and Hetien, the capital of the Buddhist kingdom of Khotan. The King of Khotan came out to greet him, and he spent seven or eight months there lecturing on what he had learned during his pilgrimage. He finally arrived back in Sian in the spring of 645. Xuanzang arrived back in China with 150 Buddhist relics, six statues and more than 650 religious texts after a journey of 40,000 miles. The Emperor ordered him to write about his experiences. He had completed this book, Ta-T'ang Si-Yu-Ki (Memoirs on Western Countries) by the time he died in 649.

</doc>
<doc id="427834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427834" title="Category:749 deaths">
Category:749 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="427835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427835" title="Category:749">
Category:749


</doc>
<doc id="427836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427836" title="Category:790 births">
Category:790 births


</doc>
<doc id="427837" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427837" title="Category:790">
Category:790


</doc>
<doc id="427838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427838" title="Category:855 deaths">
Category:855 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="427839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427839" title="Sei Shōnagon">
Sei Shōnagon

The Heian period of Japanese history lasted from 794 to 1185 CE. Sei Shōnagon lived and died during this time. Not a lot is known about her as a child. We only know about her personality by her writing, especially "The Pillow Book". This book contains a lot about her life at the imperial court and her feelings. It is a collection of lists, poetry, gossip and observations from her years in the court (things she saw and how she felt about them). "The Pillow Book" became very well-known during the Heian period. It revealed an interesting view on life at court.
The name "Pillow Book" came from an event where the empress was given a bundle of notebooks. The empress did not know what to use the notebooks for so Sei Shōnagon asked Empress Sadako if she could have them. Sei Shōnagon told the empress that she wanted to use them to make a pillow.
The book has about 320 entries. She also wrote lists in her diaries. There are about 164 lists. Some of the lists that were included in her diary were: "Depressing things" and "Things that arouse a fond memory of the past". Sei Shōnagon completed this book some time between 1000 and 1010 CE. Some people believe that a copy of Sei Shōnagon's book was given to Empress Sadako's daughter.

</doc>
<doc id="427840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427840" title="Category:Writers from Kansas">
Category:Writers from Kansas


</doc>
<doc id="427841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427841" title="Category:833 deaths">
Category:833 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="427842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427842" title="Category:833">
Category:833


</doc>
<doc id="427843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427843" title="Category:1083 births">
Category:1083 births


</doc>
<doc id="427844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427844" title="Category:1176 births">
Category:1176 births


</doc>
<doc id="427845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427845" title="Category:1238 deaths">
Category:1238 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="427846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427846" title="Tomoe Gozen">
Tomoe Gozen

When Tomoe Gozen was a girl she was taught the skills of an upper-class Japanese woman: writing, musical theatre, archery, horseback riding and fencing. She became a skilled horseman and brave warrior. She became a lover or a concubine of Minamoto no Yoshinaka when she was a teenager.
When Tomoe Gozen was about 28 years old, she fought in the Gempei War (1180–1185). In the Battle of Awazu (February 1184), Minamoto no Yoshinaka was killed by his cousin Yoritomo. Tomoe's reaction to this is not really known. Some people have theories about what might have happened to her. Some think she may have fled from the Gempei War or she may have continued fighting after his death. She also might have been asked to go by Yoshinaka (who believed that his honor would be destroyed if he was killed by a woman) when he realized he would be killed.
After this time, historians do not know what happened. Yoritomo's friend Yoshimori forced Tomoe to marry him. But Yoshinori died before Tomoe gave birth to a son. According to legend, their son was Asahina Yoshihide. He grew up to be a famous samurai. Tomoe joined a nunnery, where she stayed for the rest of her life. Today, Tomoe Gozen is a role model for many Japanese women.

</doc>
<doc id="427847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427847" title="Category:1255 deaths">
Category:1255 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="427849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427849" title="Al-Kindi">
Al-Kindi

Abu Yūsuf Yaʻqūb ibn ʼIsḥāq aṣ-Ṣabbāḥ al-Kindī (, ; 801 – 873 CE), was an Iraqi philosopher. He was called "the Philosopher of the Arabs". He is often thought of as the first Arab philosopher, and one of the most important scholars in the Islamic world.
Al-Kindi was born in Yemen to a rich family. As well as philosophy, he worked in astronomy, alchemy, mathematics, medicine, geography, and many other topics. He became a member of a scientific place of study called the House of Wisdom. As a member there, he helped to preserve a type of philosophy called Hellenistic philosophy. He also edited Greek treatises (written works that formally explain a topic). He also wrote his own treatises on vision, precious stones and minerals. He wrote the first treatise on various types of steel swords, metallurgy. His treatises on music were thought to be the best works on the subject of music in Arabic. He died at age 72 in 873.

</doc>
<doc id="427852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427852" title="Cai Lun">
Cai Lun

Cai Lun (; 50 AD – 121) was a Chinese eunuch and politician. He is generally regarded as the inventor of paper. Earlier forms of paper, such as papyrus, were used in China from the 2nd century BC. However, Cai Lun developed another form of paper, which is used today.
Cai Lun was born in Leiyang (then called Guiyang), a part of Hunan. He lived during the Han Dynasty. His courtesy name was Jingzhong (). He served the government as a eunuch from AD 75, and in AD 89 got a promotion to be a "Shang Fang Si", someone who makes weapons, and a Regular Palace Attendant(中常侍). Cai Lun invented paper in the year 105. For his invention, he was rewarded by the Emperor. After his death he was considered the patron of papermaking. To make paper, Cai Lun used a pulp made of materials such as tree bark and rags. He then strained the liquid from the pulp and spread it out to dry. Legend has it that the mortar, a tool he used to grind materials, was buried in a pool near his grave.

</doc>
<doc id="427853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427853" title="Shen Kuo">
Shen Kuo

Shen Kuo (or Shen Gua ; 1031–1095) was a Chinese scientist and politician. He lived during the Song Dynasty. He was a polymath, being good at many fields of study.
Many of his most important works came from his use of astronomy. In 1088, Shen was the first to describe the magnetic needle compass, which would be used for navigation. He was also one of the first to suggest that the Earth goes through gradual climate change. His hobbies consisted of music, painting, calligraphy, and philosophy.

</doc>
<doc id="427855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427855" title="Al Sahili">
Al Sahili

Abu Ishaq Ibrahim al-Sahili (1290–1346) was an architect during the Mali Empire. He lived under the rule of Mansa Musa.
He was born in Granada in 1290. At the time this was part of Muslim Spain. Al-Sahili studied law and the arts. He was known as a gifted poet. His family were rich merchants (traders). He left Granada in 1321 and began to travel through the Middle East, to Egypt, Syria, Iraq and Yemen. In 1346, he met the ruler of Mali, Mansa Musa, who loved his poetry and invited him to return.
Al-Sahili built for Mansa Musa an audience chamber (or Djingereyber; Great Mosque) in 1327. The mosque was described as a square building with a dome. The outside was decorated with plaster and patterns in colors. It was built with banco: soil mixed with wood, mixed with dried grass, and other fibers allowed to dry in the sun. It was built with the same architectural style as the Alhambra in Granada. Mansa Musa then wanted him to make a house for him, but the building was destroyed over time. He started a new trend of rounded arches in Timbuktu. Al-Sahili died there in 1346.

</doc>
<doc id="427856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427856" title="Sakura (mansa)">
Sakura (mansa)

Mansa Sakura (also spelled Sakoura) was the sixth emperor ("mansa") of the Mali Empire. He was born a slave, but was later freed. Soon after he was freed he became a general in the army of Sundiata Keita. When Sundiata Keita died, there was a struggle between his sons over who would become the emperor. Around 1285, Sakura took control of the throne. He became the ruler of Mali and brought the empire back together. 
Mansa Sakura became a powerful leader. He was known for exploring other lands and using the ideas he saw in his own kingdom. He also encouraged trade. Under Sakura's leadership, the Mali Empire made several new conquests. It expanded along the Gambia River to the sea. It became a dominant force in West Africa.
Sakura performed the Hajj shortly before his death. On his way home, he was attacked near Djibouti by warriors who wanted his gold. He was killed in the attack, which happened around the year 1300.
After Sakura died, the throne was returned to the royal heirs of the Keita dynasty. The next emperor was Sundiata's nephew, Gao.

</doc>
<doc id="427863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427863" title="Sonni Ali">
Sonni Ali

Sonni Ali (also known as Sunni Ali Ber or Sunni Ali) was the first king of the Songhai Empire in western Africa. He ruled from about 1464 to 1492. He was the 15th ruler of the Sonni dynasty. During Sonni's reign, Songhai surpassed the Mali Empire in power. His armies captured several important cities, such as Timbuktu (in 1468) and Djenné (captured in 1475). His battle strategies greatly expanded the empire's territory.
Before Sonni took Timbuktu in 1468, the city was controlled by Tuareg raiders. He then conquered the Tuareg and took them under his rule, which brought the great Saharan trade routes to his kingdom. After conquering Timbuktu, he and his army went south to conquer the port of Djenné, on the Niger River. The city surrendered after a long-fought siege.
Sonni defined himself as Muslim, but was careful to not separate himself from the traditional animist beliefs. He executed many of the clerics from Timbuktu. He ran a very organized and powerful military. His army included both soldiers on horseback, as well as soldiers who fought on foot. He also built a fleet of ships to control the ports along the Niger River.
In 1480, Sunni Ali attacked the Mossi Kingdoms south of the Niger River. Unfortunately, he did not conquer the Mossi, but he was able to stop the spread of their empire. He also fought a successful war against several of the Fulani states. On his return home from this war, Sonni drowned in a river, in 1492.

</doc>
<doc id="427865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427865" title="Soumaoro Kanté">
Soumaoro Kanté

Soumaoro Kanté (also written Sumanguru Kanté) was a king of the Sosso people during the 13th century. The Sosso formed their kingdom in the 1180s, after the collapse of the Ghana Empire.
In the "Epic of Sundiata", Soumaoro is portrayed as a villain. He is said to have been a supernatural warrior with eight heads rising above his own. Many of his military victories were associated with his supernatural powers.
In 1203, Soumaoro captured Koumbi, the old capital of Ghana. He conquered several neighbouring peoples, including nine other kingdoms in the early 1200s. Among these were the Mandinka in what is now Mali. Soumaoro killed all of the Mandinka king's sons except one. This son, Sundiata Keita, was a cripple, and Soumaoro did not believe him to be a threat.
A short time later, however, Sundiata built an alliance of smaller kingdoms to oppose Soumaoro. Legends describe Sundiata as having supernatural powers as well. In 1230, Sundiata founded the Mali Empire. He defeated Soumaoro at the Battle of Kirina in 1235.
Sourmaoro ruled as a tyrant. His empire lasted a little more that 30 years. He was unable to maintain stability. He also made his people pay heavy taxes. He made them give him large amounts of gold, food, and livestock. On top of that he demanded that his subjects turn over the most beautiful women for his pleasure and the strongest boys to be his slaves. He killed anyone suspected of becoming a potential threat to his rule. Although he was successful on the battlefield, Sumanguru an arrogant, brutal and intolerant ruler. He failed at winning the faith and loyalty of the people he had hoped to unify under his rule.

</doc>
<doc id="427871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427871" title="Category:Transgender">
Category:Transgender


</doc>
<doc id="427872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427872" title="Sundiata Keita">
Sundiata Keita

Sundiata Keita ( 1210 – c. 1260) was the founder of the Mali Empire. He ruled as emperor ("mansa") from 1235 to 1260. He is celebrated as a hero of the Mandinka people of West Africa in the "Epic of Sundiata". Sundiata changed his father's small kingdom into the core of the Mali Empire. It grew to be one of largest and richest empires of Africa.
Sundiata Keita was born in about 1210. His father was Naré Maghann Konaté, a king of the Mandinka. Keita was disabled from birth. His legend follows the theme of a culture hero overcoming extreme hardships to achieve greatness. According to the legend, Keita and his mother went into voluntary exile to avoid the risk of being killed by his jealous half-brother, Kankaran Tuman, who had become king in 1218. While Keita and his mother were in exile, the Mandinka were conquered by the Sosso Empire. Later, Keita was recalled by his fellow people to free them from this foreign oppression.
In the early 1200s, the independence of the Mandinka was threatened by the Sosso. Sosso was one of the many kingdoms that succeeded the Ghana Empire. Keita, who had already become a king, gathered his people and fought a battle with the Sosso army. In 1235, Keita and his army destroyed the army of Soumaoro Kanté, the ruler of the Sosso. This battle is called the Battle of Kirina, located in present-day Mali.
Further military advancements led to the expansion of the Mali Empire. The empire thrived, because it controlled many of the major gold fields and was an important center of trans-Saharan trade. Keita also successfully combined Islamic and traditional African beliefs to create a functional kingdom. Today, some of the Mandinka people of West Africa still regard Sundiata as a hero.
Little is known about the later life of Keita, but it is known that Keita ruled for about 25 years before his death. It is said that Keita was killed in an accident in his capital city.

</doc>
<doc id="427873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427873" title="Category:Transgender and transsexual people">
Category:Transgender and transsexual people


</doc>
<doc id="427874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427874" title="Zhang Heng">
Zhang Heng

Zhang Heng (also written Chang Hêng, ; AD 78–139) was a Chinese scientist who worked in many subjects. He lived during the Han dynasty. He was an accomplished engineer, meteorologist, geologist, philosopher, mathematician, astronomer and writer.
Zhang invented the first seismometer, a machine that measures the strength of earthquakes. He is remembered for many other inventions and writings. He invented the seismometer in 132 AD. Heng was also the first in China to apply a grid system to maps, from which positions and distances could be calculated.
Some of his jobs were chief astronomer of the Imperial Chancellery for Astronomical and Calendrical Science, and chief minister under the rule of Emperor An'ti.
He also wrote many works ranging from poetry to books full of his scientific research. One was his book of astronomical research and it described his theories about previously unexplained things that could be seen in the night sky. Some things it theorized were that the Moon was lit by the Sun instead of making its own light. It also proposed that the Moon could be eclipsed by the shadow of the Earth. 

</doc>
<doc id="427878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427878" title="Refractory">
Refractory

A refractory is a material that can stand high temperature. It is used in furnaces, kilns, incinerators and reactors. Materials to make refractory must be chemically and physically stable at high temperature, such as alumina, silica, magnesia and lime.

</doc>
<doc id="427879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427879" title="Category:78 births">
Category:78 births


</doc>
<doc id="427880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427880" title="Category:78">
Category:78


</doc>
<doc id="427881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427881" title="Category:139 deaths">
Category:139 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="427882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427882" title="One-line diagram">
One-line diagram

The one-line diagram (or single-line diagram) is a diagram that shows a three-phase power system in a simple way. It is used in many power-related applications. Each electrical element is represented by a unique symbol. Although it describes three-phase electricity, only one conductor is shown in the diagram.

</doc>
<doc id="427883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427883" title="Category:664 deaths">
Category:664 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="427884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427884" title="Category:664">
Category:664


</doc>
<doc id="427885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427885" title="Category:1017 deaths">
Category:1017 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="427886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427886" title="Category:1247 deaths">
Category:1247 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="427887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427887" title="Category:873 deaths">
Category:873 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="427888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427888" title="Category:121 deaths">
Category:121 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="427889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427889" title="Category:121">
Category:121


</doc>
<doc id="427890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427890" title="Category:120s deaths">
Category:120s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="427891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427891" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Category:Gay men by nationality">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Category:Gay men by nationality


</doc>
<doc id="427892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427892" title="Category:Chinese inventors">
Category:Chinese inventors


</doc>
<doc id="427893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427893" title="Category:1095 deaths">
Category:1095 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="427894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427894" title="Category:1346 deaths">
Category:1346 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="427895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427895" title="Category:1346">
Category:1346


</doc>
<doc id="427896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427896" title="Rotor (electric)">
Rotor (electric)

A rotor is the part of an electric machine (motor or generator) that rotates. It rotates because of the torque developed by wires and magnetic field inside the machine.

</doc>
<doc id="427897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427897" title="Stator">
Stator

A stator is the part of a rotary system that does not move. It is the fixed, stationary part of an electric machine (motor or generator). The stator might act as the field magnet (working with the armature to create the spinning movement) or as the armature (receives influence from the moving field coils of the rotor).

</doc>
<doc id="427899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427899" title="Kabsa">
Kabsa

Kabsa is the national dish of Saudi Arabia. It is a dish made of rice and meat, cooked either separately or together. It can be made with spices and camel meat, lamb, chicken or fish. It is usually eaten for lunch and sometimes for dinner. Kabsa is often a dish for a group of people. The kabsa is normally served on a round metal dish placed on the floor and people eat with their right hand, although a spoon may be used. In Saudi Arabia there are many different ways to make kabsa. Kabsa is also eaten in other Middle Eastern countries such as Kuwait, Bahrain and other Gulf countries.

</doc>
<doc id="427901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427901" title="Uninterruptible power supply">
Uninterruptible power supply

An uninterruptible power supply (or uninterruptible power source; UPS) is an apparatus that provides emergency power supply to a load when there is a problem with the normal electricity supply. It provides an almost instantaneous supply of electricity during any power failure. It is used normally to protect any sensitive hardware (computer, data center, telecommunication) in which if there is any disruption of power supply, it might easily damage that equipment.

</doc>
<doc id="427903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427903" title="Faraday's laws of electrolysis">
Faraday's laws of electrolysis

Faraday's laws of electrolysis are a set of scientific laws used in chemistry. They are used to express magnitudes of electrolytic effects. They were first described by Michael Faraday in 1834.
The first law states that the mass of a substance produced by electrolysis is directly proportional to the quantity of electricity that passes through the cell.

</doc>
<doc id="427904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427904" title="Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition">
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition

The Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) is a control system for various industrial processes. It is controlled by a computer to monitor and control all of the processes that exist in an industry. It is a large-scale controlling method which can include several sites over long distance.

</doc>
<doc id="427910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427910" title="Programmable logic controller">
Programmable logic controller

A programmable logic controller (PLC) is a digital system used to make electrical and mechanical processes become automated. PLC can be found in almost all of the heavy industries which require process and sequences. PLC contains a unique set of inputs and outputs. The logic of PLC is programmed so that user can create a highly dedicated PLC working system for their intended purpose.

</doc>
<doc id="427918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427918" title="Nikki Sinclaire">
Nikki Sinclaire

Nicole "Nikki" Sinclaire (born 26 July 1968) is a British politician. In June 2012, she started We Demand a Referendum (WDAR), a political party. She was a member of the United Kingdom Independence Party until 2010.
She was born in Nicholas Sinclaire in London.
She is openly gay.
In November 2013, Sinclaire released a book about her life, "Never Give Up". In it she said that she was born male. When she was 23 she had sex reassignment surgery. The news made Sinclaire the United Kingdom's first transgender Member of Parliament.

</doc>
<doc id="427926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427926" title="Scottrade Center">
Scottrade Center

Scottrade Center is a sports arena in St. Louis, Missouri. The arena opened on October 8, 1994, and is the current home to the St. Louis Blues of the National Hockey League (NHL). The arena was also home to Saint Louis University's men's basketball team from 1991 to 2008.
The arena was originally known as Kiel Center from 1994 to 2000 and Savvis Center from Aug 2000 to 2006. Scottrade acquired naming rights for the arena in September 2006.
The Scottrade Center has held many WWE events as well including: , Survivor Series in 1998, the special live tribute episode of WWF Raw is War that aired after the night of Owen Hart's death, No Mercy in 2001, Judgment Day in 2007, Elimination Chamber in 2010, Royal Rumble in 2012 and Extreme Rules in 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="427929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427929" title="Verizon Center">
Verizon Center

Verizon Center is a sports arena in Washington D.C. The arena opened on December 2, 1997, and is the current home to the Washington Capitals on the National Hockey League (NHL), Washington Wizards of the National Basketball Association (NBA), Washington Mystics of the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA), and the Georgetown University men's basketball team. The arena was also home to the Washington Power of the National Lacrosse League (NLL) from 2001 to 2002.
The arena was originally known as MCI Center from 1997 to 2006. Verizon Communications acquired the naming rights for the arena in January 2006.
Verizon Center has held many WWE events as well including: SummerSlam in 2005, Cyber Sunday in 2007, Survivor Series in 2009 and WWE Capitol Punishment in 2011. Aside from WWE, the arena also hosted World Championship Wrestling (WCW)'s Starrcade pay-per-view in 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="427933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427933" title="Saadia Gaon">
Saadia Gaon

Saʻadiah ben Yosef Gaon (882/892 – 942) was a Jewish religious scholar and philosopher.
He was born in al-Fayyūm, Egypt. When he was 28, he left Egypt and his wife and two sons, and traveled to Babylonia. There, he helped schools in many Jewish communities. After a while, he left Babylonia because he was not happy with the government.
As a religious scholar, he translated the Bible into Arabic and wrote many commentaries on it. He also wrote the first Hebrew dictionary and grammar dictionary, and many books on Talmudic law. One of his famous books is called "Kitāb al-amānāt wa al-iʿtiqādāt" ("Book of Beliefs and Convictions").
He died at the age of 63, in Baghdad.

</doc>
<doc id="427936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427936" title="Al-Battani">
Al-Battani

Al-Battānī (other names include Albategnius, Albategni and Albatenius; born about 858 – died 929) was an Arab astronomer, astrologer and mathematician. He is considered an important astronomer and mathematician of the Islamic Golden Age. His discoveries about trigonometry were often quoted by medieval European astronomers; including by Copernicus. He was from Harran. His full name was Abū ʿAbd Allāh Muḥammad ibn Jābir ibn Sinān al-Raqqī al-Ḥarrānī al-Ṣābiʾ al-Battānī.
Al-Battani helped to calculate the distance between the Earth and the Sun, before the telescopes. This allowed him to refine existing values for the length of the year.
He is most famous for his book the "Kitāb az-Zīj" (or the "Zij"). The "Zij" was a book with 57 chapters dedicated to astronomy. He influenced the works of Copernicus, Johannes Kepler and Tycho Brahe, who were famous astronomers of later times. The book was translated many times into many different languages. Inside the "Zij", Al-Battani made a map of the stars, naming a few of them.
Al-Battani died of old age in the year 929. He had been protesting against the taxes in Baghdad, and died on the way home. 

</doc>
<doc id="427941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427941" title="Kingsborough Community College">
Kingsborough Community College

Kingsborough Community College is a community college in Brooklyn, New York. It is part of the City University of New York's university system. It is located in Manhattan Beach. It was built in 1963. It has around 38,000 students. It has a private beach which is open during the summer.

</doc>
<doc id="427942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427942" title="TD Garden">
TD Garden

TD Garden is a sports arena in Boston, Massachusetts. The arena opened on September 30, 1995, and is the current home to the Boston Bruins of the National Hockey League (NHL) and the Boston Celtics of the National Basketball Association (NBA).
The arena was originally known as FleetCenter from 1995 to 2005. TD Banknorth acquired the naming rights for the arena on March 3, 2005. The name was changed to TD Banknorth Garden on July 1, 2005.
TD Garden has held many WWE events as well including: WrestleMania XIV in 1998, King of the Ring in 2000, Royal Rumble in 2003, SummerSlam in 2006, Survivor Series in 2008, Royal Rumble in 2011, Night of Champions in 2012, and Survivor Series in 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="427948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427948" title="Gagra">
Gagra

Gagra (Abkhaz and ; ) is a town in Abkhazia. It covers an area of about 5 kilometres. It is located on the northeastern coast of the Black Sea, at the base of the Caucasus Mountains. The moderate climate makes it a popular tourist resort.
Gagra is the centre of the Gagra District. It is located in the western part of Abkhazia. The river Psou serves as a border with Krasnodar Kray of Russia.
Gagra was established as a Greek colony. During the rule of the Kingdom of Colchis, they called it "Triglite".
In the time of the Roman Empire the town was renamed to "Nitica". Because of its geographical and commercial importance, it was attacked repeatedly by the Goths. The Romans did not neglect it, however. They fortified it well. After the Romans, the Byzantine Empire took control of all of Colchis, including "Nitica". It became a major trading center for merchants from Venice and Genoa. The name "Gagra" appeared for the first time on a map in 1308. This was on a map of the Caucasus made by the Italian Pietro Visconti. This map is now in the Library of Saint Mark in Venice.
In the 16th century, Gagra was a part of Georgia. It was invaded by the Ottoman Empire. Because of poverty and disease, most of its people had left. After Russia's victory over the Ottomans in 1878, Russia rebuilt the town.
In 1919, Vladimir Lenin established a "worker's resort" in Gagra. He nationalised the resort that had been built by Oldenburg. Then Gagra became a popular holiday resort for Soviet citizens. During World War II, it gained a new role as a site for the rehabilitation of wounded soldiers. After the war, various state-run sanatoriums were built there. The resort grew and was developed quickly as part of the "Soviet Riviera".
In the late 1980s, tensions grew between the Georgian and Abkhazian communities in the region. War started between 1992 and 1993. It ended in a defeat of the Georgian government's forces. Hundreds of thousands of ethnic Georgians were forced to leave their homes in Abkhazia. This was part of a mass ethnic cleansing, in which thousands of Georgian civilians were massacred. Gagra and the Abkhazian capital Sukhumi were at the centre of the fighting and suffered heavy damage.
After 1993, Gagra was under Russian occupation and under the control of separatist armed formations.
The most important landmarks of Gagra are:
On 14 May 2012, Gagra signed a cooperation agreement with Vladimir.

</doc>
<doc id="427950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427950" title="KeyBank Center">
KeyBank Center

The KeyBank Center is a sports arena in Buffalo, New York. The arena opened on September 21, 1996, and is the current home to the Buffalo Sabres of the National Hockey League (NHL) and the Buffalo Bandits of the National Lacrosse League (NLL).
The arena was originally known as Marine Midland Arena from 1996 to 1999 and as HSBC Arena from 2000 to 2011. First Niagara Bank acquired the naming rights for the arena in 2011. The arena name next changed after KeyBank bought First Niagara Bank in 2016. Outside signs began to show the new name in August of that year, with the name change to "KeyBank Center" becoming official on September 19.
KeyBank Center has held many WWE events as well including: The Great American Bash in 2005, Armageddon in 2008, Night of Champions in 2011, and WWE Battleground in 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="427951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427951" title="John Michael Montgomery">
John Michael Montgomery

John Michael Montgomery (born 1965) is a singer from the U.S. state of Kentucky. He sings and writes country music. He has been a singer since 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="427952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427952" title="Category:Abkhazia templates">
Category:Abkhazia templates


</doc>
<doc id="427954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427954" title="KatieJane Garside">
KatieJane Garside

KatieJane Garside (born Katrina Jane Garside; 8 July 1968) is an English singer-songwriter. She first became known as the singer of the indie rock band Daisy Chainsaw. Garside is now the singer of Ruby Throat.
Garside joined the band in 1989. With the band Garside released two extended plays. The band then released one album, "Eleventeen" in 1992. Their single "Love Your Money" reached number 26 in the UK Singles Chart in February 1992. It is Garside's most successful song so far.
Garside sung on two songs on Creaming Jesus' 1992 album "Guilt by Association". She was also in the music video for their single "Lilies".
In 1993, Garside left Daisy Chainsaw. She was replaced with Belinda Leith.
In 1994, Garside sung on the album "The Greatest Show of Truth" by The Sacred Sawdust Ring.
Garside sung on five songs on Test Dept.'s 1995 album "Totality".
In 1999, she started an alternative rock band called Queenadreena with Crispin Gray. Queenadreena released their first album, "Taxidermy", in 2000. In 2002, they released their second album "Drink Me". In 2005, their third album "The Butcher and the Butterfly" was released by One Little Indian. One single was released from the album, "Medicine Jar".
In 2007, the band released "Ride a Cock Horse". The next year they released "Djin". It was only released in Japan. In September 2009 it was released in the UK.
The band broke up in 2010.
In 2005, she released an album of songs she made on her own called "Lalleshwari/Lullabies in Glass Wilderness".
In 2006, Garside met Chris Wittingham on the London Underground. He was busking there. They started making music together. In 2007 they released an album together called "The Ventriloquist" under the name Ruby Throat. It has a folk sound. At first they released 500 copies of the cd inside red leather books. The album was released on Amazon in 2008.
In 2008, Garside released an album with Hector Zazou called "Corps Electriques". Nils Petter Molvær played the trumpet on it.
In 2009, Ruby Throat released their second album, "Out of a Black Cloud Came a Bird". The album has a cover of "Nothing" by Townes Van Zandt. Also that year, Jeff Zetner's album "The Dying Days of Summer" was released. Garside sung on the thirteenth song on the album, "Where We Fall We'll Lie". 
In 2012, they released a third album, "O' Doubt O' Stars".
She has a sister called Melanie Garside. Melanie is also a musician. She was the bass player for Queenadreena.
Garside lives on a boat with Chris Wittingham and their children.

</doc>
<doc id="427964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427964" title="Category:Control engineering">
Category:Control engineering


</doc>
<doc id="427965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427965" title="Category:Coal mining">
Category:Coal mining


</doc>
<doc id="427978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427978" title="Taiwan Power Company">
Taiwan Power Company

Taiwan Power Company (Taipower; ) is a company owned by the government of the Republic of China. It provides electricity to Taiwan, including the islands of Penghu, Kinmen and Lienchiang. The company was established on May 1946.

</doc>
<doc id="427983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427983" title="Steam turbine">
Steam turbine

A steam turbine is a machine that gets thermal energy from pressurised steam. It uses the energy to do mechanical work by rotation. It is usually connected to a generator to produce electricity.
There are many sizes of steam turbines, from small ones (less than 0.75 kW) for pumps and other devices, to larger ones (1,500,000 kW) for producing electricity.

</doc>
<doc id="427984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427984" title="Surface condenser">
Surface condenser

A surface condenser is a device in a power station that changes the steam used by a steam turbine back into water. The steam is then used again to turn the turbine after being evaporated inside boiler. It can also be used in other applications and different types of industries.

</doc>
<doc id="427987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427987" title="Pulverizer">
Pulverizer

A pulverizer is a machine used to grind different types of material. This is done so that the material will be able to be used or can be easily transported. An example of a material that can be grinded is coal.
There are different speeds used by pulverizers.

</doc>
<doc id="427990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427990" title="Battery charger">
Battery charger

A battery charger is a device that makes a used battery able to be used again. It works by forcing electric current into it from the opposite polarity of the battery. However, only rechargeable batteries can be recharged with a battery charger.
Battery chargers can be found in many forms, such as for mobile phone batteries, an electric vehicle charger, and a laptop battery charger (adapter).

</doc>
<doc id="427991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427991" title="Adobe Premiere Elements">
Adobe Premiere Elements

Adobe Premiere Elements is an editing software that allows users to edit videos and make home-made movies, using the provided options.
Upon release, the software was made compatible with Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows Vista, and Mac OS X. The installation of the software is different for each device, providing step by step instructions. It can only be installed once per device, where it then needs to be uninstalled before installing again to a different device.
An Adobe ID is a paid service that allows access to otherwise inaccessible content created by Adobe. The price of an Adobe ID has varied in the past five years. It currently costs around ten dollars a month, although the price may be different depending where you are located. Creating your Adobe ID also unlocks free benefits for Adobe Photoshop and an automatic online backup.
A free thirty day trial is available to those who are willing to download the often large amount of data required. The trial includes everything you would get from buying the product, attempting to get customers to buy the full version after the trial is over.
Adobe Premiere Elements has won over 180 editing awards and has been classified as number one award winning editing software for the past 10 years.
Adobe has a built in sharing configuration, that allows users to share their videos to major websites such as YouTube and Facebook. It also allows easy transferring onto a DVD, or into AVCHD format.

</doc>
<doc id="427992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427992" title="Recloser">
Recloser

A recloser is a circuit breaker which can be closed automatically after the breaker has been opened because of electric fault. Because many faults in power systems fix themselves after they happen, the installation of recloser ensures more continuity of power and higher availability for electricity supply to the load.

</doc>
<doc id="427993" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427993" title="Geotechnical investigation">
Geotechnical investigation

A geotechnical investigation is a process to analyze and measure the quality of the rock and soil at the site where people plan to build any construction work. By knowing the soil and rock property below the planned construction site, the exact foundation material for the construction building can be properly designed to match with the character of the soil below it so that the building can stand strongly above the examined soil.

</doc>
<doc id="427994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427994" title="Aesop Rock">
Aesop Rock

Ian Mathias Bavitz (born June 5, 1976), better known as Aesop Rock, is an American hip hop artist and music producer who lives in San Francisco, California. He was born in New York.

</doc>
<doc id="427995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427995" title="Down payment">
Down payment

A down payment is the amount that being paid first at the beginning of any business transaction and settle the remaining payment through installments. This payment is made so that the buyer or customer can own the goods being sold or for the case of ordering in a factory (for highly-customized goods), the goods can be put into the production line and start to be produced first.
How much a customer needs to pay for the down payment is different in each country and each business type. The amount of down payment and the remaining payment are usually agreed upon at the time of making the purchase or order.

</doc>
<doc id="427998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427998" title="Purchase order">
Purchase order

A purchase order (PO) is a document stating the wish of a buyer to purchase something from a seller. It indicates all of the exact details of the goods the buyer intends to buy. When the seller accepts the purchase order, it forms a legal contract between both sides. This means that the seller is required to provide the goods in exchange for payment by the buyer.

</doc>
<doc id="428025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428025" title="Trichromacy">
Trichromacy

Trichromacy is a type of colour vision. Animals with this kind of vision see colours by means of cone cells in their retina. Each of three types of cone cell are sensitive to a different range of light wavelengths. Colour as perceived by us is constructed by our brain's visual cortex. Humans and many other primates have full colour vision. Many other mammals do not, because they have only one or two types of cone cells, which do not collect such a wide range of wavelengths.

</doc>
<doc id="428034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428034" title="PPG Paints Arena">
PPG Paints Arena

PPG Paints Arena is a sports arena in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The arena opened on August 18, 2010, and is the current home of the Pittsburgh Penguins of the National Hockey League (NHL). It was also home to Pittsburgh Power of the Arena Football League (AFL) from the team's 2011 entry into the league until its demise in 2014.
When it opened, the arena was known as Consol Energy Center, with the naming rights owned by Consol Energy. In October 2016, Consol Energy opted out of its naming rights contract, and PPG Industries took over the naming rights, choosing to promote its paint brand on the arena. The first Penguins game played in the arena was on October 7, 2010 in a 3–2 loss against their rivals, the Philadelphia Flyers.
The arena hosted the Frozen Four in 2013. The first event that happened in the arena was a concert by Paul McCartney. The arena hosted the WWE's Royal Rumble on January 26, 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="428039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428039" title="Take Me Home">
Take Me Home

Take Me Home is the second album by British-Irish boy band One Direction. It was released or made available to the public on 9 November 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="428041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428041" title="Category:One Direction albums">
Category:One Direction albums

"This category contains albums by" One Direction.

</doc>
<doc id="428047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428047" title="Bad Moon">
Bad Moon

Bad Moon is a 1996 American horror and thriller movie. The movie is about strange events, full moons and werewolves. Mariel Hemingway plays attorney Janet Harrison. The movie was distributed by Warner Bros.. The movie was rated R for gore, horror, violence and some language. They had earlier given a higher rating based on graphic violence, which was then cut from the movie. When released, the movie received terrible reviews. "Bad Moon" was a huge box office flop.

</doc>
<doc id="428053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428053" title="4.3.2.1">
4.3.2.1

4.3.2.1 is a British 2010 crime-thriller movie. The movie is about four friends, all 19, during the late 2000s decade. One of them (Shannon) has one bad day after another. She gets mugged, assaulted and rejected. Another, Joanne (or simply Jo, played by Emma Roberts), works inside a 24-hour retail store. The reviews mixed. It was released in June 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="428054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428054" title="William Allain">
William Allain

William A. "Bill" Allain (February 14, 1928 – December 2, 2013) was an American politician. He held office as the 58th Governor of Mississippi as a Democrat from 1984 to 1988.
Allain died December 2, 2013 in Jackson, Mississippi from unknown causes, aged 85.

</doc>
<doc id="428056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428056" title="Hail to the Chief">
Hail to the Chief

"Hail to the Chief" is the official Presidential Anthem of the United States. The song is played only when the President of the United States appears during public appearances. It is also played during funerals of former Presidents such as during Ronald Reagan's funeral. This song is under the public domain.

</doc>
<doc id="428058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428058" title="Lincoln College, Oxford">
Lincoln College, Oxford

Lincoln College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. Its full name is "The College of Blessed Mary and All Saints, Lincoln". The college was founded in 1427 by Richard Fleming, Bishop of Lincoln. It is the 9th oldest college at the University. 

</doc>
<doc id="428062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428062" title="Category:1427 establishments">
Category:1427 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="428068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428068" title="Cognitive neuropsychology">
Cognitive neuropsychology

Cognitive neuropsychology is a subject in psychology. It is a combination of biology and cognitive psychology. These psychologists study human behavior and knowledge. This is a growing subject that is used more and more everyday. Unlike cognitive neuroscience, cognitive neuropsychology pays attention to the mind rather than the brain.
Many scientists have worked to make cognitive neuropsychology. Their findings have created an understanding of the brain and how humans learn and do things. Most of these scientists were not psychologists, but are known for their contributions to psychology. The technology today also helps advance what is known. With brain imaging and other methods the brain can now be visualized. Cognitive neuroscience can also be broken into different topics such as memory, attention, language, and emotion.
The early history of cognitive neuropsychology begins with humans’ first acknowledgement of the mind/brain. Beliefs in the importance of the mind/brain/head emerge as early as 4000BC with the Sumerians. Records of Sumerian intake of the poppy plant (which contains opium) include descriptions of the mind-altering affects upon ingestion. This suggests a reference to the brain. Another clue pointing towards acknowledgement of the brain is the discovery of skulls with holes drilled into them in 2000BC. Discovery of these skulls points to cultural acknowledgement of the brain as important to life. The motivation behind these drillings could vary from spiritual to medical.
The greatest contribution to early cognitive neuropsychology came from Egypt in 1700BC. This marks the development of the Edwin Smith Surgical Papyrus. This document included the first written description of the human brain. These writings include descriptions of meninges and cerebrospinal fluid. 
The next development emerged from ancient Greece from philosophers Aristotle, Plato and Almaceon. The ancient Greeks hypothesized the form and function of the mind, psyche and soul. Aristotle’s theory focused on the heart as the seat of the mind. He saw the heart containing all emotion and thinking. He also thought that the brain functioned to cool the heart down. Unlike Aristotle, Plato believed the brain to be the locale for mental processes. With Aristotle we see the emergence of the dualistic view of mind and body. The dualistic versus monistic approach to the mind and brain is a debate dominating much of the history of cognitive neuroscience.
The developments in cognitive neuropsychology following this time were few and far between due to Church credence against human dissection. This limited the uncovering of new information. At this time we see a noteworthy development by Galen. Galen was a Roman physician whose surgical descriptions of neurology helped describe the anatomy of the brain and neurological disorders. Many unskilled physicians attempted dissections in secret, but with no real, scientific discoveries occurring.
By the middle of the 16th century, there was an increase in cognitive neuropsychology development. This happened after the lull caused by the Church. During The Renaissance cognitive neuropsychology gains many noteworthy contributions. These contributions involve a deeper understanding of the brain and its subsections. We see Vesalius’ publication of the first neuroscience textbook in 1543 and his description of the hydrocephalus in 1550. We also see the first use of the term “hippocampus” in 1564. This is when the brain was starting to be seen as a complex organ responsible for many operations of the body. 
Towards the end of the 1500s a French philosopher and mathematician by the name of René Descartes was born. He was the most well known figure in cognitive neuropsychology at this time. Some of Descartes’ contributions stemmed from his interest in the nervous system and brain’s role in behavior. He posited that the nervous system was made up of hollow tubes which filled with “animal spirits” any time an action were to take place in that part of the body. His other contributions included the more developed notion of dualism. He hypothesized that the brain and mind are two separate entities that exist on their own but are interdependent on each other. He theorized that the pineal gland in the brain is where these two separate entities interacted. Descartes’ dualistic theory serves as his most influential contribution to cognitive neuropsychology.
During the 18th Century science began to be big in the history of cognitive neuropsychology. The first big advance was in human reflexes. These bodily reactions to stimuli or outside forces are observed and measured. This was found by studying axons and learning how signals travel in the human body. Before this, science and technology were not advanced enough, but the 17th Century changed this. In fact, the development of the microscope helped as well. The brain's nerve fibers could now be seen and described. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was also found in the spaces of the brain and spinal cord. With that, the physiology of psychology began to take control of cognition. These findings are all still true today.
Another advance occurred with electroconvulsion therapy (ECT) or electric shock therapy. This was a method used to treat mental disorders. ECT causes electricity to shock a person's brain. This stimulates all of the brain causing mental disorders to go away and be cured. This was used to treat blindness, hysteria, depression, and many other disorders. It was thought to be the way of the future in treating disabilities.
The 19th century started the argument of localism vs. holism in cognitive neuropsychology. People were starting to question holism and explore the idea of localism. Localism means that the brain has individual areas that are responsible for certain actions in the body. The study of Phrenology started these localization theories. Phrenology is looking at the human skull and finding strange bumps to be measured. Any strange bumps or shapes in the skull were then paired with intelligence or self traits in a person. These traits could include language, logic, and even love. If a part of the skull was pushed out it would mean that trait was better. This started localization theories 
The next big thing in cognitive neuroscience has to do with ablation studies. This is when parts of the brain were removed so function could be measured without this brain area. For example, a neuropsychologist can remove the cerebellum. After it is removed, the animal's balance was not good. This links the cerebellum to balance. As for brain damage, the most famous case is with Phineas Gage. This patient was working on the railroad when a piece of metal went through the front of his head. He did not die from this brain injury. However, his normal personality changed. This brought the idea that the frontal cortex, the part of the brain that was stabbed, controlled how a person acted. Another study found the localization of language in the brain. Two separate scientists studied patients with language problems. They found that their patients all had lesions or damage in two certain areas of their brain. One area known as Broca's area controlled talking. The other area Wernicke's area was found to control understanding of language.
This way of looking at problems in the brain lead to studies of epileptic patients. An epileptic patient is a person that frequently suffers from seizures. These seizures were studied to learn more about how the brain sends electrical signals. These electrical signals were then measured. It was found that each neuron can send a signal at certain speeds. These neurons were then dyed with a stain in order to be seen. At first it was thought that all nerves were connected like a web called a nerve net. However, with more complex stain it was found that each nerve is separate and can fire on their own.
In the early part of the 20th century, there was a long time that cognitive neuropsychology was not studied. This was partly because of the influence of John B. Watson, who was a behaviorist in psychology. He argued that cognition could not be studied scientifically because it could not be observed. So for the first half of the 20th century, psychology as a field was dominated by behaviorism, which was mainly stimuli and a person’s response to it. John B. Watson was only one psychologist to criticize cognitive psychology. Pierre Marie in 1906 criticized Broca, who was one of the first to create the field of Cognitive Neuropsychology. Henry Head in 1926 also attacked the whole field of cognitive neuropsychology. Due to these criticisms, and the influence of behaviorism, cognitive neuropsychology was dormant for many years.
Another reason why cognitive neuropsychology disappeared in the early twentieth century was because the science was not yet advanced enough. Many cognitive psychologists were also neurologists. These two fields of study were not separate yet, as they are today. These neurologists wanted to study modules in the brain, and localize them with parts of the brain, but technology did not allow this yet. The methods used today were not yet created. They could only study where a person’s brain lesion was by doing an autopsy after the person was already dead. This was a lot of the reason this field was criticized against, and why many people believed cognition could not be studied scientifically.
In the middle of the twentieth century there was a transition called the 'Cognitive Revolution' in psychology. This is when psychologists began to agree that there were scientific ways to study cognition. These new beliefs about cognitive psychology were brought on by John C. Marshall's and Nora Newcombe’s study of reading, and Shallice and Warrington’s study of memory in the early 1970s. In the mid 1980s the first undergraduate book was published by Ellis & Young named "Human Cognitive Neuropsychology". There was also an emergence of new technology that made it easier to study the brain and the mind. The 1970s and 1980s was the time period that cognitive neuropsychology became visible, and many psychologists started studying it after.
An important feature of the later half of the twentieth century was the clear separation of cognitive neuropsychology and cognitive neuroscience. Cognitive neuropsychologists study the human mind after brain damage has occurred, and focus more on cognition. Cognitive neuroscientists study the human brain and neural systems after brain damage has occurred, and focus more attention on the neurons. While the cognitive neuroscientists are concerned with how the brain works, and what parts of the brain is responsible for what functions, cognitive neuropsychologists want to study people with brain damage to try and see how the human mind works. With this information, they can formulate theories about the human mind, and also make better therapies for people with brain damage.
An important feature that was developed in the twentieth century is the way that research is conducted. Since every single person’s brain damage is different, cognitive neuropsychologists study only single cases instead of groups of people, or syndromes. Psychologists study the mind by looking at people who lost some sort of function after brain damage occurred. For example, if a person could recognize both faces and objects before brain damage occurred, but then after brain damage in a certain part of the brain they could only recognize faces and not objects, then psychologists can make inferences about the functions in certain modules of the brain.
The late 20th century was also when they began using computational models of cognition. The psychologists would make theories and install them into a computer, then virtually damage the fake brain where the patient had damage. By doing this, they can get a better look at how the mind works. This is one way that technology has helped in studying the human mind. This, along with the invention of the devices to scan the brain, has made a big difference in cognitive neuropsychology.
Cognitive neuropsychologists use the method of double dissociation when studying the modules of the mind. This is when they use many patients who have had brain damage and try to figure out which parts of the brain are responsible for different cognition. This concept of modularity was developed by Jerry Fodor in his 1983 book The Modularity of the Mind. Psychologists disagree as to how much and which parts of the mind is constructed modules.
In this century, cognitive neuropsychologists use many methods to study the mind. They use machines that scan the brain to see where the damage is, and then study cognitive abilities of these patients. They still use double dissociation for studying the patients, case studies, computational models, and many other features that were invented in the late twentieth century. With new technology, there is likely to be a lot of improvement in this field.
These people all contributed to cognitive neuroscience in some way. Each contributed to at least one thing listed above in the development and history of cognitive neuropsychology. They are:
Cognitive neuropsychology uses of investigations of people with problems of cognition to learn more about normal cognitive processes. This is possible through the many technological advances such as:

</doc>
<doc id="428069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428069" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Lesser Known Figures">
Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Lesser Known Figures

Lesser Known Figures is a research project for a school in California. Up to 65 students will be researching and editing articles on historical figures, mostly from the first millennium, from China, various regions of Africa, and the Middle East. They will research in library reference sources and then they will edit and cite the sources they reference in the Simple English Wikipedia article. 
They will create their accounts in the day or two prior to the workshop, and they will be doing the actual editing from about 2:00-3:15 PST on Wednesday, December 4, 2013. 
For articles: Please add this banner on the top of each article you work on. It indicates to other Wikipedia users this article is part of the Little KNown Historical Figures project.

</doc>
<doc id="428075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428075" title="Sulukta">
Sulukta

Sulukta is a small town in Kyrgyzstan. Over 20 thousand people live in Sulukta.

</doc>
<doc id="428076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428076" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Old Main Page templates">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Old Main Page templates


</doc>
<doc id="428077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428077" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Template:Symbols">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Template:Symbols


</doc>
<doc id="428078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428078" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Template:PD-USGov">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Template:PD-USGov


</doc>
<doc id="428087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428087" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Unofficial flagicon codes">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Unofficial flagicon codes


</doc>
<doc id="428089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428089" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Timid Tabby">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Timid Tabby


</doc>
<doc id="428091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428091" title="Surface mining">
Surface mining

Surface mining is a method which operates on the surface of the land. Machines remove the overburden to get at material, such as coal, below it. 
Surface mining includes strip mining, open-pit mining (UK: open cast mining) and mountaintop removal mining. It is mining in which soil and rock overlying the mineral deposit are removed. It is the opposite of underground mining, in which the overlying rock is left in place, and the mineral removed through shafts or tunnels. 
Surface mining gained popularity throughout the 20th century, and became the main way of coal mining in places such as Appalachia and America's Midwest.
In most forms of surface mining, heavy equipment, such as earthmovers, first remove the overburden. Next, huge machines, such as dragline excavators or Bucket-wheel excavators, extract the mineral.

</doc>
<doc id="428092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428092" title="Control system">
Control system

Control system is a device or system that gives commands to manage the behavior of other devices or systems. The commands can be set or programmed, and the output is determined by the input. A control system is represented by a logic diagram.

</doc>
<doc id="428093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428093" title="Cyclonic separation">
Cyclonic separation

A cyclonic separation is a process to take out all of the unwanted particles from air, gas or steam. The process uses the vortex separation process and does not use air filtering. It uses rotational and gravitational force to separate the unwanted particles. The process is done in a cyclone or cyclone separator.

</doc>
<doc id="428094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428094" title="Boiler">
Boiler

A boiler is a device used to heat water or other fluids until it boils or before boiling point. The heated or vaporized fluid is then used for various process applications, such as central heating, power generation, cooking, and sanitation.
The source of the heat for boiler can be from coal, oil, wood, rejected heat or natural gas.

</doc>
<doc id="428097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428097" title="Bulk material handling">
Bulk material handling

Bulk material handling is a field of engineering. It involves designing equipment to handle dry materials in their bulk form. It consists of stationary machinery, mobile equipment and storage facilities. The purpose of this process is to transport materials from one place to another place or places.

</doc>
<doc id="428101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428101" title="SAP Center at San Jose">
SAP Center at San Jose

The SAP Center at San Jose is a sports arena in San Jose, California. The arena opened on September 7, 1993, and is the current home to the San Jose Sharks of the National Hockey League (NHL) and the San Jose Sabercats of the Arena Football League (AFL).
The arena was originally known as San Jose Arena from 1993 to 2001, the Compaq Center at San Jose from 2001 to 2002, and as HP Pavilion at San Jose from 2002 to 2013. SAP acquired the naming rights for the arena in June 2013 and renamed the arena SAP Center at San Jose.
The arena has held many WWE events as well including: the Royal Rumble in 1998, SummerSlam in 2001, and The Great American Bash in 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="428106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428106" title="Honda Center">
Honda Center

The Honda Center is a sports arena in Anaheim, California. The arena opened on June 19, 1993, and is the current home to the Anaheim Ducks of the National Hockey League (NHL) and will be the home of the future Los Angeles Kiss of the Arena Football League (AFL) in 2014.
The arena was originally known as Pond of Anaheim in 1993 and as Arrowhead Pond of Anaheim from 1993 to 2006. Honda acquired the naming rights for the arena in October 2006.
The arena has held many WWE events as well including: WrestleMania XII in 1996, the Royal Rumble in 1999, and WrestleMania 2000 in 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="428111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428111" title="Pat Tanaka">
Pat Tanaka

Patrick "Pat" Tanaka (born August 5, 1961) is an American professional wrestler.
He is best known for working with American Wrestling Association where he was one half of Badd Company and the World Wrestling Federation where he was one half of The Orient Express.
While in AWA, he won the AWA World Tag Team Championship as a member of Badd Company on March 19, 1988 when they defeated the Midnight Rockers. The team held the championships for a year and the lost them to the Olympians (Brad Rheingans and Ken Patera) on March 25, 1989.
In mid-March 2006, he opened Fighting Spirit Dojo in Minster, Ohio along with shoot-fighter Jody Poff. He teaches judo to more than 50 students while Poff teaches a group of mixed-martial-artists. 

</doc>
<doc id="428114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428114" title="Category:Variable stars">
Category:Variable stars


</doc>
<doc id="428115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428115" title="Cranes (band)">
Cranes (band)

Cranes are a British dream pop band. Their most well known song is perhaps "Shining Road". They started in 1989 in Southsea, Portsmouth, England. The band's starting members were Alison Shaw, the singer, her brother Jim Shaw, and guitarist Kevin Dunford. In fact the guitarist preferred to be known as Mark and had diverse musical influences such as Lou Reed and MC 900 foot Jesus (but not Frank Zappa). He also liked building experimental computer-based devices to alter his guitar-sound as well as wearing experimental hair. In 1989 their EP "Self Non Self" was released by Bite Back. In 1990 they released an EP called "Inescapable". It was their first release on the record label Dedicated. Later in 1990 they released another EP, "Espero".
Their first album, "Wings of Joy", was released in 1991. It reached number fifty-two in the UK Album Chart. In 1992 they performed at The Cure's Wish Tour. Their second album "Forever" was released in 1993. It got to number forty in the UK. The single "Jewel" reached number twenty-nine in the UK Singles Chart. It was their best-selling single.
Their third album "Loved" was released in 1994. Three singles were released from the album: "Lilies", "Shining Road", and "Beautiful Friend". That year Dunford left the band. In 1996 Cranes released 10,000 copies of "La Tragédie d'Oreste et Électre". In the album Shaw sings in French. The next year "Population 4" was released. It was their last album on Dedicated.
In 1997 the band broke up. In 2000 they reformed. They released "Future Songs" in 2001. In 2002 they performed before The Cure at Hyde Park. They released an EP called "Submarine". Only 2000 copies of it were made. There were eight songs on it. All of them were remixes. In 2004 "Particles and Waves" was released. Cranes performed as the opening act for The Cure at the Move Festival. In 2007 Cherry Red Records released "Wings of Joy" again. Seven extra songs were on it. In 2008 they released an album called "Cranes" on their record label Dadaphonic. Pitchfork gave it a score of 7.2 out of 10. In 2009 "Loved" was released again by Cherry Red Records. There were seven extra songs on it.

</doc>
<doc id="428134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428134" title="Zola Jesus">
Zola Jesus

Nika Roza Danilova (born April 11, 1989), better known as Zola Jesus, is an American singer-songwriter. She has released three albums. 
Danilova was born in Phoenix, Arizona to Russian parents. She was raised in Merrill, Wisconsin.
In 2008 Danilova released Poor Sons.
In 2009, she made her first album, "The Spoils", in her apartment. Sacred Bones Records released it in 2010. "Pitchfork" gave it a score of 7.6/10. 
In March 2010 "Stridulum" was released. It was an EP of six songs. 
Her second album "Stridulum II" was released in August 2010. It was her first album in the UK. In October 2010, she released an extended play called "Valusia".
Her third album "Conatus" was released in October 2011. Danilova sang on "New France" on Orbital's 2012 album "Wonky". 
In August 2013 "Versions" was released.

</doc>
<doc id="428138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428138" title="Bowser Jr.">
Bowser Jr.

Bowser Jr. is a character from the "Mario" video game series. He is the son of Bowser. He first appeared in "Super Mario Sunshine". Since then, he has appeared in spin-off games such as "Mario Superstar Baseball" and "Mario Strikers Charged".
Bowser Jr. first appears in "Super Mario Sunshine", where he disturbs Mario's vacation with Princess Peach on Delfino Isle by making the island dirty and kidnapping Peach. He makes himself look like Mario, so the people of the island put Mario in jail. He kidnapped Peach because Bowser made him think that Peach was his mother, and he had to keep her safe. He later finds out that Peach is not actually his mother, but he still wants to fight Mario again.
He later appears in "New Super Mario Bros.", where he is the boss of the tower levels at the middle of each world.
Jr. appears in "Super Mario Galaxy", where he helps his father in battling Mario. He also has three worlds of his own.
Jr. makes an appearance in "New Super Mario Bros. Wii" along with the Koopalings, where he appears on an airship (a type of flying ship).
Jr. appears in "Super Mario Galaxy 2", where he helps his father in battling Mario like in "Super Mario Galaxy".
He also appears in "New Super Mario Bros. U", along with the Koopalings and his father.
Jr. is a character who appears a lot in the "Mario" spin-off games. He appears in ' and "Mario Kart Wii". He also appears in some of the "Mario" sports games. He appears as a mini-boss in "Mario Party 9". He has his own space on the boards where players have to play a minigame with him. He appears in "Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games" along with its sequel "Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games", and "Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games". He appears in ' as a boss, and in "" as a boss in the Battle Ring.

</doc>
<doc id="428142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428142" title="Matt Bloom">
Matt Bloom

Matthew Jason "Matt" Bloom (born November 14, 1972) is an American professional wrestler. He currently works for the WWE under the ring name, Tensai.
He also wrestled under the ring names Prince Albert (or simply Albert) and A-Train in his early days of the WWF/E. He also competed under the ring name Giant Bernard during his tenure in Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="428143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428143" title="Battle of the Netherlands">
Battle of the Netherlands

The Battle of the Netherlands () was part of the German invasion of France and the Low Countries (Belgium, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands) during World War II. The battle lasted from 10 May 1940 until the main Dutch forces surrendered on the 14th. Dutch troops in the province of Zealand continued to fight the until 17 May, when Germany occupied the whole nation.
The Battle of the Netherlands was one of the first major uses of paratroopers to land near important targets before ground troops reached the area. The German "Luftwaffe" used paratroopers to capture several major airfields in the Netherlands.
The battle ended soon after the terrible bombing of Rotterdam by the German "Luftwaffe". The Germans threatened to bomb other large Dutch cities if Dutch forces refused to surrender. The Dutch surrendered to prevent other cities from being destroyed. The Netherlands was occupied by Germany until 1945, when Dutch territory was freed.
Britain and France declared war on Germany in 1939, after Germany invaded Poland. No major land attacks happened in Western Europe during the winter of 1939–1940. During this time, the British and French built up their forces to get ready for a long war, and the Germans occupied Poland.
On 9 October, Adolf Hitler ordered plans for an invasion of the Low Countries. He wanted to use them as a base to attack Great Britain. He also wanted to prevent an attack by the Allied forces, which could threaten the Ruhr Area.
The Dutch were not ready to stop an invasion. When Hitler came to power, the Dutch had begun to re-arm, but more slowly than France or Belgium. Only in 1936 did the Dutch government start to increase their defense budget.
Dutch governments did not see Germany as a military threat. Partly this was because they did not want to cause problems with an important trade partner. The Dutch did not criticize Nazi policies. The Dutch made strict budget limits to fight the Great Depression, which was hard on Dutch society.
Hendrikus Colijn, the Dutch Prime Minister between 1933 and 1939, did not think Germany would go against Dutch neutrality and invade the Netherlands. Senior officers did not try to encourage improving military defence.
International stress grew in the late 1930s. Countries got concerned by the German occupation of the Rhineland in 1936; the "Anschluss" and Sudeten crisis of 1938; the German occupation of Bohemia and Moravia in 1939; and the Italian invasion of Albania in the spring of 1939.
These events made the Dutch government be more careful, but they limited their reaction as much as they could. Their most important reaction was to get 100,000 men ready to fight in April 1939.
After the German invasion of Poland in September 1939 and the start of the Second World War, the Netherlands hoped to remain neutral. The Netherlands had been neutral during the First World War 25 years earlier.
The Dutch army was ready by 24 August and set up in trenches. Large amounts of money (almost 900 million guilders) were spent on defence. It was very difficult to obtain new weapons in wartime. The Dutch had ordered some equipment from Germany, which delayed deliveries.
A lot of the defence funds were used for the Dutch East Indies (now Indonesia). A lot of the money was spent on a plan to build three battle cruisers.
The Low Countries' position between France and Germany made the area a good route for either side to attack the other. In a 20 January 1940 radio speech, Winston Churchill tried to get the Dutch to join with the British. Both the Belgians and the Dutch refused, even though Belgium had learned about Germany's plans to attack.
The Allies planned to attack Germany in the summer of 1941. The French thought about going against the neutrality of the Low Countries and attacking them if they had not joined the Allies before then. If Germany attacked the Netherlands, the Allies would have to go through Belgium. The Allies also worried that the Netherlands might allow a German army into Belgium through the southern part of their lands.
The Dutch government never decided what to do. Most of the ministers wanted to resist an attack. A minority refused to become a German ally. The Dutch tried to organize a peace settlement between the Allies and Germany.
After the German invasion of Norway and Denmark, followed by a warning by Japan that a German attack on the Netherlands was going to happen, the Dutch military knew they would have to fight. They started to prepare for war. Dutch border troops were put on alert.
Reports of a Fifth Column (enemy agents acting in a country) in Scandinavia caused fears that the Netherlands also had German agents and traitors. The Dutch prepared for attacks on airfields and ports.
On 19 April, the Netherlands declared a state of emergency. However, most civilians thought their country might not have a war. The Dutch hoped to avoid a war with terrible numbers of deaths. On 10 April, Britain and France again asked the Dutch to enter the war on the Allies' side. Again, the Dutch refused.
In the Netherlands, a good defence was possible. The land helped the defender, and there was a strong industrial base, including an arms industry. The Wehrmacht lacked equipment and training, but the Dutch army was very weak.
The Germans had better equipment than the Netherlands. The modern German army had tanks and dive bombers (such as the Junkers Ju 87 "Stuka"). The Dutch army's armoured forces were only 39 armoured cars and five tankettes, and an air force of biplanes.
The Dutch military had not got much new equipment since before the First World War. During the 1920s, the Dutch government limited their defense budget because of an economic recession that lasted from 1920 until 1927. In that decade, only 1.5 million guilders per year was spent on equipment. Only in February 1936 was a bill passed creating a special 53.4 million guilder defence fund.
The lack of trained troops, a large professional organization, or good weapons made it hard to make the Dutch forces larger. There was just enough artillery for the larger units. Light infantry battalions were spread all over the country to delay enemy movement.
They had many pillboxes, about two thousand in number, but the lines were thin. Modern large fortresses like the Belgian fortress of Eben Emael did not exist. The only modern fortification was the one at Kornwerderzand.
Total Dutch forces were 48 regiments of infantry, as well as 22 infantry battalions for border defence. In comparison, Belgium had 22 full divisions and 30 divisions when smaller units were included.
After September 1939, the Dutch tried to improve the situation, but with little result. Germany delayed its deliveries of weapons. France did not want to sell weapons to an army that would not take its side.
The Dutch could not get weapons from the other possible source, the Soviet Union, because the Dutch did not recognize their communist government. An attempt in 1940 to get Soviet armour captured by Finland failed.
On 10 May, the Dutch Army had a shortage of armour. Other countries had good armoured forces. The Netherlands had not been able to get 146 modern tanks. A single Renault FT 17 tank was all the Dutch had. It was no longer working by 1940.
There were two groups of armoured cars, each with a dozen Landsverk M36 or M38 vehicles; another dozen DAF M39 cars were being prepared. A single platoon of five Carden-Loyd Mark VI tankettes was all the armour they had.
The Dutch Artillery had 676 howitzers and field guns: 310 Krupp 75 mm field guns; 52 105 mm Bofors howitzers, the only really modern pieces; 144 obsolete Krupp 125 mm guns; 40 150 mm sFH13's; 72 Krupp 150 mm L/24 howitzers and 28 Vickers 152 mm L/15 howitzers.
As antitank-guns 386 Böhler 47 mm L/39s were available, but there were not enough. There were another three hundred old "6 Veld" (57 mm) and "8 Staal" (84 mm) field guns. Only eight of the 120 modern 105 mm pieces ordered from Germany had been delivered at the time of the invasion. Most artillery was horse-drawn.
The Dutch Infantry used about 2,200 7.92 mm Schwarzlose M.08 machine guns, and eight hundred Vickers machine guns. Many of these were in the pillboxes; each battalion had a heavy machine gun company of twelve.
The Dutch infantry squads had a light machine gun, the M.20 Lewis machine gun of which about eight thousand were available. This weapon often jammed and it was not good for attacks. Most Dutch infantry had the Dutch Mannlicher rifle. This weapon had been used for over 40 years, and it was out of date, but the Dutch military did not have the money to replace it.
There were but six 80 mm mortars for each regiment. This made it hard for the Dutch infantry to fight.
Despite the Netherlands having the company of Philips, one of Europe's largest producers of radio equipment, the Dutch army mostly used telephones. Only the Artillery had been given 225 radio sets.
After the German attack on Denmark and Norway in April 1940, when the Germans used large numbers of airborne troops, the Dutch were worried about a similar attack.
To stop this type of attack, five infantry battalions were put at the main ports and airbases, such as The Hague airfield of Ypenburg and the Rotterdam airfield of Waalhaven. These were given AA-guns, two tankettes and twelve of the 24 operational armoured cars. The Dutch put 32 hospital ships throughout the country and fifteen trains to help make troop movements easier.
The Dutch air force had 155 aircraft: 28 Fokker G.1 twin-engine destroyers; 31 Fokker D.XXI and seven Fokker D.XVII fighters; ten twin-engined Fokker T.V, fifteen Fokker C.X and 35 Fokker C.V light bombers, twelve Douglas DB-8 dive bombers (used as fighters) and seventeen Koolhoven FK-51 reconnaissance aircraft. 74 of the 155 aircraft were biplanes. Of these aircraft 125 worked.
The air force school used three Fokker D.XXI, six Fokker D.XVII, a single Fokker G.I, a single Fokker T-V and seven Fokker C.V, along with several training airplanes. Another forty aircraft were the marine air service along with about an equal number of reserve and training craft.
There was a Dutch military aircraft industry, consisting of Fokker and Koolhoven. However, the Dutch military could not afford new planes.
The Dutch Army was poorly equipped. It was also poorly trained. There was little experience leading forces bigger than the battalion level. From 1932 until 1936, the Dutch Army did not hold summer field exercises to save money. Also, soldiers lacked many skills. Until 1938, those who were joined only served for 24 weeks, just enough to receive basic infantry training. That same year, service time was increased to eleven months. There was not many professional military staff. In 1940 there were only 1206 professional officers.
Most available time was spent constructing defences. During this period, munition shortages limited live fire training, and units were not organized. In May 1940, the Dutch Army was not ready for battle. It could not do a major attack or move around on the battlefield.
German generals and Hitler thought that the Dutch military was weak. They expected that Holland could be captured in about three to five days.
In the 17th century, the Dutch Republic had developed a defensive system called The Dutch Water Line. It could protect all major cities in the west by flooding part of the countryside. In the early 19th century this line was shifted to the east, beyond Utrecht. Later, fortresses were built.
This new position was called the New Holland Water Line. The line was given new pillboxes in 1940. The line was below sea level. This allowed it to be flooded with a few feet of water. This was too shallow for boats, but deep enough to turn the soil into mud. The area west of the New Holland Water Line was called Fortress Holland (Dutch: "Vesting Holland"; German: "Festung Holland"). The eastern side was covered by Lake IJssel and the southern side protected by three rivers. It was expected to hold out for a long period of time.
Some people thought the defences would protect the country for three months without any Allied help. Before the war the intention was to move to this position, and hope that Germany would only travel through the southern provinces on its way to Belgium and leave Holland undamaged.
In 1939, this attitude made it impossible to negotiate with the Allies about defence. Proposals by German diplomats that the Dutch government would accept a German advance into the country were rejected.
From September 1939 a more easterly Main Defence Line (MDL) was built. This second defensive position was dug on orders from the commander of the Field Army, Lieutenant-General Jan Joseph Godfried baron van Voorst tot Voorst. This line was extended by a southern part between the river Maas and the Belgian border. In the south the goal was to delay the Germans so that the French could advance.
Fourth and Second Army Corps were put at the Grebbe Line; Third Army Corps were put at the Peel-Raam Position with the Light Division behind it to cover its southern side. Brigade A and B were positioned between the Lower Rhine and the Maas. First Army Corps was a reserve in the Fortress Holland, the southern edge of which was protected by another ten battalions and the eastern side by six battalions. All these lines were protected by pillboxes.
In front of this Main Defence Line was the "IJssel-Maaslinie". It had pillboxes and fourteen "border battalions". Late in 1939 General Van Voorst tot Voorst wanted to use the rivers as a defence. He proposed a battle at the crossing sites near Arnhem and Gennep to force the German divisions to use a lot of their energy before they had reached the MDL.
This was deemed too risky by the Dutch government and General Reijnders. The Government wanted the army to resist at the Grebbe Line and Peel Raam Position, and then fall back to the Fortress Holland. Reijnders was not given full military authority in the defence zones. On 5 February 1940 he resigned because of these disagreements with his superiors. He was replaced by General Henry G. Winkelman who decided that in the north the Grebbe Line would be where the battle was to be fought, partly because it would be easier to counterattack.
During the Phoney War the Dutch said they were neutral. In secret, the Dutch military talked with both Belgium and France to organize a common defence to a German invasion. This failed because of differences of opinion about which strategy to follow.
Belgium, though it said it was neutral, had made arrangements for working with Allied troops. This made it more difficult for the Dutch to make arrangements with the Belgians. He did not approve of a plan by Van Voorst tot Voorst to occupy the "Orange Position to form a continuous line with the Belgian lines.
When Winkelman took over command, he proposed on 21 February that Belgium would set up a connecting line with the Peel Raam Position along the Belgian part of the Zuid-Willemsvaart. The Belgians refused to do this unless the Dutch sent in new troops in Limburg. The Dutch had no forces available. Repeated Belgian requests to defend the Orange Position were refused by Winkelman.
Therefore, the Belgians decided to withdraw, in an invasion, all their troops to their main defence line, the Albert Canal. This created a gap forty kilometres wide. The French were asked to fill it. Now the French Commander in Chief General Maurice Gamelin was more than interested in including the Dutch in his continuous line. But he would not stretch his supply lines that far unless the Belgians and Dutch would take the allied side. When both nations refused, Gamelin said he would occupy a position near Breda.
Winkelman decided on 30 March to abandon the Peel-Raam Position after a German attack. He withdrew his Third Army Corps to the Linge. This Waal-Linge Position was planned to have pillboxes; the budget for pillboxes was increased with a hundred million guilders.
In addition to the Dutch Army and the German 18th Army, a third force would operate on Dutch soil: the French 7th Army. Both the French and the Germans saw the possibility of a surprise attack. For the Germans this would mean bypassing the Antwerp-Namur line.
Rapid forces were needed to protect important locations from the enemy. Long before the Germans did, the French had thought of using airborne troops to do speedy attacks. A naval division and an infantry division were set to go to Zealand to block the Western Scheldt against a German crossing.
French Commander in Chief General Maurice Gamelin feared the Dutch would surrender or accept German protection. He reassigned the former French strategic reserve, the 7th Army, to go in front of Antwerp. The force consisted of the 16th Army Corps, the 9th Motorised and the 4th Infantry Division; and the 1st Army Corps, consisting of the 25th Motorised Infantry Division and the 21st Infantry Division.
This army was later reinforced by the 1st Mechanised Light Division, an armoured division of the French Cavalry. Together with the two divisions in Zealand, seven French divisions were to be used.
Although the French troops would have more motorised units than the Germans, they could not hope to reach their places in the battle before the enemy did. Their only prospect of beating the Germans was using rail transport.
They would have to build up their forces near Breda. They needed the Dutch troops in the Peel-Raam Position to delay the Germans for a few extra days to allow French forces to move in and dig trenches. These consisted of the reconnaissance units of the armoured and motorised divisions, with armoured cars. These would be put into two task forces.
During the plans for "Fall Gelb" the idea of leaving the Fortress Holland alone was considered. The first plan of 19 October 1939 suggested a full occupation. In the version of 29 October it was proposed to limit the invasion to a line south of Venlo. In the "Holland-Weisung" (Holland Directive) of 15 November it was decided to conquer the entire south, but in the north to advance no further than the Grebbe Line, and to occupy the Frisian Isles.
Hermann Göring wanted a full capture of Holland as he needed the Dutch airfields to use against Britain. He was afraid the Allies might reinforce Fortress Holland and use the airfields to bomb German cities and troops. A swift defeat would also free troops for other sectors.
On 17 January 1940 they decided to conquer all of the Netherlands. However, few units were available for this task. The main effort of "Fall Gelb" would be made in the centre, between Namur and Sedan, France. The attack at central Belgium was only a trick; and the attack at Fortress Holland only a trick as well.
Although both the 6th and 18th Army were in place at the Dutch border, the first, larger force would move south of Venlo to Belgium. This would leave just the 18th Army under General Georg von Küchler to attack the Dutch main force.
Of all German armies in the battle, this was the weakest. It contained only four regular infantry divisions (the 207th, 227th, 254th and 256th Infantry Divisions), assisted by three reserve divisions (208th, 225th, and 526th Infantry Divisions). Six of these divisions were units created in August 1939 from territorial "Landwehr" units. They had few professional officers and little fighting experience.
Like the Dutch Army, most soldiers (88%) lacked training. The seventh division was the 526th Infantry Division, which lacked combat training. The German divisions had 17,807 men, fifty percent larger than their Dutch counterparts. They had twice their firepower, but even so they did mot have enough men for a successful attack.
To add more men, the only German cavalry division, the 1st "Kavalleriedivision" was told to capture the weakly defended provinces east of the river IJssel. A landing in Holland near Enkhuizen was to be attempted, using barges. As both efforts were unlikely to do well, the regular divisions were reinforced by the "SS-Verfügungsdivision" (including "SS-Standarten" "Der Führer", "Deutschland" and "Germania") and "Leibstandarte Adolf Hitler". These would attack the Dutch fortified positions. Still this added only 1 division to the equation.
To ensure a victory the Germans used new methods. The Germans had trained two airborne divisions. The first of these, the "7. Flieger-Division", was paratroopers; the second, the 22nd "Luftlande-Infanteriedivision", of airborne infantry. The airborne troops would capture the airfields around The Hague, and then capture that government, together with the Dutch High Command and Queen Wilhelmina.
The plan, "Fall Festung", had been developed by Hitler. If the first attack did not succeed, the bridges at Rotterdam, Dordrecht and Moerdijk would be captured to allow a mechanised force to move in. This force was to be the German 9th Panzer Division. They were the only German armoured division having just two tank battalions. the total number of tanks in the group was 141. The plan was for them to go through a gap in the Dutch lines created by the 254th and 256th Infantry Divisions. Then they would join up with them, forming the "XXVI. Armeekorps". At the same time, an attack would be made against the Grebbe Line in the east by the 207th and 227th Infantry Divisions, united to form "X. Armeekorps", to fight the Dutch Army. The plan was to force the Dutch back to the east front of the Fortress Holland or beyond. If the Dutch did not surrender on the first day, the Eighteenth Army would attack Fortress Holland on the third day from the south.
The German people and troops disliked the idea of going against Dutch neutrality. The Germans said the invasion was to stop the Allies from occupying the Low Countries. Some German officers did not like the Nazi government and were also unhappy with the invasion.
One of them was Colonel Hans Oster, a German intelligence officer. In March 1939 he began to pass information to his friend, a Dutch military officer in Berlin Major Gijsbertus J. Sas. This information included the German attack date. Sas informed the Allies. Sas knowing the date of the attack on Denmark and Norway was not noticed. Though he said a German armoured division would try to attack the Netherlands and that there was a plan to capture the Queen, the Dutch defence plan was not changed.
On 4 May Sas warned that an attack was coming soon. When in the evening of 9 May Oster phoned his friend saying the attack would be soon, the Dutch troops were put on alert.
Oster was a leader of the German resistance from 1938 to 1943, and was one of those hanged after the 20 July 1944 bomb plot to kill Hitler.
On the morning of 10 May 1940, Germany attacked the Netherlands, Belgium, France and Luxembourg.
In the night the Luftwaffe flew into Dutch lands. One group, "Kampfgeschwader 4" (KG 4), attacked the Dutch airfields. Led by "Oberst" (Colonel) Martin Fiebig, KG 4 attacked the naval airfield at De Kooy, destroying 35 aircraft. Fiebig was shot down and spent five days as a Dutch prisoner of war.
KG 4 also attacked Amsterdam-Schiphol, where the Dutch lost a third of their medium bombers, and The Hague airfields where KG 4 destroyed half of the 21 defending fighters. KG 4 lost 11 Heinkel He 111 bombers on 10 May and three Junkers Ju 88s; KG 30 and 54 another nine bombers. "Jagdgeschwader 26" (JG 26) and "Zerstörergeschwader 26" (ZG 26) shot down 25 Dutch aircraft for a loss of nine fighters, with Albert Kesselring's "Luftflotte 2" destroying 41.
The Dutch were left with just 70 aircraft by the end of the day. They continued to fight the "Luftwaffe", shooting down 13 German fighter aircraft by 14 May.
Paratroopers were landed near the airfields. Dutch anti-aircraft batteries shot down numerous Ju 52 transport planes. German Ju 52 losses in the battle were about 250 planes.
The attack on The Hague was a failure. The paratroopers did not capture the main airfield at Ypenburg in time for the airborne infantry to land in their Junkers. Five Landsverks, assisted by machine guns, destroyed the eighteen Junkers, killing many troops.
When the airstrip was blocked by wrecks the remaining planes landed in meadows or on the beach, spreading out the troops. The small airfield of Ockenburg was captured by the Germans.
The airfield of Valkenburg was occupied. However, the landing strip was still being built and the water level had not yet been lowered: planes landing there sank in the soft soil.
None of the airfields could be used to land new troops. The paratroopers occupied Ypenburg but did not get into The Hague. They were blocked by Dutch troops. Early in the afternoon they fired on by three Dutch artillery batteries. Dutch artillery drove away the German troops from the other two airfields.
The attack on Rotterdam was much more successful. Twelve Heinkel He 59 seaplanes landed in the city. They captured the Willemsbrug, a bridge over the Nieuwe Maas. At the same time the military airfield of Waalhaven was attacked by airborne forces.
Here an infantry battalion was close to the airfield. The paratroopers landed near them. A fight followed. The first group of Junkers suffered no losses and the transports continued to land. In the end the Dutch defenders were defeated. The Germans occupied IJsselmonde.
The Royal Netherlands Navy's torpedo boats "Z5" and "TM 51" attacked the "Willemsbrug". The destroyer HNLMS "Van Galen" sailed up the Nieuwe Waterweg to bomb the airfield, but the ship got bombed. A plan to send the gunboats HNLMS "Flores" and HNLMS "Johan Maurits van Nassau" was stopped.
At the Island of Dordrecht the Dordrecht bridge was captured but the Dutch fought on. The long Moerdijk bridges were captured and fortified on the southern side.
An armoured train crossed it followed by a troop train, which unloaded an infantry battalion behind the defence line.
Generally German soldiers behaved in a civilised manner towards the Dutch population, buying food at the shops.
After the failed assaults on the bridges, the German divisions began crossing over the rivers IJssel and Maas. The first attacks were destroyed by fire from the pillboxes.
At most places, bombing destroyed the pillboxes and the infantry divisions crossed the river by building pontoon bridges. At Arnhem, "Leibstandarte Der Fuehrer" led the attack and advanced to the Grebbe Line, followed by "207. Infanteriedivision".
A withdrawal was planned for the first night after the invasion, in the darkness. Due to the rapid German advance a quick retreat was ordered at 06:45. The corps joined "Brigade G", six battalions already occupying the Waal-Linge line.
The Light Division, based at Vught, was the only force the Dutch Army had that could move about. Its withdrawal had been done a day early. Its regiments had reached the Noord river in the evening.
Meanwhile, on the evening of the 10th, around 22:00, French troops using Panhard 178 armoured cars started to arrive at the Dutch border. After them, the French 1st Mechanised Light Division moved forward. Attempts to get the French to move forward with the Dutch troops towards Noord-Brabant did not work well.
When a first attack had been stopped, an attack at the Main Defense Line was postponed because most artillery had not arrived. In the early evening, they attacked even though there was only one 105 mm battery.
Colonel Schmidt at 20:30 ordered the Peel-Raam Position to be abandoned. He told his troops to go to the west at a new line at the Zuid-Willemsvaart canal.
In the North, by the end of the day, "1. Kavalleriedivision" had reached the line Meppel–Groningen. They were delayed by Dutch teams blowing up 236 bridges. Dutch troop strength in that area was weak.
In the south, the six border battalions in the province of Limburg delayed the advance of the German Sixth Army. Before noon Maastricht had surrendered. The Germans did not capture the main bridge intact. This delayed the crossing by the 4th Panzer Division until the next day.
On 11 May the Dutch commander General Winkelman had two goals. First of all he wanted to kill the German airborne troops. He thought that the German possession of the Moerdijk bridges would stop the movement of new Allied troops.
The second goal was to help the French army to make a strong defensive line in North Brabant.
Little was achieved this day. The attack by the Light Division against the airborne troops on IJsselmonde failed. The bridge over the river Noord was defended by the German paratroopers, and it was impossible to cross it. Several attempts to cross the river by boats were not that successful.
At 10:15, the Light Division was told to join the Dutch troops on the Island of Dordrecht. After killing German troops on the Island of Dordrecht the division was to advance into IJsselmonde over the Dordrecht bridge to reach Rotterdam.
Earlier during the day, two attempts were made by Dutch battalions to attack the western side of the German line. The First Battalion tried to attack the bridge at Barendrecht into IJsselmonde. The second battalion tried to capture more land.
Although its crossings were successful, the first battalion was attacked by the Germans. The second battalion had many men being taken prisoner.
Then a French force and another Dutch border battalion attacked the southern Moerdijk bridge, but the armoured cars were bombed by German Stukas and had to retreat.
In Rotterdam, the Dutch failed to kill the German airborne troops from their bridge on the northern bank of the Maas. The two remaining Dutch bombers failed to destroy the "Willemsbrug". None of the attempts to kill the groups of 1600 paratroopers and airlanded forces was successful.
In North Brabant, the situation got worse. The French commanders of the 7th Army had expected that Dutch fighting would give them four days to build up a defensive line near Breda. However, the best three divisions had been moved to the north and the remaining forces were retreating.
The withdrawal of the Peel Division from the Peel-Raam Position to the Zuid-Willemsvaart, a canal to the west, meant leaving behind their trenches and artillery for a totally unprepared line. The eastern bank of the canal was higher than the western bank, providing excellent cover for the attackers.
One part of the canal, near Heeswijk, was left undefended; as this area contained a bridge which was not destroyed, the Germans were able to cross the canal around 13:00.
A second crossing at Erp, led to a collapse of the line. By the end of the 11th, the Germans had crossed the Zuid-Willemsvaart at most places and the Peel Division had fallen apart. The French refused to advance further to the northeast than Tilburg, apart from some armoured cars that went as far as Berlicum.
Winkelman asked the British government to sent an Army Corps to add to allied positions in the area and bomb Waalhaven airfield.
Motorised elements of "SS Standarte "Der Fuehrer"" had reached the southernmost part of the Grebbe Line, in front of the "Grebbeberg", on the evening of the 10th. This Main Defense Line sector was protected by a line of outposts and two groups of infantry.
At about half past three in the morning of the 11th, German artillery started bombing the outposts. At dawn, two battalions of "Der Fuehrer" attacked. As the German bombing had cut the telephone lines, no artillery could be requested by the Dutch defenders.
The vegetation offered good cover for the attackers. At noon, the Germans broke a hole at the extreme north. By evening, all outposts were held by the Germans.
The commander of 2nd Army Corps, Major-General Jacob Harberts, did not realise that motorised SS troops had been involved in the attack. He thought that the outposts had surrendered to a small German force. He ordered a night attack by the single reserve battalion of 4th Division.
This attack was abandoned. However, heavy Dutch artillery fire caused the Germans to abandon their plans for a night attack.
Meanwhile, in the North, "1. Kavalleriedivision" advanced through the province of Friesland, reaching Sneek in the evening. Most Dutch troops had been evacuated from the north.
On the morning of 12 May General Winkelman still had hope. He thought a defence line could be set up in North Brabant with the help of the French. He also expected that the Dutch could kill the German airborne forces. He was not aware of any danger to the Grebbe Line.
"9. Panzerdivision" crossed the Meuse in the early morning of 11 May. It could not advance quickly over roads filled with infantry. The armoured division was told to join with the airborne troops as soon as the Peel-Raam Position had been captured by the infantry forces.
Because the German 6th Army was threatening its right side and there was no time to prepare a defence line, Gamelin ordered the 7th Army to withdraw its left side. "2e Brigade Légère Mécanique" retreated to the south.
The 9th Panzer Division took Colonel Schmidt prisoner. The Dutch troops in the province lost all command. Shortly after noon the German armoured cars got thirty kilometres more to the west, cutting off the Fortress Holland from the Allied main force. At 16:45 they had reached the bridges.
At 13:35 Gamelin ordered a withdrawal to Antwerp of all French troops in North-Brabant.
The Light Division tried to recapture the Island of Dordrecht by advancing with four battalions with little artillery support. On its left side, where there was almost no enemies, the advance went well. The battalion on the right side ran into an attacking German battalion. In the street fighting the German troops blocked the battalion. The other Dutch units then halted their advance around noon. No attack was made that day.
In Rotterdam and around The Hague little was done against the paratroopers. Most Dutch commanders did not attack. 
In the east the Germans attacked the Dutch defenders on the "Grebbeberg". After artillery bombing in the morning, at around noon a battalion of "Der Fuehrer" attacked the main line, occupied by a Dutch company.
The Germans got through the thin line. A second German battalion then attacked to the north. Dutch artillery, though equal in strength to the Germans, did not fire on the enemy infantry.
Due to a lack of numbers, training, and heavy weapons, the attacks failed against the well-trained SS troops. By the evening the Germans had the area under their control. Spotting a weak point, one of the SS battalion commanders, Obersturmbannführer Hilmar Wäckerle, attacked. The defenders mostly abandoned their positions. The SS company became surrounded.
The earlier German advance later caused the main line to be abandoned for over two miles to the north because the troops there feared an attack from behind.
The Dutch knew that the forces on the Grebbe Line would not be strong enough to stop all attacks by themselves. They were intended to delay an attack long enough for new troops to be sent. In the late evening it was decided to attack from the north the next day.
In the North, the Wons position had a long perimeter of about nine kilometres, which gave space for retreating troops. On 12 May units with a combined strength of only two battalions were still present, so the line was weakly held. The first German unit to arrive broke through. This forced the defenders to withdraw to the Enclosure Dike.
General Winkelman ordered the artillery bin the Hoekse Waard to try to destroy the Moerdijk bridges and sent a team to Rotterdam to blow up the "Willemsbrug". He also ordered the oil reserves of Royal Dutch Shell at Pernis to be set on fire.
The Dutch government asked Winston Churchill for three British divisions to battle the Germans. The new prime minister said he did not have any reserves; however, three British torpedo boats were sent to Lake IJssel. Also, 2nd Welsh Guard battalion was prepared to be sent, but it was too late.
The German command was very happy with the day's events. von Bock had requested another Army Corps. The French were retreating. von Bock decided to follow the French south towards Antwerp. Some forces would be sent to advance north with "254. Infanteriedivision", most of "9. Panzerdivision", and "SS Leibstandarte Adolf Hitler".
In the early morning of 13 May General Winkelman told the Dutch government that there were serious problems. On land the Dutch had been cut off from the Allied front and no major Allied landings were planned by sea. Without support, there was no hope of successful resistance.
German tanks might quickly pass through Rotterdam; Winkelman had already ordered all antitank-guns to be placed around The Hague, to protect the government. However, a collapse of the Dutch defences might still be prevented if attacks could seal off the southern front near Dordrecht and restore the eastern line at the Grebbeberg. Therefore, the cabinet decided to continue the fight, giving the general the power to surrender the Army when he thought he had to.
Queen Wilhelmina was brought to safety; she departed around noon from Hoek van Holland, where a British "Irish Guards" battalion was present, on "HMS Hereward", a British destroyer, and went to England.
The previous evening, the Queen's only child and Princess Juliana, together with her husband and their children, had departed from IJmuiden on "HMS Codrington " for Harwich.
As the Queen was part of the government, when she left, the cabinet had to whether to follow her or remain. After many discussions it was decided to leave also: the ministers sailed at 19:20 from Hoek van Holland on "HMS Windsor" to form a government in exile in London.
Three Dutch merchant ships, escorted by British warships, transferred government gold and diamonds to the United Kingdom.
While two tank companies of "9. Panzerdivision" remained to pursue the French, the other four began to cross the Moerdijk bridge at 05:20. Two staff companies with tanks also went to the northern side. The Dutch attempted to block the German armour.
At around 06:00 the last medium bomber, a Fokker T. V, dropped two bombs on the bridge. The one bomb that hit the bridge did not explode. The bomber was shot down. The Dutch tried to destroy the bridge by artillery fire, but the bridge was only slightly damaged. Attempts to flood the Island of Dordrecht failed.
The Light Division tried to advance to the west. However, two of the four battalions could not recapture the suburbs of Dordrecht. When the other two battalions approached the main road, they were met by a few dozen German tanks.
The battalions were hit by a Stuka bombing and they fled to the east. 47mm and 75 mm batteries halted the attack of the German tanks. The left part of the Light Division then withdrew to the Alblasserwaard at around 13:00.
A tank company also tried to capture the Dordrecht, but it was ordered to retreat after heavy street fighting. in At least two Panzerkampfwagen IIs were destroyed and three tanks heavily damaged. All Dutch troops were withdrawn from the island in the night.
German armoured forces advanced north over the Dordrecht bridge into IJsselmonde island. Three tanks, two PzKpfw. IIs and a Panzerkampfwagen III attacked the Barendrecht bridge into the Hoekse Waard. All of them were destroyed by a single 47 mm antitank-gun. Though the Germans did not make another attack, this area was abandoned by the Dutch troops.
In Rotterdam a last attempt was made to blow up the "Willemsbrug". Two Dutch companies attacked the bridge. The bridge was reached and the fifty German almost surrendered. However, the attack was stopped because of heavy fire from the other side of the river.
In the North, the commander of "1. Kavalleriedivision", Major General Kurt Feldt, had to go over the Enclosure Dike because of a lack of ships. The main fortifications contained 47 mm antitank-guns. There was no cover for any attacker.
On 13 May the position was reinforced by a 20 mm anti aircraft battery. It had been Feldt's intention to destroy the position by mortars, but the train transporting it had been blocked on 10 May by a blown railway bridge at Winschoten.
Several air attacks on 13 May had little effect. In the late afternoon five sections tried to attack under cover of an artillery bombing, but soon fled after being fired upon.
In the East the Germans tried to attack the Grebbe Line by using the other division of X. AK, "227. Infanteriedivision". The line was in this area defended by the Dutch 2nd Infantry Division. Two German regiments were to attack. The "366. Infanterieregiment" was hit by Dutch artillery fire and had to withdraw. This led to the failure of the attack by "227 Infanteriedivision".
On the south of the Grebbe Line, the Grebbeberg, the Germans were now using three SS battalions. During the evening and night of 12–13 May the Dutch had a dozen However, not all of these units could be put together to attack the main line.
This Dutch attack was delayed for several hours. When it started in the morning of 13 May, it ran into an attack by two battalions of "Der Fuehrer". A fight followed in which the Dutch were beaten by the SS troops. Soon this resulted in a withdrawal of the brigade. The Dutch lost when the Grebbeberg area was bombed by 27 Ju 87 Stukas.
Meanwhile, "207. Infanteriedivision" was sent into battle at the Grebbeberg. The first German attackers were stopped with serious losses. A second attack managed to get past the trench line, which then was captured after heavy fighting.
The Germans planned to attack and take the Rhenen line and the village of Achterberg. However, the Dutch had already disappeared.
The Stuka bombing scared the reserves at Rhenen. In the morning these troops left the battlefield because of German fire. In the late afternoon most of 4th Infantry Division was fleeing westwards.
The German had expected that the Dutch would attempt to fill any gaps in the line. The Dutch planned to send two regiments of the Dutch 3rd Army Corps north to fill any gaps.
But Dutch command had lost control, so they could not get their defences set up again. A wide gap had appeared in the defences. At 20:30 Van Voorst tot Voorst ordered the three Army Corps to abandon the Grebbe Line and the Waal-Linge Position and to retreat.
Despite his loss of hope and the power he had been given to surrender the Army, General Winkelman avoided surrendering until he had to. He wanted to battle the German troops for as long as possible, to help the Allied war effort.
In the North, a German artillery bombardment of the Kornwerderzand Position began at 09:00. However, the German batteries were forced to move away after being fired on from the 15 cm. aft cannon of "Hr. Ms. Johan Maurits van Nassau". Feldt now decided to land on the coast of North-Holland.
A few barges were found; only after the surrender was the crossing done. During this operation one barge sunk and the others got lost. Winkelman on 12 May ordered the defence of an "Amsterdam Position" along the North Sea Canal, but only weak forces were available.
In the East, the field army withdrew from the Grebbe Line to the East Front. The new position had some problems. The flooding was mostly not yet ready and the earthworks had not yet been constructed.
On IJsselmonde the German forces prepared to cross the Maas in Rotterdam, which was defended by about eight Dutch battalions. Crossings would be attempted in two sectors. The main attack would take place in the centre of the city, with the German 9th Panzer Division advancing over the "Willemsbrug".
Then "SS Leibstandarte Adolf Hitler" would cross. East of Rotterdam, a battalion of the 16th Infantry Regiment of "22. Luftlandedivision" would cross on boats.
The Germans decided to use air support. "Kampfgeschwader 54", using Heinkel He 111 bombers, was shifted from Sixth to Eighteenth Army.
Generals Kurt Student and Schmidt wanted a limited air attack to temporarily stop the defences. However, "Luftwaffe" commander Hermann Göring, worried about his surrounded airborne troops, wanted a total bombing of Rotterdam.
At 09:00 a German messenger crossed the "Willemsbrug" to bring a message Schmidt to Colonel Pieter Scharroo, the Dutch commander of Rotterdam, demanding a surrender of the city. If an answer had not been received within two hours, severe destruction would be done.
Scharroo did not receive the message until 10:30. He did not want to surrender. He got a new message signed by Schmidt and that required an answer by 16:20. At 13:20 two groups of Heinkels arrived.
Schmidt ordered red flares to be fired to signal that the bombing was to be stopped, but only the squadron from the southwest stopped its attack, after their first three planes had dropped their bombs.
The other 54 Heinkels dropped 1308 bombs, destroying the inner city and killing 814 civilians. The fires destroyed about 24,000 houses, making almost 80,000 people homeless.
At 15:50 Scharroo surrendered to Schmidt in person. Göring had ordered a second bombing of the city to be carried out unless the whole of Rotterdam was occupied. When Schmidt heard the order, he sent a message at 17:15 claiming the city was taken, but this was not true. The bombers were called back just in time.
Winkelman at first intended to continue the fight. Bombings were not seen as a reason to surrender. The Hague could still fight off an armoured attack.
He got a message from Colonel Cuno Eduard Willem baron van Voorst tot Voorst, the commander of the city of Utrecht, that the Germans demanded its surrender. Messages were dropped by planes saying that only surrender would stop the city from being destroyed.
Winkelman thought the Germans would bomb any city offering any resistance, Since he was told to avoid suffering and since the Dutch military was weak, he decided to surrender.
All army units were informed at 16:50 by of his decision and ordered to destroy their weapons and surrender to the nearest German units. At 17:20 the German envoy in The Hague was informed. At around 19:00 Winkelman gave a radio speech informing the Dutch people. This was also how the German command became aware the Dutch had surrendered.
On the morning of 14 May the commander of the Royal Dutch Navy, Vice-Admiral Johannes Furstner, left the country to continue the fight. Dutch naval vessels were generally not included in the surrender. Eight ships had already departed, some smaller vessels were sunk, and nine others sailed for England in the evening of 14 May. The "Hr. Ms. Johan Maurits van Nassau" was sunk by German bombers while crossing.
The commander of the main Dutch naval port of Den Helder, Rear-Admiral Hoyte Jolles, decided that his base, with 10,000 troops, its own air service, and land defences, should continue to fight. Winkelman had to convince him to obey the surrender order. Large parts of the Dutch Army did not want to accept the surrender.
At 05:00 on 15 May a German messenger reached The Hague, inviting Winkelman to Rijsoord for a meeting with von Küchler to make a written surrender. Winkelman surrendered the army, naval and air forces. The document was signed at 10:15
The province of Zealand not part of the surrender. Fighting continued alongside French troops. The Dutch forces in the province had eight full battalions of army and naval troops.
They were commanded by Rear-Admiral Hendrik Jan van der Stad. The area was under naval command because of the naval port of Flushing on the island of Walcheren. The northern islands of the province were almost undefended apart from some platoons.
The defence of Zeeuws-Vlaanderen, the Dutch part of Flanders, was left to the Allies. The main Dutch army forces were in Zuid-Beveland east of Walcheren. They tried to block this route to Vlissingen.
Zuid-Beveland was connected to the coast of North Brabant. At its eastern end, Bath Position was defended by an infantry battalion. At its western end was the Zanddijk Position, occupied by three battalions.
After on 10 May three French motorised units went to North Brabant. From 11 May the area was reinforced by two French infantry divisions: the "60e Division d'Infanterie", a B-class division, and the newly formed naval "68e Division d'Infanterie". Part of their equipment was brought by ship.
Most troops remained where two of the eight Dutch battalions and two border companies were located. Only two French regiments were sent to the northern bank.
On 13 May the Dutch troops were placed under French command and "68e Division d'Infanterie" was transferred to the 7th Army.
There was poor communications, misunderstandings and disagreements between the Dutch and the French. The Dutch considered the Bath and Zanddijk Positions to be defendable because of the flooding. However, the French commander General Pierre-Servais Durand wanted his troops hidden behind obstacles.
On the evening of 13 May one regiment, the "271e" of "68e Division d'Infanterie", occupied the Canal through Zuid-Beveland. The "224e" of "60 Division d'Infanterie" stayed in the area separating the island of Walcheren from Zuid-Beveland. The Allied forces were not grouped together enough, which enabled the Germans to defeat them even though they had less men.
On 14 May the Germans had occupied almost all of North Brabant. "SS-Standarte Deutschland" reached the Bath Position. This cut off the retreat of "27e Groupe de Reconnaissance de Division d'Infanterie", which was destroyed defending Bergen-op-Zoom. The morale of the defenders of the Bath Position weakened by news that Winkelman had surrendered. Many decided that it was useless that Zealand kept fighting as the last remaining province.
An artillery bombing on the position in the evening of 14 May caused the commanding officers to leave. Then the troops left.
In the morning of 15 May "SS-Standarte Deutschland" approached the Zanddijk Position. A first attack around 08:00 on the northern sector was stopped, as the Germans had to advance over a narrow dike. However, the bombing caused the battalions in the main positions to flee, and the entire line was abandoned around 14:00.
On 16 May "SS-Standarte Deutschland" approached the Canal through Zuid-Beveland. The French "271e Régiment d’Infanterie" was partly dug in and helped by three Dutch battalions. An air bombing was done that morning. The first German crossings around 11:00 led to a complete collapse of the defence. On 16 May the island of Tholen was captured. On 17 May Schouwen-Duiveland was captured.
The commanders of the Dutch troops on South-Beveland refused commands to attack the Germans. On 17 May a night attack at 03:00 failed. The Germans now demanded the surrender of the island. When this was refused they bombed Arnemuiden and Flushing. Middelburg, the province's capital city, was shelled by artillery, its inner city partially burning down.
The heavy bombing made the French defenders lose hope. The Germans managed to capture a bridge around noon. The few Dutch troops on Walcheren, about three companies, stopped fighting.
In the evening the Germans threatened to attack the French forces in Flushing, but most troops were evacuated over the Western Scheldt.
After North-Beveland had surrendered on 18 May, Zeeuws-Vlaanderen was the last remaining unoccupied Dutch territory. On orders of the French, all Dutch troops were withdrawn on 19 May to Ostend in Belgium. On 27 May all of Zeeuws-Vlaanderen had been occupied.
Following the Dutch defeat, Queen Wilhelmina established a government-in-exile in England. The German occupation began on 17 May 1940. It would be five years before the entire country was liberated. Over 210,000 Dutch people became victims of war, including 104,000 Jews and other minorities, who were killed because of their race (genocide). Another 70,000 more Dutch people died from poor nutrition or limited medical services.

</doc>
<doc id="428149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428149" title="Earl Sweatshirt">
Earl Sweatshirt

Earl Sweatshirt (born February 24, 1994) is an American rap musician. He is the youngest member of Odd Future. He is best known for his debut mixtape "Earl".

</doc>
<doc id="428159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428159" title="Edward Teller">
Edward Teller

Edward Teller (January 15, 1908 – September 9, 2003) was an American theoretical physicist. He was born in Budapest, the capital city of Hungary. At the time Hungary was called Austria-Hungary. He is known as "the father of the hydrogen bomb".
Teller's family was Jewish. Teller did not speak until he was three years old. He left Hungary in 1926. He moved to Germany. He went to the University of Karlsruhe there. He then went to the University of Leipzig. He got his Ph.D. in physics there. In 1933 Adolf Hitler became the leader of Germany. Teller decided that he would move so that the Nazis didn't kill him for being a Jew. In 1934 Teller moved to Copenhagen in Denmark. He joined the Institute for Theoretical Physics there. He married Augusta Maria Harkanyi. Then Teller moved to London in England to teach at University of London. 
In 1935 he moved to the United States to become a professor at George Washington University. In 1941 he stopped working at George Washington University. He joined the Manhattan Project in 1942. At the time it was called the Manhattan Engineering District. In 1952 Teller opened Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory at the University of California with Ernest Lawrence. In 1953 Teller became a professor at the University of California. He was on the cover of "TIME magazine" in 1957. From 1958 to 1960, Teller worked as the director of the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. He was the associate director until 1977. The laboratory is now called Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory.
In 1979 Teller had a heart attack. He blamed it on Jane Fonda. In 1982 he became a member of the White House Science Council.
Teller was given one of the first Ig Nobel Prizes for Peace in 1991. In 2000 Teller's wife died.
In 2001 a book Teller wrote about his life, "Memoirs: A Twentieth Century Journey In Science And Politics", was published by Basic Books. Teller was 93. 
He died from a stroke on September 9, 2003 at Stanford University.
Teller was an agnostic. He also was a Republican.

</doc>
<doc id="428164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428164" title="Galahad">
Galahad

Sir Galahad is a fictional character in the King Arthur stories. He is a Knight of the Round Table. He is the son of Lancelot and Elaine of Corbenic. He is known as the greatest knight ever. He arrived to King Arthur's castle wearing red armor and sat at an empty seat at the Round Table. He pulled a sword from a block of crystalline stone which was floating in the moat surrounding King Arthur's castle. Many knights tried to pull the sword from the crystalline stone, including King Arthur himself. No one was able to make the sword budge, but when Galahad attempted, he pulled the sword out with ease and said, "Is that all?" Later, Galahad went on a mission to find the Holy Grail along with fellow knights Percival and Bors the Younger. He wanted the grail to heal King Pelles, his grandfather.
Galahad is very noble and loyal, and also fierce and ferocious when it comes to swordplay. He is very skilled at fighting with his sword.
Galahad is also the grail knight as he was the only knight on earth considered by God worthy of the holy grail. When he drank from the grail, he was surrounded by light and went up to heaven.

</doc>
<doc id="428166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428166" title="Chesapeake Bay Bridge">
Chesapeake Bay Bridge

The Chesapeake Bay Bridge (called the Bay Bridge by locals) is a bridge that crosses Chesapeake Bay, on the eastern coast of the United States. The bridge is long. It serves as a connecting route between the eastern and western shores of Maryland. The bridge was named after William Preston Lane Jr., the governor at the time that the building of the bridge was ordered.
A toll of six dollars is charged on the one-way toll side of the bridge (the side opposite of the Eastern Shore). Although for taxi services the fee is anywhere from 25 to 30 dollars.
The bridge was first proposed for building in 1938. Building did not begin until 1947 because of the United States' involvement in World War II. The bridge was finally opened to traffic on July 30, 1952. Later in 1967, because traffic on the bridge was increasing, another side for the bridge was proposed. The proposal was agreed to, and funded by the state of Maryland. Building began once again in 1969 and was completed in 1973.
Today the Bridge is considered one of the most dangerous bridges in the world because of the accidents that have happened on it.

</doc>
<doc id="428172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428172" title="Ritwik Ghatak">
Ritwik Ghatak

Ritwik Kumar Ghatak (4 November 1925 – 6 February 1976) was a Bengali Indian filmmaker, scriptwriter and actor. He was born in Dhaka in East Bengal. He wrote his first play, " Kalo sayar", in 1948. In 1951, Ghatak joined the Indian People's Theatre Association (IPTA). Ghatak acted in the 1950 film "Chinnamul". In 1952 Ghatak completed his first movie, "Nagarik". It was not released until 1977. Ghatak wrote the 1958 Hindi film "Madhumati" with Rajinder Singh Bedi. 
Ghatak married Surama Devi. He had a son, Ritaban Ghatak, and two daughters with her.
Ghatak died in 1976 in India from tuberculosis.

</doc>
<doc id="428179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428179" title="Personality psychology">
Personality psychology

Personality is a term that describes traits a person shows consistently at different times and in different situations. If we understand a person's personality we may be able to predict their behavior in many situations. Predictability makes it possible to explain and understand behavior. A person's personality can often suggest their internal thoughts, feelings, and behaviors. Intrapersonal functioning is a term used to describe the stable processes that underlie these thoughts, feelings, and behaviors. Gordon Allport defined personality as a "dynamic organization inside a person, of psychophysical systems that create the person's characteristic patterns of behavior, thoughts and feelings."
"Main article: Four temperaments"
Many theorists like Hippocrates had their own opinions on what affected the personality. Hippocrates believed that the body was composed of four humors (body fluids): yellow bile, black bile, blood, and phlegm. When one of these four bodily humors was abnormal, it affected the personality. Hippocrates associated each of the humors with different elements, and temperaments:
If any of the four humors were at abnormal levels, Hippocrates believed the person would display the temperaments or show signs of sickness.
When studying personality, one must consider all the different perspectives in the approach to understand how personality is created. Some of these perspectives include things like trait theory, the influence of motives, evolutionary theories, and the social learning approach. Each of these theories try and explain how the personality is created and what influences its development.
Trait theory suggests that there are both traits and types within people that create the personality. Types are discontinuous categories that have qualitative differences. Traits are stable qualities in people that have continuous dimensions and quantitative differences. Examples of traits are things like fairness, intelligence, confidence, and helpfulness. Individual differences are reflected in the amount that a trait is seen. Within trait theory, there are many different approaches to how traits operate and to what extent. A Nomothetic view of traits suggests that traits are universal and it is possible to compare traits among individuals. It also states that individuals reflect a unique combination of traits, implying that while everyone has the same basic traits, not all individuals have the same levels of each trait. An Ideographic view of traits suggests that traits are idiosyncratic, or not universal. This approach explains that comparisons are not possible among individuals because not all traits are shared. It states that traits may be different in importance for different groups of people.
Motives are another important factor to consider when studying the personality. Motives are forces that are influenced by an underlying need. A need is a manifestation of an internal biological or psychological state. Needs direct behavior and influence a person's state of being. When a need is not met, an individual will have a motive to fulfill that need. For example, every human being has a need for water. The motive would be thirst. The need for water influenced the motive to no longer be thirsty. A press is an external event that acts as a trigger for motives. Using the same example as before, a thirsty person may be triggered to drink water by seeing a cold cup of water, which serves as a press. 
An incentive value is another important concept when looking at theories on motives. An incentive value is the degree to which a given behavior can satisfy a need. This accounts for the differences in individuals. What may be more satisfying to one person may not be the same thing to another person. Each individual has a different incentive value.
Another theory about personality is the inheritance or evolutionary theories. These theories suggest that personality is genetically-based. Evolutionists believe that the personality has adapted over time to ensure survival and reproduction.
Social learning theory suggests that the personality is shaped by our experiences with relationships, our environment, and the social world in general.
Through experimentation and research, psychologists have been able to identify five major personality traits. These are known as the 'Big Five': 
Neuroticism refers to a person's emotionality. Someone high in neuroticism has low emotional control and lability. This may cause them to exhibit signs of nervousness, anxiety, and excitability. A neurotic person may also display hostility, depression, self-consciousness, impulsiveness, and vulnerability to stress. 
Extroversion is also known as sociability. This means their social adaptability, assertiveness, and energy level. A person high in extraversion would be extremely warm, positive, and prone to excitement-seeking. 
Openness is also known as the intellect factor. Openness is associated with culture and being open to ideas and experiences. A person high in openness would be labeled creative, knowledgeable, and imaginative. 
Agreeableness is associated with conformity, friendliness, and likability. A person high in agreeableness would be considered friendly, kind, considerate, and good-natured. 
Conscientiousness is also known as responsibility and having a strong will to achieve. A person high in conscientiousness would be considered cautious, planful, serious, and hardworking
While studying the healthy components of the personality, psychologists began to expand knowledge on the abnormal aspects of the personality. In the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, ten personality disorders were organized into three clusters: Cluster A, Cluster B, and Cluster C. Cluster A consists of the odd and eccentric disorders. These are paranoid, schizoid, and schizotypal. Cluster B are the dramatic, emotional, and erratic personality disorders. These are antisocial, borderline, histrionic and narcissistic. Cluster C is characterized by personality disorders dealing with anxiety or fear. This cluster are avoidant, dependent, and obsessive-compulsive.
There are many approaches to understanding why and how personality disorders are created. The dimensional perspective suggests that personality disorders are just extreme manifestations of traits that are caused by deviating from cultural norms. It views personality disorders as interfering and disrupting a person's life, as well as the lives of others. The biological perspective explains that personality is genetically-determined, therefore, that our behavior is simply the product of a complex biological organism. It states that genetics and biology influence all the processes within a personality.
An article from 2011 describes the explanation of personality psychology that is intertwined with the five-factor model. The article begins discussing how personality psychology has many factors intertwined within. It discusses cognition within the brain and also discusses personality traits and links between the two topics. Personality psychology is further explained through conceptual and logical aspects. Then the article continues to explain the logical requirements for coherency within the personality.
In 2006, self-regulatory behavior was analyzed and compared with personality science and health behavior. It is understood from this, that an individuals personality is a link to an individuals self regulated behavior as long as an individuals health behavior. All of these are related to one another and contribute to personality. A persons health, and their behavior are a result of their personality science. 
A survey was conducted in 2007 in order to better comprehend the reasons why students choose their major, and specifically looked within the major of psychology. The students were curious as to what it was that was influencing students to make the decision to have psychology as their major. The survey created was based of the Big Five Personality Inventory. The results found from the surveys that people who choose psychology as their major were not picking this field for a large salary or anything to have to do with the money. The results continued to express that psychology majors were dedicated to the major because of their personal past experiences. This leads to show how the Big Five contributes to major choices of individuals.
Adaptive personality was compared with the model of emotional intelligence by Mayer and Salovey. A few of the relationships expected did arise within the correlations resulting. The article emphasized the significance of emotional knowledge within emotional intelligence. This provides further information when it comes to counseling, and just how much emotional knowledge can be a bigger impact than previously expected within personality psychology.
Most traditional models of personality traits emphasize biology of the person to be very relevant to their personality traits, and even emphasize that this aspect of the person is unchangeable. But, within this article from 2008, the idea of sociogenomic biology is brought up for thought. This is introduced within the article and contradicts everything about biology and that biology is in fact changeable in certain circumstances. The article stresses that DNA can be changed through the environment in which one lives. This new thinking of biology is claimed to be the new modern way of looking at personality traits.
In 1977 there was a study done about sleep positions relating to personality traits. There were main points within the study that strongly urged that sleep positions reflected a persons personality. In contrast, a personality study conducted in the year 2012, suggested that the position a person sleeps in is related to specific traits of their personality. There study consisted of 332 participants that were psychology majors. The results found did not match what was previously concluded. There were no strong points leading to prove that there was such a relation, and in fact the results were found to be quite weak between the association.

</doc>
<doc id="428180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428180" title="Ming-Na Wen">
Ming-Na Wen

Ming-Na Wen (born November 20, 1963) is a Chinese actress. She is known for doing the voice of Fa Mulan in the Disney film 1998 "Mulan" and "Mulan II". She played Jing-Mei Chen in "ER". Wen plays Agent Melinda May in "Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D".
Wen was born in Hong Kong. Her name means "enlightenment". When she was a child she moved to the United States. In 1995 she married Eric Michael Zee. She lives with him in California.

</doc>
<doc id="428181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428181" title="Bay Bridge">
Bay Bridge

Bay Bridge may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="428193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428193" title="August Alsina">
August Alsina

August Anthony Alsina, Jr. (born September 3, 1992) is an American hip-hop singer. He was born in New Orleans. He released his first mixtape in 2011. In August 2013 he was signed to Def Jam Recordings. His first EP "Downtown: Life Under the Gun" was released by Def Jam that month. It reached number 68 in the Billboard 200. His first album is going to be released in 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="428195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428195" title="Representational state transfer">
Representational state transfer

Representational state transfer (REST) is a programming architectural implementation intended to increase the efficiency of communication in computing systems. It embodies the idea that the best way to share large amounts of data between multiple parties is to make that data available on-demand by sharing references to that data rather than a complete copy of the data itself. Systems which implement REST are called 'RESTful' systems.
An example of a non-RESTful real-world system would be the traditional home movie collection. In order to have access to any given movie, the library owner must obtain a physical copy of it. This results in substantial waste as more copies are in existence than are in use at any given moment. Also, the time required to add new titles to the library is generally non-trivial. Streaming video is the RESTful counterpart to the home library. Instead of having a complete copy of every movie stored in the home, the movie is referred to by its title only and the content of the movie is streamed on demand.
The World Wide Web is the largest example of a RESTful system today. Physical libraries are its non-RESTful equivalent. Instead of sending a physical electronic copy of every digital resource to each person or library, we assign each resource a URL identifier <http://example.com>, then access the actual content via the Internet rather than retrieving a local copy from an optical disk or a hard drive.
REST architecture can be applied in other contexts. For example, consider two companies which want to share multiple gigabytes of information that constantly changes. Sending a complete copy of their databases to each other (even via the internet) on a regular basis is a wasteful and time-consuming process. This method of sharing information is similar to the library example previously given. Instead, the companies can share database IDs with each other, perhaps even assigning each item in the database its own URL. When one company wants to query the database or price of a particular item belonging to the other company, it can then retrieve the data for that specific inventory item.

</doc>
<doc id="428198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428198" title="Julie Christmas">
Julie Christmas

Julie Christmas is an American musician. She was the lead singer of the rock band Made Out of Babies and the metal band Battle of Mice. Christmas released three albums with Made Out of Babies. They broke up in 2012. Christmas sung on "Generation of Ghosts" on Mouth of the Architect's 2008 album "Quietly". In 2010, Christmas released her first solo album "The Bad Wife" on CD and vinyl.

</doc>
<doc id="428200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428200" title="Bernie Kopell">
Bernie Kopell

Bernard Morton "Bernie" Kopell (born June 21, 1933 in Brooklyn, New York) is an American actor. He is best known for his roles as Siegfried in "Get Smart" and as Dr. Adam Bricker ("Doc") in "The Love Boat" from 1977 to 1986.

</doc>
<doc id="428202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428202" title="Margery Mason">
Margery Mason

Margery E. Mason (27 September 1913 – 26 January 2014) was a British actress and director. She is known for her roles in "The Princess Bride" and in "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire". 

</doc>
<doc id="428204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428204" title="Ahmed Fouad Negm">
Ahmed Fouad Negm

Ahmed Fouad Negm (22 May 1929 – 3 December 2013) was an Egyptian vernacular poet. Negm is well known for his work with Egyptian composer Sheikh Imam, as well as his patriotic and revolutionary Egyptian Arabic poetry. Negm has been called "a bit of a folk hero in Egypt" or "el-Fagommi".
Negm was born in Sharqia, Egypt on 22 May 1929.
In 2007, Negm was chosen by the United Nations Poverty Action as Ambassador of the poor. Negm won the 2013 Prince Claus Award for ‘Unwavering Integrity’.
On 3 December 2013, Negm died at the age of 84 in Cairo, Egypt from a long-illness, aged 84.

</doc>
<doc id="428205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428205" title="Paul Aussaresses">
Paul Aussaresses

Paul Aussaresses (7 November 1918 – 4 December 2013) was a French Army general. He fought during World War II, the First Indochina War and Algerian War. His actions during the Algerian War, and later defense of those actions, caused considerable controversy. He was perhaps best known for wearing an eye patch since he lost an eye during battle. 
Aussaresses was badly criticized in 2000, when in an interview with the French newspaper "Le Monde", he defended the use of torture during the Algerian war. He repeated the defense in an interview with CBS's "60 Minutes", further arguing that torture ought to be used in the fight against Al-Qaeda.
Aussaresses died on 4 December 2013 from natural causes in La Vancelle, France, aged 95.

</doc>
<doc id="428209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428209" title="William Ramsay">
William Ramsay

Sir William Ramsay KCB FRS (William Ramsay, Jr.; 2 October 1852 – 23 July 1916) was a Scottish chemist. Ramsay discovered the noble gases. He also helped discover several elements that are on our periodic table today. He received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1904 "in recognition of his services in the discovery of the inert gaseous elements in air" (along with Lord Rayleigh).
Ramsay was born in Glasgow on 2 October 1852. He was a nephew of the geologist Sir Andrew Ramsay. His father, William, Sr., was a civil engineer. His mother was Catherine Robertson. He studied at Glasgow Academy, at the University of Glasgow and at University of Tübingen in Germany. 
Ramsay went back to Glasgow as an assistant at the Anderson College. He found a job as Professor of chemistry at the University College of Bristol in 1879.
On the evening of 19 April 1894 Ramsay was at a lecture given by Lord Rayleigh. Rayleigh had noticed a difference between the density of nitrogen made by chemical synthesis and nitrogen isolated from the air by removal of the other known components. He named the gas responsible for this difference "argon". 
He was working with Morris Travers, when he discovered neon, krypton, and xenon. He also isolated helium. In 1910, he also created and characterized radon. In 1904, Ramsay received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry.
Ramsay discovered all six elements that are in the noble gas group on the periodic table.
Ramsay was married to Margaret Buchanan in 1881. They had one daughter, Catherine, and one son, William George. William George died when he was 40. 
Ramsay lived in Hazlemere, Buckinghamshire until his death. He died in High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire on 23 July 1916 from nasal cancer (nose cancer). He died at the age of 63. He was buried in Hazlemere Parish church.
The Sir William Ramsay School in Hazlemere is named after him.

</doc>
<doc id="428213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428213" title="Jacobus Henricus van 't Hoff">
Jacobus Henricus van 't Hoff

Jacobus Henricus van 't Hoff, Jr. (30 August 1852 – 1 March 1911) was a Dutch chemist. He was the first winner of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1901. van 't Hoff studied the active principles of chemical kinetics, chemical equilibrium, osmotic pressure, and stereochemistry.

</doc>
<doc id="428215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428215" title="Julius Lothar Meyer">
Julius Lothar Meyer

Julius Lothar von Meyer (August 19, 1830 – April 11, 1895) was a German chemist. He worked with Dmitri Mendeleev and helped him draw up the first periodic table of chemical elements. He also worked with Robert Bunsen.

</doc>
<doc id="428216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428216" title="Battle of Aachen">
Battle of Aachen

The Battle of Aachen was a major battle of Second World War. It was fought by American and German forces in and around Aachen, Germany, between 2–21 October 1944. The city was part of the Siegfried Line, the main defence line on Germany's western border. The Allies had hoped to capture it quickly and move into the Ruhr area.
Most of Aachen's civilian population was moved out before the battle began. Much of the city was destroyed and both sides had heavy losses. It was one of the largest urban battles fought by U.S. forces in World War II.
It was the first city in Germany to be captured by the Allies. The battle ended with a German surrender, but their defense slowed down Allied plans to advance into Germany.
By September 1944 the Western Allies had reached Germany's western border. It was protected by the Siegfried Line. On 17 September, British, American, and Polish forces launched Operation Market Garden.
This was an attempt to get around the Siegfried Line by crossing the Lower Rhine River in the Netherlands. The failure of this plan, and a supply problem caused by the long distances, stopped the Allied movement toward Berlin.
German dead and wounded in France had been high. Field Marshal Walter Model said his 74 divisions had the strength of just 25. The Western Allies' supply problems gave the Germans time to rebuild their strength. In September, new troops were sent to the Siegfried Line. The total was 230,000 soldiers, including 100,000 new soldiers.
At the start of the month the Germans had had about 100 tanks in the West; by the end they had 500. As men and equipment were moved into the Siegfried Line they were able to establish a depth of .
The Allied force, under the command of General Dwight D. Eisenhower, wanted to capture the Ruhr. It was Germany's main industrial area.
General George S. Patton's Third Army was ordered to occupy the French region of Lorraine. General Courtney Hodges's First Army was ordered to attack near Aachen.
Hodges had at first hoped to go around the city. He thought it was only defended by a small group of troops which would surrender once they were cut off.
The beautiful, old city Aachen was not an important military target, as it did not do much war production. Its population of around 165,000 had not been bombed by the Allies.
It was an important symbol to the Nazi regime and the German people. It was the first German city threatened by an enemy during the Second World War. It was also the historic capital of Charlemagne, founder of the "First Reich". The city was very important to the Germans.
The city's defenders fought on home ground for the first time; one German officer said, "Suddenly we were no longer the Nazis, we were German soldiers."
Aachen was protected by the Siegfried Line, a system of pillboxes, forts, and bunkers protected by anti-tank obstacles and barbed wire. In several areas, German defenses were over deep. It was the strongest defence ever built.
Learning from their experiences on the Eastern Front, the Germans put their defences in the center of towns. They used narrow streets to make it hard for enemy armored vehicles to move around
Even though the troops defending Aachen and the Ruhr were of low quality, the fortifications protecting Aachen and the Ruhr were a major problem for the
American forces. Getting through Aachen was seen as important, because the land beyond Aachen was flat, and easy for the motorized Allied armies to travel on.
Fighting around Aachen began in the second week of September. The city was defended by the 116th Panzer Division, under the command of General Gerhard von Schwerin.
The closeness of Allied forces had caused the majority of the city's government officials to leave before the citizens were moved out. (For this, Hitler had all Nazi officials who had fled sent to the Eastern front as privates.) von Schwerin wanted to surrender the city to Allied forces. However, on 13 September, before he could surrender, he was ordered to launch a counterattack against American forces southwest of Aachen. He attacked with his panzergrenadier forces.
The German general's attempt to surrender the city made Adolf Hitler, ordered the general's arrest. He was replaced by General Gerhard Wilck. The United States' VII Corps continued to try to get past German defenses, despite the fighting on 12–13 September.
Between 14–16 September the US 1st Infantry Division advanced against strong defenses and attacks. Eventually, they had a circle around half the city.
This slow advance stopped in late September, due to the supply problem, and the sending of fuel and ammunition for Operation Market Garden in the Netherlands.
In October, Aachen's defense was assigned to General Friedrich Köchling's LXXXI Corps. These forces, along with the attached 506th Tank Battalion and 108th Tank Brigade, had 20,000 men and 11 tanks. Köchling was also promised a new 116th Panzer Division and the 3rd Panzergrenadier Division, with 24,000 troops.
The 183rd Volksgrenadier Division and 49th Infantry Division defended the northern approaches. The 12th Infantry Division was positioned to the south.
On 7 October, the 1st SS Panzer Division Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler Panzer Division were sent to defend Aachen.
Although new troops continued to arrive, the 12th Infantry Division had lost half its combat strength between 16–23 September, and the 49th and 275th Infantry Divisions had had to be given time to rest.
While German infantry divisions had a strength of 15,000–17,000 soldiers at the start of World War II, this had been reduced to a size of 12,500. By November 1944, the average strength of a division was 8,761 men.
To cope with the troop shortages, the Volksgrenadier divisions were created in 1944. Their average total strength was just over 10,000 men per division. Although about a quarter of these were experienced veterans, two-quarters were new soldiers and sick people while the rest were from the Luftwaffe and Kriegsmarine.
These divisions often received the newest small-arms, but they lacked artillery and motorization. The 183rd Volksgrenadier Division had not had time to train as a unit. The 246th Volksgrenadier Division was in a similar situation. Many of its troops had fewer than ten days of infantry training. All of these weaknesses of the troops were made up for by the strong fortifications surrounding Aachen.
The task of capturing Aachen was given to General Charles H. Corlett's XIX Corps' 30th Infantry Division and Joseph Collins' VII Corps' 1st Infantry Division.
General Leland Hobbs' 30th Infantry Division would be assisted by the 2nd Armored Division, which would try to go the 30th Division's hole in the Siegfried Line. Their sides were protected by the 29th Infantry Division.
In the south, 1st Infantry Division was supported by the 9th Infantry Division and the 3rd Armored Division. These divisions took in a large number of new men.
By 1 October over 70% of the men of General Clarence Huebner's 1st Infantry Division were new troops. The last two weeks of September were spent giving these men training in fighting and weapons training.
The plan called for both infantry divisions to avoid street fighting in Aachen. The plan was for the two divisions to encircle the city. Then a small force would capture it while most of the US forces moved east.
Although American units were usually able to get new troops quickly, the replacements rarely had enough training. Many junior officers were lacked tactical and leadership abilities. Some tank drivers had never even driven a car before. Some tank commanders had to teach their men how to load and fire their tank guns in the field before missions.
The US system meant that new troops reaching the front lines were not properly trained for combat. Sometimes half of a unit's replacements would become dead or wounded within the first few days of combat.
These losses required more troops to be brought into the fighting. A battalion of the US 28th Infantry Division was sent against Aachen to help the US 1st Infantry Division during 18–21 October.
These forces were supported by the Ninth Air Force, which knew where 75% of the pillboxes were. They planned an opening bombing using 360 bombers and 72 fighters. New aircraft would be used for a second attack, which included napalm.
With the Germans having few anti-aircraft guns and severely limited support from the Luftwaffe, Allied forces controlled the skies over Aachen.
For six days before the American attack allied artillery bombed German defenses around Aachen. Although bombing German LXXXI Corps to stop all movements of troops and supplies, it did not harm the pillboxes and strongpoints.
The opening air bombing on 2 October also did little damage to German defences. The 450 aircraft did not hit any German pillbox. Their targets had been hidden by thick smoke from the Allied artillery. After the aircraft finished their bombing, the artillery fired 18,696 shells.
The 30th Infantry Division moved forward on 2 October. They used artillery to destroy German pillboxes. It took thirty minutes to capture a pillbox. Heavy fighting had not been expected, and one group lost 87 troops in an hour; another lost 93 out of 120 soldiers to a German artillery strike.
The attackers were slowly able to cross the Wurm River. They attacked German pillboxes with flamethrowers and explosives. By the afternoon of 2 October, the 30th Infantry Division had got past German defenses and reached the town of Palenberg.
Here, US soldiers had to fight to get to each house. (Private Harold G. Kiner was awarded the Medal of Honor for throwing himself on a German grenade saving the lives of two soldiers).
Fighting in the town of Rimburg was terrible. American armour could not cross the Wurm River, and it could not support infantrymen who were attacking the Germans. The 30th Infantry Division destroyed 50 German pillboxes on the first day.
The division's advance was helped by the 29th Infantry Division's attacks. The Germans thought that the 29th Division's attacks were the main attack.
On the night of 2 October, the German 902nd Assault Gun Battalion was ordered to attack the 30th Infantry Division. Allied artillery made the German attack not start on time. The German attack failed.
American armor could help with the advance on 3 October. The US attacks were stopped by German attacks. Rimburg was captured on the second day. Fighting had also begun in the town of Übach. American tanks tried to attack the town. However, they could not move due to German artillery fire.
American artillery fire stopped the Germans from recapturing it. By the end of the day the 30th Infantry Division had around 300 dead and wounded.
German forces continued their attacks on Übach. This stopped American troops from advancing. On 4 October the Allies had only captured Hoverdor and Beggendorf. The Americans lost 1,800 soldiers in the past three days. On 5 October, the 119th Regiment of the 30th Infantry Division captured Merkstein-Herbach.
The next day the Germans attacked Übach, but the attack was not a success. The American had many more tanks. The Germans did not have extra troops. General Koechling did get a Tiger tank group to defend Aachen from the north.
The Germans attacked on 8 October with an infantry regiment, the 1st Assault Battalion, the 108th Panzer Brigade, and 40 armored vehicles. The left side of the attack cut off an American platoon. The Germans had many losses and the Americans were getting closer.
In the south, the 1st Infantry Division attacked on 8 October. They wanted to capture the town of Verlautenheide. A big artillery attack helped them to capture the town.
By 10 October, the 1st Infantry Division was in its planned position, where it could join with the 30th Infantry Division. The Germans attacked but they ended up with over 40 dead and 35 prisoners. Despite repeated German attacks, the 1st Infantry Division was able to capture the high land around the city.
On 10 October, the US threatened to bomb the city if it didn't surrender. The German commander refused to surrender. American artillery fired 5,000 shells and the city was bombed American aircraft.
American dead and wounded were increasing. This was caused by German attacks and the danger of attacking pillboxes. The Germans in the town of Bardenberg made pillboxes to defend themselves. American attackers pulled back and shelled the town with artillery.
On 12 October, the Germans attacked the American 30th Infantry Division. The Americans defended themselves with artillery fire and anti-tank defenses.
At the village of Birk, there was a fight between German tanks and a single American Sherman tank. Then the 2nd Armored Division arrived and the Germans were pushed out of the town.
The 30th Infantry Division had to defend itself over all the land they held. They were ordered to move south to join with the 1st Infantry Division. Two infantry battalions from the 29th were sent to join the 30th.
The same day (12 October), two German infantry regiments attempted to recapture. Both regiments were almost completely destroyed. Between 11–13 October Allied aircraft bombed Aachen.
On 15 October, the Germans again attacked the 1st Infantry Division. Although a number of heavy tanks managed to break through American lines, most of German forces were destroyed by artillery and airplanes.
On the next day, the Germans attacked with the 3rd Panzergrenadier Division. They had heavy losses and they had to stop the attack.
The 30th Infantry Division and parts of the 29th Infantry and 2nd Armored divisions moved southwards between 13–16 October. They could not get through German defenses and join up with allied forces to the south.
The Germans attacked with artillery. German tanks were hidden in houses. General Hobbs, commander of the 30th Infantry Division, tried to get around the German defenses. He attacked with two infantry battalions. The attack was a success. The 30th and 1st Infantry Divisions joined up on 16 October.
The fighting had caused American XIX Corps over 400 dead and 2,000 wounded, with 72% from the 30th Infantry Division. The Germans had 630 of their soldiers killed and 4,400 wounded; another 600 were killed in the 3rd Panzergrenadier Division's attack on the US 1st Infantry Division on 16 October.
The 1st Infantry Division had only a single regiment to capture the city. They attacked with machine guns and flamethrowers. Only by a few tanks and one howitzer were used in the attack.
The city was defended by 5,000 German troops, including navy, air force and city police. Most of these soldiers lacked experience and training. They were supported by a few tanks and assault guns. However, Aachen's defenders could use the narrow streets to defend the city.
The 26th Infantry's attack on 13 October was stopped by Germans firing from sewers and cellars. Sherman tanks could not move around in the narrow streets. The 26th Infantry Regiment used howitzers to destroy German fortifications. Sherman tanks were attacked by German anti-tank guns.
American tanks and other armored vehicles would shoot buildings to kill any defenders hiding inside. German infantry moved through sewers to attack Americans.
The Germans fought very hard. They attacked the Americans and used armor to stop American movement.
On 18 October, the 3rd Battalion of the 26th Infantry Regiment prepared to attack the Hotel Quellenhof. This was one of the last areas held by the Germans in the city. American tanks and other guns fired at the hotel. That night, 300 new soldiers of the 1st SS Battalion moved into the hotel. They stopped several attacks on the building.
A violent German attack managed to get past American infantry companies outside of the hotel. The Germans were then stopped by American mortar fire.
The Americans shelled German positions with guns. As well, a battalion of the 110th Infantry Regiment was used to fill gaps in the city. The new battalion was told on 19–20 October to attack the city.
On 21 October, soldiers of the 26th Infantry Regiment captured central Aachen. The Germans in the Hotel Quellenhof surrendered, ending the battle for the city.

</doc>
<doc id="428219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428219" title="Danilo Medina">
Danilo Medina

Danilo Medina Sánchez (born November 10, 1951) is a Dominican politician. He is the current President of the Dominican Republic since 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="428222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428222" title="Sophia Bush">
Sophia Bush

Sophia Bush (born July 8, 1982) is an American television and movie actress. She has also directed. Movies in which she appeared include "John Tucker Must Die". Television programs in which she appeared include "Chicago Hope", "Chicago PD" and "One Tree Hill". Bush was born in Pasadena, California.

</doc>
<doc id="428224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428224" title="Hongkong Electric Company">
Hongkong Electric Company

Hongkong Electric Company (HKC; ) is an electricity generation company in Hong Kong, People's Republic of China.
The company was established on 1 December 1890 in British Hong Kong.

</doc>
<doc id="428225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428225" title="Joaquín Balaguer">
Joaquín Balaguer

Joaquín Antonio Balaguer Ricardo (September 1, 1906 – July 14, 2002) was the President of the Dominican Republic. He served three non-consecutive terms for that office. His first term was from 1960 to 1962, for his second term from 1966 to 1978, and again for his third and final term from 1986 to 1996. In 2000, Balaguer decided to seek an eighth term as president he lost the election.
On July 14, 2002, Balaguer died of heart failure at Santo Domingo's Abreu Clinic at the age of 95.

</doc>
<doc id="428230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428230" title="Category:Presidents of the Dominican Republic">
Category:Presidents of the Dominican Republic


</doc>
<doc id="428232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428232" title="CLP Group">
CLP Group

CLP Group (CLP; ) is an electricity company in Hong Kong. Their business are power generation, power transmission and electricity selling.
CLP Group was established in British Hong Kong in 1901 as China Light and Power Company Syndicate.

</doc>
<doc id="428233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428233" title="Juan Bosch">
Juan Bosch

Juan Emilio Bosch Gaviño (30 June 1909 – 1 November 2001) was a politician, historian, short story writer, essayist, and educator. He was the first democratically elected President of the Dominican Republic in 38 years. He served as president from February through September of 1963. Before this, he had been the leader of the Dominican opposition in exile to the dictatorial regime of Rafael Trujillo for over 25 years. 
In 1934, he married Isabel García and had two children with her: Leon and Carolina. During Trujillo's dictatorship, Bosch was jailed for his political ideas, being released after several months. In 1938, Bosch managed to leave the country, settling in Puerto Rico.
Juan Bosch died on November 1, 2001 after a long hospitalization period in Santo Domingo. He was suffering from Alzheimer's disease and was hospitalized for respiratory failure. As a former President, he received the corresponding honors at the National Palace, and was buried in his hometown of La Vega.

</doc>
<doc id="428234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428234" title="Companhia de Electricidade de Macau">
Companhia de Electricidade de Macau

Companhia de Electricidade de Macau (CEM; ; English: Macau Electricity Company) is an electricity company in Macau, China. Its main business is power generation, power transmission, power distribution and electricity selling in Macau.
CEM was established in 1972 in Portuguese Macau.

</doc>
<doc id="428237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428237" title="Category:Electric power companies">
Category:Electric power companies


</doc>
<doc id="428240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428240" title="Felicity Jones">
Felicity Jones

Felicity Rose Hadley Jones (born 17 October 1983) is a British television, stage and movie actress. She starred in movies including "Brideshead Revisited" (2008), "Cemetery Junction" (2009) and "Rogue One" (2016). Jones was born in Birmingham. Sources differ on her year of birth, with some saying 1983 and others saying 1984.

</doc>
<doc id="428242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428242" title="Blindfold">
Blindfold

A blindfold is a piece of cloth tied over a person's eyes. Sometimes a blindfold is made of material other than cloth. Blindfolds make it impossible to see. They are used for many different reasons: 
In art, Justice is sometimes made to look like a woman wearing a blindfold.

</doc>
<doc id="428247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428247" title="Everland">
Everland

Everland is a theme park in Yongin, South Korea. It is about one hour's drive away from Seoul.
Everland is the largest theme park in South Korea. In 2012, it ranked 12th in the world by number of visitors. It had 6.6 million visitors according to "Travel + Leisure" magazine.
The park is 36 years old. It has many kinds of attractions, as well as a zoo called Safari World, and a water park named Caribbean Bay. Everland also has seasonal festivals throughout the year. Samsung Everland, a part of company of Samsung operates and manages the park and the surrounding area.
Caribbean Bay is South Korea's largest water park. It has outdoor and indoor parts, and only indoor parts, named 'Aquatic Center' opens throughout the year.
Home Bridge is a resort and cabin site near Everland. The wooden lodges are located 2,000 meters above sea level. 
Everland Speedway is South Korea's first racing track. It holds many racing events or competitions as well as provides guests to drive racing car.

</doc>
<doc id="428248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428248" title="Chalet Girl">
Chalet Girl

Chalet Girl is a 2011 British-German-Austrian romance-comedy movie. It is about introducing people, romance and various family matters. Felicity Jones plays Kim Matthews. Brooke Shields plays Caroline. Sophia Bush plays Chloe.
This movie got mixed reviews from the critics. It was released in the United States in October 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="428249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428249" title="Christian Benítez">
Christian Benítez

Christian Rogelio Benítez Betancourt (May 1, 1986 – July 29, 2013), also known as Chucho, was an Ecuadorian footballer who played as a forward for El Jaish of the Qatar Stars League at the time of his death.
On July 29, 2013, Benítez entered a hospital in Doha, Qatar because of a "strong pain" in his abdomen. He later went into respiratory failure. He died from complications leading to cardiac arrest at the age of 27.

</doc>
<doc id="428252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428252" title="Feature movie">
Feature movie

A feature movie or feature film is a movie (also called a film or motion picture) with a run time long enough to be the main or only movie to fill a program at a movie theatre. A program is the set of shows that people are given for one admission ticket. A feature movie is therefore a movie that runs for long enough to be the main or only show in a program. According to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, American Film Institute, and British Film Institute, a feature movie runs for at least 40 minutes. The Screen Actors Guild states that it is 80 minutes or longer.
The majority of feature movies are between 70 and 210 minutes long. "The Story of the Kelly Gang" was the first feature movie based on length, and was released in Australia in 1906. The first feature-length movie based on a book was "Les Misérables" which was released in 1909.
Feature movie for children are usually between 70 and 105 minutes. Other early feature movies include a version of "Oliver Twist" (1912), "Richard III" (1912) and "From the Manger to the Cross" (1912).

</doc>
<doc id="428253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428253" title="The Invisible Woman">
The Invisible Woman

The Invisible Woman is a 2013 romance-drama movie. The movie is about a secret mistress of Charles Dickens. Ralph Fiennes plays Dickens. Kristin Scott Thomas plays Catherine Ternan and Felicity Jones plays Nelly Ternan. This movie will be released beginning in early 2014 in the United Kingdom and United States.

</doc>
<doc id="428255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428255" title="Joana Raspall i Juanola">
Joana Raspall i Juanola

Joana Raspall i Juanola (1 July 1913 – 4 December 2013) was a Spanish writer and librarian. She was born in Barcelona on 1 July 1913. Juanola died on 4 December 2013 from natural causes, aged 100.

</doc>
<doc id="428258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428258" title="High-pass filter">
High-pass filter

A high-pass filter is an electronic filter that passes the frequency component of a signal above a certain value (cutoff frequency). The frequency component below that certain value will be suppressed to almost zero.

</doc>
<doc id="428259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428259" title="Low-pass filter">
Low-pass filter

A low-pass filter is an electronic filter that passes the frequency component of a signal below a certain value (cutoff frequency). The frequency component above that certain value will be suppressed to almost zero.

</doc>
<doc id="428260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428260" title="Band-pass filter">
Band-pass filter

A band-pass filter is an electronic filter that passes the frequency component of a signal within a certain range value, where it has its lower cutoff frequency and upper cutoff frequency. The frequency component outside that range of value will be suppressed to almost zero. In low frequency applications (up to 100 KHz), passive filters are generally constructed using simple R.C. networks while higher frequency filters (above 100 KHz) are usually made from R.L,C components.

</doc>
<doc id="428262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428262" title="Band-stop filter">
Band-stop filter

A band-stop filter or band-reject filter is an electronic filter that blocks the frequency component of a signal within a certain range value, where it has its lower cutoff frequency and upper cutoff frequency. The frequency component outside that range of value will be passed on.

</doc>
<doc id="428264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428264" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Stunt stand">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Stunt stand


</doc>
<doc id="428265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428265" title="Steam drum">
Steam drum

A steam drum is a part of a water-tube boiler. It is the place where water or steam gathers at the top of the boiler. It stores the steam produced in the water tube and it separates between steam and water mixture.

</doc>
<doc id="428267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428267" title="Water-tube boiler">
Water-tube boiler

A water-tube boiler is a type of boiler in which water circulates in tubes heated by fire from outside. The fire is produced by the fuel being burned inside the furnace for the boiler.

</doc>
<doc id="428268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428268" title="Category:Boilers">
Category:Boilers


</doc>
<doc id="428269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428269" title="Coal burner">
Coal burner

A coal burner is a device that burns fine coal (which has been grinded into smaller particles) into flame.

</doc>
<doc id="428270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428270" title="Superheater">
Superheater

A superheater is a device that changes saturated steam into dry steam. Dry steam is used in various industrial processes.

</doc>
<doc id="428271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428271" title="Heat exchanger">
Heat exchanger

A heat exchanger is a device used to efficiently transfer heat from one fluid to another. The fluids may be separated to avoid direct contact or mixing.

</doc>
<doc id="428272" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428272" title="Soot blower">
Soot blower

A soot blower is a device used to remove soot that has accumulated on the furnace tube of a boiler during combustion. Steam or air can be used to blow the soot.

</doc>
<doc id="428273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428273" title="Category:DVD">
Category:DVD


</doc>
<doc id="428276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428276" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Throng">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Throng


</doc>
<doc id="428280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428280" title="Marianne Muellerleile">
Marianne Muellerleile

Marianne Muellerleile (born November 26, 1948) is an American actress. She played Norma Bates (2000-2008) in the NBC soap opera "Passions". In "The Terminator" in 1984, she also played a woman with a name similar to Arnold Schwarzenegger's confidant and love interest. Muellerleile was born in St. Louis, Missouri.

</doc>
<doc id="428284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428284" title="State Grid Corporation of China">
State Grid Corporation of China

State Grid Corporation of China (SGCC; ) is a company owned by the government of the People's Republic of China which provides electricity to Northern China, Northeastern China, Eastern China, Central China and Northwestern China.

</doc>
<doc id="428285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428285" title="China Southern Power Grid">
China Southern Power Grid

China Southern Power Grid () is a company owned by the government of the People's Republic of China which provides electricity transmission and distribution to Guangdong, Guangxi, Guizhou, Hainan and Yunnan provinces.

</doc>
<doc id="428286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428286" title="Excitation (magnetic)">
Excitation (magnetic)

Excitation is a process to create a magnetic field from electric current. This process is used in electric machines (generators or motors) whose rotor spins in a magnetic field. This magnetic field can come from a permanent magnet or field coils. In the case of electric machine with field coils, a current must flow to the coil to generate the magnetic field, so that the field coils can act as a "magnet", like in the case of electric machine with permanent magnet. The device in which excitation happens is called the exciter.

</doc>
<doc id="428288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428288" title="Switchgear">
Switchgear

A switchgear is a combination of electrical switches, fuses or circuit breakers used to control, protect or isolate electrical equipment.

</doc>
<doc id="428300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428300" title="Jane Child">
Jane Child

Jane Child (also Jane Richman; February 15, 1967) is a Canadian musician. She sang the song "Don't Wanna Fall in Love" which was #2 on "Billboard" Hot 100 in spring 1990. She also sang other hits. Child was born in Toronto, Ontario.

</doc>
<doc id="428304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428304" title="Don't Wanna Fall in Love">
Don't Wanna Fall in Love

"Don't Wanna Fall in Love" (also titled "Don't Want to Fall in Love") is a 1990 pop and romantic dance song. It peaked at #2 across the "Billboard" in spring of 1990. A new jack swing remix for the song was released later that year. The single is by Jane Child. This is the only Top 40 charting single from Child. In the United Kingdom, however, it peaked at only #22 due to Child not wanting to appear on a popular British television show for fear of being classified a sellout.

</doc>
<doc id="428305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428305" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Arusha, Tanzania bus disaster">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Arusha, Tanzania bus disaster


</doc>
<doc id="428309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428309" title="Ma Ying-jeou">
Ma Ying-jeou

Ma Ying-jeou () is a Taiwanese politican. He was the President of the Republic of China from 20 May 2008 to 20 May 2016.
Ma Ying-jeou was born in Kwong Wah Hospital in Kowloon, British Hong Kong on 13 July 1950. He studied in National Taiwan University, New York University and Harvard University.

</doc>
<doc id="428310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428310" title="British Hong Kong">
British Hong Kong

British Hong Kong () is the old Hong Kong when it was under the administration of the British Empire. This lasted from 1841 to 1941 and 1945 to 1997.
Hong Kong was given by the Qing Dynasty to the British Empire in 1841 under the Treaty of Nanking. Kowloon was added to the area of Hong Kong in 1860 under the Convention of Peking, and New Territories was added in 1898 under the Second Convention of Peking. In 1941–1945, Hong Kong was ruled by the Japanese Empire during World War II. In 1984, People's Republic of China and the United Kingdom agreed under Sino-British Joint Declaration on the Question of Hong Kong that Hong Kong was to be returned to China on 1 July 1997.

</doc>
<doc id="428313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428313" title="Elizabeth Debicki">
Elizabeth Debicki

Elizabeth Debicki (August 1990) is an Australian actress. She played Jordan Baker in "The Great Gatsby". Her career began in 2010. The actress was born in Paris, France.

</doc>
<doc id="428325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428325" title="Bastille (band)">
Bastille (band)

Bastille are an English indie rock band. They started in London in 2010. In February 2013, they released a single called "Pompeii". It was number one in Scotland and Ireland. It reached number two in Italy and the UK. They released their first album, "Bad Blood", on 4 March 2013 in the United Kingdom. It went straight to number one in the UK Albums Chart. It was released in the US in September 2013. It reached number eleven in the United States' "Billboard" 200. It also reached the top ten in Ireland. and Australia 
Bastille have four members. Daniel Campbell Smith is the main singer. At first he was the only member. He writes all of the band's songs. Chris "Woody" Wood is the main drummer. William Farquarson plays bass, keyboards, and acoustic guitar. Kyle Jonathan Simmons plays keyboards, bass, and percussion.

</doc>
<doc id="428330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428330" title="Nicholle Tom">
Nicholle Tom

Nicholle Tom (born 23 March, 1978) is an American television program and movie actress. She played Maggie Sheffield in the sitcom "The Nanny" (1993 to 1999) and Ryce Newton in the "Beethoven" movies and related TV show. Her sister, Heather Tom, also acts. Nicholle Tom was born in Hinsdale, Illinois.

</doc>
<doc id="428333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428333" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Buttsteak">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Buttsteak


</doc>
<doc id="428338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428338" title="Mark LoMonaco">
Mark LoMonaco

Mark LoMonaco (born July 14, 1971) is an American professional wrestler. He currently works for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling where he competes under the ring name, Bully Ray.
He is also known for working with Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) from 1995 to 1999 under the ring name Buh Buh Ray Dudley and for World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment (WWF/E) under the name, Bubba Ray Dudley. He is known for being one-half of the tag team, Dudley Boyz (also known as Team 3D) along with Devon.

</doc>
<doc id="428339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428339" title="Tori Kelly">
Tori Kelly

Victoria Loren "Tori" Kelly (born December 14, 1992) is an American singer and songwriter. She won America's Most Talented Kids in 2004. In 2010, she was on American Idol. She was not chosen as one of the final twenty-four contestants. On January 21, 2012, Kelly put a video on her YouTube channel of her singing "Thinkin Bout You" by Frank Ocean. A lot of people watched it. It now has over 17 million views. In May 2012, she released her first extended play "Handmade Songs". Her manager is Scooter Braun. On November 1, 2013, Kelly sang at Ed Sheeran's concert at New York's Madison Square Garden. In an interview with BBC, Kelly said that Sheeran is "a really close friend". They have written a song together.

</doc>
<doc id="428357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428357" title="Ella Eyre">
Ella Eyre

Ella Eyre (born 1 April 1994) is a British singer-songwriter. She sang on Rudimental's single "Waiting All Night". It was number one in the UK Singles Chart in April 2013.
Eyre was raised in Ealing, London. She went to a private school called Millfield and the BRIT School for Performing Arts & Technology.
Eyre was signed to Warner/Chappell Music in July 2012.
Eyre sung on the fourth song on Naughty Boy's album "Hotel Cabana". The album was released in August 2013. The song, "Think About It", was then released as the album's fourth single on 17 November 2013. It reached number 78 in the UK Singles Chart.
On 19 October 2013 Eyre performed at the Music of Black Origin Awards. "Waiting All Night" was nominated for Best Song.
On 31 October 2013 "BBC Radio 1Xtra" played Eyre's first solo single, "Deeper". She was also interviewed by DJ MistaJam. On 22 November Eyre released the video for the single.
On 4 November 2013, British rapper Tinie Tempah released his second album "Demonstration". Eyre sung on the first song on the album, "Someday (Place in the Sun)".
She was nominated for MTV Brand New 2014 on 28 November 2013. Other nominees were The Vamps, Eylar Fox, and Banks. In December MTV started letting the public vote for the winner. In February MTV will tell the public who got the most votes.
On 5 December 2013 BBC put her on their Sound of 2014 list. She was also nominated for the 2014 Brit Awards Critics' Choice award.
Her first EP "Deeper" was released on 15 December 2013 by Virgin/EMI.
Eyre is dating John Newman.

</doc>
<doc id="428364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428364" title="Freud's psychoanalytic theories">
Freud's psychoanalytic theories

Sigmund Freud (6 May 1856 – 23 September 1939) is considered to be the founder of the psychodynamic approach to psychology. Psychodynamic therapy looks closely at the unconscious drives that motivate people to act in certain ways.
The role of the mind is something that Freud repeatedly talks about because he believes that the mind is responsible for both conscious and unconscious decisions based on drives and forces. Unconscious desires motivate people to act accordingly. The id, ego, and superego are three aspects of the mind, which Freud believes, makes up a person’s personality. “We are simply actors in the drama of our minds, pushed by desire, pulled by coincidence. Underneath the surface, our personalities represent the power struggle going on deep within us” (Cash, Psychology for Dummies).
Freud does not believe there is any supernatural force that affects the way we think or has pre-programmed us to behave in a certain way. His idea of the id explains why people act out in certain ways, when it is not in line with the ego or superego. Religion is an illusion and it derives its strength from the fact that it falls in with our instinctual desires." (Freud). Freud believes that people rely on religion to give explanations for anxieties and tension they do not want to consciously believe in. The basis of Christian theology states, “God created humanity in his image” (Genesis 1:27), but Freud argues that humanity created God in their image. This reverses the idea of any type of religion because he believes that religion is constructed by the mind. The role of the mind is something that Freud repeatedly talks about because he believes that the mind is responsible for both conscious and unconscious decisions based on drives and forces. The idea that religion causes people to behave in a moral way is incorrect according to Freud because he believes that no other force has the power to control the ways in which people act. Unconscious desires motivate people to act accordingly. Freud does a significant amount of research studying how people act and interact in a group setting. He believes that people act in different ways according to the demands and constraints of the group as a whole. In his book "Group Psychology and the Analysis of the Ego", Freud argues that the church and organized religion forms an “artificial group” which requires an external force to keep it together. In this type of group, everything is dependent on that external force and without it, the group would no longer exist. Groups are necessary, according to Freud, in order to decrease the narcissism in all people by creating libidinal ties with others by placing everyone at an equal level. The commonness among different people with different egos allows people to identify with one another. This relates to the idea of religion because Freud believes that people created religion in order to create these group ties that they unconsciously seek for.
According to Freud’s many theories of religion, the Oedipus complex is utilized in the understanding and mastery of religious beliefs. In Freud’s psychosexual stages, he mentions the Oedipus complex and the Electra complex and how they affect children and their relationships with their same-sex parental figure. According to Freud, there is an unconscious desire for one’s mother to be a virgin and for one’s father to be an all-powerful, almighty figure. Freud’s interest in Greek mythology and religion greatly influenced his psychological theories. The Oedipus complex is when a boy is jealous of his father. The boy strives to possess his mother and ultimately replace his father as a means of no longer having to fight for her undivided attention and affection. Along with seeking his mother’s love, boys also experience castration anxiety, which is the fear of losing their genitalia. Boys fear that their fathers will retaliate and castrate them as a result of desiring one’s mother. While the Oedipus complex presents itself in males, females experience a different form of incestuous rivalry known as the Electra complex. Girls become jealous of their mothers and begin to feel desire towards their fathers. Females also experience penis envy which is the parallel reaction to the male experience of castration anxiety. Females are jealous of their fathers’ penis and wish to have one as well. Girls then repress this feeling and instead long for a child of their own. This suppression leads to the girl identifying with her mother and acquiring feminine traits.
According to Freud, the id is the part of the unconscious that seeks pleasure. His idea of the id explains why people act out in certain ways, when it is not in line with the ego or superego. The id is the part of the mind which holds all of humans' most basic and primal instincts. It is the impulsive, unconscious part of the mind that is based on desire to seek immediate satisfaction. The id does not have a grasp on any form of reality or consequence. Freud explains that the pleasure principle is controlled by the id because it makes people engage in need-satisfying behavior without any accordance to what is right or wrong. Freud compares the id and the ego to a horse and a rider. The id is compared to the horse, which is directed and controlled by the ego (the rider). This example goes to show that although the id is supposed to be controlled by the ego, they often interact with one another according to the drives of the id. 
Freud defines the id as: “The id, cut off from the external world, has a world of perception of its own. It detects with extraordinary acuteness certain changes in its interior, especially oscillations in the tension of its instinctual needs, and these changes become conscious as feelings in the pleasure-unpleasure series. It is hard to say, to be sure, by what means and with the help of what sensory terminal organs these perceptions come about. But it is an established fact that self-perceptions—coenesthetic feelings and feelings of pleasure-unpleasure—govern the passage of events in the id with despotic force. The id obeys the inexorable pleasure principle”.
In order for people to maintain a realistic sense here on earth, the ego is responsible for creating balance between pleasure and pain. It is impossible for all desires of the id to be met and the ego realizes this but continues to seek pleasure and satisfaction. Although the ego does not know the difference between right and wrong, it is aware that not all drives can be met at a given time. The reality principle is what the ego operates by in order to help satisfy the id’s demands as well as compromising according to reality. The ego is a person’s “self,” composed of unconscious desires. The ego takes into account ethical and cultural ideals in order to balance out the desires originating in the id. Although both the id and the ego are unconscious, the ego has close contact with the perceptual system. The ego has the function of self-preservation, which is why it has the ability to control the instinctual demands from the id. 
“The ego is first and foremost a bodily ego; it is not merely a surface entity, but is itself the projection of a surface. If we wish to find an anatomical analogy for it we can best identify it with the ‘cortical homunculus’ of the anatomists, which stands on its head in the cortex, sticks up its heels, faces backwards and, as we know, has its speech-area on the left-hand side. The ego is ultimately derived from bodily sensations, chiefly from those springing from the surface of the body. It may thus be regarded as a mental projection of the surface of the body, besides, as we have seen above (Figure 3), representing the superficies of the mental apparatus.”
The superego, which develops around age four or five, incorporates the morals of society. Freud believes that the superego is what allows the mind to control its impulses that are looked down upon morally. The superego can be considered to be the conscience of the mind because it has the ability to distinguish between reality as well as what is right or wrong. Without the superego Freud believes people would act out with aggression and other immoral behaviors because the mind would have no way of understanding the difference between right and wrong. The superego is considered to be the “consciousness” of a person’s personality and can override the drives from the id. Freud separates the superego into two separate categories: the ideal self and the conscious. The conscious contains ideals and morals that exist within society that prevent people from acting out based on their internal desires. The ideal self contains images of how people ought to behave according to society's ideals.
Freud believed that the answers to what controlled daily actions resided in the unconscious mind, despite alternative views that all our behaviors were conscious. Notions of the unconsciousness, gaps in the consciousness, can be explained by other acts of which the consciousness affords no evidence. The unconscious mind positions itself in every aspect our life whether one is dormant or awake. It is more than just a habitat for our undesired memories, we are at loss to what truly exists here. Though unaware of the effect of the unconscious mind, it influences the actions we engage it. Human behavior should be understood by searching for analysis of mental processes in expressions of individual states. This explanation gives significance to verbal slips and dreams; they are caused by hidden reasons in the mind displayed in concealed forms.
Verbal slips of the unconscious mind are referred to as a Freudian slip. This is a term coined by Freud to explain a spoken mistake derived from the unconscious mind. Traumatizing information of thoughts and beliefs are blocked from the conscious mind, slips expose our true thoughts stored in the unconscious. Sexual instincts or drives have deeply invested roots in the unconscious mind. Instincts act by giving vitality and enthusiasm to the mind through meaning and purpose. The ranges of instincts are in great numbers; therefore, Freud expressed them in two categories. Eros is the self-preserving life instinct containing all erotic pleasures. In contrast, thanatos is the death instinct, full of self-destruction of sexual energy. The main part of human behavior and actions is tied back to sexual drives. Since birth the existent of sexual drives can be recognized as one of the most important incentives of life.
Freud’s theory of psychosexual development is represented amongst five stages. According to Freud, each stage occurs within a specific time frame of one’s life. If one becomes fixated in any of the five stages, he or she will develop personality traits that coincide with the a specific stage and its focus. 
The first stage is the oral stage. An infant is in this stage from birth to eighteen months of age. The main focus in the oral stage is pleasure-seeking through the infant’s mouth. During this stage, the need for tasting and sucking becomes prominent in producing pleasure. Oral stimulation is crucial during this stage; if the infant’s needs are not met during this time frame, he or she will be fixated in the oral stage. Fixation in this stage can lead to adult habits such as thumb-sucking, smoking, over-eating, and nail-biting. Personality traits can also develop during adulthood that are linked to oral fixation; these traits can include optimism and independence or pessimism and hostility.
The second stage is the anal stage, which lasts from eighteen months to three years of age. During this stage, the infant’s pleasure seeking centers are located in the bowels and bladder. Parents stress toilet training and bowel control during this time period. Fixation in the anal stage can lead to anal-retention or anal-expulsion. Anal retentive characteristics include being overly neat, precise, and orderly, while being anal expulsive involves being disorganized, messy, and destructive. 
The third stage in psychosexual development is the phallic stage. This stage begins at 3 years old and ends when the child reaches six years of age. The phallic stage focuses on the genitals as pleasure-seeking areas of the body. Boys in this stage experience the Oedipus complex, while girls experience the Electra complex. In both cases, the child develops incestuous feelings for the parent of the opposite sex. Children tend to develop characteristics of the same-sex parent during this stage. Fixation in the phallic stage has different personality traits depending on one’s gender. Males may take great pride in their masculinity and their sexuality, while women may become flirtatious and promiscuous. In both instances, these personality traits are a sign of low self-esteem and self-worth. 
The fourth stage is the latency stage which begins at the age of six and continues until the age of eleven. During this stage there is no pleasure-seeking region of the body; instead all sexual feelings are repressed. Thus, children are able to develop social skills, and find comfort through peer and family interaction. 
The final stage of psychosexual development is the genital stage. This stage begins at the age of eleven, lasts through puberty, and ends when one reaches adulthood at the age of eighteen. The onset of puberty reflects a strong interest from one person to another of the opposite sex. If one does not experience fixation in any of the psychosexual stages, once he or she has reached the genital stage he or she will grow into a well-balanced human being.
Freud proposed a set of defense mechanisms in one’s body. These set of defense mechanisms occur so one can hold a favorable or preferred view of themselves. For example, in a particular situation when an event occurs that violates one's preferred view of themselves, Freud states that it is necessary for the self to have some mechanism to defend itself against this unfavorable event; this is known as defense mechanisms. Freud’s work on defense mechanisms focuses on how the ego defends itself against internal events or impulses, which are regarded as unacceptable to one’s ego. These defense mechanisms are used to handle the conflict between the id, the ego, and the superego.
Freud noted that a major drive for people is the reduction of tension and the major cause of tension was anxiety. He identified three types of anxiety: reality anxiety, neurotic anxiety, and moral anxiety. Reality anxiety is the most basic form of anxiety and is based on the ego. It is typically based on the fear of real and possible events (for example, being bit by a dog or falling off of a roof). Neurotic anxiety comes from an unconscious fear that the basic impulses of the id will take control of the person, leading to eventual punishment from expressing the id's desires. Moral anxiety comes from the superego. It appears in the form of a fear of violating values or moral codes, and appears as feelings like guilt or shame.
When anxiety occurs, the mind's first response is to seek rational ways of escaping the situation by increasing problem-solving efforts, and a range of defense mechanisms may be triggered. These are ways that the ego develops to help deal with the id and the superego. Defense mechanisms often appear unconsciously and tend to distort or falsify reality. When the distortion of reality occurs, there is a change in perception which allows for a lessening in anxiety resulting in a reduction of tension one experiences. Sigmund Freud noted a number of ego defenses which were noted throughout his work. His daughter, Anna Freud, developed and elaborated on them. The defense mechanisms are as follows:
These defenses are not under our conscious control, and our unconscious will use one or more to protect one’s self from stressful situations. They are natural and normal. Without these, neurosis develops (such as anxiety states, phobias, obsessions, or hysteria).
Sigmund Freud was born to Jewish parents in a heavily Roman Catholic town. Freud desired to understand religion and spirituality and deals with the nature of religious beliefs in many of his books and essays. He regards God as an illusion, based on the infantile need for a powerful father figure. Freud believed that religion was an expression of underlying psychological neuroses and distress. In some of his writing, he suggests that religion is an attempt to control the Oedipal complex, as he goes on to discuss in his book "Totem and Taboo".
In 1913, Freud published the book "Totem and Taboo". This book was an attempt to reconstruct the birth and the process of development of religion as a social institution. He wanted to demonstrate how the study of psychoanalysis is important in the understanding of the growth of civilization. This book is about how the Oedipus complex and incest taboo came into being and why they are present in all human societies. The incest taboo rises because of a desire for incest. The purpose of the totemic animal is not for group unity, but to re-enforce the incest taboo. The totemic animal is not a symbol of God, but a symbol of the father and it is an important part of religious development. Totemism originates from the memory of an event in pre-history where the male group members eat the father figure due to a desire for the females. The guilt they feel for their actions and for the loss of a father figure leads them to prohibit incest in a new way. Totemism is a means of preventing incest and as a ritual reminder of murder of the father. This shows that sexual desire, since there are many social prohibitions on sexual relations, is channeled through certain ritual actions and all societies adopt these rituals so that sexuality develops in approved ways. This reveals unconscious desires and their repression. Freud believes that civilization makes people unhappy because it contradicts the desire for progress, freedom, happiness, and wealth. Civilization requires repression of drives and instincts - such as sexual, aggression, and death instincts - in order for civilization can work.
According to Freud, religion originated in pre-historic collective experiences that became repressed and ritualized as totems and taboos. He states that most, if not all religions, can be traced back to early human sacrifice - including Christianity, in which Christ on the cross is a symbolic representation of killing the father and eating the father figure. This is shown with ‘the body of Christ’, also known as Communion. In this work, Freud attributes the origin of religion to emotions such as hatred, fear, and jealousy. These emotions are directed towards the father figure in the clan from the sons who are denied sexual desires towards the females. Freud attributed totem religions to be a result of extreme emotion, rash action, and the result of guilt.
"The Psychopathology of Everyday Life" is one of the most important books in psychology. It was written by Freud in 1901 and it laid the basis for the theory of psychoanalysis. The book contains twelve chapters on forgetting things such as names, childhood memories, mistakes, clumsiness, slips of the tongue, and determinism of the unconscious. Freud believed that there were reasons that people forget things like words, names, and memories. He also believed that mistakes in speech, now referred to as Freudian slips, were not accidents but instead the “dynamic unconscious” revealing something meaningful.
Freud suggests that our everyday psychopathology is a minor disturbance of mental life which may quickly pass away. Freud believed all of these acts to have an important significance; the most trivial slips of the tongue or pen may reveal people's secret feelings and fantasies. Pathology is brought into the everyday life which Freud points out through dreams, forgetfulness, and parapraxes. He uses these things to make his case for the existence of an unconscious that refuses to be explained or contained by consciousness. Freud explains how the forgetting of multiple events in our everyday life can be consequences of repression, suppression, denial, displacement, and identification. Defense mechanisms occur to protects one’s ego so in "The Psychopathology of Everyday Life", Freud states, “painful memories merge into motivated forgetting which special ease” (p. 154)
Freud wrote "Three Essays on the Theory of Sexuality", sometimes titled "Three Contributions to the Theory of Sex", in 1905. It explores and analyzes his theory of sexuality and its presence throughout childhood. Freud’s book describes three main topics in reference to sexuality: sexual perversions, childhood sexuality, and puberty. His first essay in this series is called "The Sexual Aberrations". This essay focuses on the distinction between a sexual object and a sexual aim. A sexual object is the object that one desires, while the sexual aim is the acts that one desires to perform with the object. 
Freud’s second essay was explained "Infantile Sexuality". During this essay he insists that children have sexual urges. The psychosexual stages are the steps a child must take in order to continue having sexual urges once adulthood is reached. 
The third essay Freud wrote described "The Transformation of Puberty". In this essay he examines how children express their sexuality throughout puberty and how sexual identity is formed during this time frame. 
Freud ultimately attempted to link unconscious sexual desires to conscious actions in each of his essays.
"The Interpretation of Dreams" is one Sigmund Freud’s greatest published works known to date because of the stage it set for his psychoanalytic work. During therapy sessions, Freud would ask his patients to talk about whatever would first come to their mind, usually their responses directly related to a dream. He then began to analyze their dreams, believing that this gave him access to their deepest thoughts. He also believed he could find links between his patients' current hysterical behaviors and past traumatic experiences. From here he began to formulate a book to allow others to understand dream interpretation, by using his current theory of the unconscious. 
Freud believed that dreams were messages from the unconscious, masked as wishes controlled by internal stimuli. The unconscious mind plays the most imperative role in dream interpretation. In order to remain in a state of sleep, the unconscious mind has to detain negative thoughts and represent them in an edited form. Therefore, when one dreams, the unconscious makes an effort to deal with any conflict. 
Freud categorized dreams into different levels in order to better understand the unconscious as the primary standard for dream interpretation. The first level of dreams is the manifest content, which is the dream one remembers after waking up. But Freud believed no attention should be given to this level, because the unconscious mind produced the dream into a different meaning from its original. Latent content is the second level of dreams, which is the real dream amongst your unconscious thoughts. This is where the true meaning of the dream lies and turned into another sense to protect ourselves. In order for our dreams to convert from latent content to manifest content, four steps are required: condensation, displacement, symbolism, and secondary revision. A special focus on symbolism was emphasized in interpretation. Freud believed that dreams are highly symbolic, with an underlying principle meaning. Most of the symbolic stages focuses on sexually connotation (for example, a tree branch could represent a part of the male genitals). He also believed all human behavior originated from our sexual drives and desires.

</doc>
<doc id="428368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428368" title="Jazz (wrestler)">
Jazz (wrestler)

Carlene Denise Moore-Begnaud (born August 27, 1973) is an American professional wrestler. She currently works for Women Superstars Uncensored under the ring name, Jazz.
She is best known for working with Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) as well as World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment. During her time in WWF/E, she was a two-time WWF/E Women's Championship. She is married to Rodney Begnaud who also competed in World Wrestling Entertainment under the ring name Rodney Mack.

</doc>
<doc id="428370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428370" title="Lungs (album)">
Lungs (album)

Lungs is the first album by Florence and the Machine. It was released on 3 July 2009. The album went straight to number two in the UK Albums Chart. The album was nominated for the 2009 Mercury Prize. It won the MasterCard British Album award at the 2010 BRIT Awards. It has sold more than three million copies around the world.
Three singles were released from "Lungs" before it was released. The first single from the album, "Kiss with a Fist", was released on June 9 2008. The second single, "Dog Days Are Over" was released 1 December 2008. On 22 June 2009 "Rabbit Heart (Raise It Up)" was released. It entered the UK Singles Chart at number nine. "Drumming Song" was released on 13 September 2009. On 16 November 2009 "You've Got the Love" was released. It reached number five in the UK Singles Chart. It was the album's fifth single. The last single released from the album was "Cosmic Love".

</doc>
<doc id="428378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428378" title="Boo (character)">
Boo (character)

A Boo is a fictional ghost that appears in the "Mario" and "Yoshi" series of video games. Boos first appeared in "Super Mario Bros. 3". Since then, they have become a common enemy in the "Mario" games. They sometimes appear as playable characters in the "Mario" spin-off games. In some games, such as "Paper Mario", they help Mario during his adventure. They are named after the sound that a person might make when they want to scare someone ("boo!").
Boos most often attack the player by sneaking up behind the player while the player's back is turned to them. When the player looks at them, they will hide their faces. They cannot be defeated without certain items or abilities.

</doc>
<doc id="428382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428382" title="Priscilla Renea">
Priscilla Renea

Priscilla Renea (born September 14, 1988) is an American and soul musician. She released the single "Dollhouse" in August 2009. The song, however, failed to chart on Billboard Hot 100. It did, though, become a mild hit. Her debut album, "Jukebox", got positive reviews from critics. "Jukebox" did not sell much beyond 3,000 copies in the United States, nor beyond 5,000 copies worldwide.
Renea was born in Vero Beach, Florida.

</doc>
<doc id="428384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428384" title="Marvins Room">
Marvins Room

"Marvins Room" is a song by Drake. It is a dark and emotional song that tells a story of heartache, and a failed relationship. It is off his album "Take Care". The song was so successful many artists made their own versions of the song, including: Lil Wayne, Chris Brown, JoJo, Trey Songz.

</doc>
<doc id="428385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428385" title="AMC (TV channel)">
AMC (TV channel)

AMC is an American cable and satellite television channel. The channel is owned by AMC Networks and airs television shows and movies. AMC stands for American Movie Classics, which the channel was first based around. Currently is referred to as AMC due to its primary shift from only movies to also featuring television shows.
In 1984 on October 1, the AMC television channel aired for the time as a premium channel, showing only movie classics. It was on in the evening, and frequently held special events such as marathons and sometimes movies that generally weren't aired as classics. In 1998 it had been recorded that AMC had 39 million subscribers in the United States, making it one of the most subscribed to premium channels. Two years later, in 1990, AMC started airing 24 hours, and had been picked up by most cable providers.
In 2002 AMC switched from airing only movie classics to modern movies of all genres and television shows. During this switch, they also started using a new logo "Story Matters Here". In 2004 AMC aired its first original show called "Film Fakers". After the success of the show, AMC started adding more original series and movies. The first original drama series, "Mad Men". The show received a large amount of views and great feedback, resulting in a boom of original shows such as "Breaking Bad" and "Hell on Wheels".
After many television awards and critical acclaim from shows like "Mad Men" and "Breaking Bad", AMC started creating many more original shows. During this change, AMC created its well known slogan, "Story Matters Here". The slogan referred to the many shows that had created at the time, many of which had been praised great stories told through them. It was also during this time that "The Walking Dead" TV show was announced and aired. Currently it holds the title as most watched scripted cable show in history.
Currently, AMC has left its previous slogan for "Something More". It is continuing to air The Walking Dead, which is on its seventh season, along with new shows such as "Comic Book Men" and "Small Town Security". It has been announced that it will be picking up two new shows, "Halt & Catch Fire" and "Turn", two period dramas that will be airing in 2014. This year, the only new show is "Mob City", a scripted show about the Los Angeles Police Department.
AMCTV.com is an website provides special features for users, such as the airing schedule, blogs, videos, games.
This online feature allows viewers to see what date and time shows are airing, as well as when new episodes will be available. Another the schedule allows users to do, is know when AMC movies will be airing. A recently added ability allows users to see all of when a specific episode is going to be rerun.
Videos provides behind the scenes looks at many of the shows, as well as previews for upcoming episodes. Although the videos are usually fairly short, consisting around a three minutes long, they provide fans with small bits of special information that most viewers want to see.
The blogs consists of short stories about certain episodes for different shows. These blogs, are all made by AMC editors, and usually don't contain any useful information about new shows or episodes. This feature is the least used, and the least updated.
The category of games, is filled with trivia questions for selected shows, having the only possibilities being getting the answer right, getting it wrong, and running out of time on the timer. Recently, trivia questions for movies have been added in this category along with the television shows.

</doc>
<doc id="428386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428386" title="Birdman (rapper)">
Birdman (rapper)

Brian Williams (called Birdman) is an American rapper. He is the co-founder of Cash Money Records. He began his career as an oil company executive. In 1997, he became part of a rap group called Big Tymers along with Mannie Fresh. He has collaborated for a long time with Lil Wayne and is currently one of the richest rappers. Birdman has a reported net worth of $160 million in 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="428393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428393" title="Division of Lyne">
Division of Lyne

The Division of Lyne is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales. It was set up in 1949, and named for Sir William Lyne, Premier of New South Wales at the time of Federation and a minister in early Australian governments. Lyne was asked by the first Governor-General, Lord Hopetoun to form the first Federal Government. Lyne did not have the support of other politicians, and so Edmund Barton became the first Prime Minister of Australia.
The division is on the Mid North Coast of New South Wales. It includes Port Macquarie, Taree, Wauchope, Laurieton, Wingham, Gloucester and parts of Kempsey.
Mark Vaile was the leader of the National Party, and Deputy Prime Minister. He retired in July 2008 which caused a by-election. Independent politician Rob Oakeshott won the seat, and after the 2010 election was one of the independents who supported a minority Labor government led by Julia Gillard. Oakeshott retired at the 2013 election. 

</doc>
<doc id="428401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428401" title="Third Power">
Third Power

Third Power is a album by DJ Drama. Its lead single is "Oh My." The song features Wiz Khalifa, Fabolous and Roscoe Dash.

</doc>
<doc id="428403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428403" title="Category:Mexican people by location">
Category:Mexican people by location


</doc>
<doc id="428409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428409" title="Category:People acquitted of crimes">
Category:People acquitted of crimes


</doc>
<doc id="428412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428412" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Third Power">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Third Power


</doc>
<doc id="428421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428421" title="Kim Bum-soo">
Kim Bum-soo

Kim Bum-Soo (; born January 26, 1979) is a South Korean R&B and soul singer. His first successful song was "One Day", released in early 2000. He became most famous for his song "I Want to See", which was used on the soundtrack of the drama "Stairway to Heaven". He performed in the television program "I Am a Singer" in 2010.
When Kim was young, he sung in a church choir in Seoul. He wanted to become a Christian music singer. He went to Soongsil University. He was allowed in because they had a shortage of students. It was disappointing for him enter like that, but he trained a lot to win a scholarship. He wanted a scholarship because his family was having difficulties with money. After he failed to get the scholarship, a singer named Park Sun-Joo began training Kim to sing. By chance he was signed to an agency, and he recorded part of a new song by R.ef, which was a famous rave music group in those days.
Kim released his first album, "A Promise". However, after he appeared on a television program, his sales decreased because his appearance did not satisfy the public's expectations. His agency decided to promote him as a "faceless" singer instead. His songs were broadcast through radio and television again, but his name and appearance was never known to people.
After the success of the song "I Want to See", Kim wanted to appear on television again. He made his agency allow him once more to be broadcast. He appeared on a show called "Love Letter". He received good comments from the public. His song "I Want to See" was selected to be on the soundtrack of the drama "Stairway to Heaven". Kim has remained best known for this song. His later albums were not very successful. He served his military service from 2006 to 2008. After he was discharged from the army he released his sixth album, "The Practical Usage of Sadness". His seventh album, "Solista", was an ambitious work. The first part was released in 2010, but was not successful.
His appearance on the television show "I Am a Singer" was a turning point of his career. He became recognized again thanks to the popularity of the program. His song "Please Come Back", which was originally by Lee So-ra, maintained the first position in several websites for a month. Kim released his second part of "Solista" in 2011. It was popular, and Kim held several concerts to promote it.

</doc>
<doc id="428422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428422" title="Kalinga War">
Kalinga War

The Kalinga War was a war fought between the Mauryan Empire and the state of Kalinga. Kalinga was an important kingdom because it controlled the trade routes with Southeast Asia. Because of this, Ashoka, the Mauryan king, wanted to capture it. Therefore he lead his huge army to Kalinga in 261 BC.
The Kalingans also led an army to the warfield. The small army of Kalinga was not a match for Ashoka's mighty army. Though the Kalingan army fought hard, soon the whole Kalingan army had collapsed. There were more than 100,000 deaths on both sides. The battlefield was bloody with dead or injured soldiers, crying orphans and widows.
Although he won the war, Ashoka realized the futility of war.He saw the bloodshed and suffering of the soldiers family. He vowed never to fight again. He converted to Buddhism and he dedicated his later life to help his subjects.

</doc>
<doc id="428424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428424" title="Stereotype threat">
Stereotype threat

Stereotype threat is the risk of confirming a negative stereotype about a group to which one belongs. Claude Steele introduced this idea in 1995. Stereotype threat may reduce the performance of people who belong to a negatively stereotyped group.
Claude Steele and Joshua Aronson did research for this theory of social psychology. They had African-American and European-American college students take a difficult verbal portion of the Graduate Record Examination. The design was a 2x3 factorial. The factors were the race of the participant (black or white)and the test description (diagnostic of intelligence, non diagnostic, or non diagnostic and challenging). Performance on the test was the dependent variable. 117 male and female participants were recruited from Stanford University. After comparing the results of the three groups, it was found that the differences were not very significant. However, in their second study results were significant.
A study on chess players shows that if females are made aware of the stereotype that females are worse at chess than males, they perform worse than the controls. Stone, Lynch, Sjomeling, & Darley did experiments in which white men performed poorly in sports if they are put in the condition that described the task as reflecting natural athletic ability compared to African-Americans. The African-Americans performed worse when the task was described as involving intelligence of the sport.
Yeung & von Hippel did an experiment in which two groups of women went through a driving simulation. They told the women in the stereotype threat group that they were investigating why men were better drivers than women. That group twice more likely than the control to hit a pedestrian jaywalker.
Stereotype lift can increase a person's performance on a task when he/she is exposed to a negative stereotype of a group to which he/she does not belong.
Stereotype boost can increase an individual's performance on a task when he/she is exposed to a positive stereotype about his/her group.
Stereotype threat can have a bad effect on people. It has a negative effect on performance. It can also cause individuals to distance themselves from the stereotyped group to which they belonged, or lead them to dis-identify with the group that they experience stereotype threat. For example, a woman sees herself as "not a math person".
A simple way to stop these negative consequences is to tell people about stereotype threat.

</doc>
<doc id="428427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428427" title="Maslow's hierarchy of needs">
Maslow's hierarchy of needs

Maslow’s hierarchy of needs was created by Abraham Maslow in 1943. Maslow suggested that human needs could be put into five levels.
The levels are in order of importance.
Maslow says that these needs cause us to want or desire certain things. He says that there are many other things that influence our behavior. Just because we may want something, does not mean we will try to get it. There could be something else in the way that causes us to act differently.
The physiological level of Maslow's hierarchy includes basic human needs. These include water, breathing, food, and sleep. The physiological level contains the simplest needs. They are the most straightforward needs in the entire hierarchy. The human body tries to stay balanced inside. When a person is missing a physiological need, the body will naturally want the missing need. 
In simple creatures such as rodents, physiological needs may be the only needs that have to be met. However, in humans, this is only the base of the hierarchy. After physiological needs are met, there are four higher levels in the hierarchy. People are often not aware when there physiological needs are being met. However, when these needs are not met it becomes very obvious. For example, most humans do not think about each inhale and exhale they take. This satisfies their need to breathe. However, if the oxygen supply were cut off, all people would immediately become aware of the need to breathe. Physiological needs are important from the time a person is born and throughout their entire life.
The safety level of Maslow's hierarchy includes varying levels of safety. These include safety of the self, family, resources, jobs, health, and life. Both children and adults are very aware of their safety needs. Needs of safety are just as important as physiological needs. However, these needs deal more with the mind. They include having a sense of safety in the world. Every person’s sense of safety is different depending where they live.
Adults, much like children, prefer the world to be organized. This ensures a level of safety. However, some adults are too focused on organization. People may also attempt to control the world around them in all ways possible. Adults may have their safety needs met in a different way than children. Adults can feel that the money they earn from their job allows them to feel safe. This is because there is no need for financial worry when earning a steady income.
The love/belonging level of Maslow's hierarchy deals with various social needs. These include a need for friendship, family, and other types of group inclusion. Love/belonging also refers to personal relationships. These include romantic relationships. It is crucial that the physiological and safety needs of a person are met first. Then they can develop needs of love and belonging. Once basic needs are met, then a person can focus on their social needs. These needs change throughout the human lifespan. 
If belonging needs are not met then a person may feel depressed. The field of psychology focuses on this level of the hierarchy. In modern society, many people suffer because their needs of love and belonging are not met. This level also deals with sexual and intimate needs. Sex may or may not be part of this level of need. It can be considered necessary for love. Or it can be looked at as strictly physiological.
The esteem level is about how people need to feel that they play a part the world. People want to feel that they have accomplished things that are valuable and important. They also want to feel independent, meaning that they can do things for themselves and do not need to depend on anybody else. 
We cannot be truly happy without becoming everything that we want to become. People have different things that they might want in their life that go along with this level. These needs do not show themselves until all of the needs in previous levels have been taken care of. For example, if a person is worrying about feeding themselves and needs to think about their physiological needs, then they will not be thinking about self-actualization and their life goals. Making sure they have food and a home is more important. Someone only reaches the self-actualization level once all the other levels are fulfilled.
Maslow explains that there are exceptions to the hierarchy. The most important are:
Maslow’s hierarchy suggests that all human behavior is motivated. However, this may not be true. Some human behavior may simply be reflexive. Maslow holds a biased opinion on the definition of self-actualization. Each individual may have a different opinion of what it means to self-actualize. Maslow believed that people who self-actualized had great characteristics. He believed these made them natural leaders and incredible people. This makes the goal of self-actualization nearly impossible for the average person. Maslow’s theory states that lower level needs must be met in order to meet needs in the higher levels. However, this is not always the case. It is possible for people who suffer from poverty and hunger to still feel love and belonging. Therefore, higher level needs can be met in some cases even if lower levels needs are neglected. Some theorists argue that the levels of the hierarchy are out of order in terms of necessity. Some needs that are higher in the hierarchy may actually appear and become important early in an infant or child’s life. Maslow’s hierarchy is hard to prove scientifically. It cannot be proved false easily. There may not be enough hard, scientific evidence to fully support Maslow’s hierarchy.

</doc>
<doc id="428431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428431" title="Cyclone Bodil">
Cyclone Bodil

Cyclone Bodil (also Cyclone Xavier) was a winter storm that affected Western Europe. This storm brought intense snowfall and strong wind to Sweden and the United Kingdom. Belgium, Germany, The Netherlands, Denmark and Poland also suffered from strong winds and downpours. Several people died. Most of them in Sweden.

</doc>
<doc id="428440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428440" title="Vitruvian Man">
Vitruvian Man

The Vitruvian Man is a drawing made by Leonardo da Vinci in about 1490. Around the drawing are notes based on the work of the architect Vitruvius.
The drawing is done in pen and ink on paper. It is of a male figure standing in two positions, that are superimposed (drawn over the top of each other). The figure's arms and legs are drawn in two different positions, while the rest of the body stays in one position. The figure is drawn standing inside both a circle and a square.
The drawing and text are sometimes called the Canon of Proportions or, less often, Proportions of Man. It is stored in the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice, Italy. It is displayed only occasionally.
The drawing is based on the ideal proportions of a man's body, and how this relates to geometry. This relationship was described by the ancient Roman architect Vitruvius in Book III of his treatise "De architectura". Vitruvius wrote the human figure was the main source of proportion among the Classical orders of architecture. He wrote that the ideal body should be eight heads tall. Da Vinci's drawing is traditionally named in honour of the architect.

</doc>
<doc id="428441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428441" title="WWE SmackDown! Here Comes the Pain">
WWE SmackDown! Here Comes the Pain

WWE SmackDown! Here Comes the Pain is a professional wrestling video game developed by Yuke's and published by THQ. The game was known as Exciting Pro Wrestling 5 in Japan.
It was released on October 27, 2003 in North America, November 7, 2003 in Europe and on January 29, 2004 in Japan. The game was the first in the WWE SmackDown! video game series and is the sequel to WWE SmackDown! Shut Your Mouth. It was the last game under the SmackDown! title and was followed by WWE SmackDown! vs. Raw.
IGN rated the game a 9.1 out of 10 and said "One of the best wrestling games we've ever played...With its ultra-improved gameplay mechanics, enhanced visual engine, smarter career mode, and established create-a-character feature, Yuke's and THQ are definitely the track to success.”
GameSpot gave the game a 9 out of 10 and stated "What the game lacks in innovation, however, is more than made up for in sheer playability."
The game was nominated in the "Sports Game" category at the 1st British Academy Video Games Awards. It was also nominated for "Best Sports Game" and won "Best Fighting Game" at the 2003 Spike Video Game Awards. 

</doc>
<doc id="428450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428450" title="Category:Articles with dead external links from December 2013">
Category:Articles with dead external links from December 2013


</doc>
<doc id="428451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428451" title="Category:Pages needing cleanup from November 2013">
Category:Pages needing cleanup from November 2013


</doc>
<doc id="428452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428452" title="Category:Articles with dead external links from November 2013">
Category:Articles with dead external links from November 2013


</doc>
<doc id="428453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428453" title="Category:Articles with dead external links from October 2012">
Category:Articles with dead external links from October 2012


</doc>
<doc id="428454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428454" title="Category:Drake (rapper)">
Category:Drake (rapper)


</doc>
<doc id="428455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428455" title="Category:American Wikipedians">
Category:American Wikipedians


</doc>
<doc id="428460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428460" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Unused railway diagrams">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Unused railway diagrams


</doc>
<doc id="428471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428471" title="Mary Lambert">
Mary Lambert

Mary Lambert (born May 3, 1989) is an American singer and songwriter. She is best known for singing on the rapper Macklemore's single "Same Love" from 2012. It sold over 2 million copies in the United States.
Lambert was born in Everett, Washington. When she was 17 she came out as a lesbian. She moved to Seattle in 2007. She lives there with her girlfriend Rachel.
Lambert released her first extended play "Letters Don't Talk" on July 17, 2012. The next day "Same Love" was released as a single from Macklemore and Ryan Lewis' album "The Heist". Lambert sung on it and helped write the song. The single reached number one in Australia and New Zealand.
In January 2013, her first book of poetry, "500 tips for fat girls", was published.
In May 2013, she sang "Same Love" on The Colbert Report.
Lambert released the video for her single "She Keeps Me Warm" in August 2013. Lambert's second extended play, "Welcome to the Age of My Body", was released on December 17, 2013.
She will release her first album in 2014. She was nominated for two awards at the 2014 Grammys. Lambert performed "Same Love" at the ceremony.

</doc>
<doc id="428476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428476" title="Solomon Asch">
Solomon Asch

Solomon Eliot Asch (September 14, 1907 – February 20, 1996) was an American Gestalt psychologist. 
Asch was born in Warsaw to a Jewish family. He grew up in a small town called Łowicz. In 1920, Asch and his family moved to the United States. They lived on the Lower East Side of New York. He did not speak English well, so he found school difficult. He learned English by reading Charles Dickens. Asch got his degree from the College of the City of New York in 1928. In 1930, he married Florence Miller.
In the 1930s, Asch started to do research. In 1951, Asch did an experiment that is known as the Asch Experiment. Asch's experiment tested how much humans are influenced by other people's opinions. A textbook that Asch wrote, "Social Psychology", was published in 1952. In 1966 Asch started the Institute for Cognitive Studies at Rutgers University. In 1972 he moved to the University of Pennsylvania. He stayed there as a professor of psychology until he retired in 1979. He started all of this research because he thought that there was a problem with the Sherif's conformity test.

</doc>
<doc id="428485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428485" title="Beach House">
Beach House

Beach House is a pair of dream pop musicians from Baltimore. The band started in 2004. Victoria Legrand sings their songs and plays keyboards. Alex Scally plays guitar and plays keyboards. Beach House have released four albums. 
They made their first album in two days. Carpark Records released Beach House's first album, "Beach House", in 2006. 
"Devotion" was released in 2008. 
In January 2010 Subpop Records released Beach House's third album "Teen Dream".
Beach House performed as an opening act for Vampire Weekend in August 2010. 
In 2012 "Bloom" was released. It went straight to number seven in the "Billboard" 200. 
The band released a short film called "Forever Still" on February 4, 2013.
In January 2014 Beach House performed Gene Clark's 1974 album "No Other" with Robin Pecknold, Daniel Rossen, Hamilton Leithauser, Iain Matthews, and Jess Wasner in the United States.
On April 19 2014 "Space Project", an album with a song by Beach House on it, will be released for Record Store Day.

</doc>
<doc id="428492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428492" title="Alloy wheels">
Alloy wheels

Alloy wheels are automobile wheels that are made of an aluminum alloy instead of steel. Most new cars have alloy wheels, although steel wheels are still available on some cars (usually lower-priced or base-model cars). The first alloy wheels were made of magnesium alloys, but these are no longer made because the magnesium alloys were too weak and would eventually crack.

</doc>
<doc id="428495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428495" title="Gene Clark">
Gene Clark

Harold Eugene "Gene" Clark (November 17, 1944 – May 24, 1991) was an American singer and songwriter. He started the folk rock band The Byrds in 1964. He wrote lots of The Byrds' most well known songs. They were very popular. In 1967 he released his first solo album, "Gene Clark with the Gosdin Brothers". It was not successful. However he went on to make several more solo albums.
Gene Clark was born in Tipton, Missouri. He was the third of thirteen children. He started writing songs when he was 11.,
In 1964 Clark started The Byrds with Jim McGuinn and David Crosby. Clark was the singer. Clark released his first album with The Byrds, "Mr Tambourine Man", in 1965. In 1966 Clark left the band. He joined the band again in 1967. He left after three weeks. In 1968 Clark released his first album with Doug Dillard, "The Fantastic Expedition of Dillard & Clark". Dillard & Clark released their second album, "Through the Morning, Through the Night" in 1969. In 1974 Clark's fourth album "No Other" was released. It got bad reviews. Clark released an album with Carla Onson in 1987 called "So Rebellious a Lover". It was his last studio album.
Clark died on May 24, 1991. He was 46. He died because of a bleeding ulcer that he had.

</doc>
<doc id="428499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428499" title="Abdel Fattah el-Sisi">
Abdel Fattah el-Sisi

Abdel Fattah Saeed Hussein Khalil el-Sisi (born Cairo, 19 November 1954), is the President of Egypt. He was elected President in May 2014.
Sisi was Deputy Prime Minister of Egypt from 16 July 2013 - 26 March 2014. He was Minister of Defence from 12 August 2012 until 26 March 2014. Sisi ran for President in 2014, and won. He has supported fighting radical Islam while President. He is also well known for negotiating a ceasefire between Israel and Palestine.
Sisi was appointed defense minister by Mohamed Morsi in 2012. After Sisi began to crack down on opposition in Egypt, protests broke out. In 2013, with the support of the military and Sisi, Morsi was ousted in Egypt's second revolution in the past three years.
Sisi graduated from the Egyptian Military Academy in 1977 with a diploma in military sciences and was an Army officer for more than 30 years. He was voted "TIME" Magazine's Person of the Year in 2013 by the public, but lost to Pope Francis for the official title.

</doc>
<doc id="428505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428505" title="Pfalz D.III">
Pfalz D.III

The Pfalz D.III is a biplane fighter aircraft. It was flown during World War I. It was a single-engine aircraft. It was very fast when diving. The Pfalz D.III was often used to attack observation balloons.

</doc>
<doc id="428506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428506" title="Haim">
Haim

HAIM (which is said like 'time' with a 'h' instead of a 't') is an American indie pop band. The members are sisters Alana, Danielle, and Este. They released their first album "Days Are Gone" on September 27 2013. The British newspaper The Guardian put the album at number twelve on their list of 2013's 40 best albums. They are often compared to Fleetwood Mac.
The sisters grew up in the San Fernando Valley in Los Angeles. In 2006 they started HAIM. For the next five years the band performed where they lived. On February 10, 2012 HAIM released their first EP "Forever". It was on their website to download for free for a short amount of time. 
In January 2013 HAIM won BBC's Sound of 2013 poll.
On September 22, 2013 HAIM released their fourth single from their album "Days Are Gone", "The Wire". It reached number sixteen in the UK Singles Chart. It was their highest charting single in the UK yet.
On November 23 2013 HAIM performed their singles "The Wire" and "Don't Save Me" on Saturday Night Live.

</doc>
<doc id="428507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428507" title="Martel, Lot">
Martel, Lot

Martel is a commune in the Lot department in south-western France.
The town has a distinctive sky-line with medieval towers. There is a museum containing items from Puy d'Issolud, a local Gallic archaeological site which has been identified as Uxellodunum, besieged by Julius Caesar in 51 BC.
Henry the Young King died here in 1183.

</doc>
<doc id="428510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428510" title="Rebirth (album)">
Rebirth (album)

Rebirth is a studio album by Lil Wayne. It is his debut rap rock album. It was supported by the songs: "Prom Queen", "Knockout" (featuring Nicki Minaj), and "Drop The World" (featuring Eminem).

</doc>
<doc id="428512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428512" title="Swim Good">
Swim Good

"Swim Good" is a song by Frank Ocean. It is from his mixtape "Nostalgia, Ultra". It is about a man who kills himself because of heartache. Frank Ocean references "808s & Heartbreak" by Kanye West.

</doc>
<doc id="428513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428513" title="Jane Goldman">
Jane Goldman

Jane Loretta Anne Goldman (born 11 June 1970) is an English screenwriter and television producer. She was born in Hammersmith, west London. She wrote the screenplay for the 2012 movie "The Woman in Black". She married Jonathan Ross in 1988. She has two daughters and a son with him. She lives with Ross in Hampstead Garden Suburb. She produces "The Big Fat Quiz of the Year".

</doc>
<doc id="428514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428514" title="Novacane (song)">
Novacane (song)

Novacane is a song by Frank Ocean. It is from his mixtape "Nostalgia, Ultra". It is about a girl who works as a dentist and pornstar to get money for drugs. It is Ocean's first single. It is a PBR&B, neo soul, and alternative hip hop song.

</doc>
<doc id="428515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428515" title="WWE SmackDown! Shut Your Mouth">
WWE SmackDown! Shut Your Mouth

WWE SmackDown! Shut Your Mouth is a professional wrestling video game developed by Yuke's and published by THQ. The game was known as Exciting Pro Wrestling 4 in Japan. The Japanese version was published by Yuke's.
It was released on October 31, 2002 in North America, November 15, 2002 in Europe and on February 6, 2003 in Japan. The game was the first under the WWE name and is the sequel to WWF SmackDown! Just Bring It.
IGN rated the game a 8.2 out of 10 and said "This is the first time there hasn't been an obvious, glaring problem with the series' gameplay, which is cause for some kind of celebration.”
GameSpot gave the game a 8.9 out of 10 and stated "The gameplay still might be a little too fast-paced for some, but Shut Your Mouth tries to balance it with a more useful grappling, submission, and counter system."

</doc>
<doc id="428516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428516" title="Thinkin Bout You">
Thinkin Bout You

Thinkin Bout You is a ballad by Frank Ocean. It is from his debut album "Channel Orange". The song is a torch song. It is dedicated to his male lover. Although the song was very successful worldwide it was still very personal to Ocean. The song was originally supposed to be from Shea Taylor for her EP, but ended up being Frank Ocean's song.

</doc>
<doc id="428519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428519" title="Kamala Harris">
Kamala Harris

Kamala Devi Harris (born October 20, 1964) is an American lawyer and politician. She is the current United States senator from California. She was the Attorney General of California from 2011 to 2017. She was elected in 2010. Harris ran for the United States Senate seat of retiring Barbara Boxer, in the 2016 California senate elections. She won the election with 63% of the vote. 
She was born in Oakland, California. 
Harris is the state of California's first African-American female attorney general. Her mother is Indian and her father is Jamaican American.

</doc>
<doc id="428521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428521" title="Benedict Biscop">
Benedict Biscop

Benedict Biscop (–690), also called Biscop Baducing, was an Anglo-Saxon nobleman, monk and abbot. He was the founder and benefactor of the Monkwearmouth-Jarrow Abbeys. He had been a thane of King Oswiu of Northumbria and an officer in his court. Benedict Biscop is probably best known for the library he created at Jarrow and for being the mentor of the Venerable Bede. He was venerated as a saint after his death.
Benedict Biscop was born . He was from a noble family of Northumbrian Angles. As a young man he was a member of the court of King Oswiu of Northumbria while still young. He was a rich nobleman who had a good deal of political power. When he was twenty-five he gave up his secular life, his marriage and family and decided to join the Church. In 653 he went on a journey to Rome on a pilgrimage. He traveled with Wilfrid, who later became Bishop of York. He returned home shortly after that. He made a second trip to Rome in 664 and stayed about two months. He then retired to the island of Lérins and became a monk there. After two years he agreed to guide Theodore, the new Archbishop of Canterbury, from Rome to England. On arriving at Canterbury, Benedict became abbot of St Augustine's Abbey (also called the monastery of St. Peter and St. Paul, Canterbury). He also made a trip to Vienne to acquire a collection of books. Biscop made a fourth journey to acquire more books in 679.
In 674 Biscop built a monastery known as Monkwearmouth. Ecgfrith, King of Northumbria gave him fifty hides of land at the mouth of the River Wear. This monastery would be dedicated to Saint Peter and came to be called St. Peter's at Monkwearmouth. Benedict wanted his monastery to be a center of both learning and religion. Benedict used Frankish stonemasons who he brought over to England to construct the monastery. Monkwearmouth was the first (and Jarrow the second) church structures to be built of stone in England. Benedict them brought over glassmakers from Frankia to fit the windows of the church and chapels with fine . They established a glass workshop there at Monkwearwolf. Within a year the monastery was completed. In 678 a letter from Pope Agatho exempted the monastery from external control. Benedict got all the , sacred vessels, decorations and . Some he found locally while others he bought in Francia and Rome. In 680 Benedict made another trip to Rome. This time it was to escort back to England a new member of his monastery. This was Abbot John, Arch- and abbot of the monastery of Saint Martin. He was to be their instructor for all the chants for the church year. These were taught exactly as they were sung at St. Peter's Basilica in Rome.
In 682 King Ecgfrith gave another forty hides of land to Benedict for a second monastery. It was to be at the mouth of the River Trent at Jarrow. The stained glass for Jarrow came from the same monastery workshop at Monkwearmouth. The dedication ceremony for Jarrow abbey was held on 23 April 685. Named for Saint Paul when the sister monastery was completed Benedict assigned Ceolfrith to be the abbot. Bede, who was about ten years old at the time, was one of the monks who went with him.
To prevent any jealousy between his two houses Benedict deliberately made the two dependant on each other. That way they could be treated as a single monastery. He also decided there should be only one abbot to rule both houses. Benedict himself was the first abbot of Monkwearmouth-Jarrow and remained the abbot for sixteen years. Monkwearmouth and Jarrow together housed about 600 monks.
Bede commented on the character of Benedict Biscop. Benedict was modest and unassuming. He went about his daily tasks the same as abbot of his twin-monasteries as he had done as a monk. He liked to join the other monks in their duties whether it was in the kitchen or threshing grain. He enjoyed working in the bakery as much as working in the gardens. As the master he was gentle and kind in keeping order among the other monks. He took all his meals with the other monks and ate what they ate. Benedict slept in the same small cell as any other monk would. As he lay dying he asked for all the monks to assemble around him so he could say goodby. He died on 7 March 685. His assistant Ceolfrith replaced Benedict as abbot of both Monasteries.

</doc>
<doc id="428527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428527" title="Neon Jungle">
Neon Jungle

Neon Jungle were a British girl group. They started in early 2013. The members were Shereen Cutkelvin, Jess Plummer, Asami Zdrenka and Amira McCarthy.
On 8 August 2013, the band put a cover they sung of "We Can't Stop" by Miley Cyrus on their YouTube channel.
They released their first single "Trouble" on 1 September 2013. The song was written and produced by CocknBullKid and Benjamin Berry. It reached number twelve in the UK Singles Chart and four in the Scottish chart.
In November 2013, the band performed at the 2013 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show.
They released their second single "Braveheart" on iTunes in January 2014. It reached number four in the UK Singles Chart. 
The group separated in 2015.
Two of the band's members were chosen for their strong looks.
Jess is from London. She has a Jamaican father and English mother. Asami lives in Scotland but was born in Japan. Shereen has a Scottish mother and Belizean father. Amira has a Gambian mother and Jamaican father.

</doc>
<doc id="428528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428528" title="Neo soul">
Neo soul

Neo Soul is a genre (style) of music. It combines soul, hip hop soul, alternative hip hop and quiet storm. Some notable artists that make this kind of music are Frank Ocean, Adele, Beyonce, and Miguel. The term neo soul was created by the record producer Kedar Massenburg.

</doc>
<doc id="428532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428532" title="Qunu">
Qunu

Qunu [ˈk͡ǃuːnu] is a small rural village in South Africa's Eastern Cape Province. It is south-west of Mthatha on the road between Butterworth and Mthatha. 
Nelson Mandela spent his childhood here and had a retirement home there. On 15 December 2013, Mandela was buried in Qunu after a state funeral.

</doc>
<doc id="428535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428535" title="United States National Library of Medicine">
United States National Library of Medicine

United States National Library of Medicine is a medical library in Bethesda, Maryland. It is operated by the United States Federal government. It is the largest medical library in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="428536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428536" title="Eastern Cape">
Eastern Cape

The Eastern Cape is a province of South Africa. Its capital is Bhisho. Its two largest cities are Port Elizabeth and East London. It was formed in 1994. It was the home of the 1820 settlers. The central and eastern part of the province is the traditional home of the Xhosa people. 
This region is the birthplace of many famous South African politicians, such as Nelson Mandela, Oliver Tambo, Walter Sisulu, Govan Mbeki, Raymond Mhlaba, Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe, Chris Hani, Thabo Mbeki, Steve Biko and Charles Coghlan.

</doc>
<doc id="428537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428537" title="Scarling.">
Scarling.

Scarling. is an American noise pop band. The members are Jessicka and her husband Christian Hejnal-Addams. They have released two albums. 
Jessicka Fodera started Scarling. in Los Angeles in 1999 after her band Jack Off Jill broke up. Their first single, "Band Aid Covers the Bullethole" was released in 2003. The b-side was a cover of "Creep" by Radiohead. They released their first album "Sweet Heart Dealer" on February 17, 2004. It was produced by Chris Vrenna. In the summer of 2004 Scarling. performed at Curiosa, a tour organized by Robert Smith.
They released their second album "So Long, Scarecrow" on October 25, 2005. Scarling. produced the album with Rob Campanella. Scarling. did their first UK tour in December 2005. In 2006 they released an EP, "Staring to the Sun". It has a cover of "Wave of Mutilation" by Pixies on it. 
On October 29, 2013 they released a single, "Who Wants to Die for Art"? Their next album will be released in 2014 by The Committee to Keep Music Evil.

</doc>
<doc id="428540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428540" title="Roberto M. Levingston">
Roberto M. Levingston

Roberto Marcelo Levingston Laborda (January 19, 1920 – June 17, 2015) was an Argentine politician. He was a general in the 
Argentine Army and president of Argentina from June 18, 1970 to March 22, 1971, during the Revolución Argentina period in Argentine history.

</doc>
<doc id="428542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428542" title="Hop Is Back">
Hop Is Back

"Hop Is Back" is a song by the rap musician Hopsin. It is from his album "Knock Madness". In the song, he insults Kendrick Lamar and Kanye West.

</doc>
<doc id="428543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428543" title="Douglas Wilder">
Douglas Wilder

Lawrence Douglas Wilder (born January 17, 1931) is an American politician. He served as the first African American to be elected as Governor of Virginia. He was the first African-American governor of any state in the United States since the 1870s during the Reconstruction of the United States.
Wilder was born in Richmond, Virginia. He studied at Virginia Union University and at Howard University. 
Wilder served as the 66th Governor of Virginia from 1990 to 1994. When earlier elected as Lieutenant Governor, he was the first African American elected to statewide office in Virginia. His most recent political office was Mayor of Richmond, Virginia, which he held from 2005 to 2009.
L. Douglas Wilder was born in the segregated Church Hill neighborhood of Richmond on January 17, 1931. 
On May 30, 2004, Wilder announced his intention to run for Mayor of Richmond. On November 2, 2004, Wilder received 79% of the vote (55,319 votes) to become the first directly elected Mayor of Richmond in sixty years. On May 16, 2008 Wilder announced that he would not seek reelection to another four-year term as mayor.
Wilder was married to Eunice Montgomery. Their marriage ended in divorce. He now lives in Richmond, Virginia. 

</doc>
<doc id="428544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428544" title="DJ Drama">
DJ Drama

DJ Drama is an American DJ and record producer. He has made albums and mixtapes. He is signed to T.I.'s Grand Hustle Records.

</doc>
<doc id="428545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428545" title="Deerhoof">
Deerhoof

Deerhoof is a noise pop band. It was started in San Francisco in 1994 by Rob Fisk and Greg Saunier. They have released twelve albums. The members of Deerhoof are now Satomi Matsuzaki, John Dieterich, Ed Rodriguez, and Greg Saunier.
Deerhoof was signed to Kill Rock Stars in 1995. The band released its first album on the label, "The Man, the King, the Girl" in 1997. In 1998, Kelly Goode joined the band to play keyboard. She left in 1999. The band's fourth album was released by 5 Rue Christine and Kill Rock Stars. In 2001, Chris Cohen became a guitarist for the band. On September 4, 2012, Deerhoof released their 11th studio album, "Breakup Song", on Polyvinyl Records. 

</doc>
<doc id="428546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428546" title="Death and state funeral of Nelson Mandela">
Death and state funeral of Nelson Mandela

Nelson Mandela died on 5 December 2013 at the age of 95, at his home in Houghton, Johannesburg, South Africa surrounded by his family after a prolonged lung infection. His death was announced by President Jacob Zuma. Reactions from governments, international organizations, and notable individuals, have gained worldwide media coverage.
His death brought many reactions such as from, Barack Obama, Joe Biden, David Cameron, Pope Francis, Queen Elizabeth, Harry Reid, Rihanna, Bashar al-Assad, José Mujica, Raul Castro, Nicolás Maduro, Prince William, and F. W. de Klerk.
The South African government announced a period of 10 days of national mourning ending with the state funeral on 15 December 2013. All flags on government buildings will be flown at half-mast for the duration of this period.
On 9 December, it was confirmed that at least 80 foreign heads of state and government would travel to South Africa to attend events. 
Other notable guests include the President of the United States and three former presidents of the United States; the President of India; the Prime Minister of Italy; the Vice President of China; the President of Brazil; the President of France; the President of Ireland; the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom; the President of Germany; the Prime Minister of Australia; two former Governors General of Canada, the Prime Minister of Canada, and three former Prime Ministers of Canada; the Prime Minister of Jordan; and the President of Afghanistan. Royal dignitaries attending include, the King of the Netherlands, the King of Belgium, the Prince of Wales, the Prince of Asturias, the Crown Prince of Denmark, the Crown Princess of Sweden, the Crown Prince of Norway, the Crown Prince of Japan, and the Queen Rania of Jordan.
Queen Elizabeth II will honor Mandela with a thanksgiving service at Westminster Abbey in early 2014.
The South African government declared Sunday, 8 December 2013 to be observed as a national day of prayer and reflection. 
Mandela's body layed in state at the Union Buildings in Pretoria from 11 to 13 December 2013.
The state funeral was held on 15 December 2013 in Qunu in the Eastern Cape. He was later buried there on the same day.

</doc>
<doc id="428548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428548" title="WWF SmackDown! 2: Know Your Role">
WWF SmackDown! 2: Know Your Role

WWF SmackDown! 2: Know Your Role is a professional wrestling video game developed by Yuke's and published by THQ. The game was known as Exciting Pro Wrestling 2 in Japan. The Japanese version was published by Yuke's.
It was released on November 21, 2000 in North America, December 1, 2000 in Europe and on January 25, 2001 in Japan. The game was the second game in the WWF SmackDown! video game series. It was the sequel to WWF SmackDown! and was followed by WWF SmackDown! Just Bring It.
IGN rated the game a 8.9 out of 10 and said "Smackdown 2, if it's the last wrestling game on the PlayStation (which is likely), is a fine high note to go out on - no WWF fan is liable to be disappointed by what they get when they pick it up, as they undoubtedly will.”
GameSpot gave the game a 8.9 out of 10 and stated "While it isn't that much different from the last SmackDown!, SmackDown! 2 makes enough incremental changes and upgrades to be significant in its own right."

</doc>
<doc id="428549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428549" title="Houghton Estate">
Houghton Estate

Houghton Estate (often simply called Houghton) is a rich suburb of Johannesburg, South Africa. It is located north-east of the city center. Houghton Estate has been informally divided into two areas: "Upper Houghton", and "Lower Houghton". The most famous resident of Houghton Estate was Nelson Mandela. Mandela died here. 

</doc>
<doc id="428550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428550" title="Category:Suburbs of Chicago, Illinois">
Category:Suburbs of Chicago, Illinois


</doc>
<doc id="428556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428556" title="The Sound of Music Live">
The Sound of Music Live

The Sound of Music Live! was a live television production of the musical "The Sound of Music". It was telecast on NBC Thursday evening December 5, 2013 between 8 and 11 p.m. ET. 
The production starred Carrie Underwood as Maria von Trapp. Others in the cast included Stephen Moyer as Georg von Trapp, Audra McDonald as Mother Abbess, Laura Benanti as Elsa Schrader, and Christian Borle as Max Detweiler.
The production was based on the original 1959 Broadway musical by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II, rather than the 1965 movie adaptation starring Julie Andrews.
Critics said that Underwood sang well, but she received poor reviews for her acting. The "New York Times" wrote that Underwood's "bloodless performance put a damper on the night" and described her as "sleepwalking". The greatest praise was given to Laura Benanti as Elsa Schrader who was said to have "had all the sparkle and mischief that Ms. Underwood, as Maria, lacked." The "Times" closed their review with, "It was a live performance of a legendary musical that felt muted and a little sad."

</doc>
<doc id="428562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428562" title="Ben Breedlove">
Ben Breedlove

Benjamin Daniel Breedlove (August 8, 1993 – December 25, 2011) was an American Internet personality. He was from Austin, Texas. He was known for his blogs on YouTube. 
At an early age, Breedlove had been diagnosed with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). It is a condition in which the heart muscle becomes thick. Often, only one part of the heart is thicker than the other parts. The thickening can make it harder for blood to leave the heart, forcing the heart to work harder to pump blood. It also can make it harder for the heart to relax and fill with blood. 
On the night of December 25, 2011, he died of cardiac arrest at the age of 18.

</doc>
<doc id="428565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428565" title="Stan Tracey">
Stan Tracey

Stanley William "Stan" Tracey CBE (30 December 1926 – 6 December 2013) was a British jazz pianist and composer. He was most influenced by Duke Ellington and Thelonious Monk. Tracey's best known recording is a suite (1965) inspired by Dylan Thomas's radio drama "Under Milk Wood".
Tracey died from prostate cancer on 6 December 2013, aged 86. He was survived by two children.

</doc>
<doc id="428566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428566" title="Machete Kills">
Machete Kills

Machete Kills is a 2013 action and comedy movie. The movie is the sequel to "Machete". It is about a man named Machete who fights for the rights of immigrants. Danny Trejo plays Machete Cortez. Amber Heard plays Blanca Vasquez and Miss San Antonio. Michelle Rodriguez plays Luz/She. The movie received negative reviews. It did not make much money.

</doc>
<doc id="428567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428567" title="Danny Wells">
Danny Wells

Jack Westelman or Danny Wells (April 7, 1941 – November 28, 2013) was a Canadian-American actor and composer. He was known for his role as Charlie the bartender on "The Jeffersons". He also portrayed Luigi in "The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!".
Wells died on November 28, 2013 in Toronto, Ontario, aged 72.

</doc>
<doc id="428568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428568" title="The Jeffersons">
The Jeffersons

The Jeffersons is an American sitcom starring Sherman Hemsley and Isabel Sanford. It is about an African-American couple who live in New York City. The series was first broadcast on T.A.T. Communications Company, from January 18, 1975 to July 2, 1985. It is one of the longest-running television series in television history.

</doc>
<doc id="428569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428569" title="Christopher Evan Welch">
Christopher Evan Welch

Christopher Evan "Chris" Welch ( – December 2, 2013) was an American actor of Broadway, movie, and television. His last movie appearance was in Steven Spielberg's 2012 movie "Lincoln".
Welch died of lung cancer on December 2, 2013, aged 48, at a hospital in Los Angeles, California.

</doc>
<doc id="428570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428570" title="Barry Jackson">
Barry Jackson

Barry Jackson (29 March 1938 – 5 December 2013) was an English movie and television actor. His movie roles include "Ryan's Daughter", "Barry Lyndon", "Aces High", "The Raging Moon", "Mr. Love", "Toscanini in His Own Words", and "Wimbledon".
He died in London on 5 December 2013 from a stroke, aged 75.

</doc>
<doc id="428572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428572" title="Fred Bassetti">
Fred Bassetti

Fred Bassetti FAIA, (January 31, 1917 – December 5, 2013) was an American architect, teacher, and a prime contributor to the regional approach to Modern architecture during the 1940s-1990’s. His architectural legacy includes some of the Seattle area's more recognizable buildings and spaces. The American Institute of Architects (AIA) described his role as a regional architect and activist as having made significant contributions to “the shape of Seattle and the Northwest, and on the profession of architecture.” 

</doc>
<doc id="428578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428578" title="Colin Wilson">
Colin Wilson

Colin Henry Wilson (26 June 1931 – 5 December 2013) was an English novelist and writer. Wilson also wrote widely on true crime and criminology, mysticism, the paranormal, and other topics. In all, there are over 120 books, including some fiction. He preferred to call his philosophy new existentialism or phenomenological existentialism.
Wilson was interested in metaphysics and the occult. In 1971, he wrote a nonfiction book named "The Occult: A History". In it, he talked about the beliefs of Aleister Crowley, George Gurdieff, Helena Blavatsky, Kabbalah, primitive magic, Franz Mesmer, Grigori Rasputin, and Paracelsus. He also wrote a biography of Crowley, "Aleister Crowley: The Nature of the Beast". He also wrote biographies on other visionaries in spirituality and psychology. Some were about George Gurdjieff, Carl Jung, and Wilhelm Reich.
Wilson suffered a stroke in June 2012 and lost his ability to speak. He died in December 2013, aged 82.
This was the book which made his name. It was really a work of literary criticism, but was also about social philosophy. It was based mainly on the work of Dostoyevsky, Camus and Satre, all of whom featured characters who were lost, outsiders, alienated from society.
Gollancz published the 24-year-old Wilson's "The Outsider" in 1956. The book became a best-seller and helped popularise existentialism in Britain. It has never been out-of-print since publication day and has been translated into over thirty languages (including Russian and Chinese).
Wilson's writing on crime is quite extensive and commercially successful. He wrote several books about serial killers and murderers.

</doc>
<doc id="428581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428581" title="Rob Cohen">
Rob Cohen

Robert "Rob" Cohen (born March 12, 1949) is an American movie director, producer, and screenwriter. He is known for directing the entire "Fast and Furious" movie series. He also directed "", "Dragonheart", "Daylight", and "xXx".

</doc>
<doc id="428582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428582" title="Jack Daniel">
Jack Daniel

Jasper Newton "Jack" Daniel (September 5, 1850 – October 10, 1911) was an American distiller and the founder of Jack Daniel's Tennessee whiskey.
Daniel died from an infectious case of blood poisoning at Lynchburg in 1911. The infection allegedly set up originally in a toe, which Daniel injured in kicking his safe in anger when he could not get it open early one morning at work. He always had trouble remembering the combination.

</doc>
<doc id="428603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428603" title="C. V. Raman">
C. V. Raman

Sir Chandrasekhara Venkata Raman, FRS (7 November 1888 – 21 November 1970) was an Indian physicist. He studied light scattering. He won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1930 for his work in this subject. He discovered that, when light passes through a transparent material, some of the deflected light changes in wavelength. This phenomenon is now called Raman scattering and is the result of the Raman effect.He died in his institute garden surrounded by flowers of natural circumstances. He was awarded the Bharat Ratna in 1954.

</doc>
<doc id="428607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428607" title="WWF SmackDown!">
WWF SmackDown!

WWF SmackDown! is a professional wrestling video game developed by Yuke's and published by THQ. The game was known as Exciting Pro Wrestling in Japan. The Japanese version was published by Yuke's Future Media Creators.
It was released on March 2, 2000 in North America, April 2000 in Europe and on August 8, 2000 in Japan. The game was the first game in the WWF SmackDown! video game series. It was the first WWF game on the PlayStation to be published by THQ who took over from the previous publisher Acclaim Entertainment. It is was followed by .
IGN rated the game a 8.8 out of 10 and said "It gives some to the N64 Wrestlemania game's tighter controls and crisper animation, but Smackdown is no slouch in either department, and it even bests Wrestlemania in graphics and features.”
GameSpot gave the game a 8.7 out of 10 and stated "The little things that debut in SmackDown, such as a never-ending season mode and inklings of a plot, really make the game feel fresh and new."

</doc>
<doc id="428608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428608" title="Deap Vally">
Deap Vally

Deap Vally is a pair of Americans, Lindsey Troy and Julie Edwards, who make music together. They started their band in Los Angeles in 2011. Lindsey sings and plays the guitar. Julie plays the drums.
They met at a needlework class that Julie Edwards was teaching. Lindsey Troy was performing music on her own at the time. Edwards was playing drums and keyboards and singing in a band called The Pity Party 
In July 2012 they released their first single "Gonna Make My Own Money" on Ark Recordings. The next month the band was signed to Island Records.
Their first album "Sistrionix" was released in June 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="428609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428609" title="Nguni">
Nguni

Nguni may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="428610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428610" title="Voortrekker Monument">
Voortrekker Monument

The Voortrekker Monument is a monument in Pretoria in South Africa. It is a massive granite structure on a hilltop. It was built to commemorate the Voortrekkers who left the Cape Colony between 1835 and 1854. 
Most of the Voortrekkers were not satisfied with the British government that ruled over them in the Cape in those years, that is why they packed their ox wagons and started to trek to greener valleys to the north of current South Africa.
It was much hardship that they had to endure for almost 20 years, both from the rural terrain as well as many hostile inhabitants they had to face. This makes the Voortrekker Monument an important structure to the white Afrikaner bloodline (children), because it shows many pictures, reliefs and statutes inside the building of what happened in the history of those years.

</doc>
<doc id="428611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428611" title="Nguni people">
Nguni people

Nguni people are the group of people who speak Nguni languages. These languages are spoken in South Africa, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe.

</doc>
<doc id="428612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428612" title="Nguni cattle">
Nguni cattle

Nguni is a breed of cattle. It is found in southern Africa. 
It is a mixture of local and Indian cattle, they were introduced by the Bantu tribes of southern Africa from the north. They are medium sized and like eat grass of the Highveld.

</doc>
<doc id="428613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428613" title="University of Pretoria">
University of Pretoria

The University of Pretoria is a large public research university in Pretoria, the capital of South Africa. It started in 1908.
The University was built on seven suburban campuses (in parts of Pretoria). It is organised into nine faculties and a business school.

</doc>
<doc id="428614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428614" title="Grimes">
Grimes

Claire Boucher (born March 17, 1988), better known as Grimes, is a Canadian musician and artist. She was born in Vancouver in British Columbia. 
Boucher grew up in Vancouver. When she was 18 she moved to Montreal to study neuroscience and Russian at McGill University.
She wrote on her Tumblr account that she started Grimes in 2009 when she first heard Mariah Carey.
She released her first album, "Geidi Primes" in 2010 on cassette. In 2011 she released an EP with d'Eon called "Darkbloom".
In January 2012 she was signed to the record label 4AD. Pitchfork gave the album of a score of 7.5 out of 10. On January 9, 2012 she released the single "Genesis". Brooke Candy was in the music video. 
Grimes released her third album "Visions" on January 31, 2012 in the United States. It got mostly good reviews from music critics. Pitchfork gave the album a score of 8.5 out of 10. Allmusic called it the best album of 2012. NME chose it as the second best album of 2012. In 2013 it was given the Juno Award for Electronic Album of the year.
In December 2013 Grimes signed to Jay-Z's management company Roc Nation.
She is a feminist.

</doc>
<doc id="428615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428615" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/100s">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/100s


</doc>
<doc id="428616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428616" title="Jamelia">
Jamelia

Jamelia Niela Davis (born 11 January 1981), best known as Jamelia, is a British singer-songwriter. She has released three albums.
Jamelia was born to Jamaican parents in Birmingham. She was raised there on a council estate by her single mother.
When she was 15 Capitol Records. In 1999 she released her first single, "So High". It didn't sell many copies, and Jamelia left Capitol Records. She was then signed to Parlophone. They released her first album "Drama" in 2000.
She released her second album "Thank You" on September 29, 2003. Seven singles were released from the album. The second single "Superstar" reached number three in the UK Singles Chart. It reached number one in Australia and the Netherlands. The third single "Thank You" reached number two in the UK. It was nominated for Best British Single at the 2005 BRIT Awards. The fourth single "See It in a Boy's Eyes" was written by Jamelia with Chris Martin. It reached number five in the UK Singles Chart. The album is Jamelia's best-selling in the UK.
Jamelia's third album "Walk with Me" was released in 2006.
In November 2013, she became a presenter on "Loose Women".
Jamelia had her first daughter Teja in 2001. In 2005 she had her second daughter Tiani.

</doc>
<doc id="428620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428620" title="WWE Survivor Series (video game)">
WWE Survivor Series (video game)

WWE Survivor Series is a professional wrestling video game developed by Natsume and published by THQ. The game was released for the Game Boy Advance.
It was released on October 12, 2004 in North America and November 19, 2004 in Europe. The game was the sequel to WWE Road to WrestleMania X8 which was released in 2002. It was the last WWE video game to be released on a Nintendo handheld console until 2007 when WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2008 was released on the Nintendo DS. 
IGN rated the game a 6.0 out of 10 and said "Even with its limitations and gameplay quirks, it's still somewhat satisfying to play, especially in multiplayer link mode, and especially if you haven't experienced the game two years ago.”
GameSpot gave the game a 5.6 out of 10 and stated "This is almost an exact duplicate of WWE Road to Wrestlemania X8 from two years ago, warts and all."

</doc>
<doc id="428623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428623" title="WWE Raw 2">
WWE Raw 2

WWE Raw 2 is a professional wrestling video game developed by Anchor Inc. and published by THQ. The game was released on the Xbox.
It was released on September 15, 2003 in North America and on October 10, 2003 in the PAL region. The game was the sequel to WWE Raw which was released in 2002.
IGN rated the game a 9.1 out of 10 and said "The new moves you get with the cage, cell, tables, ladders and chairs does take things a step beyond what the all-powerful No Mercy showed us. The gameplay and create-a-wrestler elements of the game are outstanding and make Raw 2 worth the price of admission for wrestling fans.”
GameSpot gave the game a 6.9 out of 10 and stated "WWE Raw 2 just doesn't feel like much of a step forward in the series. Instead it feels more like a big step sideways." 

</doc>
<doc id="428628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428628" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Cognitive development">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Cognitive development


</doc>
<doc id="428632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428632" title="Édouard Molinaro">
Édouard Molinaro

Édouard Molinaro (13 May 1928 – 7 December 2013) was a French movie director and screenwriter. He was born in Bordeaux, Gironde. He was nominated for an Academy Award. Molinaro was known for his movie "La Cage aux Folles".
Molinaro died on 7 December 2013 in Paris. His cause of death was of a long-illness. He was 85 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="428633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428633" title="Menahem Golan">
Menahem Golan

Menahem Golan (May 31, 1929 – August 8, 2014) () or Joseph Goldman was an Israeli-American movie director and movie producer. He was known for his movies such as "Masters of the Universe", "", "Captain America", and for trying to make many Spider-Man movies. 
He was co-owner of Golan-Globus with his cousin Yoram Globus. Golan produced about 200 movie, directed 44, won 8 times the Violin David Awards and The Israel Prize in Cinema.
Golan died in Jaffa, Tel Aviv, Israel on August 8, 2014, aged 85.

</doc>
<doc id="428635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428635" title="Yoram Globus">
Yoram Globus

Yoram Globus (born 21 October 1943), is an Israeli movie producer. He is most famous for his association with Cannon Films Inc., a company he ran with his cousin Menahem Golan.

</doc>
<doc id="428636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428636" title="Elmer Lach">
Elmer Lach

Elmer James Lach (January 22, 1918 – April 4, 2015) was a Canadian professional ice hockey center. He played 14 seasons for the Montreal Canadiens in the National Hockey League. 
Lach retired in 1954 as the league's all-time leading scorer, having played 664 regular season games, scoring 215 goals and 408 assists for 623 points, as well as 76 postseason games, where he scored 19 goals and 45 assists for 64 points. He was soon elected in the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1966.
Lach was born on January 22, 1918 in Nokomis, Saskatchewan. He was raised in Regina, Saskatchewan. Lach died of a stroke in Pointe-Claire, Quebec, aged 97.

</doc>
<doc id="428638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428638" title="Dermot O'Leary">
Dermot O'Leary

Seán Dermot Fintan O'Leary, Jr. known as Dermot O'Leary (born 24 May 1973) is an Anglo-Irish television and radio presenter.
O'Leary was born in Colchester, Essex to Irish parents. He has dual citizenship British and Irish.
He started presenting "Big Brother's Little Brother" in 2001. He presented the show until 2008 when Big Brother ended. He has presented "The X Factor" since 2007.
In 2014 O'Leary will present "This Morning" for one week.
O'Leary married Dee Koppang on 14 September 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="428639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428639" title="Emily Jane White">
Emily Jane White

Emily Jane White is a singer and songwriter from California. 
She released her first album, "Dark Undercoat", in 2007. In 2009 she released her second album, "Victorian America". White's third album "Ode to Sentience" was released in France in 2010. It was not released in the United States until 2012. In December 2013 White released her fourth album, "Blood/Lines".

</doc>
<doc id="428640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428640" title="The Ordinary Boys">
The Ordinary Boys

The Ordinary Boys are an English indie rock band. Their name is from the Morrissey song "The Ordinary Boys". At first they were called Next in Line.
They started in 2002. The members were Samuel Preston, William Brown, James Gregory, and Simon Goldring. They released their first album "Over the Counter Culture" in 2004. The third single from the album. "Talk, Talk, Talk", reached number seventeen in the UK Singles Chart. 
In 2005 they released their second album "Brassbound". "Boys Will Be Boys" was the first single from the album. It reached number sixteen in the UK Singles Chart.
In January 2006 the band's singer Samuel Preston was on the British reality TV show "Celebrity Big Brother". This made the band more popular. Their single "Boys Will Be Boys" was released again. It reached number three in the UK Singles Chart. Goldfrapp did a cover version of the song for BBC Radio 1's Live Lounge. 
They released their third album "How to Get Everything You Ever Wanted in Ten Easy Steps" in October 2006. It had a more pop sound than the band's first two albums. The first single from the album "Lonely at the Top" reached number ten in the UK Singles Chart.
"Boys Will Be Boys" was on the soundtrack of the 2007 movie "Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix". In 2007 it was also played in "Smoke and Mirrors", the fifth episode of season two of "The IT Crowd".
In 2008 they broke up. In 2011 they started again.

</doc>
<doc id="428642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428642" title="Alice Munro">
Alice Munro

Alice Ann Munro (born 10 July 1931) is a Canadian writer of short stories. Munro received the Nobel Prize in Literature in 2013. In her stories Munro has changed the way people write short stories. Her stories usually start in a place where people do not expect. After that, the stories go back and forward in time.
Her first collection of short stories, "Dance of the Happy Shades", was published by Ryerson Press in 1968. It won the 1968 Governor General's Award for Fiction.
Munro's most recent collection of short stories, "Dear Life", was published in 2012 by McClelland and Stewart.

</doc>
<doc id="428644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428644" title="FKA twigs">
FKA twigs

Tahliah Barnett, known as FKA twigs, is an English R&B singer. She used to be called twigs. Her music has been called post-dubstep and trip-hop.
She was on the cover of "i-D" magazine in August 2012.
twigs released her first EP "EP" on December 4, 2012.
On August 1 2013 twigs posted the video for her single "Water Me" on YouTube. It now has over one million views.
twigs released her second extended play "EP2" on September 17, 2013. It was her first release on the record label The Young Turks. "Pitchfork" gave it a score of 8 out of 10.
In 2013 BBC put her on their Sound of 2014 list of nominees. In January 2014 BBC chose the winner.
twigs' first album "LP1" was released in August 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="428647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428647" title="Of Thee I Sing (book)">
Of Thee I Sing (book)

Of Thee I Sing: A Letter to My Daughters is a children's book by United States President Barack Obama. It came out on November 16, 2010. It is about the lives of thirteen Americans: George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, Martin Luther King, Neil Armstrong, Sitting Bull, Cesar Chavez, Billie Holiday, Maya Lin, Albert Einstein (who was born in Germany), Georgia O'Keeffe, Jackie Robinson, Helen Keller, and Jane Addams. Obama finished writing the book in 2008, after he was elected but before he took office.

</doc>
<doc id="428651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428651" title="WWE Raw (video game)">
WWE Raw (video game)

WWE Raw is a professional wrestling video game developed by Anchor Inc. and published by THQ. The game was titled WWF Raw on the Xbox. The game was released on the Xbox and Microsoft Windows.
It was released on February 11, 2002 in North America, September 27, 2002 in the United Kingdom and October 3, 2002 in Japan on the Xbox. The game was released on October 14, 2002 in North America and on November 1, 2002 in the United Kingdom. A sequel was released in 2002 called WWE Raw 2.
IGN rated the game a 9.1 out of 10 and said "The hardcore fans will get plenty of enjoyment out of the difficult AI, the awesome multiplayer modes and the super deep Create-A-Wrestler mode.”
GameSpot gave the game a 6.5 out of 10 and stated "While the game does some things very well, it generally falls short of expectations." 

</doc>
<doc id="428658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428658" title="Absurd">
Absurd

Absurd can refer to several different things:

</doc>
<doc id="428673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428673" title="Matthew Fox">
Matthew Fox

Matthew Chandler Fox (born July 14, 1966) is an American actor. He is known for his roles as Charlie Salinger on "Party of Five" and Jack Shephard on the supernatural drama television series "Lost".

</doc>
<doc id="428674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428674" title="John C. McGinley">
John C. McGinley

John Christopher McGinley (born August 3, 1959) is an American actor, comedian, spokesperson, and writer. He is known for his roles as Perry Cox in "Scrubs", Bob Slydell in "Office Space", Sergeant Red O'Neill in Oliver Stone's "Platoon" and Marv in Stone's "Wall Street". He has also written and produced for television and movies. McGinley is also an author and a spokesperson for the National Down Syndrome Society.

</doc>
<doc id="428677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428677" title="Evolution (professional wrestling)">
Evolution (professional wrestling)

Evolution is a professional wrestling stable that competes in the WWE. The stable was created on January 20, 2003 and broke up on October 3, 2005.
The members of the stable were Triple H, Randy Orton, Batista and Ric Flair. Triple H acted as the leader and Flair acted as a mentor. The members of the stable each portrayed evolutions of professional wrestling with Ric Flair being "the past", Triple H being "the present" and Randy Orton and Batista being "the future". They all portrayed heels.
On April 14, 2014, Evolution, not including Ric Flair, reunited. They came down to the ring to their theme "Line in the Sand" by Motörhead and attacked The Shield.
On the June 2 episode of "Raw", Batista quit the WWE after he had his title match request denied by Triple H. Later in the night, Triple H said that he had a "Plan B" in his quest to destroy the Shield, which prompted Rollins to turn on and attack his group members Reigns and Ambrose.

</doc>
<doc id="428681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428681" title="Category:WWE teams and stables">
Category:WWE teams and stables

This category is for teams and stables that have competed in the World Wide Wrestling Federation, World Wrestling Federation, World Wrestling Entertainment, or WWE.

</doc>
<doc id="428682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428682" title="Nôm">
Nôm

Nôm is a script formerly used in Vietnam. It involved the use of Chinese characters to write Vietnamese. The Van Ban bell, engraved in 1076, has the earliest known example of a Nôm inscription. The earliest surviving Nôm literature dates from the 13th century. The script was in common use until the 1920s. It was replaced by the Vietnamese alphabet. The Vietnamese alphabet is a form of the Latin alphabet.
Classical Chinese was used by the royal court and for other official purposes. The Temple of Literature in Hanoi was the best-known school for the study of Chinese. Students who passed the civil service examinations could go on to become magistrates. Confucian scholars saw Chinese as the language of education and looked down on Nôm, while popular opinion favored Nôm. Only a small percentage of the population was literate in any language, but nearly every village had at least one person who could read Nôm.
In Nôm, a Vietnamese word can be written using a Chinese character for a word with a similar meaning or pronunciation. Each character represents an idea. Such characters are called "ideographs." In addition, each character represents a syllable, or sound. Because traditional characters have this dual property, nearly every syllable in modern Vietnamese has acquired a semantic meaning. Like Chinese, Vietnamese is a tonal language. Since the issue of tone does not arise for Japanese or Korean, native phonetic scripts could develop for these languages without this complicating factor.
Sino-Vietnamese characters were eventually displaced by an alphabetic script. Unlike alphabets used elsewhere, the Vietnamese alphabet has marks to indicate tone. In contrast to South Korea and Japan, modern Vietnam does not require students to study the traditional characters. Fewer than 100 scholars worldwide can read Nôm. Vietnamese literature written in Nôm, including classics like "Tale of Kieu" and the poetry of Ho Xuan Huong, can now be read only in translation. However, character calligraphy remains popular as a home decoration and as a symbol of good luck. The Han-Nom Institute, founded in 1970, collects and studies relevant manuscripts. The Nôm Ideographs were added to Unicode in 2001. Unicode is an international electronic encoding standard.
Chinese characters are used to write various languages in China and elsewhere, including Mandarin, the most widely spoken language in China, Cantonese, spoken in Hong Kong and southern China, and Classical Chinese, traditionally used for formal writing. The characters were formerly used in Korea and in Vietnam. Japan uses a mix of Chinese characters and native phonetic script. Even characters that retain their original meaning in all languages may be read in various ways. The character 十 is given as "shí" in Chinese romanization (pinyin), "jū" in Japanese romanization (Hepburn), "sip" in Korean romanization (Revised Romanization), and "thập" in the Han-Viet system used in Vietnam. In all these languages, the meaning of the character is “ten.”
Modifiers normally come before the noun in Chinese, but follow the noun in vernacular Vietnamese. Chinese texts published in Vietnam often included a line-by-line translation into Nôm. Even when the same characters appear in both languages, the order is different. Many Chinese phrases gained currency as loan words. Later, the word order could be reversed to correspond to normal Vietnamese syntax. The word "Vietnam" is from Chinese "Nányuè" (南越), meaning “Southern Yue”. In Han-Viet, the same characters are read as . The word order was reversed in modern times. In Chinese, the phrase “Chinese characters” is written 漢字. This is romanized as "hànzì" in pinyin, kanji in Japanese, hanja in Korean, and in Han-Viet. In modern Vietnamese, they are .
The majority of the characters used in Nôm are of Chinese origin, selected because they have an appropriate pronunciation or meaning. For example, the character used to write the word "Nôm" is pronounced "nán" in Chinese and means “chattering.” The fit between the Chinese character and the Vietnamese word is not always exact. The word "Nôm" does not have any negative connotation in Vietnamese, but rather suggests plain talk, something easy to understand.
Nôm includes thousands of characters not found in Chinese. In contrast, Japan developed only a few hundred kokuji, Korea just a handful of rarely used gukja. These characters were created by authors who combined pre-existing elements. One element, called the radical, indicates the character's meaning, or at least a semantic category. The other element, called the remainder, gives pronunciation. For example, the reading "ba" is indicated by the character . In Chinese, this character indicates the same sound as in Vietnamese, but it's meaning is unrelated: "to long for." For the character (⿺巴三), horizontal lines are added to indicate that the meaning is "three." "Father" is also "ba", but written as (⿱父巴). "Turtle" is "con ba ba" (; ⿰虫巴). Most Chinese characters were created by the same method. As the correspondence between sound and meaning is different in Vietnamese than it is Chinese, the same approach could result in two quite different character sets.
Of the 9,299 Nôm Ideographs, nearly half are specific to Vietnam. Each character has a codepoint assigned by Unicode. The characters for the V0, V1, and V2 sets were extracted from two Nôm dictionaries published in the 1970s. The V3 characters were extracted from manuscripts. 
Chinese characters were introduced to Vietnam after the Han Empire conquered the country in 111 BC. Independence was achieved in 939, but the Chinese writing system was adopted for official purposes in 1010. Vietnamese began to use Chinese characters to write in their own language at about this time. The Van Ban bell, engraved in 1076, is the earliest known example of a Nôm inscription. Nguyen Thuyen composed Nôm poetry in the 13th century. However, none of his work has survived. The oldest surviving Nôm text is the collected poetry of King Tran Nhan Tong, written in the 13th century. Many Nôm documents were destroyed by the Chinese during the Ming occupation of 1407-1428. Nguyen Trai (1380–1442) wrote both Chinese and Nôm literature in the 15th century. Trinh Thi Ngoc Truc, consort of King Le Than Tong, is credited with a 24,000-character bilingual Chinese-to-Vietnamese dictionary written in the 17th century.
Unlike Chinese, Nôm was not studied or classified systematically for most of its history. Vietnamese authors who had studied Chinese applied the principles of Chinese writing to their native language. Although official records were generally kept in Chinese, Nôm was used under two short-lived dynasties, the Ho dynasty (1400-1407) and the Tay Son (1778–1802). King Minh Mang (1820-1841) opposed literacy and the use of Nôm. In 1838, Jean-Louis Taberd wrote a Nôm dictionary that eventually gained general acceptance and wide circulation. In 1867, Catholic scholar Nguyen Truong To petitioned King Tu Duc to replace Classical Chinese with Nôm in official usage. The king did not consent to this, but he did respond with various efforts to promote Nôm. A decree was issued entitled "Please respect "quốc âm" [the national voice]."
In the 19th century, there was a flowering of popular literature written in Nôm, including such classics as Nguyen Du's "The Tale of Kieu" and the poetry of Ho Xuan Huong. Although only 3 to 5 percent of the population was literate, nearly every village had someone who could read Nôm aloud for the benefit of other villagers.
In Korea and Japan, the traditional writing system was simplified so it could be taught to the general public. Vietnam's educated class looked down on Nôm as inferior to Chinese, so it was not interested in doing the work required to simplify and standardize the system so that it could be used for mass communication.
Like Chinese, Vietnamese is a tonal language. It has nearly 5,000 distinct syllables, far more than other East Asian language do. Phonetic scripts used elsewhere, including hangul in Korea and kana in Japan, do not indicate tone, so they cannot be applied to the Vietnamese language. As in Chinese, a semantic meaning is attributed to every syllable. This characteristic of the language may be can considered a result of the traditional writing system.
Beginning in the late 19th century, the French colonial authorities promoted the use of the Vietnamese alphabet, which they viewed as a stepping stone toward learning French. Language reform in other Asian nations stimulated Vietnamese interest in the subject. Following the Russo-Japanese War of 1905, Japan was often cited as a model for Asian modernization. Nationalists embraced the alphabet as "quốc ngữ" (the national language), and as a tool for promoting literacy. The Confucian education system was compared unfavorably to the Japanese system of public education. Nationalist writer Phan Boi Chau encouraged the young to "study in the East," meaning Japan.
The popularity of Hanoi's short-lived Tonkin Free School suggested that broad reform was possible. In 1910, the colonial school system adopted a "Franco-Vietnamese curriculum," which emphasized French and alphabetic Vietnamese. The teaching of Sino-Vietnamese characters was discontinued in 1917. On December 28, 1918, King Khai Dinh declared that the traditional writing system no longer had official status. The civil service exam was given for the last time at the imperial capital of Hue on January 4, 1919. This exam tested knowledge of Chinese. The examination system, and the education system based on it, had been in effect for almost 900 years. China itself abandoned Classical Chinese soon afterward as part of the May Fourth Movement.
In the 1920s, the Vietnamese alphabet became the country’s dominant writing system. By the 1930s, the use of Sino-Vietnamese characters was largely restricted to books with limited woodbock printings intended for the Buddhist clergy. In more recent times, the traditional characters have been used mainly in calligraphy, such as wedding decorations. In 2012, manuscripts in Classical Chinese were translated to support Vietnam's claim to the Paracel Islands.
The following are the twenty five most common characters in Nôm literature. The modern spelling is given in italics.
Some characters in this article may require the installation of an additional font to display properly:

</doc>
<doc id="428691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428691" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Template:Extent">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Template:Extent


</doc>
<doc id="428693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428693" title="Dio Chrysostom">
Dio Chrysostom

Dio Chrysostom () was a Greek speaker, writer, philosopher and historian of the Roman Empire. He lived in the 1st century, from about the year 40 to around the year 115. He is also known as Dion of Prusa or Dio Cocceianus. Eighty of his "Discourses" (or "Orations") are known. A few Letters and a funny mock essay In Praise of Hair, as well as a few other fragments also survive. His surname "Chrysostom" comes from the Greek "chrysostomos", which literally means "golden-mouthed". He should not be confused with the Roman historian Cassius Dio, nor with the 4th-century bishop John Chrysostom of Constantinople.

</doc>
<doc id="428700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428700" title="Cauchy's integral formula">
Cauchy's integral formula

In mathematics, Cauchy's integral formula is a central statement in complex analysis. The statement is named after Augustin-Louis Cauchy. It expresses the fact that a holomorphic function defined on a disk is completely determined by its values on the boundary of the disk. The statement also provides integral formulas for all derivatives of a holomorphic function. Cauchy's formula shows that, in complex analysis, "differentiation is equivalent to integration": complex differentiation, like integration, behaves well under uniform limits – a result denied in real analysis.

</doc>
<doc id="428719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428719" title="Magdalen College, Oxford">
Magdalen College, Oxford

Magdalen College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. The Bishop of Winchester, William of Waynflete, founded the college in 1458. The full name of the college is "The President and Fellows of the College of St. Mary Magdalene in the University of Oxford".
At dawn on May Day, the College choir sings hymns from the top of the Magdalen Tower. Large crowds gather each year on Magdalen Bridge to hear the choir. 

</doc>
<doc id="428722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428722" title="Mansfield College, Oxford">
Mansfield College, Oxford

Mansfield College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1838 as Spring Hill College in Birmingham. Spring Hill College moved to Oxford in 1886. At that time it was renamed Mansfield College, in honor of its largest donors, George and Elizabeth Mansfield. The college's main building was designed by Basil Champneys, and was completed in 1889.
The first female student at Mansfield was admitted in 1913. In 1955, Mansfield was named a Permanent Private Hall at Oxford University. In 1995, Mansfield was granted a Royal Charter making it a full member of the University. 

</doc>
<doc id="428725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428725" title="Chlöe Howl">
Chlöe Howl

Chlöe Howl (born March 4 1995) is an English singer. On 4 March 2013, her first extended play "Rumor" was released for free download. In June 2013, she released the video for her first single "No Strings". She released her second extended play "No Strings" on August 23. "No Strings" was played in the movie "Kick-Ass 2".
Howl was nominated for BBC's Sound of 2014 prize on 3 December 2013.
On 5 December 2013, was nominated for the 2014 BRITs Critics' Choice Award.
On 9 December 2013, her second single "Paper Heart" was released.

</doc>
<doc id="428726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428726" title="Eliza Doolittle">
Eliza Doolittle

Eliza Sophie Caird (born 17 April 1988), best known as Eliza Doolittle, is a British singer and songwriter. Her first album "Eliza Doolittle" was released on 12 July 2010.
Eliza Doolittle was born in London in 1988. Her father is John Caird. Her mother is Frances Ruffelle. Doolittle grew up in Camden. She went to Channing School.
On 29 November 2009 Doolittle released her first EP "Eliza Doolittle" on iTunes. On 11 April 2010 she released her first single "Skinny Genes". On 5 July 2010 her second single "Pack Up" was released. It entered the UK Singles Chart at number twelve. It reached number five on 11 July 2010. The two singles were from her album "Eliza Doolittle", which was released on 12 July 2010. 
In 2011 Doolittle was signed to Select Models.
On 28 April 2013 "You & Me", a song by Disclosure with Doolittle singing on it, was released. It reached number ten in the UK Singles Chart.
On 7 June 2013 Doolittle released the first single from her second album, "Big When I Was Little". 
Doolittle released her second album "In Your Hands" on 14 October 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="428732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428732" title="New College, Oxford">
New College, Oxford

New College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. The official name of the college is "The Warden and Scholars of St. Mary's College at Winchester". New College is one of the oldest colleges at Oxford. It was founded in 1379. It is called "New" because it was the second college at Oxford named in honor of St. Mary. Oriel College which is 55 years older, is also officially named in honor of St. Mary.

</doc>
<doc id="428733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428733" title="Say Lou Lou">
Say Lou Lou

Say Lou Lou is a dream pop band. They are Elektra Kilbey and Miranda Kilbey. They are twin sisters. They were called Saint Lou Lou until January 2013.
Say Lou Lou started in 2012.
In August 2012 Say Lou Lou performed at the Popaganda Festival in Stockholm.
On September 5 2012 "Vogue" put them in their magazine as Artist of the Week. 
On 15 November 2013 Say Lou Lou released the EP "Better in the Dark" on Sony Music.
In December 2013 BBC put them on their list of nominees for the Sound of 2014 prize.
Their first album will be released in 2014 by Columbia Records.
Say Lou Lou sometimes lived in Stockholm and sometimes live in Sydney.They now live in London.

</doc>
<doc id="428743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428743" title="Robert G. Heft">
Robert G. Heft

Robert G. "Bob" Heft (January 19, 1941 – December 12, 2009) was the designer of the current United States 50-star flag. He has also designed a 51-star flag that would be used if a new state joins the United States. He was born in Saginaw, Michigan.
Heft designed the current United States flag as a school project in Lancaster, Ohio when he was 17 years old. He got a B- for his project by his teacher, Stanley Pratt. After talking about the project, he made an agreement with his teacher that if the flag was made as the official flag by the United States Congress, he would get a better grade for the project. Heft's design was chosen out of more than 1,500 designs that were given to United States President Dwight D. Eisenhower, and his teacher changed his grade to an A.
After graduating from college, he became a high school teacher and later a college professor. He was also mayor of Napoleon, Ohio for 28 years.
Heft died on December 12, 2009 from a heart attack while living in Saginaw. This happened after many years of fighting with diabetes. He was 68 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="428748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428748" title="Category:120 deaths">
Category:120 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428749" title="Category:40s births">
Category:40s births


</doc>
<doc id="428750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428750" title="Category:40 births">
Category:40 births


</doc>
<doc id="428751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428751" title="Category:40">
Category:40


</doc>
<doc id="428752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428752" title="Category:401 deaths">
Category:401 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428753" title="Category:498 deaths">
Category:498 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428754" title="Category:498">
Category:498


</doc>
<doc id="428755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428755" title="Category:410s deaths">
Category:410s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428756" title="Category:413 deaths">
Category:413 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428757" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428757" title="Category:413">
Category:413


</doc>
<doc id="428758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428758" title="Category:460s deaths">
Category:460s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428759" title="Category:461 deaths">
Category:461 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428762" title="Category:860 deaths">
Category:860 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428765" title="Category:866 deaths">
Category:866 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428766" title="Category:871 deaths">
Category:871 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428768" title="Category:1026 deaths">
Category:1026 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428770" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428770" title="Category:1027 deaths">
Category:1027 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428771" title="Category:1060 deaths">
Category:1060 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428774" title="Category:1070 deaths">
Category:1070 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428775" title="Category:1076 deaths">
Category:1076 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428776" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428776" title="Nuffield College, Oxford">
Nuffield College, Oxford

Nuffield College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1937. It is a graduate college only. It does not have any undergraduate students.

</doc>
<doc id="428777" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428777" title="Category:1096 deaths">
Category:1096 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428780" title="Category:1120 deaths">
Category:1120 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428781" title="Category:1128 deaths">
Category:1128 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428782" title="Category:1134 deaths">
Category:1134 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428783" title="Category:1140s deaths">
Category:1140s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428784" title="Category:1143 deaths">
Category:1143 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428785" title="Category:1164 deaths">
Category:1164 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428786" title="Category:1187 deaths">
Category:1187 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428787" title="Division of Macarthur">
Division of Macarthur

The Division of Macarthur is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales. It is named after John Macarthur and his wife Elizabeth, who were both pioneers of Australia's wool industry. 
It covers the outer south-west of Sydney. It includes the suburbs of Airds, Ambarvale, Appin, Badgerys Creek, Bickley Vale, Bradbury, Camden, Camden South, Campbelltown, Cawdor, Cobbitty, Ellis Lane, Gilead, Glen Alpine, Grasmere, Greendale, Harrington Park, Kentlyn, Mount Annan, Narellan, Oran Park, Rosemeadow, Rossmore, St Helens Park, Wedderburn and Woodbine and parts of Bringelly, Catherine Field, Douglas Park, Leumeah, Razorback and Rossmore.
Over the years the size of the electorate has become much smaller. This is because of the increasing number of people living in the Campbelltown region. The towns of Bowral and Moss Vale and a large part of the Southern Highlands were removed from the division before the 2001 election. 

</doc>
<doc id="428788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428788" title="Category:1280 deaths">
Category:1280 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428789" title="Category:1312 deaths">
Category:1312 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428790" title="Category:1433 deaths">
Category:1433 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428792" title="September Girls">
September Girls

September Girls are a garage pop band from Dublin, Ireland. They started in 2011. The members are Paula Cullen (bass, vocals), Caoimhe Derwin (guitar, vocals), Lauren Kerchner (keyboards, vocals), Jessie Ward (guitar, vocals), and Sarah Grimes (drums). Their first album will be released by Fortuna Pop! in 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="428793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428793" title="Category:1697 deaths">
Category:1697 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428794" title="4AD">
4AD

4AD is a British independent record label. It was started in 1979 by two men who worked at Beggars Banquet, called Ivo Watts-Russell and Peter Kent. It was called Axis Records. In 1980 the name was changed to 4AD. Musicians who have been signed to 4AD include Pixies, Cocteau Twins, and The Birthday Party. 4AD is part of the Beggars Group.
"Facing the Other Way: The Story of 4AD", a book by Martin Aston about the history of the label, was published in 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="428795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428795" title="Dead Rising">
Dead Rising

Dead Rising is a survival horror video game developed by Capcom Production Studio 1 and published by Capcom.
It was released on August 8, 2006 in North America, September 8, 2006 in Europe, September 14, 2006 in Australia, and on September 28, 2006 in Japan. The game was the first in the Dead Rising video game series and was followed by Dead Rising 2 in 2010.
In the game the player controls a photojournalist named Frank West who is trapped in a shopping mall during a zombie outbreak. The story centers around West trying to uncover the truth behind the outbreak while trying to stay alive.
IGN rated the game a 8.3 out of 10 and said it was "one of the more unique and entertaining titles on the Xbox 360.” but noted that the game could have had "a better save system, more intelligent NPCs, a more forgiving story progression, and tighter controls"
GameSpot gave the game a 8.4 out of 10 and stated "Dead Rising's gory, ridiculous, and entertaining action, coupled with its real-time structure and campy stylistic touches, make it one of the most unique games currently available for the Xbox 360."
The game won "Most Innovative Design for Xbox 360" by IGN in 2006, "Best Action Adventure Game", "Best Sound Effects", and "Best Use of Xbox 360 Achievement Points" in GameSpot's Best and Worst of 2006, and won "Action Game of the Year" at the 2006 Spike TV Video Game Awards. 

</doc>
<doc id="428798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428798" title="Category:42 BC deaths">
Category:42 BC deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428800" title="Category:233 BC deaths">
Category:233 BC deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428801" title="Christine Ohuruogu">
Christine Ohuruogu

Christine Ijeoma Ohuruogu, MBE (born 17 May 1984) is a British athlete. Her coach is Lloyd Cowan. She was born to Igbo Nigerian parents in Newham, London.
In 2009, she was made a Member of the Order of the British Empire. 
Ohuruogu won a gold medal at the 2008 Summer Olympics and a silver medal in the 400m in the 2012 Summer Olympics. 
In December 2013, she was given the "Sunday Times" and "Sky Sports" Sportswoman of the Year award. She was also nominated for BBC Sports Personality of the Year.
Ohuruogu has written children's books.

</doc>
<doc id="428802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428802" title="Category:354 BC deaths">
Category:354 BC deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428803" title="Category:527 BC deaths">
Category:527 BC deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428804" title="Category:1479 BC deaths">
Category:1479 BC deaths


</doc>
<doc id="428805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428805" title="Category:120">
Category:120


</doc>
<doc id="428809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428809" title="Sino-Vietnamese characters">
Sino-Vietnamese characters

Sino-Vietnamese characters () are Chinese-style characters read as either Vietnamese or as Sino-Vietnamese. When they are used to write Vietnamese, they are called Nôm. The same characters may used to write Chinese. In this case, the character is given a Sino-Vietnamese, or Han-Viet, reading. Han-Viet is a system that allows Vietnamese to read Chinese. It is equivalent pinyin in English.
Some of these characters are also used in China, others are local to Vietnam. Chinese characters were introduced to Vietnam when the Han Empire invaded the country in 111 BC. Even after Vietnam became independent in AD 939, the country continued to use Classical Chinese () for official purposes. In the 1920s, Vietnam shifted from traditional characters to the Latin alphabet. The Han-Nom Institute was founded in Hanoi in 1970 to collect and study documents written in the traditional script. The institute has submitted a list of 19,981 Sino-Vietnamese characters to Unicode for electronic encoding. This includes a core set of 9,299 characters called the Nôm Ideographs.
Chinese characters were introduced to Vietnam after the Han Empire conquered the country in 111 BC. Independence was achieved in 939, but the Chinese writing system was adopted for official purposes in 1010. Soon after the country achieved independence, Vietnamese began to use Chinese characters to write their own language. The Van Ban bell, engraved in 1076, is the earliest known example of a Nôm inscription. Nguyen Thuyen composed Nôm poetry in the 13th century. However, none of his work has survived. The oldest surviving Nôm text is the collected poetry of King Tran Nhan Tong, written in the 13th century. 
Classical Chinese was used by the royal court and for other official purposes. The Temple of Literature in Hanoi was the best-known school for the study of Chinese. The civil service examination tested knowledge of Chinese. It was given once every three years. Students who passed the exam could go on to become magistrates. Confucian scholars saw Chinese as the language of education and looked down on Nôm. Popular opinion favored Nôm. Some kings thought that all writing should be done in Chinese. They suppressed Nôm. Other kings promoted Nôm. In 1867, King Tu Duc issued a decree encouraging the use of Nôm. Only a small percentage of the population was literate in any language. But nearly every village had at least one person who could read Nôm aloud for the other villagers. Jean-Louis Taberd wrote the first Nôm dictionary in 1838.
In 1910, the colonial school system adopted a "Franco-Vietnamese curriculum", which emphasized French and alphabetic Vietnamese. The Vietnamese alphabet is a form of the Latin alphabet that includes tone marks. On December 28, 1918, King Khai Dinh declared that the traditional writing system no longer had official status. The civil service exam was given for the last time at the imperial capital of Hue on January 4, 1919. The examination system, and the education system based on it, had been in effect for almost 900 years. China itself abandoned Classical Chinese soon afterward as part of the May Fourth Movement.
Chinese characters are used to write various languages in China and elsewhere, including Mandarin, the most widely spoken language in China, Cantonese, spoken in Hong Kong and southern China, and Classical Chinese, traditionally used for formal writing. The characters were formerly used in Korea and in Vietnam. Japan uses a mix of Chinese characters and native phonetic script. Even characters that retain their original meaning in all languages may be read in various ways. The character 十 is given as "shí" in Chinese romanization (pinyin), "jū" in Japanese romanization (Hepburn), "sip" in Korean romanization (Revised Romanization), and "thập" in the Han-Viet system used in Vietnam. In all these languages, the meaning of the character is “ten.”
The majority of the characters used in Nôm are of Chinese origin, selected because they have an appropriate pronunciation or meaning. For example, the character used to write the word "Nôm" is pronounced "nán" in Chinese and means “chattering.” The fit between the Chinese character and the Vietnamese word is not always exact. The word "Nôm" does not have any negative connotation in Vietnamese, but rather suggests plain talk, something easy to understand.
Nôm also includes thousands of characters not found in Chinese. In contrast, Japan developed only a few hundred kokuji, Korea just a handful of rarely used gukja. These characters were created by authors who combined pre-existing elements. One element, called the radical, indicates the character's meaning, or at least a semantic category. The other element, called the remainder, gives pronunciation. Like Chinese, Vietnamese is a tonal language. In contrast, Japanese and Korean can be written in phonetic scripts that do not indicate tone.
When a character is read as Vietnamese, it is romanized according to its Nôm reading. When it is read as Chinese, it can be romanized into Vietnamese as Han-Viet, or into English as pinyin. The chart below uses a darker background to display the Nôm Ideographs (V0 to V3). The characters in V3 and later sets are generally not found in Nôm dictionaries.
In 1994, the Ideographic Rapporteur Group agreed to include Sino-Vietnamese characters in Unicode. In 1993-2001, the Han-Nom Institute assembled a collection of 9,299 “Nôm Ideographs" in four sets. These are the V0, V1, V2, and V3 characters shown below. A Sino-Vietnamese character is first assigned a V Source code, and later a codepoint. These codes are used to transmit and store the character electronically. An appropriate font must be installed to render them. 
The Nôm Ideographs were extracted from two dictionaries published in the 1970s, one in Saigon and the other in Hanoi. V Source annotations were added to the glyphs that were already encoded. The rest were assigned codepoints in Extension B. "The Hán Nôm Coded Character Repertoire" (2008) integrates the work of the Han-Nom Institute with that of the U.S.-based Vietnamese Nôm Preservation Foundation. This book presents a comprehensive list of 19,981 Sino-Vietnamese characters, including the Nôm Ideographs, manuscript variants, characters formerly used by the Tay people of northern Vietnam, as well as numerous Chinese characters with Han-Viet readings.
Some characters in this article may require the installation of an additional font to display properly:

</doc>
<doc id="428812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428812" title="Category:Law enforcement">
Category:Law enforcement


</doc>
<doc id="428814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428814" title="Category:Federal law enforcement agencies of the United States">
Category:Federal law enforcement agencies of the United States

This category includes pages about law enforcement agencies of the United States federal government. 

</doc>
<doc id="428815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428815" title="Category:Law enforcement in the United States">
Category:Law enforcement in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="428817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428817" title="Category:Law enforcement in Australia">
Category:Law enforcement in Australia


</doc>
<doc id="428819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428819" title="Category:Law enforcement by country">
Category:Law enforcement by country


</doc>
<doc id="428823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428823" title="Category:Law enforcement agencies by country">
Category:Law enforcement agencies by country


</doc>
<doc id="428824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428824" title="Dead Rising 2">
Dead Rising 2

Dead Rising 2 is a survival horror video game developed by Blue Castle Games and published by Capcom.
It was released for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 on August 8, 2006 in North America, September 8, 2006 in Europe, September 14, 2006 in Australia, and on September 28, 2006 in Japan. It was also released on Microsoft Windows on September 28, 2010 in North America, September 30, 2010 in Australia, October 1, 2010 in Europe, and on October 28, 2010 in Japan.
The game was the second in the Dead Rising video game series and is the sequel to Dead Rising which was released in 2006.
IGN rated the game a 8 out of 10 and said it was "It’s not the smoothest game and it can feel like the last one, however that doesn’t mean a thing when the game’s this much fun."
GameSpot gave the game a 8.5 out of 10 and stated "The Dead Rising formula proves to be as addictive as ever, and a new cooperative mode and weapon crafting system are great additions to the franchise." 

</doc>
<doc id="428826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428826" title="Category:Xbox One games">
Category:Xbox One games


</doc>
<doc id="428827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428827" title="Category:Law enforcement occupations">
Category:Law enforcement occupations


</doc>
<doc id="428830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428830" title="Category:Law enforcement techniques">
Category:Law enforcement techniques


</doc>
<doc id="428833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428833" title="Category:Law enforcement equipment">
Category:Law enforcement equipment


</doc>
<doc id="428834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428834" title="Abraham Maslow">
Abraham Maslow

Abraham Maslow (April 1, 1908 – June 8, 1970) was an American psychologist. He is considered by other psychologists to be one of the most important psychologists of the 20th century. He was ranked 10th among psychologists nominated for being well-known or influential. He is known for creating Maslow's hierarchy of needs.
Maslow died of a heart attack.

</doc>
<doc id="428835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428835" title="Category:Criminal investigation">
Category:Criminal investigation


</doc>
<doc id="428838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428838" title="Category:Police misconduct">
Category:Police misconduct


</doc>
<doc id="428839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428839" title="Dead Rising 3">
Dead Rising 3

Dead Rising 3 is a survival horror video game developed by Capcom Vancouver and published by Microsoft Studios. 
It was announced Microsoft's E3 2013 press conference on June 10, 2013 and was released exclusively for the Xbox One on November 22, 2013 as a launch title.
The game was the third in the Dead Rising video game series and is the sequel to Dead Rising 2 which was released in 2010.
IGN rated the game a 8.3 out of 10 and said it was "Dead Rising 3 delivers the undead and great tools to kill them with by the truckload."
GameSpot gave the game a 7 out of 10 and stated "Capcom has successfully made Dead Rising 3 a more welcoming experience than its harsh predecessors." 

</doc>
<doc id="428841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428841" title="Sándor Szokolay">
Sándor Szokolay

Sándor Szokolay (30 March 1931 – 8 December 2013) was an Hungarian composer and a professor of the Liszt Ferenc Academy, Budapest.
Szokolay was born on 30 March 1931 in Kunágota, Hungary. He was chairman of the Hungarian Kodály Society (1978) and the Hungarian Music Camera (1991–92), and he is member of the Hungarian Széchenyi Art Academy (1992). Szokolay died on 8 December 2013 in Sopron from pneumonia, Hungary, aged 82.

</doc>
<doc id="428842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428842" title="Category:Kidnapping">
Category:Kidnapping


</doc>
<doc id="428845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428845" title="Category:Coast guards">
Category:Coast guards


</doc>
<doc id="428846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428846" title="Meg Mundy">
Meg Mundy

Margaret "Meg" Mundy (born 4 January 1915) is an English-American actress. She was born in London, but moved to the United States at the age of six in 1921. She played "Mona Aldrich Croft", on "The Doctors" from 1971 until 1982, when the show was cancelled. She was nominated for two Daytime Emmy Awards for her role as Croft.
Mundy's mother was an Australian opera singer. Mundy was married to Mark Daniels from 1943 until they divorced in 1951. Then she was married to Konstantinos "Dino" Yannopoulos until his death in 1985. They had one child. Mundy now lives in Manhattan, New York. 

</doc>
<doc id="428848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428848" title="Category:Police stations">
Category:Police stations


</doc>
<doc id="428851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428851" title="Kingdom Hearts III">
Kingdom Hearts III

Kingdom Hearts III is an upcoming action role-playing video game that will be developed by Square Enix 1st Production Department and published by Square Enix. The game will be the eighth game in the "Kingdom Hearts" video game series. It will be released for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. "Kingdom Hearts III" will be the first game in the series to be released on a Microsoft platform as it was only released on both Sony and Nintendo systems. 
After years of rumors and speculation, the game was confirmed to be in development at E3 2013. Director Tetsuya Nomura said that the game will finish the "Xehanort Saga" but that it would not be the final game in the series.
During a June 2013 interview with "Famitsu", Nomura discussed the visuals that were seen in the teaser trailer. He said that they tried to remember that the "Kingdom Hearts characters were originally paintbrush art from Disney productions, a texture that was one of our original aims, and that it was time to return to that. So [chief creative director Takeshi] Nozue went through a series of tests, and the results are the visuals that we refer to in the team as the Kingdom Shader. It may look like a pretty drastic change, but I see it as a rich evolution of everything we've shown you up to now."
In September 2013, producer Shinji Hashimoto said that since both "Kingdom Hearts III" and "Final Fantasy XV" are being directed by Nomura, there would be a big gap between the release of the two games, "as [they] want each game to be perfect in terms of quality." Hashimoto also repeated Nomura's statements about the game's announcement at E3 2013, and said that "the company thought it was about time it addressed speculation about the long-awaited conclusion to the trilogy."
In October 2013, Teruzane Utada, the father of singer Hikaru Utada, said that Hikaru would once again be involved in the theme song, as she did with "Kingdom Hearts" and "Kingdom Hearts II". He later stated that it is still undecided on their involvement. In January 2014, actor Haley Joel Osment, the English voice of Sora in the series, said that he was in talks with the development team after the announcement and said that since dialogue was one of the last parts of the process, he believed he would not begin recording until mid-2014 at the earliest.

</doc>
<doc id="428852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428852" title="Category:PlayStation 4 games">
Category:PlayStation 4 games


</doc>
<doc id="428853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428853" title="Category:Imprisonment and detention">
Category:Imprisonment and detention


</doc>
<doc id="428856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428856" title="Watchman">
Watchman

Watchmen were groups of men who discouraged crime and enforced the law. They were usually authorised by the state or government. Watchmen have existed in many places around the world throughout history. Today, the job of law enforcement has generally been taken over by organised police.
An early reference to a watch can be found in the Bible. Ezekiel says that it was the watchmen's duty to sound the alarm to warn the people that they were under attack (Ezekiel 33:1-6). The Roman Empire turned the role of a watchman into a profession. The Vigiles was the city watch in Rome. It was the city's police force.
In England, the Ordinance of 1233 required the appointment of watchmen. The Assize of Arms of 1252 and the Statute of Winchester of 1285 are considered among the earliest examples of a police in England. The Assize of Arms required that constables be appointed to call men to fight when the town was under attack. It also required them to stop disturbances of the peace, and to take criminals to the sheriff. By 1415, a watch was appointed to the Parliament of England. King Henry VII appointed a watch for his house, the Tower of London, in 1485. These watchmen became known as the Beefeaters.

</doc>
<doc id="428860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428860" title="SpaceShipOne">
SpaceShipOne

SpaceShipOne is a vehicle built to travel to the lower limits of outer space. It completed the first manned private spaceflight in 2004. That same year, it won the US$10 million Ansari X Prize and has not flown since winning. It was carried high into the air by a specially designed plane named "White Knight". Both vehicles were built and flown by Mojave Aerospace Ventures. This was a joint project between Paul Allen and Scaled Composites, Burt Rutan's flying machine company. Allen provided the money to build and fly SpaceShipOne, about US$25 million.
Rutan has said that ideas about the project began as early as 1994. The full-time work towards the 2004 accomplishments took about three years. The vehicle first flew faster than the speed of sound on December 17, 2003. This date was also the one-hundredth anniversary of the Wright Brothers' historic first powered flight. SpaceShipOne's first official spaceflight, was piloted by Mike Melvill. A few days before that flight, the Mojave Air and Space Port was the first commercial spaceport licensed in the United States. A few hours after that flight, Melvill became the first licensed U.S. commercial astronaut. The overall project name was "Tier One". It has evolved into Tier 1b with a goal of taking a new, but similar ship's first paying passengers into space within the next few years.

</doc>
<doc id="428873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428873" title="Watch Dogs">
Watch Dogs

Watch Dogs is an action-adventure video game that was developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. The game was released on 27 May 2014. The game is available on Microsoft Windows, the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, Xbox One and Wii U.
It was revealed during Ubisoft's press conference at E3 2012. They announced that PC is the lead platform for the game.
It was chosen as "Best PC Game", "Biggest Surprise" and "Best New Franchise" of E3 2012 by IGN. It also won "People's Choice Most Exciting Game of E3 2013" by GameSpot. 

</doc>
<doc id="428877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428877" title="Division of Mackellar">
Division of Mackellar

The Division of Mackellar is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales. It is named after Dorothea Mackellar, a 20th-century Australian poet. The division was set up in 1949.
It covers the northern beach suburbs of Sydney, including Narrabeen, Beacon Hill, Newport, Palm Beach and Terrey Hills.
William Wentworth IV, was the first Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, and the great-grandson of politician and explorer William Wentworth, one of the first Europeans to cross the Blue Mountains. Bronwyn Bishop was the Speaker of the Australian House of Representativesfrom 2013 to 2015. 

</doc>
<doc id="428881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428881" title="Division of McMahon">
Division of McMahon

The Division of McMahon is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales. It was set up in 2010 and is named for Australian Prime Minister Sir William McMahon. It replaced the division of Prospect.
The division covers the western suburbs of Sydney. It includes the suburbs of Abbotsbury, Blacktown (part), Bossley Park, Canley Vale, Cecil Park, Eastern Creek, Edensor Park, Erskine Park, Fairfield, Fairfield Heights, Fairfield West, Greenfield Park, Greystanes, Horsley Park, Kemps Creek, Merrylands (part), Merrylands West, Mount Vernon, Orchard Hills, Pemulwuy, Prairiewood, Prospect, Smithfield, South Wentworthville (part), St Clair and Wetherill Park.

</doc>
<doc id="428885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428885" title="Airbus A350 XWB">
Airbus A350 XWB

The Airbus A350 XWB (XWB standing for Extra Wide Body) is a type of airplane built by European aerospace company Airbus. It is a long-ranged aircraft with two engines and a wide body. It is predicted that the plane will be able to hold and transport 250-350 passengers in a first class, business class, and economy class or a normal 3-class setting. In January 2015, the A350 entered service with Qatar Airways.

</doc>
<doc id="428886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428886" title="Alfriston">
Alfriston

Alfriston (pronounced All-friston) is a village and civil parish in the Sussex district of Wealden, England. The village lies in the valley of the River Cuckmere, about four miles (6 km) north-east of Seaford and south of the main A27 trunk road and part of the large area of Polegate. Alfriston has a population of 764.

</doc>
<doc id="428892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428892" title="Dipodidae">
Dipodidae

The Dipodidae are a family of small to medium-sized rodents living in the northern hemisphere. The family has over 50 species in 16 genera.
They include the jerboas, jumping mice, and birch mice. Different species are found in grassland, deserts, and forests. They are all capable of "saltation", which is jumping from a bipedal stance. This feature is most highly evolved in the desert-dwelling jerboas. Their movement resembles that of kangaroos more than that of true mice. 
Most species are nocturnal, and the eyes and ears are noticeably larger than usual in proportion to the body. 

</doc>
<doc id="428896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428896" title="Personal defense weapon">
Personal defense weapon

A personal defense weapon (PDW) is usually defined as a light, compact and easy to use firearm. However the definition varies depending on context and who you ask. Many will still say it is a Short-barreled rifle (SBR). These are regulated in the United States by the ATF. Many SBRs are available as selective fire (can switch between semi-automatic or fully automatic fire). The United States Department of Homeland Security defines a personal defense weapon as an M4 carbine (or a Colt AR-15 civilian semi-automatic rifle). Some governments' definition of PDWs includes handguns. An example is the Czech Republic which has proposed a constitutional amendment that would allow its citizens to own and keep PDWs as a way to discourage terrorists.
In the 1980s, the term was used for troops in tight, confined environments. They needed a compact automatic weapon that could defeat body armor. It was designed for troops in tanks, military trucks and those operating from aircraft including pilots. The majority of soldiers do not take part in an infantry battle. Their jobs are usually to support the infantry. Their main role is not winning a fight, but often to escape an ambush. In other situations they may assist the infantry. PDWs are also used by bodyguards as they can be hidden under a jacket but still allowed good firepower. PDWs tend to be shorter range weapons.
The term evolved as concealed carry became more popular, especially in places like the United States. Certain states in the United States make carrying a firearm for personal defense relatively easy while others make it more difficult. Also, quite a few other countries allow concealed carry, to various degrees. Pistols, especially compact models, are very popular self defense weapons today. Also, there are now a number of pistols available in rifle calibers.
In places where a firearm cannot be carried or the person chooses not to carry a firearm, there are other weapons they can carry. Common items such as a credit card, car keys, a pen or even a scarf can be effective self defense weapons. Because of the popularity of self defense, there are also specially designed non-lethal weapons designed not to look like weapons.

</doc>
<doc id="428905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428905" title="Swinton, South Yorkshire">
Swinton, South Yorkshire

Swinton is a town in the Metropolitan Borough of Rotherham in South Yorkshire, a county in England. 11,701 people lived in Swinton in 2011.
Swinton has a secondary school called Swinton Community School. The school has a sixth form.

</doc>
<doc id="428912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428912" title="Bonobo (musician)">
Bonobo (musician)

Simon Green (born 30 March 1976), known as Bonobo, is a British electronic musician. He released his first album "Animal Magic" in 2000 on the record label Tru Thoughts. It was then released again by Ninja Tune in 2001. He became successful in 2013 when he released his fifth album "The North Borders". Erykah Badu sung on one of the songs on the album. Bonobo's song "Ketto" was used in the Citroën C4 Picasso car advertisement in 2007. He lives in New York.

</doc>
<doc id="428921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428921" title="John Legend">
John Legend

John Roger Stephens (born December 28, 1978), better known as John Legend, is an American singer and songwriter. Legend has won nine Grammy Awards. He has worked with a lot of other musicians. 
His first album "Get Lifted" was released by GOOD Music in 2004. It won the 2006 Grammy Award for Best R&B Album.
In 2005 Legend won Best R&B Act at the MOBO Awards.
In 2006 Legend released his second album "Once Again". 
In 2008 he released his third album "Evolver". Three songs on the album were produced by will.i.am. Brandy sung on the third song. The single "Heaven" won the Grammy Award for Best Male R&B Vocal Performance.
In 2010 "Wake Up!", an album of songs by Legend and The Roots, was released.
Legend released his fourth album "Love in the Future" in 2013. It was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best R&B Album. "All of Me" was released as a single from the album. It reached number one in Australia.
Legend is a feminist. He married Chrissy Teigen in 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="428924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428924" title="James Blake">
James Blake

James Blake Litherland (born 26 September 1988), known as James Blake, is an English singer-songwriter and electronic music producer. In 2013 Blake was nominated for a Grammy Award for the first time. He was nominated for Best New Artist.
Blake was born in London. He went to The Latymer School.
Blake released his first album "James Blake" on 4 February 2011. It got good reviews. Pitchfork gave it a score of 9 out of 10. It was nominated for the Mercury Prize.
On 5 April 2013, Blake released his second album "Overgrown". Brian Eno produced the song "Digital Lion". On October 30th 2013, "Overgrown" won the Mercury Prize.
In 2013, Blake said that he was dating Theresa Wayman from the band Warpaint.

</doc>
<doc id="428931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428931" title="Katy B">
Katy B

Kathleen Anne Brien (born 8 May 1989), better known as Katy B, is an English singer and songwriter. She released her first album "On a Mission" on April 1, 2011. It got good reviews from music critics. It was nominated for the 2011 Mercury Prize. Katy was born in Peckham, London. She went to the BRIT School. Her next album "Little Red" will be released in February 2014. She released the second single from it, "5 AM", on 4 November 2013. It reached number fourteen in the UK Singles Chart.

</doc>
<doc id="428932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428932" title="Category:Television shows set in Yorkshire">
Category:Television shows set in Yorkshire


</doc>
<doc id="428933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428933" title="I Want You Back">
I Want You Back

"I Want You Back" is a 1969 single by The Jackson 5. It was The Jackson 5's first release on Motown. It reached number one in the United States. It has sold six million copies. In 2009 Michael Jackson, the main singer of The Jackson 5, died. The song went back into the charts in the United Kingdom, Sweden, Ireland, Finland, and Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="428934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428934" title="ABC (song)">
ABC (song)

"ABC" is a 1970 single by The Jackson 5. It was the first single from the band's second album "ABC". It was number one in the United States for one week.

</doc>
<doc id="428950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428950" title="Jarvis Cocker">
Jarvis Cocker

Jarvis Branson Cocker (born 19 September 1963) is an English musician. He is best known for being the frontman of the Britpop band Pulp. In 2012, Cocker started presenting Jarvis Cocker's Sunday Service on BBC Radio 6 Music.
When Cocker was 15 he started Arabacus Pulp with his friend Peter Dalton. They later changed their name to Pulp. They released their first album "It" in April 1983. In 1987 they released their second album "Freaks". In 1994 Pulp released their first album to sell a lot of copies, "His 'n' Hers". In May 1995 Pulp released the single "Common People". It reached number two in the UK Singles Chart.
He released his first solo album "Jarvis" on 13 November 2006. Cocker's second album "Further Complications" was released May 18, 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="428954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428954" title="The Sims 4">
The Sims 4

The Sims 4 is a life simulation video game developed by Maxis and The Sims Studio and published by Electronic Arts. The game was released on September 2, 2014. The game is available on Microsoft Windows and OS X.
It was revealed during Gamescon via gameplay demo and release trailer. 
The game does not require an internet connection to play, but it will need an Origin account and internet access during the initial installation process.
The Sims 4 is made from the same idea of the other games in the series. The player controls their Sims' everyday lives. The game is open-ended and has barely any limits. The lots are connected with a large map. Sims can go to lots close to where they are by walking there, but can use their cell phones to go anywhere.
Create-A-Sim is needed to create Sims characters. With no Sims, you can't play the game. Sims 4's Create-A-Sim is easier to use than it is in other Sims games. The Sim's body type can be changed by clicking and dragging parts of the Sim's body. There is a slider to change how muscular the Sim is and another slider to change how fat the Sim is.
Sims' clothing is able to be customized less by the player. Mods can change this, but mods can also damage the game. Sims have several outfits. Each outfit is made in Create-A-Sim. They wear different outfits in different situations: an everyday outfit, a formal outfit, an athletic outfit, a sleep outfit, a party outfit, and swimwear. The player can change the Sims' outfits at any time in Live Mode.
Traits are what give Sims their personalities. Every trait you give a Sim will add something to their personality. For example, giving a Sim the cheerful trait will make them happy more often. When you are first creating your Sim you can give them three traits, and when you choose their aspiration you get one more. After that you can give them more traits by completing aspirations. There is no limit to the number of traits a Sim can have.
A Sim's aspiration is their biggest goal. You can change your Sim's aspiration whenever you want. The first aspiration you choose when you are creating your Sim will give you a special trait, but changing your Sim's aspiration after that won't change your Sim's traits. Each aspiration gives your Sims a set of tasks to complete. When you complete all these tasks you will get a second special trait. The trait you get will be different for each aspiration.
Child Sims have their own group of aspirations to complete. These aspirations cannot be given to adult sims.
Sims can only move and be controlled while the player is playing in Live Mode. In Live Mode, 1 second of real time=1 minute in in-game time. In Live Mode, the player can control one Sim in the selected household.
Sims can form relationships by talking to other Sims. The way your Sims treat who they're talking to will affect their relationships. If they are nice to a sim they will have a friendly relationship, but if they are mean they will have a bad relationship. Your Sims can make Sims can also have romantic relationships with other Sims.
If a Sim is not able to care for itself and the player does not help them, the Sim will die. Sims die from starvation when this happens. Sims will usually die in accidents or from old age. When a Sim dies, the Grim Reaper will come to take away the Sim's soul. Before the Grim Reaper takes away the dead Sim's soul, other Sims are able to beg for the dead Sim's life. This will not always work. If it does, the Sim will come back to life. If the Sim really dies, they will be replaced by a gravestone or urn.
Unlike previous games, build and buy mode are combined into one mode. In this mode, players can modify their Sims' houses, such as adding or removing rooms and furniture.

</doc>
<doc id="428955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428955" title="Rizzle Kicks">
Rizzle Kicks

Rizzle Kicks are English hip-hop musicians Jordan "Rizzle" Stephens and Harley "Sylvester" Alexander-Sule. In November 2010, they were signed to the record label Island Records. Their first album, "Stereo Typical", was released on 28 October 2011. Their second album, "Roaring 20s", was released on 2 September 2013. Rizzle Kicks performed their single "Skip to the Good Bit" at the Royal Variety Performance on the 26th of November 2013.
Harley and Alexander-Sule went to the BRIT School at the same time. In 2008, they started Rizzle Kicks. Their second single "Down with the Trumpets" reached number eight in the UK Singles Chart.

</doc>
<doc id="428956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428956" title="Royal Variety Performance">
Royal Variety Performance

The Royal Variety Performance is an evening of performances that happens every year in the United Kingdom. It is called the Royal Variety Performance because important members of the British Royal Family go there.
It is shown on ITV. The first Royal Variety Performance was in 1912. It was called the Royal Command Performance.
The 2013 Royal Variety Performance was at the London Palladium. Gary Barlow and Jessie J sung there.

</doc>
<doc id="428964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428964" title="Dying Light">
Dying Light

Dying Light is a first person survival horror video game that was developed by Techland and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment. The game was released on 27th January 2015. The game is available on Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. It was revealed on May 23, 2013.
The game started to be developed in early 2012. 

</doc>
<doc id="428969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428969" title="Slavoj Žižek">
Slavoj Žižek

Slavoj Žižek (born 21 March 1949) is a Slovenian philosopher. He has written more than 70 books. He wrote his first English book "The Sublime Object of Ideology" in 1989. Žižek writes about a lot of different things. Things that Žižek writes about include psychoanalysis, politics, pop culture, and theology.
He writes for "The Guardian". In 2013, he married the Slovene journalist Jela Krečič.
In 2006 Žižek presented a documentary that he had written called "The Pervert's Guide to Cinema". In the documentary Žižek used psychoanalytical film theory on several movies.
In 2007 a documentary about Žižek called "Žižek!" was released.
In 2012 "The Pervert's Guide to Ideology" was released in the United Kingdom. It was written and presented by Žižek. The documentary is a sequel to "The Pervert's Guide to Cinema".

</doc>
<doc id="428970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428970" title="Mince pie">
Mince pie

A mince pie, also known as 'minced pie', is a small British fruit-based mincemeat sweet pie. It is usually served during the Christmas season. Originally it was a savoury pie, now it is a sweet pie.
Its ingredients are traceable to the 13th century, when returning European crusaders brought with them Middle Eastern recipes containing meats, fruits and spices. 
The early mince pie was known by several names, including mutton pie, shrid pie and Christmas pie. Typically its ingredients were a mixture of minced meat, suet, a range of fruits, and spices. 
The ingredients for the modern mince pie can be traced to the return of European crusaders from the Holy Land. Middle Eastern methods of cooking, which sometimes combined meats, fruits and spices, were popular at the time. Pies were created from such mixtures of sweet and savoury foods; in Tudor England, shrid pies (as they were known then) were formed from shredded meat, suet and dried fruit. The addition of spices such as cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg was "in token of the offerings of the Eastern Magi". 
Early pies were much larger than those of today, and oblong shaped. "The coffin of our "Christmas"-Pies, in shape long, is in imitation of the Cratch" (Jesus's crib). In old English cookery books the crust of a pie is generally called 'the coffin'.

</doc>
<doc id="428972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428972" title="Kimberlé Williams Crenshaw">
Kimberlé Williams Crenshaw

Kimberlé Williams Crenshaw (born 1959) is a professor at UCLA School of Law and Columbia Law School. She made the word "intersectionality" in 1989. She is a feminist. She was born in Canton, Ohio in 1959. She edited the 1995 book "Critical Race Theory: The Key Writings That Formed the Movement". In 1996 Crenshaw started the African American Policy Forum with Luke Harris. She has been on "The Tavis Smiley Show" and MSNBC.

</doc>
<doc id="428973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428973" title="Category:Rhythm and blues ballads">
Category:Rhythm and blues ballads


</doc>
<doc id="428975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428975" title="Pure Heroine">
Pure Heroine

Pure Heroine is the first album by Lorde. The album got good reviews from music critics. It was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 2014 Grammy Awards. The first single released from the album was "Royals". "Royals" was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Performance, Song of the Year and Record of the Year at the 2014 Grammy Awards. The second single "Tennis Court" reached number one in New Zealand.
Lorde wrote the album with Joel Little. Little produced the album.
"The Guardian" put "Pure Heroine" at number thirteen on their list of the best albums of 2013. "Rolling Stone" put the album seventh in their list of the 50 best albums of 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="428978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428978" title="Jessica Valenti">
Jessica Valenti

Jessica Valenti (born November 1, 1978) is an American feminist writer. She started the feminist blog Feministing in 2004. In 2011 she left the website.
Valenti's first book, "Full Frontal Feminism: A Young Woman's Guide to Why Feminism Matters", was published in 2007.
Her 2009 book "The Purity Myth: How America’s Obsession with Virginity is Hurting Young Women" was made into a documentary. Valenti's most recent book, "Why Have Kids?: A New Mom Explores the Truth About Parenting and Happiness", was published in 2012.
On October 3, 2009, Valenti married Andrew Golis. The couple's daughter was born in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="428980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428980" title="Economy class">
Economy class

Economy class, also called coach class, steerage, or standard class, is the lowest travel class of seating in air travel, rail travel, and sometimes ferry or maritime travel. 

</doc>
<doc id="428986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428986" title="Nya Quesada">
Nya Quesada

Armonía "Nya" Quesada (13 April 1919 – 6 December 2013) was an Argentine actress. Her career lasted for almost fifty years.
Quesada died on 6 December 2013 from natural causes, aged 94, in Buenos Aires.

</doc>
<doc id="428988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428988" title="Battle of Monte Cassino">
Battle of Monte Cassino

The Battle of Monte Cassino (also called the Battle for Rome and the Battle for Cassino) was a battle during the Italian Campaign of World War II. It was a series of four attacks by the Allies against the Winter Line in Italy held by the Germans and Italians.
At the beginning of 1944, the western half of the Winter Line was held by Germans. They held the Rapido, Liri, and Garigliano valleys and some of the mountains. Together, these valleys and mountains were called the Gustav Line. The goal of the Battle of Monte Cassino was to break through this line to Rome.
Monte Cassino, a church, was not occupied by the German defenders. The Germans had set up defence positions in the slopes.
American bombers dropped 1,400 tons of bombs onto the Cassino Abbey.
German paratroopers went into the abbey's ruins. Between 17 January and 18 May, Monte Cassino and the Gustav defences were attacked four times by Allied troops. The German defenders were finally driven from their positions, but with many losses for the Allies.
The Allied landings in Italy in September 1943 were followed by an advance north in two parts. An advance was made on each side of the mountain range in the middle of Italy.
On the western side, U.S. Fifth Army moved from Naples. In the east General Sir Bernard Montgomery's British Eighth Army moved up the Adriatic coast.
The Fifth Army made slow progress because of difficult land and German defences. The Germans were protected in positions. The original plans that Rome would be captured by October 1943 did not occur.
Although in the east the Ortona was captured, the advance stopped in December because of snow. Going to Rome from the east was not possible. Highway 6 ran through the Liri valley. The south entrance to this valley was Cassino. It was an important part of Gustav Line, the strongest defensive positions in the Winter Line.
Because the old Benedictine Abbey was important to history, German units did not put defensive positions in the Abbey.
Some Allied aircraft saw German troops in the Abbey. The Abbey looked over the valley. This made it a good place for German artillery observers. This made Allied commanders want to bomb the Abbey.
The plan of U.S. Fifth Army commander General Clark was for British X Corps to attack on January 17, 1944. The British 46th Infantry Division was to attack on January 19. This would support the main attack by U.S. II Corps on their right.
The main central attack by U.S. II Corps would start on January 20. The 36th (Texas) U.S. Infantry Division would cross a river five miles from Cassino. The French Expeditionary Corps would move towards Monte Cairo.
Fifth Army had only reached the Gustav line on January 15, having taken six weeks and getting 16,000 casualties.
The first attack was made on January 17. Near the coast, British X Corps crossed the Garigliano. General von Senger, commander of German XIV Panzer Corps did not think he could stop the attack. He asked for more troops. The 29th and 90th Panzer Grenadier Divisions were sent to him. X Corps had 4,000 casualties during the first battle.
The central attack by U.S. started on January 20. They were attacked by General Eberhard Rodt's 15th Panzer Grenadier Division. The attack was a failure, with 36th Division losing 2,100 men killed, wounded and missing in 48 hours.
The next attack was on January 24. The U.S. II Corps attacked across the 
Rapido valley north of Cassino. The 34th Division pushed back General Franek's 44th Infantry Division.
On the right, the Moroccan-French troops made good initial progress against the Germans. The two Moroccan-French divisions had 2,500 casualties in their battles around Monte Belvedere.
The U.S. 34th Division had to fight southward. By early February, American infantry had captured point less than a mile from the abbey. By February 7 a battalion had reached a hill below the Abbey. Attempts to capture Monte Cassino were stopped by machine gun fire from the slopes.
On February 11, after a 3-day attack on Monastery Hill and Cassino town, the Americans pulled back. U.S. II Corps was tired after two and a half weeks of fighting. They lost 80% in the Infantry battalions, about 2,200 casualties.
This was called Operation Avenger. With U.S. VI Corps under threat at Anzio, Freyberg asked to help at Cassini. Freyberg thought there was only a 50% chance of success for the attack.
Allied officers started to think the Germans were using the abbey of Monte Cassino as an artillery observation point. The Allies thought of bombing with "blockbuster" bombs.
The bombing in the morning of February 15, 1944 involved 142 Boeing B-17 Flying Fortresses heavy bombers followed by 47 North American B-25 Mitchell and 40 Martin B-26 Marauder medium bombers. They dropped 1,150 tons of bombs on the abbey. This turned it into rubble. II Corps artillery shelled the mountain. The German positions above and behind the monastery were untouched.
Pope Pius XII said nothing after the bombing. Cardinal Secretary of State called the bombing “stupidity.”
It is now known that the Germans had agreed not to use the Abbey for military purposes.
Following its destruction, paratroopers of the German 1st Parachute Division occupied the ruins of the abbey. They turned it into a fortress and observation post.
On the night following the bombing, a company of the 1st Battalion Royal Sussex Regiment attacked on Snakeshead Ridge. The attack failed, with the company getting 50% casualties.
The following night the Sussex Regiment was ordered to attack with a whole battalion at midnight. The Sussex battalion was fought off, once again sustaining over 50% casualties.
On the night of February 17 the main attack was done. The 4/6th Rajputana Rifles failed in their attack and had heavy losses.
In the other half of the main attack the two companies from 28th (Māori) Battalion from the New Zealand Division attempted to capture the railroad station in Cassino. 
They were eventually pulled back.
For the third battle, it was decided to launch two attacks from the north. Before the attack, there was bombing by heavy bombers.
The third battle began March 15. After a bombing of 750 tons of bombs w for three and a half hours, the New Zealanders advanced. There was also an artillery attack from 746 artillery pieces. By the end of March 17 the Gurkhas held a point near the Abbey. New Zealand units and armour had captured the station.
March 19 was planned for the attack on the town and on the Abbey. An attack by the German 1st Parachute Division stopped the Allied attack and destroyed the tanks. In the town the attackers made little progress. Allied troops had to fight house by house.
Freyberg thought the attack could not continue and he ended it. The German 1st Parachute Division had taken heavy losses, but had held onto their position.
Fighting in Cassino caused the 4th Indian Division to lose 3,000 men and the New Zealand Division had 1,600 men killed, missing and wounded. The German defenders had heavy losses.
General Alexander's plan in Italy was to force the enemy to use the maximum number of divisions in Italy. With the arrival of the spring weather, it would be possible to use large groups of troops and armour.
The fourth battle was called "Operation Diadem". The plan was that U.S. II Corps on the left would attack up the coast. The French Corps would attack across the Garigliano. British XIII Corps in the centre right of the front would attack along the Liri valley. On the right Polish II Corps (3rd and 5th Divisions) would attack the Abbey. It took two months to get the troops ready. Movements of troops was done in the darkness.
The attack (11–12 May) on Cassino started at 23:00 with artillery bombing with 1,060 guns on the 8th Army front and 600 guns on the Fifth Army front. The U.S. II Corps made little progress. The French Expeditionary Force got into the Aurunci Mountains. In the mountains above Cassino, for three days Polish attacks and German attacks brought heavy losses to both sides.
By 13, the German right side began to lose to the Fifth Army. On 17 May, Polish II Corps launched their second attack on Monte Cassino. The Poles, on their second try, had captured Monte Cassino.

</doc>
<doc id="428990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428990" title="Eleanor Parker">
Eleanor Parker

Eleanor Jean Parker (June 26, 1922 – December 9, 2013) was an American actress. She was known for her roles in "Between Two Worlds", "Hollywood Canteen", "Pride of the Marines", "Never Say Goodbye", "The Sound of Music", "The Seventh Sin", and in "Return to Peyton Place". She was nominated for an Academy Award.
Parker died on December 9, 2013 of complications of pneumonia at her Palm Springs, California home. She was 91.

</doc>
<doc id="428994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428994" title="Kuniko Inoguchi">
Kuniko Inoguchi

Kuniko Inoguchi (born May 3, 1952) is a Japanese politician. She belongs to the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP). On 31 October 2005, she was appointed Minister of State for Gender equality and Social Affairs.
She received an Master of Arts from Yale University in 1977. She also received a Ph.D. in political science from Yale in 1982.

</doc>
<doc id="428997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428997" title="Nippon Budokan">
Nippon Budokan

Nippon Budokan is an arena in Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo. It was used as the judo stadium at the 1964 Summer Olympics.

</doc>
<doc id="428999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428999" title="Thomas Chippendale">
Thomas Chippendale

Thomas Chippendale (1718-1779) was born in England. He was a London cabinet-maker and furniture designer. He produced a new style, Neoclassical. Chip 'n Dale are named after him.

</doc>
<doc id="429001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429001" title="Orix Buffaloes">
Orix Buffaloes

Orix Buffaloes is a Japanese baseball team. This team was formed by the Orix BlueWave and the Osaka Kintetsu Buffaloes after the 2004 NPB season. The team is based in Osaka and Kobe and play home games at Kyocera dome and Kobe Hotto Motto stadium. The team has not had good results in recent seasons.
A former player, Ichiro Suzuki, now plays for the New York Yankees.

</doc>
<doc id="429009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429009" title="Category:Pages needing cleanup from December 2013">
Category:Pages needing cleanup from December 2013


</doc>
<doc id="429013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429013" title="Steve Lawrence">
Steve Lawrence

Steve Lawrence (born Sidney Liebowitz; July 8, 1935) is an American singer, musician, and actor. He is best known as a member of a duo with his wife Eydie Gormé, known as "Steve and Eydie." The two appeared together since appearing regularly on "Tonight Starring Steve Allen" in the mid-1950s until Gormé's retirement. He was raised of a Jewish faith.

</doc>
<doc id="429014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429014" title="Claire Martin">
Claire Martin

Claire Martin (April 18, 1914 – June 18, 2014) was a Canadian writer. "Claire Martin" was her pseudonym. Her real name was Claire Montreuil.
Martin was born in Quebec City, Quebec. She studied at the Ursuline convent and by the Dames de la Congrégation. From 1945 to 1972, she lived in Ottawa and was a writer in residence at the University of Ottawa. From 1972 to 1982, she lived in France, before returning to Quebec.
Martin died in Quebec City, aged 100.

</doc>
<doc id="429017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429017" title="Douglas Slocombe">
Douglas Slocombe

Douglas Slocombe OBE, BSC, ASC (10 February 1913 – 22 February 2016) was a British cinematographer. He had a long career in the British movie industry. His 84 feature movies has span for over 47 years. It includes everything from early comedies in the late 1940s and early 1950s to the first three "Indiana Jones" movie in the 1980s.
Slocombe died at the age of 103 in a London hospital from complications from a fall on 22 February 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="429018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429018" title="Green Climate Fund">
Green Climate Fund

The Green Climate Fund (GCF) is an international fund for fighting climate change. It is part of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). It was proposed at the Cancun Conference in Mexico in 2010. It was accepted at the Durban Conference in South Africa in December 2011. The fund's goal is to help developing countries fight climate change by providing them with the money they need to do so. Money may be granted for projects, programs, policies and activities that will help fight climate change or help those countries adapt to global warming.
GCF operates in Songdo, Incheon, South Korea. The Green Climate Fund headquarters were officially opened on 4 December 2013.
The fund is governed by a board of directors. The Board has 24 members. There is an equal number of members from developing and developed countries. Two Co-Chairs of the Board are elected by the Board members. One is a member from a developed country and the other is a member from a developing country. Currently, the Co-Chairs of the Board are Mr. Manfred Konukiewitz (Germany) and Mr. Jose Maria Clemente Sarte Salceda (The Philippines).
Observers have noted that the GCF still has many challenges to work through. These challenges include the way the fund works, what its functions and goals are, how it is governed, and how it will do its job. These must be decided either by the GCF Board or by the countries that are party to the UNFCCC.

</doc>
<doc id="429019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429019" title="Jan Ekier">
Jan Ekier

Jan Ekier (August 29, 1913 – August 15, 2014) was a Polish pianist and composer. He is known for his authoritative edition of Chopin's music for the Polish National Edition.
He was born in Kraków, Poland. He turned 100 in August 2013. His first wife was the Polish actress Danuta Szaflarska. Ekier died in Warsaw, a fortnight short of his 101st birthday.

</doc>
<doc id="429020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429020" title="Titanfall">
Titanfall

Titanfall is a first-person shooter video game that was developed by Respawn Entertainment and published by Electronic Arts.
The game was released on March 11, 2014 in North America, March 13, 2014 in Europe and Australia and on March 14, 2014 in New Zealand and the United Kingdom. The game was made available on Microsoft Windows, Xbox 360, and Xbox One.
It was revealed during Microsoft's E3 2013 press conference and will be the debut game from Respawn.
The game won over 60 awards at its E3 2013 reveal and six E3 Critics Awards: "Best in Show", "Best Original Game", "Best Console Game", "Best PC Game", "Best Action Game", and "Best Online Multiplayer" which broke a record. The game was named "Best in Show" from IGN, Destructoid, Game Informer, and Electronic Gaming Monthly. It also won "Best Next Generation Console Game" and "Best Xbox Game" at Gamescom 2013 as well as a Future Award at the 2013 Tokyo Game Show. At VGX 2013, it won "Most Anticipated Game". 

</doc>
<doc id="429022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429022" title="Boris Pahor">
Boris Pahor

Boris Pahor (born 26 August 1913) is a Slovenian writer. He is known for his Holocaust experience described in the novel "Necropolis" the novel has been translated twice into English. His first book was under the title "Pilgrim Among the Shadows" in 1995, and the second time under the title "Necropolis" in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="429023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429023" title="Herb Jeffries">
Herb Jeffries

Herbert "Herb" Jeffries (Umberto Alexander Valentino; September 24, 1913 – May 25, 2014), was an American jazz and popular singer and actor.

</doc>
<doc id="429024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429024" title="Myeong-dong">
Myeong-dong

Myeong-dong (, literally means 'bright town') is an area in Jung-gu, Seoul, South Korea. It is mostly a commercial area, being one of the main shopping and tourism districts in Seoul. 
Actually, Myeong-dong is not an original name and it was not known as a commercial area at first. During the Joseon Dynasty era, it was mostly a residential district called Myeongryebang (). Later on, under the Japanese colonization, the name was changed to Myeongchijeong (). It started to be more like a commercial district during that colonial period. Finally it was changed to the current name, Myeong-dong in 1946, after independence. 
In Myeong-dong, there are several large department stores and shopping malls such as Lotte (), Shinsegae (), Migliore and Noon square. Also, the main streets are lined with lots of clothing shops, cosmetics stores, and international retailers. 
This area has become more and more international. The survey targeted 12,000 tourists departing Korea, and 55.3% answered that their major tourist destination was Myeong-dong, and it is one of the most popular shopping spots. Favorite items are Korean cosmetics such as Missha and Nature Republic, and there are most of Korean cosmetics brand stores on the main street of Myeong-dong. Therefore, it is necessary for those stores to hire bilingual staffs fluent in English, Japanese, or Chinese, and it attracts more and more foreign shoppers.
There are two Seoul Subway stations near the district; Station #202, Euljiro 1-ga on Line 2 on the north end of the area, Station #424, Myeong-dong on Line 4 on the south end of the area.

</doc>
<doc id="429025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429025" title="Chuncheon">
Chuncheon

Chuncheon is the capital city of Gangwon Province in South Korea. The city is in a small flat area surrounded by mountains. The Soyang River is around the city. It is the water source of the Han River. Because of this river, Chuncheon has lots of foggy days. Chuncheon is a popular tourist attraction among Korean and East Asian tourist thanks to the popular Korean drama "Winter Sonata". 
Gang chon is a popular tourist attraction especially for university students in Korea because it is near Seoul, the capital city of South Korea. It has good accommodation and entertainment facilities.
Chungpyeongsa is a temple which was built in Goryeo Dynasty. Because it is located in a beautiful mountain, many people go there to enjoy the beautiful scenery and valleys with their family.
Namiseom is a popular tourist island which became famous as a filming location of "Winter Sonata". It has a beautiful forest trail so that many couples and family who visit Chuncheon stop by there a lot. People can rent bikes or ride a short rail to look around the island.
The city has several famous foods. One of them is 'dak galbi'. 'Dak galbi' is a stir-fried chicken with sliced cabbage, sweet potatoes, rice cakes, sesame leaves and picy 'go chujang' sauce. It is usually cooked on a big iron pan on the center of the table. There is even a 'dak galbi' street which has many famous 'dak galbi' restaurants in the downtown of the city. Another famous food is 'makguksu.' 'Makguksu' is thin buckwheat noodles served in a cold beef broth with sesame seeds, sliced beef, cucumber, and spicy sauce.
Chuncheon has a train transportation named Gyeonchun Line. With this track, it takes about one hour and twenty minutes from Chuncheon station to Yongsan station in Seoul. Also, it has subway transportation to Seoul. It takes about one hour and forty minutes from Chuncheon station to Sangbong station in Seoul. People can take either train or subway in Chuncheon station and Namchuncheon station. It has bus transportation too. Near Namchuncheon station, there is Chuncheon Bus Terminal. This connects to all major cities in mainland Korea.

</doc>
<doc id="429028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429028" title="Main course">
Main course

The main course is food that is served as the main dish in a multi-course meal. It is often served after the entrée. In the United States, the main course may be called the "entrée".
The main course is usually the biggest dish on a menu. The main ingredient is often meat or fish. It most often follows an appetizer, soup, or salad, and is often followed by a dessert.

</doc>
<doc id="429032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429032" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Funasshi">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Funasshi


</doc>
<doc id="429034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429034" title="Richard S. Williamson">
Richard S. Williamson

Richard Salisbury Williamson (May 9, 1949 – December 8, 2013) was an American lawyer, diplomat and pedagogue. He previously served as Special Envoy to Sudan under George W. Bush. Williamson was a partner at Winston & Strawn and was also "Thomas J. Sharkey Distinguished Visiting Scholar" at Seton Hall's Whitehead School of Diplomacy.
Williamson died of a cerebral hemorrhage at a Chicago hospital on December 8, 2013, aged 64.

</doc>
<doc id="429035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429035" title="Paul Freeman">
Paul Freeman

Paul Freeman (born 18 January 1943) is an English movie, stage, voice, and television actor. He is best known for his role as rival archeologist René Belloq in "Raiders of the Lost Ark" and as the evil wine baron, Gustav Reibmann on season 4 of "Falcon Crest". He also appeared in "Hot Fuzz". 

</doc>
<doc id="429046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429046" title="Beşbarmaq">
Beşbarmaq

Beşbarmaq (; Kazakh: беcбармак) is the national dish of Kyrgyzstan, Bashkortostan and Kazakhstan. It is also the main course on feasts in Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan.

</doc>
<doc id="429067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429067" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Artful, Lapse">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/Artful, Lapse


</doc>
<doc id="429070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429070" title="Progressive conservatism">
Progressive conservatism

Progressive conservatism is an ideology that tries to unite conservative and progressive ideas. To deal with poverty, the ideology supports the idea of a social safety net. It also supports a limited redistribution of wealth. The people supporting progressive conservatism want to allow the government to regulate markets in the interests of both consumers and producers. Progressive conservatism first arose as a distinct ideology in the United Kingdom under Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli's "One Nation" Toryism.
In the UK, the Prime Ministers Disraeli, Stanley Baldwin, Neville Chamberlain, Winston Churchill, Harold Macmillan, and present Prime Minister David Cameron have been described as progressive conservatives. The Catholic Church's "Rerum Novarum" (1891) advocates a progressive conservative doctrine known as social Catholicism.
In the United States, Theodore Roosevelt has been the main figure identified with progressive conservatism as a political tradition. Roosevelt stated that he had "always believed that wise progressivism and wise conservatism go hand in hand". Some people considered the administration of President William Howard Taft to be progressive conservative. Taft described himself as "a believer in progressive conservatism". President Dwight D. Eisenhower declared himself an advocate of "progressive conservatism". In Germany, Chancellor Leo von Caprivi promoted a progressive conservative agenda called the "New Course". In Canada, a variety of conservative governments have been progressive conservative, with Canada's major conservative movement being officially named the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada from 1942 to 2003. In Canada, the Prime Ministers Arthur Meighen, R.B. Bennett, John Diefenbaker, Joe Clark, Brian Mulroney, and Kim Campbell led progressive conservative federal governments.

</doc>
<doc id="429071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429071" title="Colleges and universities in Oregon">
Colleges and universities in Oregon

This is a list of colleges and universities in Oregon:

</doc>
<doc id="429073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429073" title="Championship">
Championship

In sport, a championship is a competition to determine which individual or team is the champion.
Different forms of competition can be called a championship. It is usually the final competition in a tournament (a series of competitions). For example, the FIFA World Cup is a tournament held every four years. The winner of the final competition of each tournament becomes that tournament's champion. In a league system, the championship is the final competition of a regular season. In some league systems, a series of playoffs is used to determine the champion of a season. There is one champion for each season.
In combat sports, such as wrestling and boxing, a competitor must challenge the current champion to win the championship.

</doc>
<doc id="429074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429074" title="Atlas Computer (Manchester)">
Atlas Computer (Manchester)

The Atlas Computer was a computer installed in Manchester University in 1962 that was very important in the development of computing. The Atlas computer was one of the worlds first supercomputers and possibly the most powerful computer in the world at its time.

</doc>
<doc id="429081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429081" title="Management information system">
Management information system

A management information system is a system that allows a company to run efficiently, by providing the relevant information the company needs. Nowadays, management information systems use specialized software that runs on a computer. A management information system is usually targeted at economic aspects of running a company, while an executive information system is usually designed for managing staff. The first such systems were built in the 1960s.

</doc>
<doc id="429122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429122" title="Battle of Ortona">
Battle of Ortona

The Battle of Ortona was a small, very violent battle fought between German and Canadian troops. It was fought on December 20–28, 1943. It was part of World War II.
The battalion of German paratroops were from the German 1st Parachute Division under "Generalleutnant" Richard Heidrich. The Canadian forces were from the 1st Canadian Infantry Division under Major General Chris Vokes.
It was part of the fighting on the Adriatic area in Italy. The battle has been called "Little Stalingrad" because of the violent, close fighting. The battle took place in the Adriatic Sea town of Ortona, with a population of 10,000.
The Eighth Army's attack on the Winter Line defences started on 23 November. By the end of the month, Allied troops broke through the Gustav Line defences. The Allied troops were fighting towards the Moro river, near Ortona.
Ortona was one of Italy's few deep water ports on the east coast. The Allies wanted to capture the port. The Germans had constructed a series of defensive positions in the town.
The Canadians had to battle the German 1st Parachute Division. These soldiers were experienced after many years of war. Adolf Hitler ordered them to defend Ortona.
The Canadian attack on the town was on December 20. The Germans had hidden machine guns and anti-tank guns in the town. This made it hard for Canadian tanks and infantry to move. The fighting was very violent. The soldiers fought for every house.
After six days fighting, 2nd Brigade's third battalion, Princess Patricia's Canadian Light Infantry, joined the battle. Tanks from 1st Canadian Armoured Brigade also joined the battle.
On 28 December, after eight days of fighting, the Germans withdrew from the town. The Canadians had 1,375 dead.

</doc>
<doc id="429132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429132" title="Battle of Anzio">
Battle of Anzio

The Battle of Anzio, which is also called Operation Shingle (January 22, 1944) was an Allied sea landing in the Italian Campaign against German forces of Anzio and Nettuno, Italy.
The attack was commanded by American Major General John P. Lucas. He wanted to get around German forces on the Winter Line. Then he wanted to attack Rome. Making a sea landing in a marshland needed to be done quickly.
The landing surprised the Germans. The Allies even got near Rome. The Allies got their men ready on the beach. The German commander in the Put his guns around the beach. The Germans also flooded the marsh with salt water.
After a month of heavy fighting,
the Allies finally got past the beaches in May. The Allies went north-west to Rome which was captured on 4 June.
The German Tenth Army at Cassino were able to go north of Rome. Then they got ready to defend the Gothic Line.
At the end of 1943, following the Allied invasion of Italy, Allied forces were stuck at the Gustav Line. Thid was defensive line across Italy. The land of central Italy helped the defence.
Operation Shingle was planned by Winston Churchill in December 1943. He planned to land two divisions at Anzio and capture Rome.
General Harold Alexander had thought of a plan using five divisions. However, the 5th Army did not have enough troops or a way to transport them.
The Anzio and Nettuno beaches are on marshland. When Truscott's 3rd Division was selected for the attack, he said everyone would die. Lucas was told lead the Fifth Army's U.S. VI Corps in a landing in the Anzio/Nettuno area.
Planners thought that if German forces left the Gustav Line to defend against the Allied attack, then Allied forces would be able to break through the line. If troops were left on the Gustav Line, then the Allies could try to capture Rome.
The Allies planned to attack from the south. They wanted to capture a beach near Anzio, move forward, and be ready to go to Rome.
One of the problems with the plan was there was mot enough landing ships. 
Only enough tank landing ships (LSTs) to land a single division were available. Later, Churchill made sure enough were available to land two divisions.
Allied forces in this attack consisted of 5 cruisers, 24 destroyers, 238 landing craft, 62+ other ships, 40,000 soldiers, and 5,000+ vehicles.
The attack consisted of three groups:
The Fifth Army's attack on the Gustav Line began on January 16, 1944, at Monte Cassino. The attack failed to break through. The Germans brought in new troops from Rome.
The landings began on January 22, 1944. The Germans did not attack the landings except for a few "Luftwaffe" machine gun attacks. By midnight, 36,000 soldiers and 3,200 vehicles had landed on the beaches.
Two Allied divisions landed. There were two or three times that many German defenders.
The Germans found out about the landings at 03:00 on January 22. At 05:00 the Germans ordered the "Kampfgruppe" of 4th Parachute Division and the Hermann Göring Panzer Division to defend the roads leading from Anzio to the Alban Hills. The Germans had 40,000 troops in defensive positions.
Three days after the landings, the beach was surrounded by three divisions: The 4th Parachute Division to the west, the 3rd Panzer Grenadier Division to the center, the Hermann Göring Panzer Division to the east.
Von Mackensen's 14th Army took command of the defence on January 25. Parts of eight German divisions were put around the beach. Five more divisions were on their way to the Anzio area. 
The arrival of U.S. 45th Infantry Division and U.S. 1st Armored Division, brought Allied forces total on the beach to 69,000 men, 508 guns and 208 tanks by January 29. The total defending Germans had risen to 71,500.
The Allies attacked on January 30. One group moved to Cisterna. A second group went northeast towards Campoleone.
By early February German forces in Fourteenth Army had 100,000 troops. 
Allied forces by this time were 76,400 
German forces launched a full attack at 23:00.
On February 16 the Germans launched a new attack. Both had 20,000 casualties each since the first landings. Also on February 18 while returning to Anzio the light cruiser was struck by two torpedoes and sunk with a loss of 417 men.
Both sides realised that no result could be achieved until the spring. The Germans built a new defence line, the Caesar C line. The Allies planned an attack in May. This would include attacking the Gustav Line, which was called Operation "Diadem".
In March, the 2nd Italian SS "Vendetta" Battalion and 29th Italian SS Rifle Battalion were sent to fight against the Allied forces at the Anzio/Nettuno beach. U.S. 34th Infantry Division arrived at Anzio in the same month. In May, U.S. 36th Infantry Division had arrived at Anzio. By late May, there were 150,000 Allied troops.
There were five German divisions. The Germans had prepared defenses, but they lacked officers.
The Allied planning for their attack was detailed. British 5th Division and 1st Division were to attack along the coast. The U.S. 45th Infantry, 1st Armored and 3rd Infantry Divisions would attack the German 362nd and 715th Infantry Divisions.
At 05:45 on May 23, 1944, 1,500 Allied artillery pieces started bombing. Then Allied infantry and armour moved forward. The first day's fighting was hard: 1st Armored Division lost 100 tanks and 3rd Infantry Division had 955 casualties. The Germans 362nd Infantry Division lost 50% of its fighting strength.
In the afternoon of May 25 Cisterna was captured by the 3rd Division. In the evening, the Allies turned ninety degrees to the left. On the new attack little progress was made until 1st Armored arrived on May 29. On June 2 the Caesar Line broke and the 14th Army pulled back through Rome. Hitler ordered no defence of Rome.
After the war, some experts said the Anzio plan was not good. It used just two infantry divisions with no armour.
"Operation Diadem" (during which U.S. 5th and British 8th Armies had 44,000 casualties) failed in its goal of destroying the German 10th Army.

</doc>
<doc id="429142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429142" title="Abdul Quader Molla">
Abdul Quader Molla

Abdul Quader Molla () (born 14 August, 1948- 12 December 2013) was a politician in Bangladesh. He was convicted of war crimes committed during the 1971 liberation war of Bangladesh. He is the assistant secretary-general of the Jamaat-e-Islami, the largest Islamist party in the country. He was scheduled to be executed by hanging on 11 December 2013 at 0:01. Later, the execution was postponed until 10:30 of the day.
He is the former executive editor of "The Daily Sangram". He stood twice unsuccessfully for parliament in 1986 and 1996. He was contesting the seat Faridpur-4 for Jamaat-e-Islami.
Molla was executed on 12 December, 2013

</doc>
<doc id="429143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429143" title="WaveBird Wireless Controller">
WaveBird Wireless Controller

The WaveBird Wireless Controller is a wireless game controller for the Nintendo GameCube video game console. It uses radio frequency signals to communicate with the controller. It is powered by standard AA batteries. It was released in 2002. Its name is a reference to Dolphin, which is what the GameCube was named during development.
The WaveBird controller has the same design as the normal GameCube controllers. It is a little bigger and heavier than the normal GameCube controllers. It has a dial for selecting the channel a person wants the controller on, an on/off switch, and an orange LED light which is used to show that the controller is turned on. The WaveBird does not have the rumble feature that the normal GameCube controller has, as that would make the battery last for a shorter amount of time.
Like the normal GameCube controller, the WaveBird can be used with the Wii. It can be used for GameCube and Virtual Console titles, as well as with some Wii games and WiiWare titles. The WaveBird became more popular after the Wii's release because of how it can control those games wirelessly.

</doc>
<doc id="429166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429166" title="Battle of Bataan">
Battle of Bataan

The Battle of Bataan was part of Japan's invasion of the Philippines during World War II.
The capture of the Philippine Islands was important to Japan's goals. Japan wanted to control the Southwest Pacific, capture the resource-rich Dutch East Indies, and protect its Southeast Asia side.
It was the largest surrender in American and Filipino military history. It was the largest United States surrender since the pre-Civil War's raid on Harper's Ferry.
Japanese carrier planes attacked the United States Pacific Fleet at Pearl Harbor on the morning of 7 December 1941. Japanese aircraft also bombed the main bases of the American Far East Air Force near Manila, and the headquarters of the U.S. Asiatic Fleet in the Philippines. Many American planes were destroyed. The U.S. Asiatic Fleet withdrew its ships from its naval base in Cavite and retreated south. Only the submarine force was left to fight the Japanese.
From 8 to 10 December, Japan captured airfields at Batan Island, Aparri, and Vigan City. Army Air Force B-17s attacked Japanese ships. U.S. planes damaged two Japanese transports, the flagship "Nagato", a destroyer and sank one minesweeper.
The main attack was on 22 December 1941. The 14th Japanese Imperial Army attacked, led by Lieutenant General Masaharu Homma.
After capturing the beaches, the Japanese launched a major attack. 
The American commander, General Douglas MacArthur, realized that the beach defense plan had failed. On 26 December, he said that War Plan Orange-3 (WPO-3) was now being used. This was a plan to defend only Bataan and Corregidor. The plan of WPO-3 was to delay Japanese forces until the U.S. Pacific Fleet could get to the Philippines.
Manuel L. Quezon, the president of the Philippines, his family and government staff were moved to Corregidor. MacArthur's headquarters were also moved to Corregidor.
Gen. MacArthur wanted to move his men to defensive positions.
When the Japanese attacked, the untrained Philippine Army troops defending the beach were beaten. The U.S. decided to fight at Layac to slow down the Japanese troops. Later, from 1 to 5 January 1942, the U.S. fought to allow its troops to withdraw to Bataan.
WPO-3 had two defensive lines across Bataan.
On 9 January, Japanese forces under Lt. Gen. Susumu Morioka attacked the eastern side of the Abucay-Mauban line. They were beaten by the U.S. The Japanese advanced to the Salian River valley. U.S. troops fought off the attackers. At another battle to the west, a Japanese force got past the Abucay-Mauban line. The U.S. stopped their advance. On 15 January, 1st Regular Division was bombed, but they held the line. The Japanese moved through a gap. The Abucay-Mauban line had to be abandoned on 22 January.
Within four days, the Orion-Bagac line was formed. The remaining Japanese troops managed to get through. General Homma ordered the stopping of all operations to reorganize his forces. On 22 February the 14th Army line was withdrawn a few miles to the north.
Japanese troops landed on the west coast of southern Bataan on the night of 22 January. The US sunk two barges and the rest scattered into two groups. The Japanese forces were stopped by Philippine Constabulary units and U.S. Army Air Corps men fighting as infantry. Japanese commanders sent new troops to the beaches, but they could not break out.
On the night of 12 March, General MacArthur, his family left Corregidor. MacArthur went to Australia. He promised the Filipino people that he "shall return". After the failure of their first attack against Bataan, the Japanese sent artillery forces to the Philippines. They had 190 artillery pieces, which included bigger guns like 150 mm cannons, and the Type 96 240 mm field howitzer. The Japanese sent new troops to Gen. Homma's 14th Imperial Army. Toward the end of March, the Japanese forces prepared for the final attack.
On 3 April, the Orion-Bagac line was bombed by 100 aircraft and artillery bombed by 300 artillery pieces. The Japanese 65th Brigade and 4th Division attacked the left side of II Corps. By 8 April, the senior U.S. commander on Bataan, Maj. Gen. Edward P. King, offered to surrender. The next morning, 9 April 1942, Gen. King met with Maj. Gen. Kameichiro Nagano. The tired and starving American and Filipino defenders on the Bataan peninsula surrendered.

</doc>
<doc id="429175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429175" title="Salman Khan (educator)">
Salman Khan (educator)

Salman Amin "Sal" Khan (born October 11, 1976) is a Bengali-American educator, entrepreneur, and former hedge fund analyst. He is the founder of the Khan Academy, a free online education platform and nonprofit organization.

</doc>
<doc id="429176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429176" title="Battle of Rimini (1944)">
Battle of Rimini (1944)

The Battle of Rimini was a battle during World War II. It happened between 13 and 21 September 1944 in Rimini in Italy.
The battle was part of Operation "Olive". This was the main Allied attack on the Gothic Line in August and September 1944. This was part of the Italian Campaign in the Second World War.
The Rimini Line was a German defensive line which was part of the Gothic Line. Rimini had 1,470,000 rounds fired against it by allied forces.
On 23 August 1944 Eighth Army launched Operation "Olive". It attacking the eastern side of Italy. By the first week in September the attack had broken through the defences of the Gothic Line.
The 3rd Greek Mountain Brigade 
stopped two strong German attacks on 8 and 10 September. On 13 September the brigade tried to capture Rimini. The Germans were well prepared and held off the Greeks.
The following day 7 and 8 Troop of the B Squadron, 20th Armoured Regiment were added to the attack. The German defenders left.
On 15 September the Greeks attacked the Rimini airfield. Allied bombers attacked the western side of the airfield, and the Greeks attacked afterwards. The Germans attacked with fire from infantry, anti-tank rockets ("Panzerschrecks"), self-propelled guns, and emplaced Panther turrets.
The following day (17 September) the three battalions continued their advance. Once the airfield was taken the 3rd Greek Mountain Brigade turned towards Rimini. On 18 September the 2nd and 3rd Battalions moved towards Rimini.
On the morning of 21 September, the 2nd Greek Battalion reached the city and raised the Greek flag on the municipal building. At 7:45 of 21 September the mayor surrendered the city to the 3rd Greek Mountain Brigade.

</doc>
<doc id="429180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429180" title="Vernon Shaw">
Vernon Shaw

Vernon Lorden Shaw (May 13, 1930 – December 2, 2013) was the 5th President of Dominica. He took office on October 6, 1998, following the expiration of President Crispin Sorhaindo's single five-year term. Shaw left office on October 1, 2003, and was succeeded by Nicholas Liverpool. He died on December 2, 2013 from a heart attack, aged 83.

</doc>
<doc id="429182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429182" title="Gal Gadot">
Gal Gadot

Gal Gadot ( ; ; born 30 April 1985) is an Israeli actress and model. Gadot won Miss Israel 2004. She played Gisele Harabo in the 2009 movie "Fast and Furious". Gadot also played Wonder Woman in "" in 2016. She will appear in her own Wonder Woman movie simply titled "Wonder Woman" (2017). She will appear again as Wonder Woman in "Justice League" (2017). In 2013, she was ranked as the second highest earning fashion model in Israel. She is the face of Gucci's Bamboo perfume.
Gadot was born in Israel to Jewish parents. She was born and grew up in Rosh HaAyin, Israel. In Hebrew, her first name means "wave". Her last name means "riverbanks". Her parents were born in Israel. They changed their last name from "Greenstein" to "Gadot". Her father Michael Gadot is an engineer. Her mother Irit (née Weiss) is a teacher. Gadot's grandparents are Holocaust survivors.
From the age of 20, Gadot served for two years as a soldier of the Israel Defense Forces. She did well in the three month training. Gadot says of her time in the army, "You give two or three years, and it's not about you. You give your freedom away for a while. You learn discipline and respect".

</doc>
<doc id="429183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429183" title="Kees Brusse">
Kees Brusse

Kees Brusse (6 February 1925 – 9 December 2013) was a Dutch actor and movie director. He appeared in 47 movie and television shows since 1936. He starred in the 1975 movie "Dokter Pulder zaait papavers". It was entered into the 26th Berlin International Film Festival.

</doc>
<doc id="429184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429184" title="Jim Hall (musician)">
Jim Hall (musician)

James Stanley "Jim" Hall (December 4, 1930 – December 10, 2013) was an American jazz guitarist, composer, and arranger. 
Hall died in his sleep in his Manhattan, New York apartment on December 10, 2013 from a heart attack, aged 83.

</doc>
<doc id="429186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429186" title="Don Lund">
Don Lund

Donald Andrew Lund (May 18, 1923 – December 10, 2013) was a backup outfielder in Major League Baseball. He played for the Brooklyn Dodgers (1945, 1947, 1948["start"]), St. Louis Browns (1948["end"]) and Detroit Tigers (1949–1954). He batted and threw right-handed.
He died on December 10, 2013 at the age of 90 in Ann Arbor, Michigan at his home from natural causes.

</doc>
<doc id="429189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429189" title="Rossana Podestà">
Rossana Podestà

Rossana Podestà (20 June 1934 – 10 December 2013) was an Italian actress. She was known for her roles in "Ulysses" and "Helen of Troy".
She was born in Tripoli, in the Italian colony of Libya on 20 June 1934. She was married to Walter Bonatti until his death in 2011. Podestà died from brain cancer in Rome, Italy, aged 79.

</doc>
<doc id="429190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429190" title="Lino Grech">
Lino Grech

Lino Grech (1930 – 1 December 2013) was a Maltese actor, writer, activist and director. He was known for his roles in "Final Justice" (1985), "Black Eagle" (1988) and "A Fine Romance" (1989).
Grech was born in Sliema. Lino Grech died on the night of 1 December 2013, aged 83, at the Mater Dei Hospital in Msida from prostate cancer. He is survived by his wife and his two children. His funeral took place on 4 December. His remains were cremated.
His career began in 1975 with stage work. He translated works done by Arthur Miller and by Lope de Vega.
Grech was noted for his role on the television drama "F'Bahar Wiehed" (1970s). It was the first Maltese-language television series, which broadcast on TVM. Greech also directed and wrote stage works. Grech wanted to strengthen the theatrical and television works in Malta. 
In the 1990s, he wrote episodes for television shows such as "Hypocrites", "Simpatiċi", "The Family Grech", and "Now We See".
Besides acting, Grech was a labor union activist. He led one of the longest strikes on workers' rights in Maltese history.

</doc>
<doc id="429192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429192" title="Brian Hitchen">
Brian Hitchen

Brian Hitchen, CBE (8 July 1936 – 2 December 2013) was a British newspaper editor. Late in his career, he worked as a publisher. 
An incident with a car while crossing the road near Alicante, in Spain, led to his wife being killed instantly, while Hitchen himself died from his injuries a few hours later.

</doc>
<doc id="429193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429193" title="Salim Kallas">
Salim Kallas

Salim Kallas (; 13 November 1936 − 2 December 2013) was a Syrian actor and politician. 
Kallas died following a long battle of lung cancer on 2 December 2013, aged 77, in Damascus. He left behind him; his wife, his son and his five daughters. His burial took place on the following day, 3 December.

</doc>
<doc id="429194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429194" title="Riff Raff">
Riff Raff

Horst Christian Simco, better known as Riff Raff, is a rapper from Texas. He joined the band The Neighborhood in 2013. His second album "Neon Icon" is going to be released by Mad Decent in January 2014. 2 Chainz, Drake, Snoop Dogg, and Juicy J worked on the album with Riff Raff.

</doc>
<doc id="429195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429195" title="Johan van Hulst">
Johan van Hulst

Johan Wilhelm van Hulst (born January 28, 1911) is a Dutch retired politician. He served as Member of the Senate from July 3, 1956 until June 10, 1981. He served as the Parliamentary leader of the Christian Historical Union in the Senate from December 10, 1968 until June 8, 1977 when the Christian Historical Union merged into the Christian Democratic Appeal. 

</doc>
<doc id="429197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429197" title="Jackson Browne">
Jackson Browne

Clyde Jackson Browne (born October 9, 1948) is an American singer-songwriter and musician. He has sold over 18 million albums in the United States alone.
Browne was born in Heidelberg, Germany on October 9, 1948 to an American family. He was raised in Los Angeles.

</doc>
<doc id="429199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429199" title="Silvio Zavala">
Silvio Zavala

Silvio Arturo Zavala Vallado (February 7, 1909 – December 5, 2014) was a Mexican historian. He was an expert in law studies and Mexico's history.
Zavala born in Mérida, Yucatán on February 7, 1909. He studied at the National University of Mexico and at the University of Madrid. Zavala obtained a Ph.D. in law from the latter. He began his professional career in Spain in the Center for Historic Studies in Madrid.
Zavala died in Mexico City on December 5, 2014, aged 105.

</doc>
<doc id="429202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429202" title="Moonwalker">
Moonwalker

Moonwalker, also known as Michael Jackson: Moonwalker, is an American movie. It was released in 1988 in theatres in Europe and South America. The movie is a collection of eight short films about Michael Jackson. It is 93 minutes long. It made US$67,000,000 at box offices. On January 10, 1989, it was released on video on the United States and Canada. The video had sold more than 800,000 copies in the U.S. by April 17, 1989. The movie is named after a dance move that Jackson did called the moonwalk. John Lennon's son Sean is in the movie. Jackson executive produced "Moonwalker".
Brandon Quentin Adams won the 1989 Young Artist Award for Best Young Actor/Actress in a Film Made for Video for his role as Zeke, a child version of Jackson, in the movie.
In 1989, Blackthorne Publishing made the movie into a comic book called "Moonwalker 3-D".

</doc>
<doc id="429210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429210" title="Apollo Lunar Module">
Apollo Lunar Module

The Apollo Lunar Module (LM) is the spidery-looking landing vehicle on the moon. It was built for the US Apollo program to carry a crew of two from lunar orbit to the surface and back.
The LM was the last of the Apollo “hardware” to be developed. Its start had been delayed while NASA made up its mind to take the lunar-orbit meeting approach and thus require a vehicle like the LM for a landing. A contract with the prime builder was signed on January, 1963, almost two years after the Apollo project began. The LM was tested several times in space. Finally, on July 20, 1969 the Apollo 11 LM Eagle made the first manned lunar landing. 
As Apollo missions progressed, Apollo 12, 14, 15, 16, 17 had lunar landings using their LMs. Apollo 13 had a terribly dangerous accident when an oxygen tank exploded. The Apollo 13 Lunar module, called "aquarius", played an unexpected role in saving the lives of the three astronauts after the explosion.
The LM was consisted of an ascent stage and decent stage.
This was the unmanned lower part of the LM. it looked like octagonal-shaped and Made of aluminum compound metal with four legs for landing contained the batteries and oxygen tank and scientific equipment to be used for the descent to the moon and astronauts’ stay on the moon.
On the lunar-landing mission, the descent engine would be fired to begin the LM’s drop from 70 miles out in lunar orbit down toward the moon and LM could descend vertically and hover above the surface of moon. After the two men finished their stay on the surface, the descent stage would serve as the launching base for the ascent engine’s firing to boost the upper half of the LM off the moon.
This was the roundish upper half of the LM, the command center and crew cabin as well as the launching rocket for leaving the moon. 
To save weight, there were no seats for the men. They would stand, loosely held in place by straps. In front and on either side of them were control panels for the LM’s guidance, communication, environment and propulsion systems. On the left side, there was a window by which commander could look out to steer the LM. Overhead in the middle section was the 33-inch-diameter (95 cm) hatch where the astronauts transferred to and from the Command Module when two vehicles were linked. LM’s ascent rocket to meet Command Module was below the deck of the midsection. Although ascent rocket was small, it was sufficient because the moon’s weak gravity – one-sixth that of earth’s – meant that the LM would not require a strong push to rise from the lunar surface.
On Monday, January 22, 1968, a 16-ton unmanned LM surrounded by a protective shield stood on top of a two-stage Saturn 1-B rocket which called Apollo 5. It had two big missions for this flight. One is to check separating stage from main rocket. Another was to check test firing of the descent engine. But second mission didn’t success fully. The Apollo 5 test ended after eight hours, and the LM remained in earth orbit. It eventually dropped into the atmosphere and burn up.

</doc>
<doc id="429213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429213" title="Mont Saint-Michel">
Mont Saint-Michel

Le Mont-Saint-Michel (; ) is an island commune in Normandy, France. It is in the Manche department. It is located about one kilometre () from the country's northwestern coast. It is at the mouth of the Couesnon River near Avranches. It is in size and it has a population of 44 (2009). People that live there are called the "Montois".
The island has had strategic fortifications since ancient times. The name "Mont-Saint-Michel" comes from the monastery built there in the eighth century AD. The way the town is built is an example of how feudal society worked. At the top there is God. Lower, there are the abbey and monastery. Below this, there are the Great halls, then stores and housing. At the bottom, outside the walls, there are the houses of fishermen and farmers.
Mont-Saint-Michel is one of France's most famous landmarks. The island and its bay are part of the UNESCO list of World Heritage Sites. Every year, more than 3 million people visit it.
In prehistoric times the "Mont" was on dry land. It is now a rocky tidal island. Sea levels rose and erosion changed the landscape of the coast. Several layers of granite or granulite came to the surface in the bay. These layers of rock resisted the wear and tear of the ocean better than the other rocks around them. These included Lillemer, the Mont-Dol, Tombelaine (the island just to the north), and Mont Tombe, which later became Mont-Saint-Michel. The mount has a circumference of about 960 meters and it is 92 metres (301 feet) above sea level at its highest point.
The difference between the high and low water marks is about . Medieval pilgrims who crossed the flat land sometimes called the mount "St. Michael in peril of the sea". Today, it can still be dangerous for visitors who do not use the causeway and attempt to walk across the sands from the opposite coast.
Polderisation and occasional flooding have created salt marsh meadows. They are ideal for sheep. The meat that comes from the diet of the sheep has a good flavour. The "pré salé" (salt meadow, in French) makes "agneau de pré-salé" (salt meadow lamb) a local specialty (a famous type of food). The local lamb is sometimes on the menus of restaurants in the area. They depend on income from the visitors to the mount.
Before, Mont-Saint-Michel was linked to the mainland with a tidal causeway. It was a path covered at high tide and shown at low tide. This connection changed over the centuries. The coastal flats (the sand) have been polderised to make pastureland. This means Mont-Saint-Michel became closer to the south coast. The Couesnon River has been canalised. This makes the flow of water similar every time the tide rises or falls. This developed a silting-up of the bay. In 1879, the tidal causeway was changed into a raised or dry causeway. This stopped the tide from cleaning the silt around the mount.
On 16 June 2006, the French prime minister and regional authorities announced a €164 million project () to build a hydraulic dam using the waters of the river Couesnon and of tides. This would help remove all of the silt deposited by the rising tides. It would make Mont-Saint-Michel an island again. The project should be finished in 2015.
The construction of the dam began in 2009. It was completed in 2013. The project was to also remove the causeway and its visitor car-park. The new car-park is on the mainland. It is about two kilometres () from the island. A bridge that allows the waters to flow freely around the island will improve the efficiency of the dam in operation. Visitors can walk or use small shuttle buses to cross the causeway. The future bridge will also be open to pedestrians and vehicles without a motor.
Mont-Saint-Michel was an Armorican stronghold of Gallo-Roman culture and power in the sixth and seventh centuries. In the seventh century, the Franks took the mount. From about the fifth to the eighth century, Mont-Saint-Michel was part of a region called Neustria. At the start of the ninth century, it was an important place in the marches of Neustria.
Before the eighth century, the island was called "Mont Tombe" (). The Church built the first religious building in the eighth century, and the mount became Mont-Saint-Michel. According to legend, the Archangel Michael appeared in 708 to St. Aubert, the bishop of Avranches. The angel told him to build a church on the mount. Aubert didn't listen to the angel until Michael burned a hole in the bishop's skull with his finger.
The king of the Franks was unable to defend his kingdom against the attacks of the Vikings. The king agreed to give the Cotentin peninsula and the Avranchin, including Mont-Saint-Michel, to the Bretons in the 867 Treaty of Compiègne. For a short time, the mount belonged to the Bretons. In fact, these lands and Mont-Saint-Michel were never really included in the duchy of Brittany. They remained separate bishoprics from the newly created Breton archbishopric of Dol. When Rollo named Franco as archbishop of Rouen, the diocese of Rouen took the lands and the mount. They became part of Normandy once again, but not officially.
The mount became strategically important again in 933 when William "Long Sword" annexed the Cotentin Peninsula from the weakened Dukes of Brittany. This made the mount part of Normandy officially. This is shown in the Bayeux Tapestry, which commemorates (helps remember) the Norman conquest of England in 1066. Harold, Earl of Wessex is pictured on the tapestry helping two Norman knights from the quicksand around Mont-Saint-Michel during a battle with Conan II, Duke of Brittany. Norman dukes paid for the development of the abbey in the following centuries. It became a good example of Norman architecture.
In 1067, the monastery of Mont-Saint-Michel gave its support to Duke William of Normandy in his claim to the throne of England. He gave properties and grounds on the English side of the Channel as a reward. These included a small island off the southwestern coast of Cornwall. It was modeled after the mount and became a Norman priory named St Michael's Mount of Penzance.
During the Hundred Years' War, the English made repeated attacks on the island. They were unable to take it due to the abbey's improved fortifications. The English first attacked the mount in 1423-4, and then again in 1433-4. The English forces were under the command of Thomas Scalles. Scalles left two wrought iron bombards when he stopped his attack. They are still there today. They are known as "les Michelettes". The resistance at Mont-Saint-Michel gave hope to the French, especially Joan of Arc.
When Louis XI of France founded the Order of Saint Michael in 1469, he wanted the church of Mont-Saint-Michel to become the chapel for the Order. However, it was far from Paris so this was not possible.
The wealth and influence of the abbey extended to other daughter foundations. For example it helped St Michael's Mount in Cornwall. However, it started to become less popular and famous as a center of pilgrimage. The Reformation was the main cause. At the time of the French Revolution there were almost no monks living there. The republicans closed the abbey. It became a prison. At first, this was to hold clerical enemies of the French republic. Later, there were also important political prisoners at the mount. In 1836 famous figures, such as Victor Hugo, started a campaign to restore the mount. The prison closed in 1863, and the mount became a historic monument in 1874. Mont-Saint-Michel and its bay became UNESCO World Heritage Sites in 1979. The factors for listing included cultural, historical, and architectural importance, as well as man-made and natural beauty.
In the 11th century, Richard II of Normandy chose an Italian architect called William de Volpiano to build the abbey of Mont-Saint-Michel. Volpiano had already built the Abbey of Fécamp in Normandy. He designed the Romanesque church of the abbey. He chose to place the transept crossing at the top of the mount. He also built a lot of crypts and chapels below the ground. These are to support building above, because it is very heavy. Today, Mont-Saint-Michel has a church of Romanesque style.
Robert de Thorigny was a great supporter of Henry II of England, who was also Duke of Normandy at the time. Thorigny made the structure of the buildings stronger. He also built the main façade of the church in the 12th century. In 1204, the Breton "Guy de Thouars", a friend of the King of France, attacked the mount with an army. He set fire to the village and killed lots of people. However, he had to retreat (leave) under the powerful walls of the abbey. The fire extended to the buildings, and the roofs burnt. Philip Augustus, Thorigny's friend, was unhappy about the cruel actions and the destruction. He offered Abbot Jourdain some money to build a new Gothic-style architectural set. The Abbot added the refectory ("dining room") and cloister.
Charles VI added big fortifications to the abbey-mount. He also added building towers and courtyards, and he made the ramparts stronger.
The islet is part of the French commune of Mont-Saint-Michel. It is in the département of Manche, in Basse-Normandie. 50 people live there. The nearest large town, with an SNCF train station, is Pontorson. Mont-Saint-Michel is part of the Organization of World Heritage Cities.
Mont-Saint-Michel has also been the subject of traditional rivalry between Normans and Bretons. Bretons say that the Couesnon River marks the limit between Normandy and Brittany. It is only because the river has changed its course over the centuries that the mount is on the Norman side. This legend amuses the area's inhabitants. They state that the border is not located on the Couesnon river. They say it is on the mainland, to the west, at the foot of the solid mass of Saint-Brelade.
Up to 20,000 people a day visit the city in July and August. Among the 43 inhabitants (2006), 5 were monks and 7 nuns.
Mont-Saint-Michel has historical links with St Michael's Mount in Cornwall, UK. Edward the Confessor gave it to the Benedictines of Mont-Saint-Michel in the 11th century.
61 buildings of Mont-Saint-Michel are on the list of monuments historiques. They were added from 1928 to today.

</doc>
<doc id="429214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429214" title="Spring 1945 offensive in Italy">
Spring 1945 offensive in Italy

The Spring 1945 offensive in Italy was given the code name Operation Grapeshot. It was the Allied attack by Fifth United States Army and British 8th Army into the Lombardy Plain. It started on 6 April 1945 and ended on 2 May with the surrender of German forces in Italy.
The Allies had done their previous major attack on the Gothic Line in August 1944. The British 8th Army attacked up the coast of the Adriatic Sea. The U.S. 5th Army attacked through the central Apennine Mountains. 
They managed to break through the Gothic Line defences. But they failed to get into the Lombardy Plains before the winter weather stopped them. 
They had a hard time in the cold winter weather. They planned to attack again in the spring.
Harold Alexander was promoted to Field Marshal. He was made the Allied Supreme Commander Mediterranean on 12 December. 
On 23 March, Albert Kesselring was appointed Commander-in-Chief Army Group West.
In the spring, the problems of getting troops continued. The 15th Army Group had 1,334,000 men with Eighth Army having 632,980 men and Fifth Army 266,883. Against them were 21 much weaker German divisions and 4 Italian divisions, a total of 25. 
Clark made his plan on 18 March. He wanted destroy the maximum number of enemy forces, cross the Po and capture Verona.
The Eighth Army was to go north west to capture Ferrara and Bondeno. The U.S. Fifth Army was to go past Bologna to surround German forces south of the Po. The Fifth Army was to go west towards Ostiglia. Next, the Allies would capture bridge across the Po and go north.
The Fifth Army plan (Operation "Craftsman") aimed to pull German reserves away from Route 65. II Corps would then attack.
In the first week of April, attacks were launched on the right and left of the Allied lines. The goal was to draw German reserves away from the main attacks to come. Axis forces had to use sea, canal and river routes for supply. Axis shipping was being attacked in bombing raids.
The main attack started on 6 April with an artillery bombing of the Senio defenses. On 9 April, 825 heavy bombers dropped bombs near the Senio. From 15:20 to 19:10, artillery was fired. As well, 28 Churchill Crocodiles and 127 Wasp flamethrower vehicles were sent out. By 12 April, the 8th Indian Division was on the far side of the Santerno. The British 78th Division moved to attack Argenta.
The U.S. 5th Army began its attack on 14 April. First, there was a bombing by 2,000 heavy bombers and 2,000 artillery pieces. Then troops attacked. By 20 April both corps had broken through the German defences and reached the Po valley. 10th Mountain Division went north. By 19 April, the British 6th Armoured Division was moving to surround the German armies defending Bologna. Bondeno was captured on 23 April. Bologna was entered on 21 April. U.S. IV Corps reached the river Po at on 22 April. They went north to Verona which they entered on 26 April. British V Corps entered Padua on 29 April. Partisans had captured the German garrison of 5,000.
Secret surrender talks between the Germans and Western Allies were held in Switzerland (Operation Crossword) in March. The Soviets did not like that the Western Allies were trying to arrange a surrender that did not include the Soviets. On 29 April, the Germans surrendered. 

</doc>
<doc id="429216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429216" title="Hallasan">
Hallasan

Hallasan is one of Korea's three most sacred mountains. It is on Jeju-do, the southernmost island of Republic of Korea. It is 1,950m tall. On the top of Hallasan, there is a crater called Baek Rok Dam. It was an active volcano until about 25,000 years ago. It is now dormant. Hallasan is made of basalt, a type of black rock that is produced by volcanoes. It extends east to west. The south side of Hallasan is very steep. The slope of the north side is gentle. The east and south are relatively high but smooth. 
There are seven trails on Hallasan.
Hallasan has subtropical plants, warm-climate plants, and subarctic plants. In spring, there royal azalea, and yellow rape. There are also maple trees. In winter, the mountain is covered with snow. There are deer, which are the symbol of Hallasan. 
The ever-changing colors of the scenery make people admire the beauty of nature, and this is why hallasan was selected as a national park on March 24 1970, and a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2002. During the last week in January, there is a snow-flower festival in Hallasan. 

</doc>
<doc id="429228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429228" title="Aleqa Hammond">
Aleqa Hammond

Aleqa Hammond (born 23 September 1965) is a Greenlandic politician. She was the leader of the Siumut party and also the country's first female Prime Minister after her party emerged as the largest in the 2013 elections.

</doc>
<doc id="429229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429229" title="Category:Maltese people">
Category:Maltese people


</doc>
<doc id="429230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429230" title="Juan Vicente Torrealba">
Juan Vicente Torrealba

Juan Vicente Torrealba (born 20 December 1917) is a Venezuelan harpist and composer of popular music.

</doc>
<doc id="429232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429232" title="Arnoldo Foà">
Arnoldo Foà

Arnoldo Foà (24 January 1916 – 11 January 2014) was an Italian movie actor. He has appeared in more than 130 movie since 1938. He was born in Ferrara, Italy.
Foà died on the morning of 11 January 2014, 13 days before his 98th birthday, from respiratory failure in his home in Rome, Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="429233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429233" title="Jacque Fresco">
Jacque Fresco

Jacque Fresco (born March 13, 1916) is an American self-taught structural designer, architectural designer, concept artist, educator, and futurist. Fresco writes and lectures his views concerning sustainable cities, energy efficiency, natural-resource management, cybernetic technology, advanced automation, and the role of science in society.

</doc>
<doc id="429234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429234" title="Buff (clothing)">
Buff (clothing)

Buff (, , ) is the registered trade mark for the headwear produced by Original Buff S.A., a company from Igualada, near Barcelona in Catalonia, Spain, since they were established in 1992.
Buff was developed by Joan Rojas in 1991. It was originally designed for wind protection while motorcycling. It is a tube of microfibrous fabric that can be reshaped to be worn in different ways. It can be worn as a scarf, bandanna, headband, beanie, face mask, tube top, helmet liner, wristband, or cap. It can also be worn pirate or Sahara style. The Buffs are made on a special loom shaped like a tube. It is designed to make the finished garment seamless.

</doc>
<doc id="429235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429235" title="Vittorio Emanuele Orlando">
Vittorio Emanuele Orlando

Vittorio Emanuele Orlando (May 19, 1860 – December 1, 1952) was an Italian diplomat and political figure. He was born in Palermo, Sicily. His father, a landed gentleman, delayed venturing out to register his son's birth for fear of Giuseppe Garibaldi's 1,000 patriots who had just stormed into Sicily on the first leg of their march to build an Italian nation.

</doc>
<doc id="429236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429236" title="Gabriel Axel">
Gabriel Axel

Gabriel Axel (18 April 1918 – 9 February 2014) was a Danish movie director, actor, writer and producer. He is best known for the movie "Babette's Feast" (1987). He wrote and directed this movie. He won an Academy Award for it.
Axel died on 9 February 2014 at the age of 95.

</doc>
<doc id="429238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429238" title="WWE Saturday Morning Slam">
WWE Saturday Morning Slam

WWE Saturday Morning Slam was a professional wrestling show made by the WWE.
During its televised history in the United States it was shown on The CW during its Vortexx Saturday morning block. It was centered around being more family-friendly and targeted towards children. The show ran from August 25, 2012 to May 11, 2013. The show was cancelled because of creative differences between both the WWE and Saban Brands.

</doc>
<doc id="429241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429241" title="Reed College">
Reed College

Reed College is a private liberal arts college in Portland Oregon. Reed was begun in 1908 and had its first classes in 1911. Reed is an undergraduate school. An unusually high number of Reed's students go on to get Ph.D.s after they graduate. Reed is the only private undergraduate school to have a nuclear reactor. 
Tuition at Reed is about $44,200 a year. Reed is secular, meaning the school is not part of a religion. The school does not do very many NCAA sports, and it does not have any fraternities or sororities. 
Reed students are called "Reedies". Students are often called nonconformists. As a joke, some students say the motto of the school is "Communism, Atheism, Free Love". 
Some famous or important people who went to Reed include:

</doc>
<doc id="429242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429242" title="Kevin Thorn">
Kevin Thorn

Kevin Matthew Fertig (born January 17, 1977) is an American professional wrestler. He is best known for working with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) under the ring names, Mordecai and Kevin Thorn.
Under the Mordecai name, he portrayed a religious zealot and under his Kevin Thorn name, he portrayed a vampire character along with his manager Ariel.
In January 2009, he was offered a new contract with WWE, but turned it down. WWE announced that he was released from contract by request on January 9, even though his contract did not end until April 5 which prevented him from wrestling for other promotions.

</doc>
<doc id="429254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429254" title="Category:1930s songs">
Category:1930s songs


</doc>
<doc id="429264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429264" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/100Most">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2013/100Most


</doc>
<doc id="429266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429266" title="Big Hero 6 (movie)">
Big Hero 6 (movie)

Big Hero 6 is a Disney movie. It is based on the Marvel Comics superhero comic that has the same name. It was released on November 5, 2014 by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures. The movie grossed over $651.8 million worldwide making it the , it also won the .
The movie is about a boy named Hiro. He lives in the city of San Fransokyo (a mixture of Tokyo and San Francisco). He changes himself and his friends into high-tech heroes to protect the city. One of his friends is Baymax, a robot created by Tadashi (Hiro's brother). Baymax's only purpose is to take care of people.

</doc>
<doc id="429276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429276" title="Lost (Frank Ocean song)">
Lost (Frank Ocean song)

"Lost" is a song from Frank Ocean, from his album "Channel Orange". It is about a girl who does drugs and feels lost. It is an R&B and pop song.

</doc>
<doc id="429277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429277" title="Pyramids (song)">
Pyramids (song)

"Pyramids" is a song by Frank Ocean. It is from the album "Channel Orange". The song is about a pimp who falls in love with one of his prostitutes. It is an R&B and electronica song. It is almost 10 minutes long.

</doc>
<doc id="429278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429278" title="Allied invasion of Sicily">
Allied invasion of Sicily

The Allied invasion of Sicily was code-named Operation Husky. It was a major battle of World War II. The Allies captured Sicily from the Axis Powers (Italy and Nazi Germany). 
It was a big sea and air operation, followed by six weeks of land fighting. It started the Italian Campaign.
"Husky" began on the night of 9–10 July 1943, and ended 17 August. "Husky" achieved the goals of the Allies. The Allies removed Axis air, land and naval forces from the island. 
As well, the Mediterranean's sea lanes were opened and Italian dictator Benito Mussolini was removed from power. It opened the way for the Allied invasion of Italy.
The plan for Operation "Husky" called for the sea attack of the island by two armies. One would land on the South Eastern coast. Another would land on the central Southern Coast. The attack would be helped by naval gunfire and bombing. The commander was the American General Dwight D. Eisenhower. 
The Allied land forces were from the American, British and Canadian armies. They were put into two groups. The Eastern Task Force was led by General Bernard Montgomery. The Western Task Force was commanded by Lieutenant General George S. Patton. In addition to the sea landings, airborne troops were to be flown in. They would capture bridges and high ground. 
The Allied naval forces were put into two groups to transport the invading armies.
The island was defended by the two corps of Italian 6th Army under General Alfredo Guzzoni. In early July the total Axis force in Sicily was about 200,000 Italian and 32,000 German troops, and 30,000 "Luftwaffe" ground staff. By late July there were 70,000 German troops. 
The attack plan was made on 17 May.
At the Casablanca Conference in January 1943, political leaders and the military leaders of the US and Britain met to discuss future plans. The British wanted an invasion of Sicily. General Eisenhower was made Commander-in-Chief of the Allied Forces.
Once the Axis forces had been defeated in Tunisia, the Allied bombers attacked the airfields of Sardinia, Sicily and southern Italy. They also bombed industrial targets in southern Italy and the ports of Naples, Messina, Palermo and Cagliari. 
To distract the Axis, the Allies did several trick operations. The most famous was "Operation Mincemeat". The British allowed a corpse disguised as a British officer to drift ashore in Spain, carrying a briefcase with fake secret documents.
These stated that the Allies were planning to invade Greece and Sardinia, and had no plans to invade Sicily. The Germans thought the documents were real. The Germans moved much of their defences from Sicily to Greece.
Two British and two American attacks by airborne forces were done on the night of 9–10 July. They wanted to capture the bridge over the River Anape. Airborne troops attacked patrols. A platoon captured Ponte Grande and fought off attacks.
The strong winds made the sea landings hard. Landings were made on 10 July on twenty-six main beaches. 
By the evening of 10 July the seven Allied divisions were ashore and the port of Syracuse had been captured.
Alexander's plan was to establish his forces on a line between Licata in and Catania. He wanted to capture ports.

</doc>
<doc id="429290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429290" title="Cleanin' Out My Closet">
Cleanin' Out My Closet

"Cleanin' Out My Closet" is a serious song by Eminem from the album "The Eminem Show". Its lyrics are dealing with how people protest against his lyrics, his father abandoning his family and his mother's drug use.

</doc>
<doc id="429291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429291" title="On My Level">
On My Level

"On My Level" is a song by Wiz Khalifa featuring Too $hort. It is a dark song about partying and smoking. It is from his album "Rolling Papers".

</doc>
<doc id="429292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429292" title="Category:Songs about drugs">
Category:Songs about drugs


</doc>
<doc id="429301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429301" title="Siege of Odessa">
Siege of Odessa

The Siege of Odessa was a siege battle during World War II. It was part of the Eastern Front area of operations in 1941. It was done by Romanian forces and the German Army's ("Wehrmacht Heer") 11th Army ("11. Armee"). They attacked the city of Odessa in the Soviet Union. 
Due to the strong fighting of the 9th Independent Army (initially) and the Separate Coastal Army, and the Black Sea Fleet forces in Odessa, it took the Romanian army 73 days of siege and four attacks to capture the city. They had 93,000 casualties. The Red Army had 41,000 casualties. Some historians say the Red Army had 60,000 casualties.
On 27 July 1941, Hitler sent a letter to General Antonescu asking for Romanian troops. 
On 8 August, the Romanians ordered the 4th Army to capture Odessa.
They thought the city would surrender quickly. However, Odessa was a heavily fortified city. It had trenches, anti-tank ditches, pillboxes and other defences. 
Overall, the Red Army had some 34,500 men and 240 artillery pieces in the area. Airplanes included two seaplane squadrons and one bomber squadron. 
The Romanian 4th Army planned to attack Odessa. The 5th Corps would go north then turn south.
On 9 August, the 4th Dorobanti Regiment defeated the Soviet forces in the Bakalovy area. The 30th Dorobanţi Regiment captured the village of Ponyatovka. 
The 1st Armored Division defeated the Soviet forces at Bolschaya Buzhalyk, breaking through Odessa's first line of defense. 
The 10th Dorobanţi Regiment beat the Soviet forces at Lozovaya. The 4th Army surrounded Odessa. 
On 17 August, Romanian troops capturing Odessa's water reservoirs. The Soviet forces fought hard. There were many losses on both sides. 
By 24 August, the Romanians were stopped at the Soviets' main line of defense. The 4th Army had already g
had 27,307 casualties, including 5,329 killed. 
On 28 August, the Romanians attacked again. They had help from a German assault battalion and ten heavy artillery battalions.
A German force came to help the Romanians. The Soviets also received 15,000 men and ammunition. 
Then the 157th Rifle Division arrived with 12,600 troops. Also, 18 Soviet companies were brought in from Novorossiysk.

</doc>
<doc id="429304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429304" title="19 (album)">
19 (album)

19 is the first album by Adele. It was released on 28 January 2008. It went straight to number one in the United Kingdom's record charts. The album was produced by Jim Abbiss, Mark Ronson, and Eg White.

</doc>
