<doc id="288508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288508" title="Cockfosters tube station">
Cockfosters tube station

Cockfosters is a London Underground station on the Piccadilly Line. It is the line's northern terminus. The station is on Cockfosters Road (A111), and is about 9 miles from central London. The station serves Cockfosters in the London Borough of Barnet, but it is actually a short distance away, across the borough boundary in the neighbouring London Borough of Enfield. The station is in Travelcard Zone 5. The next station southeast is Oakwood.

</doc>
<doc id="288509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288509" title="Villi">
Villi

Villi (singular is "villus") are small, finger-like structures in the small intestine. They help to absorb digested food. Each villus has micro-villi which increase the surface area of the intestinal walls. A larger surface area allows nutrients to be taken in more quickly.
The food (proteins, fats and carbohydrates) has already been broken down by enzymes called proteases, lipases and amylases. The amino acids and sugars (breakdown molecules of proteins and carbohydrates) go first into the blood stream. Then they are then processed by the liver, which acts like a chemical factory for the body. Lipid substances (such as cholesterol) go first into the lymphatic system, and eventually into the blood stream and the liver.

</doc>
<doc id="288512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288512" title="Publius Papinius Statius">
Publius Papinius Statius

Publius Papinius Statius (45-96 AD) was a Roman poet born in Naples, Italy. Published in 92 A.D., his major epic was called "Thebaid". It has the same theme as the Seven Against Thebes, a play by Aeschylus, the fight of seven city states against Thebes. He also wrote poems for different occasions. These poems are known as "Silvae" today. They show what the life at the court of Domitian was like. Even though he is not well-known today, he was better known during his time. He also appears in the Divine comedy. 

</doc>
<doc id="288536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288536" title="2011 Myanmar earthquake">
2011 Myanmar earthquake

The 2011 Myanmar earthquake was a 6.8 magnitude earthquake on March 24 in Shan State, Myanmar. Its hypocenter was deep. It had two aftershocks, one of magnitude 4.8, another at magnitude 5.4. The quake's epicenter was from the northern Thai city of Chiang Rai, north of Mae Sai and southeast of Kentung.
"The Bangkok Post" reported on 27 March 2011, that the death toll was "over 150", which is double the official figure of 75.

</doc>
<doc id="288543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288543" title="20,000 Leagues Under the Sea (1954 movie)">
20,000 Leagues Under the Sea (1954 movie)

20,000 Leagues Under the Sea is a 1954 movie directed by Richard Fleischer. It is about a man who goes on a discovery all over the world with Captain Nemo. It stars Kirk Douglas as Ned Land, James Mason as Captain Nemo, Paul Lukas as Professor Pierre Aronnax, and Peter Lorre as Conseil. It was the first science fiction movie produced by Walt Disney Productions. It was the only science fiction movie produced by Walt Disney himself. It was also the first feature length Disney movie to be distributed by Buena Vista Distribution. The movie has become the best-known adaptation of the book of the same name by Jules Verne. It is cited as an early example of the steampunk genre.

</doc>
<doc id="288545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288545" title="Black market">
Black market

The black market is the trade of goods illegally. Black markets opeate outside the normal economy. The black market is different from the so-called Grey market, where goods are traded legally, but outside the common channels. Goods and services traded on the black market include drug and arms trafficking as well as prostitution. In some casess, the goods or services are cheaper than on the normal market, because taxes or production costs do not need to be paid - very often the goods traded were stolen. In other cases, the price on the black market is higher, because the goods are difficult to get, producing or handling them may be dangerous. Some drugs are illegal to produce, their price on the black market is often higher than the production costs. Even though such a market is not controlled by the state, the economic principles are still that of a market: Supply and demand influence the price.

</doc>
<doc id="288546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288546" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Yellow Arrows">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Yellow Arrows


</doc>
<doc id="288549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288549" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Endust Duster">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Endust Duster


</doc>
<doc id="288565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288565" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Masslinn Dusting Cloth">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Masslinn Dusting Cloth


</doc>
<doc id="288566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288566" title="Thebes">
Thebes

Thebes is the name of two cities:

</doc>
<doc id="288579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288579" title="Linda Evans">
Linda Evans

Linda Evans (born November 18, 1942) is an American actress.
Born Linda Evenstad in Hartford, Connecticut, U.S.. She began her career making appearances in television series The Adventures of Ozzie & Harriet (1960), Outlaws (1962), The Untouchables (1962). And in 1963 a small role in the movie starring Richard Chamberlain
Twilight of Honor (1963), directed by Boris Sagal. 
She shot to fame starring in the role of Audra Barkley's daughter Barbara Stanwyck in ABC TV Western series The Big Valley. Was unusual that two women staged a western. The series was also starring by Lee Majors, Peter Breck and Richard Long. 
Evans played Audra Barkley in 112 episodes between 1965 and 1969.
In the 70s Linda Evans is co starring in The Klansman (1974), with Lee Marvin - Richard Burton, and directed by Terence Young. And in the action movie starring by Joe Don Baker, Mitchell (1975), directed by Andrew V. McLaglen.
In 1980 she co-star and with Steve McQueen in the Western Tom Horn, directed by William Wiard
The best role of her career would come in 1981, playing Krystle Carrington wife of billionaire oil tycoon Blake Carrington, John Forsythe in the ABC TV series Dynasty (1981-89). 
The series was a success and one of the shows most ratings in American television and the world. 
Linda Evans in 1982 won a Golden Globe as best performance by an Actress in a TV-Series - Drama. 
Then again be nominated for a Golden Globe, on four occasions 1983, 1984, 1985 and 1986
Linda was also nominated for an Emmy in 1983.
The Dynasty years: Hollywood television and critical media studies by Jostein Gripsrud
New York Magazine Nov 22, 1982

</doc>
<doc id="288592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288592" title="PHP License">
PHP License

The PHP License is a free software license. It is an open source software license and is the license that the PHP programming language is released under.

</doc>
<doc id="288642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288642" title="Steven Hill">
Steven Hill

Steven Hill born Solomon Krakovsky February 24, 1922 – August 23, 2016 was an American actor.
Hill was a founder member of the Actor's Studio in 1947. He made his first movie, "A Lady Without Passport", in 1950. In 1952 he reenlisted into the US Navy for two years, and then began concentrating on his acting. In 1955 he co-starred with Kim Stanley and Lloyd Bridges, "The Goddess" directed by John Cromwell.
In 1961 a play had caused Hill to rexamine his religion, and he began to follow Orthodox Judaism. As a result he refused to work on Friday evenings or Saturdays, the Jewish Sabbath, and he had to give up his stage career.
In 1966. he played the role of Daniel Briggs in the CBS TV series "Mission Impossible". Briggs was the leader of I.M.F. Steven Hill left the series after one season and was replaced by Peter Graves. Hill had refused to work extra time or reshoot scenes on Sabbath. He also took time every day to pray three times. After leaving "Mission Impossible", Hill left acting for 10 years, and moved to a Jewish community in Rockland County, New York where he worked in writing and real estate. 
Among his works in the 1970s, he played a role in the Abby Mann miniseries "King" (1978) based on the life of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr..
The 1980's brought a lot of work to Hill. He performed in movies such as "Eyewitness" (1981), directed by Peter Yates, "Yentl" (1983), starring and directed by Barbra Streisand, "Garbo Talks" (1984) directed by Sidney Lumet, Raw Deal (1986) with Arnold Schwarzenegger, "Legal Eagles" (1986), with Robert Redford and "Heartburn" (1986) with Jack Nicholson.
His best known role is that of District Attorney Adam Schiff, in the NBC TV series "Law & Order". He played the character of the District Attorney for 230 episodes, between 1990 and 2000.
In 2011, he had a special participation in "".
For Law & Order, Hill was nominated for an Emmy in 1998 and 1999.
Series de culto: el otro Hollywood, by Abdessamed Sahali

</doc>
<doc id="288645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288645" title="Peter Medawar">
Peter Medawar

Sir Peter Brian Medawar OM CBE FRS (28 February 1915 – 2 October 1987) was a British biologist.
His work was important to skin grafts and organ transplants. 
Transplants of skin and organs from other people are usually rejected. This is an action by the immune system. Medawar showed that sometimes this reaction can be avoided, and why. 
He worked on graft rejection and the discovery of acquired immune tolerance. He was awarded the 1960 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, with Sir Frank Macfarlane Burnet. 
Until he was partially disabled by a stroke, Medawar was Director of the National Institute for Medical Research at Mill Hill, London.
Medawar was professor of zoology at the University of Birmingham (1947–51) and University College London (1951–62). In 1962 he was appointed director of the National Institute for Medical Research, and became professor of experimental medicine at the Royal Institution (1977–83), and president of the Royal Postgraduate Medical School (1981–87). Medawar was a scientist of great inventiveness who was interested in many other subjects including opera, philosophy and cricket. 
He was knighted in 1965, and appointed to the Order of Merit in 1981.
Medawar was awarded his Nobel Prize in 1960 for work in tissue grafting, which is the basis of organ transplants. He and his team discovered "acquired immunological tolerance".
At birth, babies are protected by antibodies from the mother. During embryonic life and immediately after birth, immune cells develop. They 'learn' to distinguish between their own tissues on the one hand, and unwanted cells and foreign material on the other.
Medawar's work resulted in a shift of emphasis in the science of immunology from one that attempts to deal with the fully developed immunity mechanism to one that attempts to alter the immunity mechanism itself. Various ways have been found to suppress the body's rejection of organ transplants.
His books include 

</doc>
<doc id="288647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288647" title="Werethekau">
Werethekau

Werethekau is an Egyptian Goddess, credited with supernatural powers. The name "weret hekau" means "great of magic".

</doc>
<doc id="288648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288648" title="Joe Don Baker">
Joe Don Baker

Joe Don Baker (born February 12, 1936) is an American actor.
He began his career as a guest on TV series "Honey West" (1965), "Judd for the Defense" (1967), and "Bonanza" (1968) among other. Her first major role was in the western movie, "Guns of the Magnificent Seven" (1969), starring with George Kennedy
Baker is known for starring in emblematic action movie in the '70s as "Walking Tall" (1973), which plays the incorruptible sheriff Buford Pusser of Tennessee, the movie was one of the most violent in the '70s and launched Baker star in action movies.
His second movie "Charley Varrick" (1973), was directed by Don Siegel. Here he plays a hired killer who should be responsible for eliminating Charley Varrick played by Walter Matthau
In the 1980 Baker appeared on television and movies as "The Natural" (1984), "Final Justice" (1985), "The Abduction of Kari Swenson", TV (1987), and the TV series "In the Heat of the Night" (1989) as Chief Tom Dugan.
In 1992 he starred as Claude Kersek in charge of guarding Sam Bowden; Nick Nolte, in "Cape Fear" (1991), with Robert De Niro and directed by Martin Scorsese.
He also worked in the James Bond movies "The Living Daylights" (1987), "GoldenEye" (1995) and "Tomorrow Never Dies" (1997). 
One of his last jobs was at "The Dukes of Hazzard" (2005), Baker as Governor Jim Applewhite. 

</doc>
<doc id="288649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288649" title="Princess of Orange">
Princess of Orange

Princess of Orange is the title ("name") used for the women who were married to the Ruling Princes of Orange in the time between 1171 to 1815. Since 1815, it was also used for the wives of the heirs to the Dutch throne, who were titled Prince of Orange. The only woman who became a "Princess of Orange" without being married to a "Prince of Orange" was Marie, Princess of Orange (1393-1417). Together with her husband John, Prince of Orange (1393-1418), they governed the land. 
Because the title "Prince of Orange" was only used for 'the eldest son of the King' (the "crown prince"), Dutch crown princesses did not get the title. There were no "oldest sons" for a few generations, and so the title was not used since 1877. Because Dutch law was changed in 1983 to include "oldest daughters of the King", Catharina-Amalia, the next Princess of Orange may become the first Dutch Princess of Orange in her own right once her father, Prince Willem-Alexander, becomes King of the Netherlands.

</doc>
<doc id="288651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288651" title="Category:House of Orange-Nassau">
Category:House of Orange-Nassau


</doc>
<doc id="288652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288652" title="Category:Princesses of Orange">
Category:Princesses of Orange


</doc>
<doc id="288653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288653" title="Finke River">
Finke River

The Finke River is one of the largest rivers in central Australia. It starts in the MacDonnell Ranges in the Northern Territory. it is formed where Davenport and Ormiston Creeks join together, just north of Glen Helen. The Finke River flows about 600 km to the western edge of the Simpson Desert in northern South Australia. Usually the river is a collection of waterholes, but it can become a raging torrent during rare flood events. In a big flood water from the Finke River can flow into the Macumba River, and then into Lake Eyre, a total distance of about 750 km. Major tributaries include Ellery Creek, and the Palmer and Hugh Rivers. The Finke River flows through the West MacDonnell and Finke Gorge National Parks.
The Finke River was named by John McDouall Stuart in 1860 after William Finke, an Adelaide man, who was one of the people who paid part of the cost of his expeditions. The indigenous name for the river in parts of the Northern Territory is Larapinta. Larapinta Drive is a road which runs west from Alice Springs, and the Larapinta walking trail.
The Finke River has been called "the oldest river in the world", particularly by tour operators, and in popular books and brochures. In places such as the James Range, the Finke flows through deeply incised meanders (see Google Maps image). Because meanders only form on flat plains, the river must have formed before the ranges were pushed up. This happened in a mountain building event known as the Alice Springs Orogeny which happened between 400 and 300 million years ago, in the Devonian to Carboniferous Periods. Some parts of the river’s course must have been already in existence around this time. The southern parts of its course must be much younger because the areas where the Finke now flows near the southern edge of the Northern Territory, and further south, were under the sea during the Mesozoic Era, part of the Great Artesian Basin.
The age of the Finke River is not unique. There are other large mountain-sourced river systems in central Australia including the Todd and Hale Rivers where the mountains were formed at the same time. There are other mountain ranges of equal or greater age to the MacDonnell Ranges, both in Australia and on other continents. The rivers in those areas may have evolved from ancestral streams of the same age or older than the Finke.

</doc>
<doc id="288654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288654" title="Category:Lists of princesses">
Category:Lists of princesses


</doc>
<doc id="288655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288655" title="Anna van Egmont">
Anna van Egmont

Anna van Egmont (Grave, March 1533 — Breda, 24 March 1558) was a member of an important and rich Dutch family. She was the first wife of William the Silent, Prince of Orange. 
She was the only child of Maximiliaan van Egmond and Françoise de Lannoy. She was also Countess of Lingen and of Leerdam, and Lady of IJsselstein, of Borssele, of Grave, of Cranendonck, of Jaarsveld, of Kortgene, of Sint Maartensdijk, and of Odijk. Because she was the only child, she also got the title of Countess of Buren and Lady of Egmond. 
In 1551 she married William the Silent in Buren. Because she was the Lady of Egmond and Countess of Buren, he became Lord of Egmond and Count of Buren. They had three children:
Anna died when she was only 25 years old. She was buried in Breda.

</doc>
<doc id="288657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288657" title="Central Mount Stuart">
Central Mount Stuart

Central Mount Stuart is a mountain in the south of the Northern Territory, Australia. It can easily seen from the nearby Stuart Highway, which is about 6 km away. The mountain is made from dark red sandstone.
The mountain is named after the explorer John McDouall Stuart who reached the area on 22 April 1860. He worked out that a point about 4 km (2.5 miles) south-southwest of the mountain was the centre of Australia. Modern geographers do not agree with this and now place the centre at Finke.
Stuart climbed to the top on 23 April 1860, writing in his journal: 
"Took Kekwick and the flag, and went to the top of the mount, but found it to be much higher and more difficult of ascent than I anticipated...Near the top of the cone I placed a small bottle, in which there is a slip of paper, with our signatures to it, stating by whom it was raised. We then gave three hearty cheers for the flag, the emblem of civil and religious liberty, and may it be a sign to the natives that the dawn of liberty, civilization, and Christianity is about to break upon them."
The slip of paper was found in 1871 by John Ross during the building of the Australian Overland Telegraph Line. It is now in the Library of South Australia.
Stuart called the mountain Central Mount Sturt, after his former expedition leader Charles Sturt. The name was changed on a suggestion from the Governor of South Australia, Sir Richard MacDonnell. This happened soon after Stuart's return to Adelaide at the end of the expedition. "Central Mount Stuart" is the name that was printed in the published expedition journal.

</doc>
<doc id="288659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288659" title="Louise de Coligny">
Louise de Coligny

Louise de Coligny (Châtillon-sur-Loing, 23 September 1555 - Fontainebleau, 13 November 1620) was the fourth wife of Prince William the Silent. She was the daughter of an important French Protestant leader, Gaspard de Coligny. 
She married Charles de Téligny when she was 17 years old in 1571. He was a Protestant diplomat. He was also friendly with the French King Charles IX. Both her father and her husband were killed during the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre in 1572. 
In 1583 she married William the Silent in Antwerp. She became the Princess of Orange. Their son Frederik Hendrik was born on 29 January 1584. On the 10th of July that year, William was shot by Balthasar Gerards and died. 
She stayed in the Netherlands. In 1619, she asked her stepson Maurits to stop the execution of Johan van Oldenbarnevelt, but he did not listen. She then left and went to France where she died in 1620. On 24 May 1621, she was buried in the crypt of the House of Orange-Nassau in the New Church in Delft.

</doc>
<doc id="288664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288664" title="African National Congress">
African National Congress

The African National Congress (ANC), supported by the Congress of South African Trade Unions (COSATU) and the South African Communist Party (SACP), has been South Africa's governing left-wing political party since the establishment of non-racial democracy in April 1994. It defines itself as a "disciplined force of the left". Members founded the organization as the South African Native National Congress (SANNC) on 8 January 1912 in Bloemfontein to increase the rights of the black South African population. John Dube, its first president, and poet and author Sol Plaatje are among its founding members. The organization became the ANC in 1923 and formed a military wing, the Umkhonto we Sizwe (Spear of the Nation) in 1961.
It has been the ruling party of post-apartheid South Africa on the national level since 1994. It gained support in the 1999 elections, and further increased its majority in 2004, with 69.7% of the votes. In 2009 its share of the vote reduced slightly, but it remained the dominant party with 65.9% of the votes.
The ANC was founded in direct response to what was seen as injustices against black South Africans at the hands of their white, mostly Afrikaner government. The ANC had its origins in a pronouncement by Pixley ka Isaka Seme who said in 1911 "Forget all the past differences among Africans and unite in one national organisation." The ANC was set up the next year on 8 January 1912. 
The government of the newly formed Union of South Africa began a systematic oppression of black people in South Africa. The Natives' Land Act was issued in 1913. The effect of these laws was to force many non-whites from their farms into the cities and towns to work, and to restrict their movement within South Africa. By 1919, the ANC led a campaign against passes, and in 1929 the ANC supported a militant mineworkers' strike.
The ANC became dormant in the mid-1920s. During that time, black people were also represented by the Industrial and Commercial Workers’ Union and the once white-only Communist party. By 1927, J.T. Gumende (president of the ANC) proposed cooperation with the Communists in a bid to revitalise the organisation, but he was voted out of power in the 1930s. This led to the ANC becoming largely ineffectual and inactive, until the mid-1940s when the ANC was remodelled as a mass movement.
The ANC responded militarily to attacks on the rights of black South Africans, as well as calling for strikes, boycotts, and defiance. This led to a later Defiance Campaign in the 1950s, a mass movement of resistance to South Africa under apartheid. The government tried to stop the ANC by banning party leaders and enacting new laws to stop the ANC, however these measures failed.
In 1955, the Congress of the People officially adopted the Freedom Charter, stating the core principles of the South African Congress Alliance, which consisted of the African National Congress and its allies the South African Indian Congress, the South African Congress of Democrats and the Coloured People's Congress. The government claimed that this was a communist document, and consequently leaders of the ANC and Congress were arrested. 1960 saw the Sharpeville Massacre, in which 69 people were killed when police opened fire on anti-apartheid protesters.
Whites eventually joined the fight against apartheid, leading many black supremacists to break away from the ANC.
Umkhonto we Sizwe (or MK), translated "Spear of the Nation", was the military wing of the ANC. Partly in response to the Sharpeville Massacre of 1960, individual members of the ANC thought violence was needed because peaceful passive protest had failed. There was a significant portion of the ANC who therefore turned to violence in order to achieve their goals. A significant portion of ANC leadership agreed that this violence was needed to combat increasing backlash from the government. 
Some ANC members were upset by the actions of the MK, and refused to accept violence as necessary for the ending of Apartheid, but these individuals became a minority as the militant leaders such as Nelson Mandela gained significant popularity. Many consider their actions to be criminal, but the MK said violence was justified by the goal of ending apartheid. Some members of MK committed terrorist acts to achieve their aims, and MK was responsible for the deaths of both civilians and members of the military. 
In cooperation with the South African Communist Party, MK was founded in 1961.
The ANC calls itself a force of national liberation in the post-apartheid era; it officially defines its umbrella agenda as the "National Democratic Revolution". The ANC is a member of the Socialist International. It also sets forth the redressing of socio-economic differences stemming from colonial- and apartheid-era policies as a central focus of ANC policy.
The National Democratic Revolution (NDR) is described as a process through which the National Democratic Society (NDS) is achieved; a society in which people are intellectually, socially, economically and politically empowered.
The ANC holds a historic alliance with the South African Communist Party (SACP) and Congress of South African Trade Unions (COSATU), known as the "Tripartite Alliance". The SACP and COSATU have not contested any election in South Africa, but field candidates through the ANC, hold senior positions in the ANC, and influence party policy and dialogue. During Mbeki's presidency, the government took a more pro-capitalist stance, often running counter to the demands of the SACP and COSATU.
Following Zuma's accession to the ANC leadership in 2007 and Mbeki's resignation as president in 2008, the Mbeki faction of former ministers led by Mosiuoa Lekota split away from the ANC to form the Congress of the People.
The ANC flag is composed of three stripes – black, green and gold. Black symbolizes the native people of South Africa, green represents the land and gold represents the mineral and other natural wealth of South Africa. This flag was also the battle flag of the Umkhonto we Sizwe. The official party flag also has the emblem of the party incorporated onto the flag.
Politicians in the party win a place in parliament by being on the "Party List", which is drawn up before the elections and enumerates, in order, the party's preferred MPs. The number of seats allocated is proportional to the popular national vote, and this determines the cut-off point.
The ANC has also gained members through the controversial floor crossing process.
Although most South African parties announced their candidate list for provincial premierships in the 2009 election, the ANC did not. It is not required for parties to do so.
The ANC was the main opposition to the government during apartheid and played a major role in resolving the conflict through the peacemaking and peace-building processes. Initially members of the National Party met in secret with ANC leaders, including Nelson Mandela, to see if peace was possible. Discussions and negotiations took place leading to the eventual unbanning of the ANC and other opposing political parties by then President de Klerk on 2 February 1990. These initial meetings were the first crucial steps towards resolution.
The next official step towards rebuilding South Africa was the Groote Schuur Minute where the government and the ANC agreed on a common commitment towards the end of violence and intimidation, as well as a commitment to stability and to a peaceful process of negotiations. The ANC negotiated the release of political prisoners and the immunity from prosecution for returning exiles and moreover channels of communication were established between the Government and the ANC.
Later the Pretoria Minute was another step towards resolution where agreements at Groote Schuur were reconsolidated and steps towards setting up an interim government and drafting a new constitution were established as well as suspension of the military wing of the ANC – the Umkhonto we Sizwe. This step helped end much of the violence within South Africa. Another agreement that came out of the Pretoria Minute was that both parties would try and raise awareness that a new way of governing was being created for South Africa, and that further violence would only hinder this process. However violence still continued in Kwazulu-Natal, which violated the trust between Mandela and de Klerk. Moreover, internal disputes in the ANC prolonged the war as consensus on peace was not reached.
The next significant steps towards resolution were:
These measures ensured no one could claim, or be deprived of any rights on the basis of race.
In December 1991 the Convention for a Democratic South Africa (CODESA) was held with the aim of establishing an interim government. But in June 1992 there was the Boipatong massacre. Negotiations stopped as the ANC pulled out. Only Cyril Ramaphosa of the ANC, and Roelf Meyer of the National Party carried on talking. In over 40 meetings the two men discussed and negotiated over many issues including the nature of the future political system, the fate of over 40,000 government employees and if/how the country would be divided. The result of these negotiations was a temporary constitution that meant the transition from apartheid to democracy was a constitutional continuation and that the rule of law and state sovereignty remained intact during the change, which was vital for stability within the country. A date was set for the first democratic elections on 27 April 1994. The ANC won 62.5% of the votes and has been in power ever since.
The most prominent corruption case involving the ANC relates to a series of bribes paid to companies involved in the ongoing R55 billion Arms Deal saga, which resulted in a long term jail sentence to former Deputy President Jacob Zuma's legal adviser Schabir Shaik. Zuma, now the State president, currently faces 7 813 charges relating to alleged fraud, bribery and corruption in the Arms Deal. The ANC has also been criticised for its subsequent abolishment of the Scorpions, the multidisciplinary agency that investigated and prosecuted organised crime and corruption, and was heavily involved in the investigation into Zuma and Shaik.
Other recent corruption issues include the sexual misconduct and criminal charges of Beaufort West municipal manager Truman Prince, and the Oilgate scandal, in which millions of Rand in funds from a state-owned company were allegedly funneled into ANC coffers. Links between factions in the ANC, specifically the ANC Youth League leadership, and businessman Brett Kebble gained media attention following Kebble's murder in September 2005.
In December 2007 the ANC elected their new National Executive Committee (NEC), the highest structure in the party. Out of the 80 member committee, 9% are (post-apartheid) convicted criminals. Most of these members have been convicted of fraud, while one member, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, was convicted of the kidnapping of a 14-year-old boy, James Seipei (1974–1988), also known as Stompie Moeketsi (who was also murdered). According to an article in the "Mail & Guardian", "by adding those who have been disciplined or moved, and those with dark clouds of unanswered questions hanging over their heads, the figure shifts to 29%."
The ANC has also been accused of using government and civil society to fight its political battles against opposition parties such as the Democratic Alliance. The result has been a number of complaints and allegations that none of the political parties truly represent the interests of the poor. This has resulted in the "No Land! No House! No Vote!" Campaign which becomes very prominent each time the country holds elections.
The ANC has reportedly wasted over R1 billion of taxpayers' money over the past eight months on luxury vehicles, expensive hotels, banquets, advertising and other "wasteful expenditure"
The main thrust behind this reporting is the official opposition in the country, the Democratic Alliance (DA). They have kept a tally of the expenditure called 'The Wasteful Expenditure Monitor'
According to the DA, this waste could have:

</doc>
<doc id="288694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288694" title="Environment of Florida">
Environment of Florida

The state of Florida in the U.S.A. has a mild subtropical climate. Because of that, millions of people have settled in the once rural state over the last hundred years. Florida's population increases by about 1,000 residents each day. Land development and water use have changed the state, mostly by draining the wetlands that once covered most of the peninsula.
Much of Florida is made of karst limestone with water-filled caves and sinkholes, which provide homes to many species of aquatic life, some of which only live in Florida. As more and more people move to Florida, they use up the water in the underground caves. When a cave has no more water, it will sometimes collapse, forming a sinkhole, which can hurt animals, people, and buildings.
For a long time, the state has been trying to restore the Everglades. In 2000, Congress passed the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan, a $7.8 billion, 30-year project aimed at preserving and restoring the region and its unique combination of environments.
Florida ranks forty-fifth in total energy use, despite the heavy reliance on air conditioners and pool pumps. This includes coal, natural gas, petroleum, and retail electricity sales. About 4 percent of energy in the state is generated through renewable resources. Florida produces 6.0% of the nation's total energy, while total production of pollutants is lower, with figures of 5.6 percent for nitrogen oxide, 5.1 percent for carbon dioxide, and 3.5 percent for sulfur dioxide.
There are two oil-producing areas in Florida. One is in South Florida, with 14 fields, and the other is in the western panhandle, with seven fields. The South Florida fields are located in Lee, Hendry, and Collier county. Florida’s first oil field, the Sunniland field, in Collier County, was discovered in 1943. It has since produced over 18 million barrels of oil. After that, 13 more field discoveries were found. Although these fields are small, production is large. Together, the three Felda fields (West Felda, Mid-Felda, and Sunoco Felda) in Hendry County have produced over 54 million barrels of oil.
Production in the western panhandle began with the discovery of the Jay field in June 1970. Jay is the largest oil field discovered in North America since the discovery of the giant Prudhoe Bay Oil Field on the Alaskan North Slope in 1968. Since then, six more oil fields have been discovered in the western panhandle of Florida. North Florida has dominated Florida oil production since the discovery of the Jay field. North Florida oil fields account for 83 percent of the state’s production, with the Jay field alone producing 71 percent.
It is believed that significant energy resources are located off of Florida's western coast in the Gulf of Mexico, but that region has been closed to exploration since 1981.
In July 2007, Florida Governor Charlie Crist announced plans to sign executive orders that would impose strict new air-pollution standards in the state, with aims to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions by 80 percent of 1990 levels by 2050. Crist's orders would set new emissions targets for power companies, automobiles and trucks, and toughen conservation goals for state agencies and require state-owned vehicles to use alternative fuels.
Florida gets much of its drinking water from the Floridan Aquifer and the Biscayne Aquifer, as well as from surface water from Lake Okeechobee and other lakes, but population increases have begun to strain available sources. The state has built 120 desalination plants, more than three times as many as any other state, including the largest plant in the United States. Additionally, an electrodialysis reversal plant in Sarasota is the largest of its type in the world, and a nanofiltration plant in Boca Raton is the largest of its type in the western hemisphere.
Increasing landfill space is also an issue. St. Lucie County is planning to experiment with burning trash through plasma arc gasification to generate energy and reduce landfill space. The experiment will be the largest of its kind in the world to date, and begin operation no later than 2009. If successful, experts estimate that the entire St. Lucie County landfill, estimated to contain 4.3 million tons of trash, will disappear within 18 years. Materials created in the energy production can also be used in road construction.
Areas under control of the National Park Service include:
Areas under the control of the USDA United States Forest Service include:
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's National Ocean Service is responsible for one sanctuary:
Florida is a biodiverse state, with 3,500 native vascular plants and 1,500 vertebrates, a higher number than all but three other states. A 2003 United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization study stated that the Florida Straits had the highest biodiversity in the Atlantic Ocean, and were the home to 25 endemic species.
Red tide has also been an issue on the southwest coast of Florida. While there has been a great deal of guessing over the cause of the toxic algae bloom, there is no evidence that it is being caused by pollution or that there has been an increase in the length or frequency of red tide outbreaks.
Native flora is threatened by various invasive plants, including the Brazilian Pepper ("Schinus terebinthifolius"). Owning and growing this tree is illegal. Large numbers of volunteers cut down these invaders, particularly along waterways. The Australian pine ("Casuarina" spp.) is being actively attacked.
Other foreign pests include the Asian ambrosia beetle ("Xyleborus glabratus"), which threatens the local avocado industry and redbay trees ("Persea borbonia").
It is illegal to import Giant African land snails (achatina fulica). These threaten buildings, 500 types of local plants, and carry meningitis.
Endemic species in Florida include the Florida Scrub Jay ("Aphelocoma coerulescens"), Miami blue ("Cyclargus thomasi bethunebakeri"), Okaloosa darter ("Etheostoma okaloosae"), and Key Deer ("Odocoileus virginianus clavium").
Florida is a popular destination for birdwatching, because of the many species that can be found in the state at various times of the year. The Florida Ornithological Society maintains the official state list of the birds of Florida, which currently contains 498 species. A study published in 2003 by the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission documented 196 species of birds which were confirmed to breed in the state, with an additional 19 species listed as possible or probable breeders. The Great Florida Birding Trail, a 2000-mile (3200 km) long trail, is composed of 489 locations throughout the state which are excellent observation sites.
Sport fishing is also popular in Florida; over 250 different species of fishes (including 73 non-native species) can be found in Florida. There are more than 1000 species of fish in Florida's inshore waters.
In 2010, NOAA, citing the Magnuson-Stevens Act, banned fishing of red snapper until the population has time to recover.
Florida's Atlantic coast is home to the only extensive coral reefs in the continental United States, and the third largest in the world. The entire reef system in the Florida Keys is part of the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary, and large parts of reef are protected as part of Biscayne National Park.
In 1977, the federal government placed alligators on the endangered species list. They were removed from the endangered list in 1987 and Florida allowed selective hunting in 1988.
In 1987, Brevard County, Florida hosted the last member of the Dusky Seaside Sparrow, now extinct. There have been only two extinct bird species since listing of endangered species began in 1973. This event has presented a challenge to ensure that other environmental concerns are addressed quickly.
The Florida Scrub Jay has been thought to be threatened for many years, because the species is territorial and cannot move to better grounds when its habitat is in danger.
Nesting beaches of loggerhead sea turtles are protected.

</doc>
<doc id="288703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288703" title="Tarafa Baghajati">
Tarafa Baghajati

Tarafa Baghajati (, (born September 1st 1961) in Damascus, Syria) is a human right activist and writer,he is also the chairman of the Austrian Muslim Initiative (AMI).
He lives in vienna,Austria since 1986.
Tarafa Baghajati was born in , to parents Adnan Baghajati,an author and former Syrian Education minster,and Amal Homsi,an economic journalist.
In 1984 the Syrian regime detained Baghajati for more than 8 months,he spent three of them in due to his political views.
Since he moved to Austria in 1986,Baghajati is active on the topics of immigration, anti-racism , human right and political issues which also involve especially his home country , he is also very active on the topics of and "Muslim in and Europe", and opposition what is known as , and the practice of female genital mutilation (FGM), in Africa and Europe.
In 1999, he found the initiative of Muslim Austrians ( IMOE ) with his wife , Omar Al-Rawi , Mouddar Khouja and Andrea Saleh, who are members of the Islamic Religion Community in Austria .
Baghajati is a former board member . (2001 - 2007 , 2004-2007 Vice- President ) and member of the Honorary Advisory Board of (ENAR)
He is also a board member of the Platform for Intercultural Europe (PIE).
On March 2009, and Tarafa Baghajati met Sheikh Prof.Dr in Qatar, one of the most best known Islamic contemporary authority scholar. They obtained a issued by the recognized legal scholars, stating the genital mutilation of girls is referred to and forbidden as "devil's work" because it is directed against the ethics of Islam. Speaking at the Hamburg Museum of Ethnology, 6 February 2011 Baghajati ventured to predict to celebrate the end of this practice as early as 2020.
on February 2011,Rüdiger Nehberg and Tarafa Baghajati met this time Sheikh Prof.Dr and obtained a similar fatwa against female genital mutilation.
Baghajati is one of the finders and a board member of European Muslim Initiative for Social Cohesion (EMISCO).
Baghajati graduated as civil engineer from in 1986
Initiative of Muslim Austrians (IMOE) won democracy award by in 2008.
He is married to since 1990,has four children.

</doc>
<doc id="288705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288705" title="Micronation">
Micronation

Micronations are countries started by one or a group of people which is not noticed by the United Nations. These countries are mostly used in people's heads, or on the internet. 
People make micronations for lots of reasons. Some are to show they do not like their main country (for example the UK), or if they want to make money, or to use it as a place for themselves.
Here is a list of some Micronations;
Republic of Dolmatovka (2014).
Some micronations play in competitions.
The biggest football organisation for micronations is known as the MFA "(Micronational Football Association)", founded by Joe Foxon in 2009. It has 13 micronations from 7 countries as members. It makes a competition every 4 years called the MFA World Cup for all the micronations in the world to play in. The first World Cup will be in Southern England in 2013.
Every year there is a chess competition for micronations to play in. It is played on the computer and in the first year, 3 micronations took part.
Every year there is a singing competition called the MicroVision Song Contest. Micronations make a song and put it on the internet, and then other micronations vote for the best song. The winner then makes the next one.
Wikipedia of Micronations

</doc>
<doc id="288709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288709" title="Ilene Woods">
Ilene Woods

Jacqueline Ruth "Ilene" Woods (May 5, 1929 – July 1, 2010) was an American singer and actress who voiced Cinderella in the 1950 Disney movie.
Woods was born on May 5, 1929 in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. As a child Woods was led into singing by her mother. By the age of 11, Woods had her own radio show. 
In 1948, at the age of 18, Woods recorded several songs for friends Mack David and Jerry Livingston. The songs ("Bibbidi Bobbidi Boo", "So This is Love", and "A Dream Is a Wish Your Heart Makes") were then played for Walt Disney. He chose Woods out of 300 other girls to play the part of Cinderella for the Disney movie "Cinderella". Recording the part took about 2 years, working off and on.
Woods was first married to Stephen Steck Jr. They had one child, a daughter named Stephanie. After a divorce, in 1963 she married Ed Shaughnessy. They had two sons, James and Daniel. In 2003 she was recognized as a Disney Legend for her work in "Cinderella".
Woods died on July 1, 2010 from causes related to Alzheimer's disease in Canoga Park, Los Angeles, California. She was 81. 

</doc>
<doc id="288714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288714" title="Zygophyllaceae">
Zygophyllaceae

The Zygophyllaceae is a family of flowering plants that contains the bean-caper and caltrop. It includes around 285 species in 22 genera.
In the APG III system of classification, the families Zygophyllaceae and Krameriaceae compose the order Zygophyllales. 

</doc>
<doc id="288716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288716" title="Hendrik Lorentz">
Hendrik Lorentz

Hendrik Antoon Lorentz (18 July 1853 – 4 February 1928) was a Dutch physicist and mathematician. In 1902, he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics together with Pieter Zeeman for the discovery and theoretical explanation of the Zeeman effect. He also derived the transformation equations that were later used by Albert Einstein to describe space and time.
The Lorentz force is named after him.

</doc>
<doc id="288723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288723" title="Galileo (spacecraft)">
Galileo (spacecraft)

Galileo was an unmanned NASA spacecraft. It explored the planet Jupiter and its moons. Galileo was launched in 1989 and it arrived at Jupiter in 1995.
Galileo was made up of two parts: an orbiter and a probe. The orbiter went into orbit around the planet on December 8, 1995 and went down into Jupiter's atmosphere and was crushed on September 21, 2003. The probe was released from the orbiter on July 13, 1995 and it went towards Jupiter. It reached Jupiter on December 7, 1995 and went down into the atmosphere. The probe gathered data for 57 minutes until the great atmospheric heat and pressure destroyed it.

</doc>
<doc id="288724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288724" title="Henderson's Boys">
Henderson's Boys

Henderson's Boys is a series of young adult spy books. It was written by English author Robert Muchamore. The series follows Charles Henderson, the creator of a fictional espionage organisation CHERUB and is set in the 1940s, during World War II. Henderson goes on various adventures, helped by children. Henderson's Boys is a spin-off of the popular "CHERUB" series, which is about the same organisation the same organisation in modern times. There are seven books in the series. These are "The Escape", "Eagle Day", "Secret Army", "Grey Wolves", "The Prisoner", "One Shot Kill" and "Scorched Earth".

</doc>
<doc id="288733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288733" title="MOX fuel">
MOX fuel

Mixed-oxide fuel (or MOX fuel) is nuclear fuel that contains an oxide of more than one element. Most nuclear fuel that is not of the MOX type only contains uranium dioxide. In most cases, the additional oxide will be plutonium dioxide, sometimes thorium dioxide. Any reactor that uses uranium-based fuel will produce plutonium dioxide. Mox fuel consists of about 93% uranium, and about 7% of thorium or plutonium dioxide.
One of the benefits of using MOX-type fuel is that the plutonium dioxide that is produced, can be re-used for energy generation. Certain types of nuclear power plants need plutonium to work properly.

</doc>
<doc id="288735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288735" title="The Bush (Alaska)">
The Bush (Alaska)

The Bush is a term for the portions of Alaska that are not connected to North America's road network. Most of Alaska's native populations live in the Bush. They live off the land as their ancestors did.
Places in the Bush include Bethel, Dillingham, King Salmon, Nome, Barrow, Katmai National Park, Kodiak Island, Kotzebue, and Unalaska-Dutch Harbor.
Most parts of Alaska that are off the road system can only be reached by small airplane. Travel from place to place is usually by snowmobile or snow machine, boat, or sometimes dog sled.

</doc>
<doc id="288739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288739" title="Arctic Alaska">
Arctic Alaska

Arctic Alaska, or Far North Alaska is a region of the U.S. state of Alaska. It is the northern area close to the Arctic Ocean.
Some of the places in Arctic Alaska are the "North Slope Borough, the Northwest Arctic Borough, and the Nome Census Area". Some towns there are Prudhoe Bay, Barrow, Kotzebue, and Nome.
Most of these places have no highways and can only be reached by aircraft or snowmobile, or by boat if they are on the coast or near a river. Long ago there were only Eskimos living here. They mostly ate salmon, which there are lots of there. More people came to Arctic Alaska when gold was discovered there. Still more people and industry came when petroleum was discovered in the area. Above the Arctic Circle, the sun rises in May and sets in August.
Arctic Alaska is mostly tundra covering mountain ranges and coastal plains. Some of the animals there are bears, wolves, sheep, reindeer, and lots of birds.

</doc>
<doc id="288741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288741" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Category:Cleaning tools">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Category:Cleaning tools


</doc>
<doc id="288744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288744" title="Category:Micronations">
Category:Micronations


</doc>
<doc id="288746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288746" title="Principality of Hutt River">
Principality of Hutt River

The Principality of Hutt River, previously known as the Hutt River Province, is the oldest micronation in Australia. The principality claims to be an independent sovereign state. It is unrecognized except by other micronations, but got de facto legal status on 21 April 1972.
The principality is located north of Perth, near the town of Northampton.
The principality was founded on 21 April 1970 by Leonard George Casley when he and his friends proclaimed their secession from the state of Western Australia.
The Principality of Hutt River was created in 1969, as a province by the name of Hutt River Province, in response to a dispute with the government of Western Australia over what the Casley family considered draconian wheat production quotas. The Casley farm had around of wheat ready to harvest when the quotas were issued which allowed Casley to sell only 1,647 bushels or approximately . Initially the five families who owned farms in Hutt River banded together to fight the quota and Casley lodged a protest with the Governor of Western Australia Sir Douglas Kendrew. The Governor replied "no rectification of our Quota would be allowed" which, as he acts as the Queen's representative, made Her Majesty technically liable, in Tort, for applying an unlawful imposition as the quota had not yet been passed into law. Casley then lodged a claim under the Law of Tort for $52 million in the belief the claim would force a revision of the quota. Two weeks later the government introduced a bill into Parliament to "resume" their rural lands under compulsory acquisition. After approaches to the government to reconsider the acquisition bill failed, Casley and his associates resorted to a British law (the Treason Act 1495) which they felt allowed them to secede and declare their independence from the Commonwealth of Australia. Casley states that he nonetheless remains loyal to Queen Elizabeth II. Casley was elected administrator of the new "sovereign state" by his family.
The government of Western Australia determined it could do nothing without the intervention of the Commonwealth. The Governor-General of Australia, Sir Paul Hasluck, later stated that it was unconstitutional for the Commonwealth to intervene in the secession. In letters with the governor-general's office, Casley was called the "Administrator of the Hutt River Province" by mistake. The Royal Prerogative, makes this recognition binding on all courts. After the government threatened him with prosecution, Casley styled himself "His Royal Highness Prince Leonard I of Hutt" to take advantage of a Commonwealth law that a monarch could not only "not" be charged, but that anyone who interfered with his duties could be charged with treason. Although the law in this matter has since changed, the Australian government has not taken any action against Hutt River since the declaration. Under Australian law, the government had two years to respond to Casley's declaration; the failure to respond gave the province "de facto" legal status on 21 April 1972.
In 1976, Australia Post refused to handle Hutt River mail, forcing mail to be redirected via Canada. Following repeated demands by the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) for the payment of taxes, on 2 December 1977 the province officially declared war on Australia. Prince Leonard notified authorities of the cessation of hostilities several days later. The mail service was restored and tax requests ceased. Hutt River citizens are now classed by the ATO as non-residents of Australia for income tax purposes; thus income earned within the province is exempt from Australian taxation. The province levies its own income tax of 0.5% on financial transactions by foreign companies registered in the province and personal accounts.
While the principality does not pay taxes, the Australian government's current official position is that it is nothing more than a private enterprise operating under a business name.
In the early 1980s Hutt River Province declared itself to be a kingdom, but soon after reverted to its original status of a principality. The principality proceeded to release a number of its own stamps and coins.
In September 2006 Prince Leonard decided to change the name to "Principality of Hutt River" and dropped the word "Province".
The Principality of Hutt River is situated north of Perth along the Hutt River. It is about in size.
Exports include wildflowers, agricultural produce, stamps and coins. Tourism is also important to its economy with 40,000 tourists visiting the principality every year.
Very few people live in Hutt River, but the principality claims a world-wide citizenry of 13,000.
The Principality has no standing army, but a number of its citizens have been awarded military commissions. Honorary guardsmen attend the prince on formal occasions, and despite being completely landlocked, naval commissions have been conferred on supporters of the principality.
The principality's capital, Nain, is named after Nain in Galilee.
When the Principality of Hutt River seceded, a bill of rights, a brief document outlining the rights of "Hutt River" citizens, was drafted. It also provided for an administration board to govern the principality until a permanent government could be set up. When Casley declared himself a prince, the administration board was abolished and the Hutt River Principality became a benevolent absolute monarchy, with a legislation committee to draft new legislation. In 1997, the legislation committee presented a proposal for a constitution to the prince and his cabinet. Its most recent version is ffective from 1 January 2011. All citizens over 18 living in the principality have the right to elect the parliament.
"His Royal Highness Prince Leonard I of Hutt" is the style that has been used by Leonard George Casley since his creation of the Hutt River Principality. Prince Leonard is married to "Her Royal Highness Princess Shirley of Hutt, Dame of the Rose of Sharon" (née Shirley Butler). They have seven adult children, among them is "Crown Prince Ian" (born 1947) who is the Prime Minister of the Principality, and is Prince Leonard's heir apparent.
Prince Ian is involved heavily in the wildflower production, with the product not only being exported to Perth, Western Australia but to many cities internationally.
Princess Shirley plays host to the many dignitaries and diplomatic representatives visiting the principality each year as well as receiving many of the television crews and magazine journalists. She is also royal patron and chairwoman on the board of directors of the Red Cross of Hutt.
In the royal family there are 24 grandchildren and 23 great-grand children in the direct line.
Prince Leonard pursued a number of occupations before purchasing a large wheat farm near Northampton, Western Australia and Geraldton, Western Australia in the 1960s.
A former mathematician and physicist who worked for NASA in the 1950s, the prince has had a star named in his honour.
Despite his advancing years the prince Leonard is known as a keen-minded "bush lawyer". He is also an adherent of hermeticism, a subject on which he has privately published a number of research papers and books.
Prince Leonard is the subject of a permanent exhibit at the National Museum of Australia in Canberra.
A set of low denomination banknotes was introduced in 1974. The first Hutt River coins were not issued until 1976.
The currency of the Hutt River Province Principality is the Hutt River Dollar, which is divided into 100 cents. The Hutt River Dollar is tied at a one-to-one ratio with the Australian dollar.
There were four denominations: 5₵, 10₵, 20₵ and 50₵. These were issued between 1976 and 1978, but the 1978 issue was a proof only issue. There was also a silver $30 coin and a gold $100 coin, struck only in proof.
In 1977 $1 coins were struck to commemorate the Silver Jubilee of Elizabeth II. These coins are known as "holey dollars", a nickname which is applied to the extremely rare New South Wales 5/- coin and the Prince Edward Island 5/- coin, which were cut and counterstamped from Spanish-American Pieces of Eight (8 Reales).
Coins of the same design were struck again in 1978, without the inscription "Queens's Jubilee".
Most of the coins of later series have specific commemorative topics and are usually made of precious metal. The issuance of coins went on until 2000, and resumed with new issues beginning in 2007 to celebrate the 60th wedding anniversary of the Prince and Princess.
The Australian Ambassador to the United Arab Emirates, Jeremy Bruer, upon hearing that an office claiming to represent the “Hutt River Province” was operating in Dubai and allegedly selling travel documents, stated that the Australian Government did not recognise the "Hutt River Province", legally or in any other way.
He further stated that: "The area of land which is described as the 'Hutt River Province' is a privately owned wheat-growing property on the Hutt River, north of Geraldton in the State of Western Australia. It has no special status. It has no separate sovereignty and remains subject to the Australian Constitution and the laws of Australia."
Regarding the use of titles, the ambassador said that: "The Australian Government does not recognise the 'royal titles' nor titles of office, such as 'Head of State', 'State minister' and 'Minister for Foreign Affairs' assumed by the family owning the property nor the use of terms such as 'consulates' and 'principality' in relation to the 'Hutt River Province'."
However, the Hutt River Province argues that it is an independent entity within the Australian legal system and the Commonwealth has no right to dispute the claimed de facto legality it was given in error by the Governor General's office, and its own failure to respond to the claim. To overturn this de facto recognition, the West Australian Governor General's office would have to submit the secession to arbitration, something which the Hutt River Province claims is not done due to legal uncertainty related to the fact that Western Australia in its entirety was never officially proclaimed as British Territory.
Although passports issued by the "Hutt River Province" are not legally recognised by the Australian Government, they have been accepted on a case-by-case basis for overseas travel.
In 2010 Brendon Grylls, the Western Australian Minister for Regional Development and Lands, was asked if his state had a position on the province. He replied "Only that Prince Leonard is an enigma...There is nothing currently on my agenda as Minister...that relates to that."
On the whole, Australian Government departments do not interfere with Hutt River Province. While the Australian Taxation Office has issued a warning on its website for the public not to purchase companies from the PHR, it has not acted against the principality.
The principality had plans to start a university in its territory, which is illegal within Australia. However, the government authorities did not act against PHR. Similarly, the PHR does not pay taxes to the ATO.
In 2008, the Council of the European Union issued a memorandum identifying Hutt River passports among known "fantasy passports...issued by private organisations and individuals" to which a visa should not be affixed.
PHR
Australian Government
Other

</doc>
<doc id="288752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288752" title="Bitcoin">
Bitcoin

Bitcoin is a digital and global money system (currency). It allows people to send or receive money across the internet, even to someone they don't know or don't trust. Money can be exchanged without being linked to a real identity. The mathematical field of cryptography is the basis for Bitcoin's security.
One of the differences between using bitcoin and using regular money online is that bitcoin can be used without having to link any sort of real-world identity to it. Unless someone chooses to link their name to a bitcoin address, it is hard to tell who owns the address. Bitcoin does not keep track of users; it keeps track of addresses where the money is. Each address has two important pieces of cryptographic information, or keys: a public one and a private one. The public key, which is what the "bitcoin address" is created from, is similar to an email address; anyone can look it up and send bitcoins to it. The private address, or private key, is similar to an email password; only with it can the owner send bitcoins from it. Because of this, it is very important that this private key is kept secret. To send bitcoins from an address, you prove to the network that you own the private key that corresponds to the address, without revealing the private key. This is done with a branch of mathematics known as public key cryptography.
A public key is what determines the ownership of bitcoins, and is very similar to an ID number. If someone wanted to send you bitcoins, all you would need to do is supply them your bitcoin address, which is a version of your public key that is easier to read and type. For example, if Bob has 1 bitcoin at the bitcoin address "ABC123," and Alice has no bitcoins at the bitcoin address "DEF456," Bob can send 0.5 bitcoins to "DEF456." As soon as the transaction is processed, Alice and Bob both have 0.5 bitcoins. Anyone using the system can see how much money "ABC123" has and how much money "DEF456" has, but they cannot tell anything about who owns the address.
In the example above, "ABC123" and "DEF456" are the bitcoin addresses of Bob and Alice. But Bob and Alice both have a second key which only they know. This is the private key, and it is the "other half" of a Bitcoin address. The private key is never shared, and allows the owner of the bitcoins to control them. However, if the private key is not kept secret, then anyone who sees it can also control and take the bitcoins there. This happened on live TV when Bloomberg's Matt Miller accidentally showed a private key to viewers. The money was taken immediately. The person who took it, told others about it later, saying "I'll send it back once Matt gives me a new address, since someone else can sweep [empty] out the old one."
Sites or users using the Bitcoin system are required to use a global database called the blockchain. The blockchain is a record of all transactions that have taken place in the Bitcoin network. It also keeps track of new bitcoins as they are generated. With these two facts, the blockchain is able to keep track of who has how much money at all times.
To generate a bitcoin, computers run specialized software. Because of how complicated the math needed to generate a bitcoin is, they must be calculated with very powerful processors. These processors can be found in CPUs, graphics cards, or specialized machines called ASICs. The process of generating the bitcoins is called mining. People who use their computers to mine Bitcoin, are paid with a small percentage of the bitcoins they generate.
A popular image associated with Bitcoin is a QR code. QR codes are the groups of black and white boxes seen at right. QR codes are similar to barcodes. Where barcodes have one dimension of information, QR codes have two (horizontal and vertical). Barcodes are a row of lines, and QR codes are a grid of squares. Bitcoin uses QR codes because they can store a lot of information in a small space, and a camera such as a smartphone can read them. The two QR codes on the Bitcoin note are the public and private addresses, and can be scanned with a number of online tools.
Everyone in the Bitcoin network is considered a peer, and all addresses are created equal. All transactions can take place solely from peer-to-peer, but a number of sites exist to make these transactions simpler. These sites are called exchanges. Exchanges provide tools for dealing in Bitcoin. Some allow the purchase of Bitcoin from external accounts, and others allow trading with other cryptography-based currencies like Bitcoin. Most exchanges also provide a basic "wallet" service.
Wallets provide a handy way to keep track of all of a user's public and private addresses. Because addresses are pseudo-anonymous, anyone can have as many addresses as they want. This is useful for dealing with multiple people, but it can get complicated to manage multiple accounts. A wallet holds all of this information in a convenient place, just like a real wallet would.
Bitcoin adoption and use continues to grow a lot every year. Since 2012, Bitcoin has gained the attention of the mainstream media. Adoption growth has not only happened for consumers, but also for many companies, who are looking to make use of all the advantages of Bitcoin.

</doc>
<doc id="288770" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288770" title="Andrew Fire">
Andrew Fire

Andrew Zachary Fire (born April 27, 1959 in Palo Alto, California) is an American biologist. He is a professor of pathology and genetics at Stanford University School of Medicine. Fire was given the 2006 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for the discovery of RNA interference. The research was conducted at Carnegie Institution for Science and published in 1998.
Fire completed high school at age 15. He wanted to study at Stanford University, where he would later work, but was not accepted. He studied at the University of Californiaat Berkeley. Fire graduated with a bachelor's degree in mathematics at 19, and earned a PhD from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in 1983.
In 2006, Fire and Craig Mello shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for work first published in 1998 in the journal "Nature". The paper reports that tiny snippets of double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) effectively shut down specific genes, and so caused the destruction of messenger RNA (mRNA) with sequences matching the dsRNA. As a result, the mRNA cannot be translated into protein. 
Fire and Mello found that dsRNA was much more effective in gene silencing than the previously described method of RNA interference with single-stranded RNA. Because only small numbers of dsRNA molecules were required for the observed effect, Fire and Mello proposed that a catalytic process was involved. This hypothesis was confirmed by later research.
The Nobel Prize citation, issued by Sweden's Karolinska Institute, said: "This year's Nobel Laureates have discovered a fundamental mechanism for controlling the flow of genetic information". The British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) quoted Nick Hastie, director of the Medical Research Council's Human Genetics Unit, on the scope and implications of the research:

</doc>
<doc id="288776" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288776" title="Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Goodvac">
Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Goodvac


</doc>
<doc id="288782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288782" title="Stanley Cohen">
Stanley Cohen

Stanley Cohen (born November 17, 1922) is an American biochemist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1986. His research helped people understand how cancer starts and how to design anti-cancer drugs.
He was also, with Herbert Boyer, one of the first to do any kind of genetic engineering.
Cohen majored in chemistry and biology at Brooklyn College. He received a bachelor's degree in 1943, and worked as a bacteriologist at a plant that processes milk. Later in 1945, he received an M.A. in zoology from Oberlin College. He also received a Ph.D. from the department of biochemistry at the University of Michigan in 1948.
In the 1950s, Cohen worked with Rita Levi-Montalcini at Washington University in St. Louis. He isolated the nerve growth factor and then discovered the epidermal growth factor. In 1959, he began teaching biochemistry at Vanderbilt University.
Cohen also received the Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize from Columbia University in 1983 and the National Medal of Science in 1986.

</doc>
<doc id="288787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288787" title="Nephron">
Nephron

Nephrons are tiny tubules (miniature tubes) which make up the smallest working part of the kidney. In other words, they are the smallest level where the kidney removes waste, excess salt and excess water. Each nephron starts in the cortex of the kidney, then goes into the medulla of the kidney, before coming back to the cortex, then goes through the medulla into the pelvis. In the pelvis, the nephrons join up with the ureter. 
In humans, a normal kidney has between 800,000 and 1.5 million nephrons.

</doc>
<doc id="288790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288790" title="Category:1620 deaths">
Category:1620 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="288797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288797" title="Parliament of Canada">
Parliament of Canada

The Parliament of Canada () is the federal legislative branch of Canada, seated at Parliament Hill in the national capital, Ottawa. 
It has three parts. 
The governor general summons and appoints each of the 105 members of the upper house on the advice of the Prime Minister of Canada, while the 308 members of the lower house are directly elected by Canadian voters, with each Member of Parliament representing a single electoral district.

</doc>
<doc id="288798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288798" title="Category:1631 births">
Category:1631 births


</doc>
<doc id="288799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288799" title="Category:1631">
Category:1631


</doc>
<doc id="288800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288800" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/The Empire-Builder from Calisota">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/The Empire-Builder from Calisota


</doc>
<doc id="288807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288807" title="Queen Máxima of the Netherlands">
Queen Máxima of the Netherlands

Queen Máxima of the Netherlands (born as "Máxima Zorreguieta"; 17 May 1971) is the wife of Willem-Alexander, Prince of Orange, the King of the Netherlands.
She was born Máxima Zorreguieta in Buenos Aires, Argentina, on 17 May 1971. Máxima is the daughter of Jorge Horacio Zorreguieta Stefanini a farmer and a politician. He was the under-secretary of Agriculture under Jorge R. Videla's military dictatorship. She studied in Northlands School, in Argentina. She has two brothers, a sister and three half-sisters by her father's first wife.
She graduated with a degree in Economics from the Universidad Católica Argentina in 1995 before working for large international companies in Finance in Argentina, New York and Europe.
Máxima met the crown prince in April 1999 in Sevilla, Spain, during the Seville Spring Fair. This is an important annual event, to which many people from other countries come and dress in typical Spanish Andalusian costume. In an interview, they stated that he introduced himself only as "Alexander," so that she did not know he was a prince. She thought he was joking when he told her he was a Prince. They agreed to meet in New York, where Máxima was working for Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, two weeks later. Their relationship apparently began in New York, but the Princess did not meet the Prince's parents, Queen Beatrix and Prince Claus, for some time.
The news of the couple's relationship and eventual marriage plans caused controversy in the Netherlands. Máxima's father had been the Minister of Agriculture during the regime of former Argentine President Jorge Rafael Videla, a military dictator who ruled Argentina from 1976 to 1981 and who was responsible for many atrocities against civilians (non-military people). An estimated 10,000–30,000 people disappeared during this and later military regimes. Democracy was restored to Argentina in 1983. 
Jorge Zorreguieta claimed that, as a civilian, he did not know about the Dirty War while he was a cabinet minister. Professor Baud was asked by the Dutch Parliament to research in what way Jorge Zorreguieta was involved in the war. He concluded that it would have been unlikely for a person in such a powerful position in the government to not know about the Dirty War. But the research also found that Máxima's father had not been directly involved with the many deaths in question.
The Dutch parliament gave permission for Máxima and Willem-Alexander to marry. This is necessary by law for the Prince of Orange to be able to become king. Because of the research around his involvement in the Dirty War, Máxima's father offered not to attend the wedding. Out of solidarity with her husband, Máxima's mother also did not come to the wedding on 2 February 2002 in Amsterdam.
The couple announced their engagement on 30 March 2001. Princess Máxima talked to the nation in fluent Dutch during the live broadcast on the occasion of the engagement.
Princess Máxima and Prince Willem-Alexander were married on 2 February 2002 in a civil ceremony in the Beurs van Berlage, Amsterdam. After that they had a religious ceremony at the Nieuwe Kerk (also in Amsterdam).
The second names of all three of their daughters are also the names of the last 3 Dutch queens: Amalia's for her grandmother, Queen Beatrix, Alexia's for her great-grandmother, Queen Juliana and Ariane's for her great-great-grandmother, Queen Wilhelmina.
Queen Máxima is also godmother to two royal babies: "Countess Leonore of Orange-Nassau" (daughter of Prince Constantijn and Princess Laurentien of the Netherlands) and of "Prince Sverre Magnus of Norway" (son of Crown Prince Haakon and Crown Princess Mette-Marit of Norway).

</doc>
<doc id="288810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288810" title="Rhynie chert">
Rhynie chert

The Rhynie chert is an Lower Devonian sedimentary deposit, part of the Old Red Sandstone. It has extraordinary fossil details, and is a Lagerstätte. 
The chert is exposed near the village of Rhynie, Aberdeenshire, Scotland. A second unit, the Windyfield chert, is located some 700 m away.
The Rhynie chert contains exceptionally preserved material covered by an overlying volcanic deposit. Most of the fossil bed has primitive plants (which had water-conducting cells and sporangia, but no true leaves), along with arthropods, lichens, algae and fungi.
This fossil bed is remarkable for two reasons. First, the age of the site, formed about 410 million years ago. This places it at an early stage in the colonisation of land.
Second, these cherts are famous for their exceptional state of preservation, with individual cell walls easily visible in polished specimens. Stomata have been counted and lignin remnants detected in the plant material. The book lungs of some early spiders can be seen in cross-sections. Fungal hyphae can be seen entering plant material, acting as decomposers and mycorrhizal symbionts.
The oldest known insect ("Rhyniognatha hirsti"), which resembles the modern springtails, was found in the Rhynie chert, pushing dates for the origination of insects back to the Silurian period.
The chert was discovered by William Mackie while mapping the western margin of the Rhynie basin in 1910–1913. 
Since 1980, the chert has been examined by the Münster group, and from 1987 by Aberdeen University. They showed the chert was indeed produced by a hot spring setting. Cores were drilled in 1988 and 1997.
The chert was formed when silica-rich water from volcanic springs rose and rapidly petrified the early terrestrial ecosystem "in situ". Organisms are petrified that way by hot springs today, although that quality of preservation has not been found in recent deposits. Hot springs, with temperatures between , were active; the water had probably cooled to under before it reached the fossilised organisms. The deposits are interbedded with sands, shales and tuffs, which speaks of local volcanic activity. Deposition was very rapid.
The texture of the silica formed is like that found today in freshwater streams at Yellowstone National Park. They are typically alkaline (pH 8.7) and tepid . 
Living vegetation covered around 55% of the land area, with litter covering 30% and the remaining 15% of the ground being bare.

</doc>
<doc id="288825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288825" title="Fuckin' Perfect">
Fuckin' Perfect

Fuckin' Perfect (also known as "Perfect") is a song by American singer-songwriter Pink. It was released as the second single from her album, "Greatest Hits... So Far!!!" on December 14, 2010. The song was written by Pink with Tre' Shon Jenkins, Max Martin and Shellback. They also produced the song.
The song is similar to Pink's previous single, "Raise Your Glass". This is because it tells people to accept each other for who they are.
The video has been debated, as it contains topics such as depression, self-harm, and suicide.
"Fuckin' Perfect" rose to number two in "Billboard" Hot 100. In this way, it became Pink's eleventh top-ten song in the United States. The song became a top 10 hit in Australia, Canada, Germany, Ireland, New Zealand, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. It went up to the top 40 in Belgium, Denmark, Hungary, Sweden, and Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="288832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288832" title="Category:Law enforcement agencies of the United States">
Category:Law enforcement agencies of the United States


</doc>
<doc id="288833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288833" title="Adobe Acrobat">
Adobe Acrobat

Adobe Acrobat is a family of software made by Adobe Systems. Software in the family can read and display Portable Document Format (PDF) files. Acrobat software can convert PDFs to other formats, PDF to Microsoft Word or Excel for example. It can also combine multiple file types into a single PDF file.

</doc>
<doc id="288837" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288837" title="Lesser Poland Voivodeship">
Lesser Poland Voivodeship

Lesser Poland Voivodeship, or Małopolska Province, is a voivodeship, or province, in southern Poland. It is , and as of 2006, has 3,267,731 residents. It was created on 1 January 1999. The capital of the province is Kraków.
The province's natural borders are Świętokrzyskie Mountains ("Góry Świętokrzyskie") on the north, "Jura Krakowsko-Częstochowska" (a broad range of hills stretching from Kraków to Częstochowa) on the west, and the Tatra, Pieniny and Beskidy Mountains on the south. The provinces and countries it is bordered by are the Silesian Voivodeship to the west, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship to the north, Subcarpathian Voivodeship to the east, and the country of Slovakia to the south.

</doc>
<doc id="288842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288842" title="Intransitive verb">
Intransitive verb

In English, an intransitive verb is an action that involves the object or person doing the action by itself. For example: "The door opened." (by itself) This contrasts with a transitive verb, where the action is done by someone or something else, i.e.: "The person opened the door."

</doc>
<doc id="288847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288847" title="Randolph Scott">
Randolph Scott

Randolph Scott (January 23, 1898 – March 2, 1987) was an American actor.
Randolph Scott made ​​his film debut in the silent film "Sharp Shooters" (1928). And in 1929 has a small role in the western starring Gary Cooper "The Virginian". Scott was one of the leading film actors in starring western, and one of the best interpreters of the genre. Its first western classics were "The Last of the Mohicans" (1936) and "Western Union" (1941) directed by Fritz Lang.
In 1943 he starred with Glenn Ford in the western "The Desperadoes", directed by Charles Vidor.
Some of his classic 1940 was "Belle of the Yukon" (1944), as Gentleman Jack, and "Badman's Territory" (1946), as Sheriff Mark Rowley. 
Scott also co-starred with John Wayne in "Pittsburgh" (1942), and with Charles Laughton in "Captain Kidd" (1945), two films from the 1940s.
The 1950 was one of the best for Scott stars in dozens of western. Among his films are "7th Cavalry" (1956), he plays the role of Capt. Tom Benson. a Capt accused of cowardice, "The Tall T" (1957), as Pat Brennan, a cowboy who is kidnapped with a woman, the villain is Frank Usher, played by Richard Boone, and "Ride Lonesome" (1959), with Pernell Roberts.
In "Comanche Station" (1960), Scott is Jefferson Cody, A cowboy saves a woman who had been kidnapped by Indians Comanches, then struggles to get both of them home alive. This western was directed by Budd Boetticher, and written by Burt Kennedy. And his last western was "Ride the High Country" (1962), with Joel McCrea. Scott played role of Gil Westrum, an old gunslinger who with McCrea help a young woman escape from the bandits who pursue. 

</doc>
<doc id="288850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288850" title="Nichiren">
Nichiren

Nichiren (16 February 1222 - 13 October 1282) was a Buddhism priest who lived in Japan. He is often called "Nichiren", "Nichi" means "sun" and "ren" means "lotus". The type of Buddhism he founded is known as Nichiren Buddhism. Nichiren's actions and writings are the basis of the modern Buddhist organization Soka Gakkai International (SGI). According to SGI's interpretation of Buddhism, it is through faith, practice and study that people can tap into their Buddha nature, become truly happy, and build a peaceful society. Faith refers to the belief in the concept known as "the mystic law of the universe." Practice means to chant every day the phrase "Nam-myo-ho-renge-kyo" and sections from the Lotus Sutra while sitting in front of the Gohonzon, a sacred scroll that hangs in the butsudan (an altar). Practice also entails telling other people about Nichiren Buddhism. Study means reading the writings of Nichren and discussing the readings with other people.

</doc>
<doc id="288865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288865" title="Bass Reeves">
Bass Reeves

Bass Reeves (1838-1910) was an African American sheriff in Arkansas, who brought in hundreds of convicts. He was born as a slave, but then escaped his abusive master. He was one of the first African Americans to work in law enforcement west of the Mississippi River.

</doc>
<doc id="288887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288887" title="Stereotypic movement disorder">
Stereotypic movement disorder

People with stereotypic movement disorder often hurt themselves. Some people make behaviors such as keeping their hands in their pockets, to prevent these movements. Cause of stereotypic movement disorder is certain physical conditions, head injuries and use of some drugs (cocaine). Childhood habits can result in negative social interactions and avoidance by peers and family members. Some repetitive behaviors can cause damage. The most common treatment approaches used for children with this condition are therapies aimed at reducing stress that may trigger the movements and changing behaviors. Some medications may also help reduce stereotypic behavior. Naltrexone has been used with some success in reducing stereotypic self-injurious behavior. In some cases, antidepressants such as Prozac, Zoloft and Luvox (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors), or Anafranil (a tricyclic antidepressant) may be helpful.

</doc>
<doc id="288888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288888" title="Gannet">
Gannet

Gannets are seabirds in the genus Morus. They are related to boobies. They are large white and black with yellow heads. They have long, pointed wings and long bills.
Gannets only lay one blue egg.

</doc>
<doc id="288908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288908" title="Cabot High School">
Cabot High School

Cabot High School (CHS) is a public high school for students in grades nine through twelve in Cabot, Arkansas. Cabot High School is administered by the Cabot Public School District, which covers Cabot, Austin, Ward, and northern Lonoke County. CHS has been accredited by the North Central Association since 1967.
As of 2010, the school gives Advanced Placement Program (AP) exams in the following areas:
Cabot High has the following clubs for students to join:
The Cabot Panthers' football team has had success during the tenure of Coach Mike Malham. The Panthers won the state championship in 1983 and 2000 and were state championship runner-ups in 1997 and 1998. 
Cabot Panthers Golf team has won multiple titles in the past two decades. 
Other sports at Cabot High are Baseball, Boys Basketball, Girls Basketball, Cross Country, Soccer, Softball, Cheerleading, Dance Team, Swimming, Tennis, Track, Bowling, Volleyball, and Wrestling

</doc>
<doc id="288913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288913" title="Mazon Creek">
Mazon Creek

Mazon Creek is a lagerstätte in northeast Illinois. It is a site of exceptional fossil preservation from the Pennsylvanian sub-period of the Carboniferous, about 300 million years ago.
The area was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1997. 
The site's greatest find is the oldest-known beetle.
The sediments were laid in a gigantic tropical estuary, a river delta with shifting channels and mud and sand bars. Much of the continent was then covered by a great internal epeiric sea, which sometimes swept over the area, and then withdrew.
Coal measures are formed like this. A low-lying tropical swamp or rain forest forms a peat swamp which is short of oxygen. Dead plant material builds up, and does not decompose entirely. The plant material gets buried as a peat bog. From time to time rivers bring down a load of sediment from nearby mountains, covering the swamp. Eventually layers of coal alternate with layers of sandy deposit. Pressure turns it all into hard rock. Later on, the rocks are uncovered by erosion, and fossils can be found by humans.
The huge growth of vegetation at this time produced coal measures, and the fossils were found in concretions (hard balls) in the spoil heaps of coal mines. The concretions are caused by iron carbonate, FeCO, which makes the parcel of mud and organic material into hard balls.
Fossil specimens have been found which belong to these groups of plants and animals:

</doc>
<doc id="288914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288914" title="Diocese of Truro">
Diocese of Truro

The Diocese of Truro is a Church of England diocese in the Province of Canterbury.
The area included in the diocese is that of the county of Cornwall including the Isles of Scilly. It was formed in 1876 from the western parts of the Diocese of Exeter and the first bishop was appointed in 1877. The Christian faith has been alive in the region since at least the 4th century AD. Many of the communities in the diocese, as well as the parish churches, bear a Celtic saint's name, which is a reminder of the links with other Celtic lands. The head of the diocese is the bishop of Truro, Tim Thornton, and the cathedral is in Truro. 
There are 225 parishes with a little more than 300 church buildings in the diocese.

</doc>
<doc id="288921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288921" title="Makaton">
Makaton

Makaton is a set of simple sign language and black-and-white symbols (pictures) which are used alongside simple talk. Makaton is a sign language that is free to teach other people but it is also sold, taught, guarded and checked up on by the business which started it. Makaton started with simple ordinary English and British Sign Language hand-signs; the pictures were added later. It is now used all over the world and changed for the country it is used in. It uses the same hand-signs as the sign language of the country it is used in but not in the same way. For example, in Britain, Makaton hand-signing is mostly made from BSL (British Sign Language), but the signs are used in a different order alongside the simple spoken words. 
Makaton is mainly taught to children and adults with special needs in speech and language, with or without hearing problems, by teachers, teaching assistants and childcare practitioners, carers or caregivers such as parents, grandparents, foster carers, other friends and family, and specialist clinicians such as speech and language therapists. Makaton is also popular to use with babies - "baby signing".
In British television, Justin Fletcher uses Makaton signing in "Something Special", a series of television programmes aimed at children with special needs shown on CBeebies. It was also used by Dave Benson Phillips while telling nursery rhymes on BBC children's television years earlier than this. 
In schools and nursery schools and childcare as well as at home Makaton signs and symbols are often used alongside other ways of talking and showing like photographs and "PECS", which are drawn colour pictures of parts of a routine, like washing hands, eating a snack, or using the toilet. This way of using different ways of showing routines and making requests for people with communication problems is sometimes called "total communication".

</doc>
<doc id="288941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288941" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Cabot High School">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Cabot High School

Barliner "has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:" Notability. Ordinary high school, not notable. I suggested QD yesterday, but has since been recreated but with no notability apparent
"Please discuss this request below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options other than "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
This request is due to close on 12:57, 6 April 2011 (UTC), seven days after it was filed, although it may be closed earlier due to .

</doc>
<doc id="288942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288942" title="Cladocera">
Cladocera

Cladocera is an order of small crustaceans commonly called water fleas. Around 620 species have been recognised so far, with many more undescribed. 
They are everywhere in inland aquatic habitats, but rare in the oceans. Most are long, with a down-turned head, and a carapace covering the thorax and abdomen. There is a single median compound eye. They swim with jerking flea-like movements. 
Most species show cyclical parthenogenesis, where asexual reproduction is occasionally supplemented by sexual reproduction. The sexual reproduction produces resting eggs that allow the species to survive harsh conditions and disperse to distant habitats.

</doc>
<doc id="288957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288957" title="Old Red Sandstone">
Old Red Sandstone

The Old Red Sandstone is a dark red sandstone laid down in the Devonian period over a large part of the northern continent of Laurussia.
Laurussia, which is often called the Old Red Continent, included much of northern Europe, Greenland and North America. It was, at the time, between 0 and 30 south of the equator.
The Old Red Sandstone (ORS) was first discovered in Great Britain, and it played a big part in early geology. The term 'Old Red Sandstone' was first used in 1821 by Scottish naturalist and mineralogist Robert Jameson.
In 1787 James Hutton saw what is now known as Hutton's Unconformity at Jedburgh in the Scottish Borders.
Later, on the Berwickshire coast, he found Siccar Point. There was "a beautiful picture of this junction washed bare by the sea", where 345 million year old Devonian Old Red Sandstone overlies 425 million year old Silurian greywacke.
The unconformity represents a gap in the record of geological time. During this time the rocks were raised above sea level, and erosion took place. Folding and faulting occurred as the Caledonian mountains were formed when a section of northwestern Europe collided with a continental plate made up of parts of present-day North America and Greenland. The lower strata tilted almost vertical.
The ORS rocks were deposited in a series of low-lying terrestrial basins, with lakes and rivers. These basins were between ranges of the Caledonian mountains. The ORS was laid down in this non-marine terrestrial environment. Thick deposits of sand and mud, 11,000 metres (36,000 feet) deep, often stained red by oxidized iron minerals, collected as the basins sank down.
The ORS was laid down over a long period of time from the Uppermost Silurian to the Lower Carboniferous (Mississippian), 418–355 million years ago.
The ORS is a rock formation which varies from place to place as the circumstances at the time must have varied.
The dark red colour of these rocks comes from iron oxide. However, not all the Old Red Sandstone is red or sandstone — the sequence also includes conglomerates, mudstones, siltstones and thin limestones and colours can range from grey and green through red to purple.
These deposits got sediment from the erosion of the Caledonian Mountain chain. This was built by the collision of the former continents to make the Old Red Sandstone Continent. This sequence is known as the Caledonian Orogeny.

</doc>
<doc id="288959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288959" title="Joe Flanigan">
Joe Flanigan

Joe Flanigan (born January 5, 1967) is an American television actor. He is best known for playing the character Major/Lt. Colonel John Sheppard in "Stargate Atlantis". He shares his birthday with "Stargate Atlantis" co-star Paul McGillion.

</doc>
<doc id="288969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288969" title="Craftsman architecture">
Craftsman architecture

Craftsman was a style of architecture in the United States in the early 20th century. It is called that because Gustav Stickley, a craftsman furniture maker, had a magazine called "The Craftsman". The movement was part of the Arts and Crafts movement that started in England in the late 19th century. It wanted a "simpler way of life" that was not like American and English industrialized society. Architects such as Greene and Greene designed Craftsman homes such as the Gamble House. These houses were well-made, but did not have a lot of ornamentation. Often they played off of natural themes. A smaller version of the craftsman home was the bungalow. By the 1910s, Craftsman bungalows were being built in large numbers in and around American cities. Besides America and England, there was a lot of Craftsman architecture in Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="288972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288972" title="Eugène Dubois">
Eugène Dubois

Marie Eugène François Thomas Dubois (28 January 1858 – 16 December 1940) was a Dutch paleoanthropologist. He earned worldwide fame for his discovery of "Pithecanthropus erectus" (later redesignated "Homo erectus"), or 'Java Man'. Although hominid fossils had been found and studied before, Dubois was the first anthropologist to embark upon a purposeful search for them.
Between 1887 and 1895, Dubois searched at potential sites near rivers and in caves, first on the island of Sumatra, then on the island of Java.
In 1891, Dubois discovered remains of what he described as "a species in between humans and apes". He called his finds "Pithecanthropus erectus" ("ape-human that stands upright") or Java Man. Today, they are classified as "Homo erectus" ("human that stands upright"). These were the first specimens of early hominid remains to be found outside of Africa or Europe. 
In 1895, Dubois returned to Europe and toured the continent to convince his colleagues that he had indeed found a missing link. Although most anthropologists were intrigued, they did not always agree with Dubois' interpretations. After that, Dubois refused others access to his fossils, until he was forced to do so in 1923.

</doc>
<doc id="288979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288979" title="Torri Higginson">
Torri Higginson

Sarah Victoria "Torri" Higginson (born Burlington, Ontario, December 6, 1969) is a Canadian actress. She is best known for her roles in the "TekWar" movies and series, "The English Patient", "Bliss", and "Stargate Atlantis". 
Higginson took over the role of Dr. Elizabeth Weir from Jessica Steen in a guest spot on the season eight opener of "Stargate SG-1". She was then carried over as the leader of the Atlantis expedition on "Stargate Atlantis" and played that role until the end of the show's third season. She was reduced from a main cast member to a recurring role in the fourth season. She did not play the role for the show's fifth season.

</doc>
<doc id="288980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288980" title="Rachel Luttrell">
Rachel Luttrell

Rachel Luttrell (born 19 January 1971) is an actress. She is best known for her roles as Veronica Beck in the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation TV series "Street Legal" and Teyla Emmagan, an Athosian warrior leader on "Stargate Atlantis".

</doc>
<doc id="288984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288984" title="Sun angle">
Sun angle

Sun angle is the angle of incidence at which sunlight strikes the Earth at a particular location, time of a day, and season. It controls the amount of heat energy received at this location on the globe and affects the climate due to the Earth's orbit around the sun and the Earth's rotation. 
Seasonal change in the angle of sunlight, caused by the tilt of the Earth's axis, is the basic mechanism that results both in warmth of the weather and in length of the day. 

</doc>
<doc id="288986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288986" title="Huntington Beach, California">
Huntington Beach, California

Huntington Beach is a ocean town in Orange County, California. According to the 2010 Census estimate, the number of people living in Huntington Beach is 202,556. This makes it one of the largest cities in Orange County in the number of people, or population. It is has the Pacific Ocean on the southwest, Seal Beach in the northwest, Costa Mesa to the east, Newport Beach on the southeast, Westminster to the north, and Fountain Valley to the northeast.
Huntington Beach is well known for its 8.5 mile (13.7 km) strip of beach running down the west side. The beach is a very good place for surfing. Several surfing meets are held there each year.
The beach is named for Henry E. Huntington, the head of the Pacific Electric Railway. The PE served Huntington Beach for many years.

</doc>
<doc id="288990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288990" title="2001 Sino-Russian Treaty of Friendship">
2001 Sino-Russian Treaty of Friendship

The Treaty of Good-Neighborliness and Friendly Cooperation Between the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation (FCT) is a treaty outlining a twenty-year cooperation between China and Russia. It was signed by the leaders of the two world powers, Jiang Zemin and Vladimir Putin, on July 16, 2001.
The treaty describes actions that should be taken by the two countries to establish for peaceful relations and economic cooperation, as well as diplomatic and political reliance. Article 9 of the treaty has started controversy because it may be viewed as a defense pact, meaning if one of the two countries becomes involved in a war, the other country must help them. Additionally, articles A7 and A16 point at increasing military cooperation, including the sharing of "military know-how" (A16), namely, Chinese access to Russian military technology.
The treaty also describes a mutual, cooperative approach to environmental technology regulations and energy conservation; and toward international finance and trade. The document affirms Russia's stand on Taiwan as "an inalienable part of China" (A5), and highlights the commitment to ensure the "national unity and territorial integrity" in the two countries (A4).
Analysts have pointed out several different reasons for the FCT, mostly involving benefits for both China and Russia.
Both China and Russia fear the United States (especially following its strengthened geopolitical position following the September 11, 2001 attacks) becoming involved in areas which they believe should only be affected by their respective spheres of national influences and interests: for China, this largely involves Taiwan serving as a US client state, while for Russia it involves having various former Soviet Republics as US client states. Many of these do not border either country, though Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan border China, and Kazakhstan borders both.
The United States, Japan and the European Union are three economic powers which have a skilled workforce and access to capital. Russia and China can more effectively compete against these powers in the world economy if Russia has access to Chinese capital and China has access to Russian training and technology.

</doc>
<doc id="288996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288996" title="Einstein field equations">
Einstein field equations

The Einstein field equations, or Einstein-Hilbert equations, or simply Einstein equations are equations that describe gravity in the classical sense. They are named after Albert Einstein and David Hilbert. The basic idea is to use geometry to model the effects of gravity. The usual form of the equations is that of nonlinear partial differential equations. Such equations are usually solved by approximation. An exact solution can be obtained in special cases, where certain assumptions are dropped, or simplified.
Einstein used mathematical objects called "tensors" to describe the curvature of spacetime to define gravity. The equation below is the general form of the EFE :
formula_1
Where R is known as the "Ricci curvature tensor", g is the "metric tensor", "R" is the scalar curvature, Λ is the "cosmological constant", "G" is the gravitational constant, π is pi, c is the speed of light, and T is called the "stress-energy tensor". 

</doc>
<doc id="289006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289006" title="Category:Formula One constructor templates">
Category:Formula One constructor templates


</doc>
<doc id="289009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289009" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/January 31 – February 2, 2011 North American winter storm">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/January 31 – February 2, 2011 North American winter storm


</doc>
<doc id="289010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289010" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/December 2010 North American blizzard">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/December 2010 North American blizzard


</doc>
<doc id="289012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289012" title="Mie scattering">
Mie scattering

Mie scattering is the way that light scatters when it hits an object. It is named after the German physicist, Gustav Mie. This theory is good for all wavelengths of light, and all object sizes. If the object is much smaller than the wavelength of light, Rayleigh scattering theory is also quite good.
When the object is big, the light can hit many places on the object. A quite good formula for the scattering is:

</doc>
<doc id="289017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289017" title="Clint Walker">
Clint Walker

Clint Walker (born May 30, 1927, in Hartford, Illinois, U.S.) is an American actor.
Clint Walker began his career playing role Tarzan in "Jungle Gents" (1954), then played the role of Sardinian, in the classical biblical movie "The Ten Commandments" (1956).
Clint made ​​several western movies on the big screen "Fort Dobbs" (1958), and Yellowstone Kelly (1959), directed by Gordon Douglas, 
Gold of the Seven Saints (1961), with Roger Moore, More Dead Than Alive (1969) with Vincent Price, Sam Whiskey (1969) with Burt Reynolds. And the western starring with Charles Bronson, "The White Buffalo" (1977).
He also starred in television Westerns "Yuma" (1971) and "The Bounty Man" (1972).
Among his best works is the war movie "The Dirty Dozen" (1967), with Lee Marvin, He plays one of the dozen prisoners, who are elected by Marvin for a suicide mission. Walker also worked with Frank Sinatra in war movie, "None But the Brave" (1965), directed by Frank Sinatra.
In 1955 he was hired to star in the ABC TV series "Cheyenne", in which he played cowboy adventurer Cheyenne Bodie who, after the Civil War, roamed the Wild-West fighting bandits, cattle rustlers and Native American rebels. The series aired between 1955 and 1963 over more than 108 episodes. It was very successful, despite Clint's less-than-enthusiastic acceptance of the punishing demands of TV stardom.

</doc>
<doc id="289020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289020" title="Hope, British Columbia">
Hope, British Columbia

Hope is a district municipality in British Columbia, Canada. Hope is in the confluence of both of the Fraser and Coquihalla rivers. As of 2006, 6,185 people lived there. The current mayor of Hope is Laurie French. During World War II there was a internment camp in Hope for the Canadians of Japanese extraction.

</doc>
<doc id="289022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289022" title="Princeton, British Columbia">
Princeton, British Columbia

Princeton is a Canadian district municipality in British Columbia, Canada. Princeton is in the Similkameen region of British Columbia. The population of Princeton as of 2006 is 2,677. The current mayor of Princeton is Randy McLean. Princeton is also known for it's castle, which is on the outskirts of Princeton. The castle is now a resort.

</doc>
<doc id="289024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289024" title="Merritt, British Columbia">
Merritt, British Columbia

Merritt is a Canadian city in British Columbia, Canada. Marritt is in the south-central Interior of British Columbia and also in the Nicola Valley. As of 2006, Marritt had 6,998 people. The current mayor of Merritt is Susan Roline. Merritt is home to a BCHL (British Columbia Hockey League) team called the Merritt Centennials which is the oldest ice hockey team in the league. In 2008, the Country Music Hall of Fame relocated from Calgary to Merritt.

</doc>
<doc id="289025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289025" title="Rayleigh scattering">
Rayleigh scattering

Rayleigh scattering is the way that light scatters when it hits a very small object. The theory is good if the wavelength of light is much bigger than the object. It is named after Lord Rayleigh.
and it also mainly discovered by Raman as through Raman scattering. 

</doc>
<doc id="289026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289026" title="John William Strutt, 3rd Baron Rayleigh">
John William Strutt, 3rd Baron Rayleigh

John William Strutt, 3rd Baron Rayleigh, OM (12 November 1842 – 30 June 1919) was an English Physicist. He won the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1904. He discovered argon and Rayleigh scattering.

</doc>
<doc id="289030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289030" title="Big Fat Liar">
Big Fat Liar

Big Fat Liar is an 2002 teen comedy movie that was produced by Michael Goldman, Marie Cantin, Brian Robbins and Michael Tollin and was directed by Shawn Levy. Big Fat Liar was released on February 8, 2002 in North America. The movie received mixed reviews with a 44% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 36 out of 100 from Metacritic. 

</doc>
<doc id="289039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289039" title="Kunal Nayyar">
Kunal Nayyar

Kunal Nayyar (born 30 April, 1981) is a British-Indian actor. He is best known for playing "Rajesh Koothrappali", an astrophysicist on the television series, "The Big Bang Theory". He also played a terrorist in the series, "NCIS". He was born in London, England and was raised in New Delhi, India.

</doc>
<doc id="289045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289045" title="3 Juno">
3 Juno

3 Juno is a main belt asteroid discovered by Karl Ludwig Harding on September 1, 1804. Juno was the third asteroid discovered in the Solar System and is named after Juno, the Roman goddess that is the queen of all gods.
Juno is an S-type asteroid, and is estimated to contain 1% of the total mass of the asteroid belt.

</doc>
<doc id="289047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289047" title="Monzón">
Monzón

Monzón is a city in Aragón, in Spain. It is about 60 km east of the capital of the province (Huesca). As of the 2010 census, 17.115 people lived there.
The city has a long history. In it, the James I of Aragon was trained in its castle by the knights templar, being a strategic spot between Segre and Cinca valleys. Furthermore, the city owned the Aragonese corts in many times.
Cardinal Richelieu and Gaspar de Guzmán, Count-Duke of Olivares signed a treaty here, ending the conflict over Valtelline in 1626.
In the present, Monzón has a sporty tradition, with its slogan "Monzón, cuna de deportistas" (Monzón, birthplace of sportmen). Among them are Conchita Martínez, the only Spanish woman to win the most important and ancient tournament in tennis, Wimbledon, and Eliseo Martín, bronze medal winner in the 3000m steeplechase in the Paris World Championships (2003) - the only non African athlete to get a medal in those Champìonships since 1993.
But Monzon has also been home to Olympic athletes, including Javier Moracho (110 m hurdles) - Spanish record holder for almost 20 years - the decathlete Álvaro Burrell, and the renowned pole vaulter Javier Gazol.

</doc>
<doc id="289050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289050" title="Jackie Gayda">
Jackie Gayda

Jacquelyn Suzanne Gayda-Haas (born November 3, 1981 in Strongsville, Ohio) is a semi-retired American professional wrestler who was best known for wrestling with World Wrestling Entertainment and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). She won the second season of Tough Enough. She is married to Charlie Haas who she married in 2005.
Gayda won many things during her professional wrestling career:

</doc>
<doc id="289052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289052" title="Glenn Gilbertti">
Glenn Gilbertti

Glenn Gilbertti (born November 12, 1968 in Brooklyn, New York) is an American professional wrestler who was best known for wrestling with World Championship Wrestling (WCW) and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) under the ring name, Disco Inferno. He currently works as a host at the Sapphire Gentlemen's Club, which is a strip club in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Gilbertti won many championships during his professional wrestling career:

</doc>
<doc id="289055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289055" title="Ceratophyllum">
Ceratophyllum

Ceratophyllum is a genus of flowering plants, commonly found in ponds, marshes, and quiet streams in tropical and in temperate regions.
"Ceratophyllum" grows completely submerged, usually, though not always, floating on the surface, and does not tolerate drought. The plant stems can reach 1–3 m in length. At intervals along nodes of the stem they produce rings of bright green leaves, which are narrow and often much-branched. The forked leaves are brittle and stiff to the touch in some species, softer in others.

</doc>
<doc id="289061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289061" title="Christoph Leitgeb">
Christoph Leitgeb

Christoph Leitgeb (born 14 April 1985 in Graz) is an Austrian football player playing in the Austrian Bundesliga for F. C. Red Bull Salzburg as midfielder. He also plays in the nationalteam and was member of Austrias team for the Euro 2008.
He started playing football in the youth teams of SK Sturm Graz in his hometown. In the 2005/06 season he played his first match in the first team of Sturm Graz. The first goal he scored was on 22 April 2006 against Red Bull Salzburg. After two seasons with Sturm Graz he signed with FC Red Bull Salzburg. In his first year he played regularly, but in his second year he had problems with his knees. The following years he came back and played very often from the beginning.
His first international match was in a friendly against Croatia on 23 June 2006. (1:4) Till today he played 27 times in the national team of Austria. In the Euro he played in the second match versus Poland (0:1) and the third match versus Germany where he came on in minute 55 for Martin Hiden. (0:1)

</doc>
<doc id="289069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289069" title="CHERUB">
CHERUB

CHERUB is a series of young adult spy books. It is written by English author Robert Muchamore. The series is about a division of the British Security Service named CHERUB. CHERUB takes on children, mostly orphans, as spies. CHERUB stands for Charles Henderson's Espionage Research Unit B. This was revealed in the book "Secret Army", a book in Muchamore's other series, "Henderson's Boys".

</doc>
<doc id="289072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289072" title="Diocese of Exeter">
Diocese of Exeter

The Diocese of Exeter is a diocese of the Church of England including the whole of Devon, and it is one of the largest in England. The head of the diocese is the bishop, Michael Langrishe, and the cathedral is in the city of Exeter. It is part of the Province of Canterbury. Two other bishops and four archdeacons help the bishop of the diocese oversee all the Anglican parishes and congregations of Devon. There are 506 parishes in this diocese. Before the founding of the Diocese of Truro in 1876 the whole of Cornwall was also part of the Diocese of Exeter.

</doc>
<doc id="289073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289073" title="Portrait of an American Family">
Portrait of an American Family

Portrait of an American Family is the first studio album by American rock band, Marilyn Manson. It was released on July 19, 1994. The producers of the album were Trent Reznor and Marilyn Manson. The bassist for the band, Gidget Gein, was fired after the making of the album.

</doc>
<doc id="289074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289074" title="Antichrist Superstar">
Antichrist Superstar

Antichrist Superstar is the second studio album by American rock band, Marilyn Manson. It was released on October 8, 1996. The producers of the album was Trent Reznor, Dave Ogilvie, Marilyn Manson and Sean Beavan. There were many protest from religious and civic groups such as the American Family Association because of the band's anti-Christian views.

</doc>
<doc id="289076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289076" title="Mechanical Animals">
Mechanical Animals

Mechanical Animals is the third studio album by American rock band, Marilyn Manson. It was released on September 14, 1998. The producers of the album were Michael Beinhorn, Marilyn Manson and Sean Beavan. The album received controversy from Wal-Mart because of the album's artwork which features Manson covered from head to toe in latex paint. His genitals are covered by a thin cup of plastic that creates the androgynous appearance of an alien figure that he calls "Omēga".

</doc>
<doc id="289077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289077" title="Holy Wood (In the Shadow of the Valley of Death)">
Holy Wood (In the Shadow of the Valley of Death)

Holy Wood (In the Shadow of the Valley of Death) is the fourth studio album by American rock band, Marilyn Manson. It came out on November 13, 2000 in the United Kingdom, November 14, 2000 in Australia and United States and on December 5, 2000 in Japan. The producers of the album were Marilyn Manson and Dave Sardy. The album was the first album that Marilyn Manson released after the Columbine High School massacre that took place on April 20, 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="289080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289080" title="Welsh Springer Spaniel">
Welsh Springer Spaniel

The Welsh Springer Spaniel is a breed of dog and a member of the spaniel family. They are similar to the English Springer Spaniel and historically have also been called the Welsh Spaniel and the Welsh Cocker Spaniel. This breed is usually energetic and helps hunters. They are used as a flushing dog. They are closely related to the English Springer Spaniel and the Cocker Spaniel.

</doc>
<doc id="289085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289085" title="Roman influence in Caucasian Albania">
Roman influence in Caucasian Albania

Caucasian Albania was the area of modern-day Azerbaijan. It was a client state of the Roman Empire for four centuries around the time of Christ. Its influence over the region started in the first century before Christ and lasted until around 250 AD. Around 299 AD, Albania was again a "nominal" vassal state of emperor Diocletianus for a few years more.
Rome controlled Caucasian Albania only as a client or vassal state. It was never able to fully make it a part of the Roman Empire, like a "province" (as happened with its neighbour, Armenia).
In these centuries Rome brought Christianity to the Caucasian Albanians, with a western cultural influence that has lasted until contemporary Azerbaijan. Even if few Azerbaijanis are Christians today, the writing system they use is the Roman alphabet.
A second and final influence came from the Eastern Roman Empire when emperor Heraclius was able to take control of Caucasian Albania in 627 AD with help from the Gokturks of the Western Turkic Khaganate, in the Third Perso-Turkic War.
There was an enduring relation between Caucasian Albania and Ancient Rome. In 65 BC, the Roman general Pompey, who had just subjugated Armenia and Iberia and had conquered Colchis, entered Albania at the head of his army. Crossing the arid province of Cambysenē (Kambičan)—recently seized from the Armenians by the Albanians—he turned in the direction of the Caspian Sea.
In fording the Alazan river, he clashed with the forces of Oroezes, king of Albania, and eventually defeated them. Pompey ensured the control of Albanians nearly reaching the Caspian sea before returning to Anatolia.
But the Albanians, influenced by the Parthian Empire were not slow to revolt against Rome: in 36 BC Mark Antony found himself obliged to send one of his lieutenants to bring an end to their rebellion. Zober, who was then king of Albania, capitulated and Albania thus became -at least in name- a "Roman protectorate", starting a condition of vassalage that lasted for nearly three centuries.
A king of Albania appears in the list of dynasties whose ambassadors were received by Augustus.
In 35 AD King Pharasmanes of Iberia and his brother Mithridates, with the support of Rome, confronted the Parthians in Armenia: the Albanians proved effective allies, contributing to the defeat and temporary eviction of the Parthians.
Emperor Nero prepared in 67 AD a military expedition in the Caucasus: he wanted to defeat the barbarian Alans and conquer for Rome all the northern shores of the Black sea from actual Georgia-Azerbaijan to what is now Romania-Moldavia, but his death stopped it.
Successively Vespasian was determined to restore and reinforce the full authority of Rome in the Caucasus as far as the Caspian.
The presence of a detachment of the Legio XII Fulminata at a distance of some kilometers from the shores of that sea (69 km south of Baku) is attested by an inscription drawn up between 83 and 96 AD in the reign of Domitian.
In 75 AD, XII "Fulminata" was in Caucasus, where Emperor Vespasian had sent the legion to support the allied kingdoms of Iberia and Albania.
An inscription has been found in Azerbaijan which reads: , "Under imperator Domitian, Caesar, Augustus Germanicus, Lucius Julius Maximus, Legio XII Fulminata".
Some historians argue that the actual settlement of "Ramana" near Baku was possibly founded by the Roman troops of Lucius Julius Maximus from "Legio XII Fulminata" in the first century AD and derives its name from the Latin "Romana".
Among the facts that strengthen this hypothesis are the military-topoghraphical map of Caucasus published in 1903 by Russian Administration which spells name of town as "Romana", various Roman artefacts found in the Absheron region and also old inhabitants' referring to the town as "Romani".
Additionally, Ramana is positioned in an area perfectly suited for a Roman "castrum" to control nearby Baku' s port, on the commercial sea route (through the Caspian sea) between the Caucasus and the Central Asia plains.
Despite the growth of Roman influence, Albania never ceased to remain in commercial and probably also cultural contact with Persia, but with Trajan in 114 AD Roman control over Caucasian Albania was nearly complete with top social levels fully romanized. 
During the reign of Roman emperor Hadrian (117-138) Albania was invaded by the Alans, an Iranian nomadic group.
This invasion promoted an alliance between Rome and the Albanians that was reinforced under Antoninus Pius in 140 AD. Sassanians occupied the area around 240 Ad but after a few years the Roman Empire regained control of Caucasian Albania.
In 297 AD the treaty of Nisibis stipulated the reestablishment of the Roman protectorate over Caucasian Iberia and Caucasian Albania. But fifty years later Rome lost the area that since then remained an integral part of the Sassanian Empire for more than two centuries.
In the late sixth century the territory of Albania became again an arena of wars between Sassanian Persia and the Byzantine/Eastern Roman Empire. During the third Perso-Turkic War, the Khazars (Gokturks) invaded Albania, and their leader Ziebel declared himself "Lord of Albania" in 627 AD under the Roman Heraclius rule, levying a tax on merchants and the fishermen of the Kura and Araxes rivers, which was "in accordance with the land survey of the kingdom of Persia". The Albanian kings retained their rule by paying tribute to the regional powers.
Caucasian Albania was later conquered by the Arabs in 643 AD, during the Islamic conquest of Persia.
Rome has left a huge cultural legacy to actual Azerbaijan: not only the Latin alphabet and the western-oriented society of contemporary Azerbaijanis, but even - like in Armenia and Georgia - the Christian faith (even if actually has few worshippers).
Christianity started to enter Caucasian Albania, according to Movses Kaghankatvatsi, as early as during the 1st century, exactly when Romans imposed their initial control on Albania. The first Christian church in the region was built by St. Eliseus, a disciple of Thaddeus of Edessa, at a place called Gis and is believed to be the modern-day "Church of Kish".
After Armenia under Roman influence adopted Christianity as its state religion (301 AD), the Caucasian Albanian king Urnayr went to the See of the Armenian Apostolic Church to receive baptism from St. Gregory the Illuminator, the first "Patriarch of Armenia".
Christianity reached its golden age in the late fifth century under Vachagan the Pious (ruled 487–510 AD), who launched a campaign - influenced by Byzantine priests - against idol worship in Caucasian Albania and discouraged Persian Zoroastrianism. After the Muslim invasions of the 7th century the original Christians have nearly disappeared from actual Azerbaijan. The only remaining Caucasian Albanians are the Udi people, who maintain the Christian faith of their Roman influenced ancestors. The last 7000 Udi live mostly in the village of Nij of the region of Kabala and Oguz (former Vartashen), but a few can be found in the capital Baku.

</doc>
<doc id="289088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289088" title="National Space Science Data Center">
National Space Science Data Center

The National Space Science Data Center (NSSDC) is an archive that stores NASA space science mission data. "Space science" means astronomy and astrophysics, solar and space plasma physics, and planetary and lunar science. It also stores space physics mission data. The NSSDC was first established at the Goddard Space Flight Center in 1966.

</doc>
<doc id="289090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289090" title="Disneyland (disambiguation)">
Disneyland (disambiguation)

Disneyland is the original Disney theme park in Anaheim, California.
Disneyland may also refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="289116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289116" title="Category:Northern Hemisphere tropical cyclone seasons">
Category:Northern Hemisphere tropical cyclone seasons

This category contains tropical cyclone seasons within the Northern Hemisphere.

</doc>
<doc id="289129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289129" title="Disney California Adventure">
Disney California Adventure

Disney California Adventure, also called just California Adventure, is a theme park in Anaheim, California, across from Disneyland Park and part of the larger Disneyland Resort. The park is owned and operated by The Walt Disney Company. It opened on February 8, 2001 as Disney's California Adventure Park. On May 28, 2010, it was announced through the official Disney Parks Blog that Disney's California Adventure Park would be renamed Disney California Adventure.
The park is and has of five areas: Sunshine Plaza, Hollywood Pictures Backlot, The Golden State, A Bug's Land and Paradise Pier. Each area is meant to look like different parts of California, its culture, landmarks and history.
In 2009, the park had around 6.05 million guests, making it the 11th-most visited theme park in the world, its highest ever attendance total for a calendar year.
Sunshine Plaza is the main entrance into the park. It is designed to look like a California postcard. After guests pass the ticket counter, they walk under a mock-up of San Francisco Bay's Golden Gate Bridge, which disguises a portion of the resort's monorail track. At the ends of the faux Golden Gate Bridge are two massive murals of various landmarks and mountain ranges in California. After passing under the bridge, guests reach the main area of Sunshine Plaza that leads to the park's Hollywood Picture Backlot and Golden State. Sunshine Plaza is also home to a replica of the California Zephyr, which houses the plaza's two counter service restaurants: Baker's Field Bakery and Bur-r-r Bank Ice Cream.
Paradise Pier is themed after a Victorian-era California boardwalk, based on popular coastal boardwalks such as the Santa Monica Pier and the Santa Cruz Beach Boardwalk. The land's attractions, such as "California Screamin’", resemble the classic amusement park rides found at many boardwalks. California Screamin' recently got new audio on the ride and was given a complete repaint (track, supports and trains). "Toy Story Midway Mania!" is an interactive 3D ride inspired by classic midway games.
"Mickey's Fun Wheel" (formerly the "Sun Wheel") is a -wide Ferris wheel overlooking Paradise Bay, a large body of water that dominates the Paradise Pier area. "World of Color" is a show performed by water fountains, water cannons, and multicolored lights in Paradise Bay. It plays on select evenings and showcases many Disney and Pixar movie moments.
A section of Paradise Pier was themed after the Historic U.S. Route 66, a desert road area that starts with Paradise Pier's crashed fireboat, the S.S. rustworthy. Notable attractions are the "Jumpin' Jellyfish" and "Golden Zephyr".
This land looks like natural California, with lots of plants native to the state. It is split into five sub-lands:
This sub-land is themed after an airfield in tribute to California's pilots and engineers from the 1940s to the mid-60s. It has walls made of old railroad ties, and World War II runway mats out and around. The main ride here is Soarin' Over California, a ride that simulates a hang glider tour of California. Also in this area are the Taste Pilot's Grill counter service restaurant, a shop, and a water play area outside of Soarin' Over California, with a giant rocket jet that sprays mist. The number 47 is hidden in various places as a reference to 1947, the year the sound barrier was broken. Also, the clock on the Fly 'N Buy Souvenir Shop is stopped at the exact time the sound barrier was broken on Oct 14, 1947 by Chuck Yeager.
This sub-land is themed after California's wilderness, such as Yosemite and Redwood national parks. Attractions include Grizzly River Run, a fast-paced river rapids ride around Grizzly Peak, the park's icon. Nearby is the Redwood Creek Challenge Trail; a playground area which includes a show with characters from Disney's "Brother Bear" called The Magic of Brother Bear. A special entrance to Disney's Grand Californian Hotel is also in this area.
This sub-land is themed after the San Francisco Bay area. It used to feature "Golden Dreams", a film about the history of California, starring Whoopi Goldberg. Its last showing was on September 7, 2008. Outside of the theatre is a mural and a replica of the Palace of Fine Arts. The Bay Area also includes an avenue of houses similar to the Victorian architecture of many townhouses found in San Francisco. The main area is scheduled to be converted to (Voyage of The Little Mermaid), which is currently under construction. When Voyage of the Little Mermaid opens, this area will become part of Paradise Pier.
This sub-land is themed after Northern California's Napa Valley and the winemaking industry. Included in this area is Wine Country Trattoria, a casual restaurant that serves wines and Italian foods. The former main attraction in this area, Seasons of the Vine, a film showcasing Napa Valley and the changes throughout the seasons, was housed in a wine cellar-like theatre. It closed on March 30, 2008 and was converted into the Walt Disney Imagineering Blue Sky Cellar, which opened in October 2008. The new attraction displays the upcoming changes to the park. The exhibits will be rotated every few months until 2012, when the major park improvement project is scheduled to be finished. Guests also have the opportunity to taste several wines for an additional price.
This sub-land is based on Monterey's Cannery Row area, especially as depicted in John Steinbeck's novels, and also resembles San Francisco's Fisherman's Wharf. This area includes the Cocina Cucamonga Mexican Grill, Pacific Wharf Cafe, and The Lucky Fortune Cookery Chinese restaurant, along with a Karl Strauss beer truck and a margarita stand. This sub-land also features attractions such as the Mission Tortilla Factory, which features a tour on how tortillas were once made, and showcases working corn and flour tortilla machines. Another attraction is the Boudin Bakery Tour, which is a tour of the sourdough bread making process with Rosie O'Donnell and Colin Mochrie as video tour guides.
Hollywood Pictures Backlot is an area styled to appear as Hollywood boulevards and movie backlots, with Hollywood, television, and movie-themed attractions. A version of the "Tower of Terror" attraction from Disney's Hollywood Studios opened in the Hollywood Pictures Backlot in 2004. The "Monsters, Inc. Mike & Sulley to the Rescue!" attraction is based on the characters from "Monsters, Inc.". The 2000-seat Hyperion Theater currently plays "".
Also there since the park's opening is "Muppet Vision 3-D", a show that also originated at Disney's Hollywood Studios. Both the Tower of Terror and Muppet Vision 3-D benefited from the many advances and new technology made available to the imagineers since the original attractions opened in Florida.
The "Hollywood Pictures Backlot" sign at the area's entrance, featuring two ceramic elephants sculptures atop columns, is an homage to a huge set constructed for the epic 1916 Hollywood film "Intolerance", directed by D.W. Griffith.
The area's bathrooms are in the style of Frank Lloyd Wright's Storer House, in the Hollywood Hills area of Los Angeles. The stamped concrete structure is typical of Wright's pioneering design.
"A Bug's Land" is supposed to make guests feel as small as a bug, like the character of "Flik" from "A Bug's Life". Oversized human items are scattered around the land. This land features "Flik's Fun Fair," "It's Tough to be a Bug!" and the "Bountiful Valley Farm", based on the Disney-Pixar film "A Bug's Life". The land opened in 2002 and offers various kid-friendly attractions. Such attractions include Fliks Flyers, Francis' Ladybug Boogie, Tuck & Roll's Drive 'em Buggies, Heimlich's Chew Chew Train, and Dot's Puddle Park.
Many Disney characters can be found throughout the park, greeting visitors, interacting with children, and posing for photos. Some characters have specific areas where they are scheduled to appear, but can be found wandering as well.
"World of Color" is a new nighttime show at Disney California Adventure that was designed by Walt Disney Creative Entertainment. This show has more than 1200 fountains and includes lasers, lights, and fire with high-definition projections on mist screens similar to the ones used in Fantasmic! at Disneyland and Disney's Hollywood Studios at Walt Disney World in Lake Buena Vista, Florida. The show is expected to change regularly and have special shows for Halloween and Christmas, says show creator Steve Davison.
"Pixar Play Parade" features floats and characters based on the Disney·Pixar films "Monsters Inc", "The Incredibles", "Ratatouille", "Finding Nemo", "A Bug's Life", and "Cars".
Disney's "ElecTRONica" is an interactive nighttime dance party in Hollywood Pictures Backlot. It is considered a similar experience to Glow Fest, which was staged in the same area in summer 2010, but this party is themed to Disney's new film, "". ElecTRONica features lights, music, projections, and more to promote the new film. Past performances from live DJs include: Giang Star (Fridays), Michael Paul (Saturdays), Adam Auburn (Sundays) and Josh Billings.
Disney’s California Adventure was expected to draw large crowds when it opened in 2001. A January 14, 2001, "Los Angeles Times" article titled "The most Jam-Packed Theme Park on Earth?" stated, "Senior Disney officials acknowledge that there will be days when California Adventure will have to turn patrons away, particularly in the first weeks after the park opens, during spring break and again in the summer." The actual attendance was not close to the size that Disney expected for the park back in 2001.
Various reasons for this have been suggested:
Disney's chief executive officer Robert Iger went on record during the company's annual stockholder meeting on March 10, 2006 when someone asked about a potential third park being built in Anaheim. "We're still working to assure the second gate is successful", Iger said, referring to California Adventure. "In the spirit of candor, we have been challenged."
On October 17, 2007, The Walt Disney Company announced a multi-year, $1.1 billion expansion plan for Disney's California Adventure Park. Current plans for the renovation and expansion are on display for park visitors inside the Blue Sky Cellar at the Golden Vine Winery. Disney listened to the public and several of the attractions which drew criticism from the public will be removed in the redesign and expansion. Other rides will be redesigned or replaced with a larger focus on Disney characters and stories. On May 28, 2010, it was announced through the Disney Parks Blog that the park would also be receiving a slight name change, to Disney California Adventure, as well as a new logo. The new name took effect on June 11, 2010, appearing on park maps and banners, but was first used in a commercial promoting "World of Color" a few days prior. World of Color premiered on June 11, 2010, as part of Disney's Summer Nighttastic.

</doc>
<doc id="289141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289141" title="Category:Rail transport in the United States">
Category:Rail transport in the United States

Pages related to rail transport in the United States are in this category.

</doc>
<doc id="289156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289156" title="Ascorbic acid">
Ascorbic acid

Ascorbic acid is a sugar acid. It is white to light-yellow crystals or powder, and it is water-soluble. Ascorbic acid is one form of vitamin C, and was historically the first chemical compound to be synthesized, and identified, as vitamin C. The name is derived from a- (meaning "no") and scorbutus (scurvy), the disease caused by a deficiency of vitamin C.

</doc>
<doc id="289163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289163" title="Seneca Falls Convention">
Seneca Falls Convention

The Seneca Falls Convention was a meeting of people who supported Women's rights. It was at Seneca Falls, New York in on July 19 and July 20, 1848. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, a women's rights activist, wrote a "Declaration of Sentiments" that would list some things she believed and that would be talked about at the meaning. One of these ideas was that men and women are equal. Many of the people there were Quakers, which is a sect of Christianity. Over one hundred people who were there signed a document called the Seneca Falls Declaration. Both men and women signed it. One man at the meeting was Frederick Douglass.
Many women were upset that they did not have the same rights as men. They could not vote, sign contracts, or buy property. If they were married, they had to give any money they earned to their husbands. They also made less money than men.

</doc>
<doc id="289165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289165" title="The Golden Age of Grotesque">
The Golden Age of Grotesque

The Golden Age of Grotesque is the fifth studio album by American rock band, Marilyn Manson. It was released on May 13, 2003. The producers of the album were Marilyn Manson, Tim Sköld and Ben Grosse. The album was supposed to be Marilyn Manson's departure from music.

</doc>
<doc id="289168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289168" title="Eat Me, Drink Me">
Eat Me, Drink Me

Eat Me, Drink Me is the sixth studio album by American rock band, Marilyn Manson. It was released on June 5, 2007. The producers of the album were Marilyn Manson and Tim Sköld. It was the last album to feature Tim Skold's contributions because he was replaced by Twiggy Ramirez in the following January.

</doc>
<doc id="289170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289170" title="The High End of Low">
The High End of Low

The High End of Low is the seventh studio album by American rock band, Marilyn Manson. It was released on May 20, 2009. The producers of the album were Sean Beavan, Marilyn Manson, Chris Vrenna and Jeordie White. Some critics said that they praised the album for showing a more human Manson after following his divorce, and is a return to the sound of the well-received Mechanical Animals.

</doc>
<doc id="289176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289176" title="Category:Socialist International">
Category:Socialist International


</doc>
<doc id="289177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289177" title="James B. Dudley">
James B. Dudley

James Benson Dudley (November 2, 1859 – April 4, 1925) was President of North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University from 1896 until his death in 1925. James B. Dudley High School in the town of Greensboro, North Carolina where the Agricultural and Technical University is located, was named after Dudley because of his work for his community.
Dudley was born on November 2, 1859. Dudley was a slave, born into slavery; his parents were owned by Edward B. Dudley the Governor of North Carolina from 1836 to 1841. The governor had a great impact on Dudley. One of the governor's thoughts was that all people need to be educated. Dudley kept these ideas in mind and they affected everything he did for the rest of his life.
Most of the schools in the area were closed after the American Civil War because there was not enough money. Dudley was not able to go to school until 1867 when a private school opened, Dudley was one of the first students to enroll. Dudley later went to public schools when they opened in his area, and learned Latin. After going to public school Dudley attended the Institute for Colored Youth in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. For college Dudley attended Shaw College in Raleigh, North Carolina. During his education he focused on learning to become an teacher. In 1880, at age 21, Dudley took the North Carolina state test needed to become a teacher, and passed. Later he attended Harvard summer school and gained an Master of Arts from Livingstone College and a doctorate degree from Wilberforce University.
Dudley worked as a teacher. His first taught in a first grade classroom in Sampson County. The following year he became principal of Peabody Graded School in Wilmington, North Carolina in 1881. The school at this time was one of a few "very good public schools for African Americans" in the area. He spent the next 15 years teaching in Wilmington. He was also President of the State Teachers' Association For Negroes for six years.
He also worked editing and publishing the Wilmington Chronicle. He worked with the Chronicle for fifteen years. He was also register of deeds in Wilmington for a period of time, and organized the Perpetual Building and Loan Association.
For twenty years he was the foreign correspondent for the Grand Lodge of Masons. He also represented the Republican Party at several conventions. In 1896 he attended the Republican National Convention in St. Louis, Missouri. As an influential person in the Republican Party, as well as having connections with the Farmer's Alliance, he helped to pass a bill in 1891 that led to the establishment of The Agricultural and Mechanical College for the Colored Race, which was later renamed North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University. In 1912 Dudley, along with the help of the director of the Agricultural Division of the college, Professor J.H. Bluford, organized the Farmers' Union and Co-operative Society. This group helped local unions in each county of the state. The aim of the society, which was said to have raised the living standards of African American farms in the area, was "to discourage the credit and mortgage system among Negro farmers in North Carolina; to assist them in the buying and selling of products; to control methods of production and distribution of farm products; and to secure uniform prices."
In 1895 the North Carolina Legislature appointed Dudley to the Board of Trustees for the College. Later that year he was made secretary of the Board, he was secretary until 1896 when the President John O. Crosby resigned. The next meeting of the Board of Trustees Dudley was voted by all of the members to become the 2 President of the College. While he served as President, Dudley focused on making the information taught more relevant. He believed that it was best to aim what was taught towards jobs that were currently available. He wanted to give the men and women who attended his college to be able to get jobs and "raise the standard of living among their people." he expanded the curriculum to include carpentry, wood turning, bricklaying, blacksmithing, animal husbandry, horticulture and floriculture, mattress and broom making, shoe making, poultry raising, tailoring, electrical engineering, and domestic science. Along with adding these specific classes Dudley also added an entire teaching department to the school, that taught pupils to be a teacher while placing special emphasis on "courtesy, manners, and an appreciation to culture in general." Dudley himself was praised for his politeness. He also added a summer school program to the college.
In 1915-1916 the school changed its name to "Agricultural and Technical College". The change was because the college did not have enough money. Dudley decided that the best way to fix all of the problems faced by the college was to change everything. The college did not have enough money because there were not enough students to support it. The problem was because many people wanted "a professional or classical education. Especially, many parents wished their sons to become preachers, lawyers, teachers, or physicians." Trying to solve this problem Dudley started offering "a course study suited to the ability and needs of students." Another one of the problems was that many opposed the fact that both men and women were taught together student body. As a result when the school reopened it was an all male school.
Dudley's career ended while he was principal at the college. In early April Dudley left the college due to sudden severe headaches to go home and rest. For several days Dudley was able to attend to his duties from his home, until he died on April 4, 1925 at the age of 65. Dudley was buried in the Pine Forest cemetery on the northern end of 16th street in Wilmington, his home town.

</doc>
<doc id="289195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289195" title="Duck and Cover">
Duck and Cover

Duck and Cover is a suggested method of protection from nuclear weapons. Duck and Cover is a method where the person must lay face-forward towards a wall or under a table in the fetal position. Today it is used for earthquakes and tornados.

</doc>
<doc id="289197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289197" title="Schizophreniform disorder">
Schizophreniform disorder

Schizophreniform disorder is a mental illness. Usually, people suffering from this disorder show certain symptoms of schizophrenia, but they do not have all of them, or the symptoms are not present long enough. To be recognised as schizophrenia, the symptoms need to be present a full six months. If symptoms are not present for that time period, the illness may be classified as shizophreniform disorder.
The disorder can be treated in much the same way as schizophrenia. There are certain antipsychotic drugs and therapies that can help treat the symptoms.

</doc>
<doc id="289211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289211" title="Posidoniaceae">
Posidoniaceae

Posidoniaceae is a family of flowering plants. The APG II system classification accept this genus as constituting the sole genus which it places in the order Alismatales, in the clade monocots. 

</doc>
<doc id="289214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289214" title="Category:Alismatales">
Category:Alismatales


</doc>
<doc id="289218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289218" title="Arma-Goddamn-Motherfuckin-Geddon">
Arma-Goddamn-Motherfuckin-Geddon

"Arma-Goddamn-Motherfuckin-Geddon'" is a industrial rock song by the American rock band Marilyn Manson and is the first single from their seventh studio album "The High End of Low", which was released in 2009. There is a remix of the song by the Swedish rock band, Teddybears. The song reached number 37 on the U.S. Billboard Mainstream Rock Tracks.

</doc>
<doc id="289234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289234" title="Geological formation">
Geological formation

A formation, or rock formation, is the fundamental unit of lithostratigraphy. 
A formation consists of a certain number of rock strata. They have similar lithology (rocks), sedimentary facies (appearance) or other properties. Formations are not defined on the thickness of the rock strata, and the thickness of different formations can therefore vary widely.
The concept of formally defined layers or strata is central to stratigraphy. A formation can be divided into 'members' and are themselves packed together in 'groups'.
Formations were initially described as time markers, based on relative ages and the law of superposition. The divisions of the Earth history#geologic time scale were the formations described and put in chronological order by the geologists and stratigraphers of the 18th and 19th centuries. 
Rock formations are formed by sedimentary deposition in environments which may persist for hundreds of millions of years. For example, the Hammersley Basin in Pilbara, Western Australia, is a Proterozoic sedimentary basin where up to 1200 million years of sedimentation is preserved intact. Here, up to 300 million years is represented by a single unit of banded iron formation and shale.

</doc>
<doc id="289257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289257" title="Laurie Holden">
Laurie Holden

Heather Laurie Holden (born December 17, 1969) is an American- Canadian actress and human rights activist. She is the daughter of actors Lawrence Holden (aka Glenn Corbett) and Adrienne Ellis. Her stepfather is British director Michael Anderson. Laurie was born in Los Angeles and raised in Toronto. She began her career when she played Rock Hudson's daughter in "The Martian's Chronicles" (1980). Her best known roles are "Marita Covarrubias" in the movie/series "The X-Files" (1996-2002), Olivia Murray in "The Shield" (2008), and "Andrea" in "The Walking Dead" (2010-2013). She co-starred with Jim Carrey in "The Majestic" (2001), played Cybil Bennett in the horror movie "Silent Hill" (2006) and Amanda Dunfrey in "The Mist" (2007). In 2014, she starred to the comedy "Dumb and Dumber To", alongside Jim Carrey, Jeff Daniels and Kathleen Turner. In 2015, she appeared as Dr. Hannah Tramble, an ER surgeon, in the third season of "Chicago Fire". It was announced Holden would reprise her role as Dr. Tramble in a planted spinoff, "Chicago Med". Holden will co-star opposite Epatha Merkerson and Yaya Dacosta in the ensemble medical drama. The series is being conceived and written by "Chicago Fire" creators/executive producers Derek Haas and Michael Brandt.
Holden has dual citizenship - Canadian and American. Her year of birth is given as 1969 by some sources.
She was nominated to Gemini Awards in 1996 for "Due South" TV Series. In 2011, she was nominated to Saturn Awards and Scream Awards for "The Walking Dead". In 2013, she win the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress in Television.

</doc>
<doc id="289266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289266" title="Category:Knights and Dames Commander of the Order of the British Empire">
Category:Knights and Dames Commander of the Order of the British Empire


</doc>
<doc id="289267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289267" title="Category:Commanders of the Order of the British Empire">
Category:Commanders of the Order of the British Empire


</doc>
<doc id="289268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289268" title="Category:Members of the Order of the British Empire">
Category:Members of the Order of the British Empire


</doc>
<doc id="289269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289269" title="Category:Officers of the Order of the British Empire">
Category:Officers of the Order of the British Empire


</doc>
<doc id="289273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289273" title="Category:Knights Bachelor">
Category:Knights Bachelor


</doc>
<doc id="289281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289281" title="Speed metal">
Speed metal

Speed metal is an sub-genre of heavy metal music that originated in the late 1970s from NWOBHM and hardcore punk roots. It is described by "Allmusic" as "extremely fast, abrasive, and technically demanding" music.
Motörhead is often credited as the first band to invent/play speed metal. Some of speed metal's earlier influences include Deep Purple's "Fireball" and Queen's "Stone Cold Crazy" (which was eventually covered by the thrash metal band Metallica), from their 1974 album "Sheer Heart Attack", and Deep Purple's song "Highway Star", from their album "Machine Head". The latter was called 'early speed metal' by Robb Reiner of speed metal band Anvil. Led Zeppelin's "Communication Breakdown", first released in January 1969, could also be said to be an early template for speed metal as mentioned in Mac Randall's.
Speed metal eventually evolved into thrash metal. Although many tend to equate the two subgenres, there is a distinct difference between them. In his book "", Ian Christe states that "...thrash metal relies more on long, wrenching rhythmic breaks, while speed metal... is a cleaner and more musically intricate subcategory, still loyal to the dueling melodies of classic metal."

</doc>
<doc id="289282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289282" title="Peugeot 508">
Peugeot 508

The Peugeot 508 is a automobile produced by Peugeot since 2011. It replaced both the smaller Peugeot 407 and the larger Peugeot 607.

</doc>
<doc id="289283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289283" title="Kingdom Hearts (video game)">
Kingdom Hearts (video game)

Kingdom Hearts is the first game of the "Kingdom Hearts" series. It was made for the PlayStation 2 and was released in Japan on March 28, 2002, and in North America on September 17, 2002.
In it, the player controls Sora, a 14-year-old boy who lives on a small chain of islands called Destiny Islands, but is sent to different worlds along with his friends after their world is destroyed. Along the way, he meets lots of Disney characters, like Donald Duck and Ariel, and "Final Fantasy" characters, like Cloud and Yuffie. Sora must save the worlds while searching for his friends.
Sora and his best friends, Riku and Kairi, plan on leaving their homes on Destiny Islands to explore their world, but their plans are interrupted when their world is attacked by the Heartless; monsters who steal people's hearts. During the attack, Sora becomes able to use a weapon called a Keyblade. Their world is destroyed, and Sora, Riku and Kairi end up on different worlds. Sora teams up with Disney characters Donald Duck and Goofy to find his lost friends, and they travel to worlds based on different Disney movies, including "Alice in Wonderland", "The Little Mermaid", and "The Nightmare Before Christmas".
Sora learns later that Riku has sided with Darkness and kidnapped Kairi. Riku is being controlled by a Heartless called Ansem, who wants to capture women and girls who are Princesses of Heart so he can open Kingdom Hearts, the heart of all worlds. Sora rescues Kairi and Riku and defeats Ansem. Kairi goes home to Destiny Islands, but Riku stays in Kingdom Hearts with King Mickey to defend it. Kingdom Hearts then disappears. Sora tells Kairi he will not come home until he finds Riku, and leaves with Donald and Goofy to start a new adventure.
In the game, there are fourteen different worlds. Sora, Donald and Goofy travel to twelve of them using a space ship called a Gummi Ship. The worlds are:
"Kingdom Hearts Final Mix" is a reissue of the game that was released only in Japan on December 26, 2002. It has more features than "Kingdom Hearts", including a battle with the Unknown Man, who is the main enemy in "Kingdom Hearts II". It is also for the PlayStation 2.

</doc>
<doc id="289284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289284" title="Till the World Ends">
Till the World Ends

"Till the World Ends" is a 2011 single by Britney Spears. The song is second from her seventh studio album "Femme Fatale". The song was released on March 11, 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="289291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289291" title="Bill Bixby">
Bill Bixby

Bill Bixby (born January 22, 1934 in San Francisco, California - November 21, 1993), was an American actor, director, and producer. He is known for the role of David Banner in the TV series "The Incredible Hulk". 
Bill Bixby made ​​the most of his career in television. His credits on the big screen include: "Irma la Douce" (1963), with Jack Lemmon, and directed by Billy Wilder; "Ride Beyond Vengeance" (1966), western starring Chuck Connors; and two movies starring Elvis Presley, "Clambake" (1967) and "Speedway" (1968). His first television series was "My Favorite Martian", playing the role of Tim O'Hara, and co-starring Ray Walston. The show aired on CBS from 1963 to 1966. Bixby continued to have success on television as the star of the ABC sitcom "The Courtship of Eddie's Father" (1969–1972), where he played a widower who cares for his young son played by Brandon Cruz. He also played in "The Magician" (1973–1974), as a famous magician Anthony Blake, who is also a detective. The biggest hit of his career would come in the late 1970s, playing the role of David Banner in CBS TV series "The Incredible Hulk" with Lou Ferrigno as the Hulk. The show is based on the character created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. After the success of the series, there were three movies filmed for television: "The Incredible Hulk Returns" (1988), directed by Nicholas Corea; "The Trial of the Incredible Hulk" (1989); and "The Death of the Incredible Hulk", directed by Bixby.
Bill Bixby was nominated for three Emmy Awards for his work in "The Courtship of Eddie's Father" (1969), "The Streets of San Francisco" (1972), and "Rich Man, Poor Man" (1976).

</doc>
<doc id="289292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289292" title="Radiation hardening">
Radiation hardening

Radiation hardening is the designing of electronic parts and systems so they can withstand the damage done by ionizing radiation. Such radiation occurs in outer space and when flying at high altitudes in the Van Allen radiation belts. They also occur in nuclear explosions, and near nuclear reactors and other sources of radiation.
There are many techniques which can achieve hardening. The MRAM, Magnetoresistive random access memory, is proposed as the solution to long-lasting electronic memory. This is the heart of radiation resistance, because if the system memory is undamaged, the system can be rebooted.

</doc>
<doc id="289294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289294" title="Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories">
Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories

Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories is the second game in the "Kingdom Hearts" series, and was released in Japan on November 11, 2004 and in North America on December 7, 2004. It was made for the Game Boy Advance. 
The game starts immediately after the end of "Kingdom Hearts". Sora, Donald and Goofy go to a castle called Castle Oblivion where they visit recreations of the worlds they visited before. Each world is on a different floor, and as they move to higher floors, they lose more and more memories. Their lost memories are replaced by new ones. Sora eventually forgets Kairi, and she is replaced in his memory by a girl named Naminé. Sora also meets and fights members of a group called Organization XIII. The group built Castle Oblivion to erase Sora's memories and trick him into joining them. In the end, Naminé tells Sora she erased his memories, and gives him the choice to keep his new memories or have his old ones restored. If his memory is fixed, he will forget everything that happened in Castle Oblivion. He chooses to get his old memories back and tells Naminé he could never forget her. His story ends with him being put to sleep, because it will take Naminé one year to restore his memories.
After completing Sora's story, the player can play as Riku, who travels through Castle Oblivion's basement levels. Riku meets different members of Organization XIII than Sora did, and fights them. He also recalls what he did during "Kingdom Hearts" and struggles with Ansem's influence on him.
"Kingdom Hearts Re:Chain of Memories" is a reissue of the game made for the PlayStation 2. It has added cutscenes and battles that were not in the Game Boy version of "Chain of Memories". It was released together with "Kingdom Hearts II Final Mix +" in Japan on March 29, 2007, and was released as a standalone title in North America on December 2, 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="289296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289296" title="Category:Rivers of Wales">
Category:Rivers of Wales


</doc>
<doc id="289297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289297" title="Category:Rivers of Chile">
Category:Rivers of Chile


</doc>
<doc id="289300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289300" title="Vic Hadfield">
Vic Hadfield

Victor Edward Hadfield (born October 4, 1940 in Oakville, Ontario) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey player. He is best known for playing with the New York Rangers where he is one of the most popular players in the history of the team. He also played with the Pittsburgh Penguins for the last three seasons of his career.

</doc>
<doc id="289301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289301" title="Category:Knights Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George">
Category:Knights Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George


</doc>
<doc id="289302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289302" title="Marcus Krüger">
Marcus Krüger

Marcus Krüger (born 27 May, 1990 in Stockholm, Sweden) is an NHL ice hockey center that currently plays for the Chicago Blackhawks. He has also played for the Djurgårdens IF of the SEL for 5 seasons before being recalled by the Blackhawks on March 23, 2011. He was drafted with the 149th overall pick in the 2009 NHL Draft by the Chicago Blackhawks. He signed a three-year contract with the Chicago Blackhawks in June 2010 but he decided to stay with Djurgården during the first year of the contract, later he was recalled from Djurgården to Chicago on 23 March 2011. He scored his first NHL goal in a 5-2 win against the Columbus Blue Jackets on October 29, 2011. On June 24, 2013, He won the Stanley Cup with the Blackhawks after they defeated the Boston Bruins 4 games to 2 in the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals.

</doc>
<doc id="289304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289304" title="Category:Knights Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George">
Category:Knights Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George


</doc>
<doc id="289305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289305" title="Category:Knights Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath">
Category:Knights Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath


</doc>
<doc id="289306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289306" title="Category:Knights Commander of the Order of the Bath">
Category:Knights Commander of the Order of the Bath


</doc>
<doc id="289307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289307" title="Category:Royal Victorian Order">
Category:Royal Victorian Order


</doc>
<doc id="289308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289308" title="Cecil Browne">
Cecil Browne

Cecil Browne (February 13, 1896 – August 13, 1985) was a Canadian professional ice hockey left winger. He played 13 games for the Chicago Blackhawks of the National Hockey League (NHL). Browne was named the "Manitoba's Athlete of the Century" in 1970. He quit playing professional hockey because of an injury. He was the AHA Scoring Champion in 1927, is an “Honoured Member” of the Manitoba Hockey Hall of Fame and was inducted into the Manitoba Sports Hall of Fame and Museum in 1980.

</doc>
<doc id="289309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289309" title="Category:Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany">
Category:Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany


</doc>
<doc id="289310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289310" title="Daniel Cleary">
Daniel Cleary

Daniel Michael Cleary (born December 18, 1978) is a Canadian ice hockey left and right winger. He currently plays for the Detroit Red Wings. He has also played for the Chicago Blackhawks for 2 seasons, the Edmonton Oilers for 4 seasons and the Phoenix Coyotes for 1 season. He was drafted with the 13th overall pick in the 1997 NHL Draft by the Chicago Blackhawks. He also played with the Belleville Bulls of the OHL.

</doc>
<doc id="289313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289313" title="Nolan Baumgartner">
Nolan Baumgartner

Nolan Baumgartner (born March 23, 1976 in Calgary, Alberta) is a Canadian retired ice hockey defenceman. He played a total of 12 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Washington Capitals for 4 seasons, the Chicago Blackhawks for 1 season, the Vancouver Canucks for 4 seasons, the Pittsburgh Penguins for 1 season, the Philadelphia Flyers for 1 season and the Dallas Stars for 1 season. He was drafted with the 10th overall pick in the 1994 NHL Draft by the Washington Capitals. He also played with the Kamloops Blazers of the WHL.

</doc>
<doc id="289318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289318" title="Rob Klinkhammer">
Rob Klinkhammer

Robert Klinkhammer (born August 12, 1986 in Lethbridge, Alberta) is a Canadian professional ice hockey left winger. He currently plays for the Edmonton Oilers of the National Hockey League (NHL). He signed as a free agent with the Rockford IceHogs NHL affiliate, the Chicago Blackhawks, to a two-year entry level contract on June 8, 2009. He was called up by the Blackhawks on December 10, 2010 to replace an injured Patrick Kane and debuted in a home game against the Dallas Stars which they won. He was traded to the Ottawa Senators on December 2, 2011. He was signed by the Coyotes as a free agent on July 3, 2012 and played with their AHL farm team, the Portland Pirates during the 2012 NHL lockout.

</doc>
<doc id="289323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289323" title="Parchment">
Parchment

Parchment is a thin material made from animal skin. The most common use for parchment was as a material for writing on, for the pages of a book. It is different to leather in that parchment is limed but not tanned. The better qualities of parchment are named vellum.

</doc>
<doc id="289330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289330" title="David Mendes da Silva">
David Mendes da Silva

David Mendes da Silva Gonçalves (born 4 August 1982 in Rotterdam) is a Dutch football player of Cape Verdean heritage. He plays as defender or defensive midfielder. He is known for his dribbling and his tackling.
He started his career with Sparta Rotterdam. He played with Rotterdam for five years. In 2003 he was on loan to Ajax Amsterdam for part of the season. His next team was NAC Breda. He played with them for two years. From 2006 till 2010 he played for AZ Alkmaar. Under coach Louis van Gaal he reached the Dutch Championship in the 2008/09 season and the UEFA Champions League. He scored the 1:1 in the away match versus Arsenal London in minute 93 on 20th October 2009. In 2010 he went to FC Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga.
AZ Alkmaar

</doc>
<doc id="289332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289332" title="Category:Wind energy">
Category:Wind energy


</doc>
<doc id="289338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289338" title="Hurricane Igor">
Hurricane Igor

Hurricane Igor was a destructive tropical cyclone which passed by Bermuda and struck the Island of Newfoundland. This storm was a powerful Category Four hurricane with winds as high as 155 miles per hour. Igor brushed Bermuda as a minor hurricane with minimal damage. In Newfoundland, however, the storm caused $200 million in damage, making Igor the most destructive Atlantic tropical cyclone on record to strike the region. The name Igor was retired and replaced by Ian for the 2016 Atlantic season.

</doc>
<doc id="289340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289340" title="Arthur Young (police officer)">
Arthur Young (police officer)

Colonel Sir Arthur Edwin Young, KBE, CMG, CVO, KStJ, KPM (15 February 1907 – 20 January 1979) was a British police officer. He was Commissioner of Police of the City of London from 1950 to 1971 and was also the first head of the Royal Ulster Constabulary to be called the Chief Constable, instead of Inspector-General. Young helped create the post of Chief Inspector of Constabulary.
In the early 1950s, he played a crucial role in policing decolonisation in the British Empire, and developedg a model of public service policing that was not liked by everyone in some colonies but which time has shown to have been a good idea. During the 1960s, he led the way in modernising British police recruitment and in improving the training of senior officers.
Young was born in Eastleigh, Hampshire, the third of four children of Edwin Young (1878–1936), a builder and contractor, and his wife Gertrude Mary (née Brown; 1880–1945). He went to school in Southsea from 1912 to 1915 and then Portsmouth Grammar School from 1915 to 1924. He was not very good at school, but liked the Officers' Training Corps; later he returned to present prizes and told the pupils that his parents would have been very surprised to see him in the hall on speech day because he had never come close to winning any school award.
Aged sixteen, he left to join the Portsmouth Borough Police, against his family's wishes. His mother and grandmother never approved because they thought the police an unsuitable career for a young man from an middle-class family. When his maternal aunt Emma Brown married Superintendent Samuel Bowles of the Hampshire Constabulary, she made him resign.
Young's father's business partner Alderman Sir John Henry Corke (1850–1927) helped Young get his first job in the Chief Constable's office (the post of Cadet Clerk was specially created for him) in December 1924. On the advice of Thomas Davies, the Chief Constable, he first took a course in business and accountancy.
Made a Constable in May 1925, he became the Coroner's Officer in April 1932. In June 1932, aged 25, he became the youngest Detective Sergeant in the United Kingdom, serving with the Northern Division CID. While he was there, he led investigations into murder, blackmail, fraud and arson. He headed the enquiries into the UK's first case of manslaughter arising from the use of an aeroplane.
At the same time he got more involved in the many royal visits to Portsmouth. When Haile Selassie visited the dockyard in September 1937, he acted as his personal escort and French interpreter. During these years, Young was also entrusted with what he later called "enquiries concerning the activities of subversive persons and propaganda, and also with other matters affecting state security" - looking for spies. It was also during these years that he acquired his passion for ever better police equipment and his personal love of new gadgets.
Young was promoted to Inspector (equivalent to Lieutenant in US police forces) in June 1937 and appointed to Portsmouth's Southern Division. In Eastney and Southsea, he first had to deal with the problems created by traffic, including ways for its efficient control and of the need to promote road safety. Young was a keen motorist, who moved from a motorcycle to a series of fast cars.
Young was qualifiedor promotion, but for someone who did not graduate the Hendon Police College and did not go to a public school, his promotion over the next dozen years was meteoric for the 1930s and 1940s.
Young wanted to head his own force and tried to become chief constable of the Isle of Wight Constabulary, before he became Acting Chief Constable of Leamington Spa Borough Police in September 1938, aged 31, at a salary of £500 per annum. One year later, he was appointed to the permanent post of Chief Constable. He was one of the youngest men ever to become a Chief Constable. In his first nine months in Leamington he persuaded the council to hire an extra twelve officers, the first increase since 1915. This meant he had 57 police officers to cover all of Leamington Spa.
He also reorganised the borough's fire brigade, and, among other police innovations, set up twelve of "police pillars", a network of two-way microphone handsets across the borough so that the public could contact police stations and civil defence posts directly. The base of the pillar contained first aid equipment while, a Leamington innovation, a flashing red light on the top called up policemen on patrol.
From November 1940 he was seconded by the Home Office for six months to Coventry after its blitz. He ran the city's police because the Chief Constable was fully occupied as Civil Defence Controller Young started the "good neighbour scheme" for bombed out civilians that he had trialled in Leamington and which was later adopted nationally by the Home Office.
Leamington's was a very small force and for a year his command was only "acting" so, from the start, Young was looking for a permanent as well as a larger command. After several unsuccessful applications (the East Riding of Yorkshire Constabulary in 1939, Portsmouth City Police in 1940, Oxford City Police in 1940), in September 1941 he was selected from a short-list of six as Senior Assistant Chief Constable of Birmingham City Police, then the second-largest police force in the UK; the salary was £1,000 p.a. He was to be responsible for training and communications - both things he was good at.
In Birmingham he started to experiment with police training. Learning by example and by demonstration is common now, but in 1941 it was a new idea and it caught the approving eye of the Home Office. He also made Birmingham the foremost British force in the use of police wireless by establishing in 1942 a "duplex" ultra high-frequency two-way radio telephone system linking every police station and every police car.
In February 1943 Young was one of the chief constables sent to the War Office Civil Affairs Training Centre for the first course for senior officers. Before the course was finished, he was transferred to the instructing staff and in June 1943 he was appointed the first commandant of the new Police Civil Affairs Training Centre at Peel House in London (with a rank as if he was a Lieutenant-Colonel in the army). He had to set up the training school for policemen and provost officers (military police) who would keep law and order in Axis territory as it was liberated by advancing Allied forces. Just after the centre was opened and its first students through their course, Young was made a Colonel and moved from the classroom in July 1943 to be Senior British Police Officer in the Mediterranean Theatre, stationed in North Africa awaiting the invasion of Sicily.
Young went ashore on day two of the invasion, and became Director of Public Safety in the first functioning Allied military government - the Allied Control Commission for Italy; in December 1943 he was given the additional role of Director of Security, responsible directly to the Commander-in-Chief for hunting saboteurs and enemy agents as well as the removal of fascist officials from public offices. In Italy, Young commanded not just British officers but the 120,000 men of the entire Italian police and had responsibility for all Italian prisons, fire brigades and civil defence. The models Young developed in Italy were later applied across Allied occupied Europe in 1944–1945, but his proudest achievement was the restoration and reorganisation of the Carabinieri, with whom he maintained an association for the rest of his life. He also fell in love with Italy, returning regularly and frequently holidaying in Positano and visiting his wartime friend Colonel Alfredo "Freddy" Zanchino of the Carabinieri.
Young became Chief Constable of Hertfordshire Constabulary in 1944 (but released from the army only in April 1945). He was in charge of 515 officers at a salary of £1,290. Still aged only 38, he had twenty-one years of experience of small, medium and large city and borough forces. From Hertfordshire, he set the pace in revitalising county police forces, pushing his police authority to spend a lot of money to improve officers' pay and conditions.
Police housing was one of the outstanding issues of the time. Young persuaded his police authority to fund a building programme so that in six years every married man in the county force would have a police house; the design and equipping of these houses was agreed between the county architects and a "housing committee", recruited through the county Police Federation, not only of men of all ranks but, at Young's insistence, of officers' wives. In 1946, he wrote:
He also persuaded his authority to buy new equipment because he wanted a modern, efficient police force. The Home Office allowed Hertfordshire to be the first force after the war to introduce a wireless system - Young adapted from his Birmingham model for rural use. To make it as effective as possible, the Home Office accepted his idea that the wireless network cover more than one county so the neighbouring county force of Bedfordshire was added.
Almost at the same time, Young was appointed by the Home Office to a committee chaired by Sir Percy Sillitoe, Chief Constable of Kent, to see if all forces needed wireless networks.
His time at Hertfordshire also saw the start of a professional relationship with James Callaghan. They already knew each other from Portsmouth, where their mothers had both worked at Agnes Weston's Sailors Rest; Callaghan had tried unsuccessfully to court Young's sister, Eileen. Callaghan was now a junior minister at the Ministry of Transport. They met up with each other again on a road safety committee and became working allies to extend speed restrictions and improve road markings; cat's eyes were perhaps the most significant fruit of their labours. They worked together again when Callaghan was Home Secretary and it was Callaghan who selected Young to go to Ulster in 1969 to implement the Hunt Report.
Hertfordshire showed that Young wanted to be a chief police officer who made things happen. He applied unsuccessfully to be chief constable of Kent in 1946, but his next job was offered to him. So impressed was Home Secretary James Chuter Ede, he appointed Young to the vacant post of Assistant Commissioner "D" of the Metropolitan Police in London, in charge of organisation, recruitment, training and communications. To bring in an outsider to such a rank in the Met was unprecedented. The Home Secretary knew that the nation's police forces were stuck to old ways and needed the shake-up that the young chief constable had already delivered in Hertfordshire; Scotland Yard must not be left out. Things, however, did not go well. The Commissioner, Sir Harold Scott, tolerated him (although he was an outsider too), but senior colleagues cold-shouldered him. Within "D" Department, Young delivered all the Home Secretary had hoped for, a success that only alienated the hierarchy even further.
In March 1950 Young became the first former constable to be appointed Commissioner of Police of the City of London. He built up his reputation as "the policeman's policeman". Improved pay and conditions and professional standards remained his constant pre-occupations. The police under his command found him forceful but gracious, intolerant of failings in himself as well as others. In all his forces, he was popular with all ranks under his command.
Young came to love the City of London. He relished command of a force small enough to know every constable well. He enjoyed the City's rich social life too, and he much valued the invitation to join the Goldsmiths Company. The police needed to recruit and with considerable success he set about making service more attractive. Pay and allowances were increased, housing modernised, and catering improved. Uniforms were made more comfortable and practical.
At another level, he pushed through changes in career structures. He engineered a national recruitment revolution in the British police, running command courses and seeing through a fast-track entry scheme to attract graduates - and for many years he was director of extended interviews for the Senior Command Course that he had founded. These and other changes were designed to make possible the promotion of talented people. Young realised that the police could no longer rely on habits little changed for a century. He fought for the recruitment and promotion of women. He resisted the well-ingrained tradition of bringing senior officers from the armed forces into police commands; and only with great reluctance did he give in to the demand from the Hertfordshire police committee that he use his wartime military rank. He sternly opposed Lord Trenchard's officer-class way of thinking as wholly inappropriate for the British police service. He wanted to follow Sir Robert Peel's intention that the police be "filled from the bottom up". The young man whose own family had thought that being a policeman was far from suitable dedicated his own long career to making the police a respected and attractive profession.
Young's lobby of the 1960 Royal Commission on the Police overcame Home Office objections to a strengthened police inspectorate, although Sir Charles Cunningham blocked Young's selection as inaugural first Chief Inspector of Constabulary.
In November 1969 (until 1970) Young was seconded to be the last Inspector-General and the first Chief Constable of the Royal Ulster Constabulary. James Callaghan, then Home Secretary, sent him to carry out the Hunt Report, which introduced the standard British rank system for police officers in Northern Ireland and disbanded the controversial Ulster Special Constabulary.
He chaired the Police Council for the UK, the Association of Chief Police Officers training centres committee and the education committee of the National Police Fund. He was a governor of the Police College and of Atlantic College, and a member of the committees of the Police Advisory Board, the National Police Fund, the Royal Humane Society, the National Rifle Association, the National Scout Council and the Thames Group Hospitals. He was President of the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) in 1962.
One feature of Young's career was as a police reformer in colonial hotspots. He had four such missions:
Young was brought up in a household with strong Anglican evangelical beliefs (the family attended St Jude's, Southsea for matins and evensong every Sunday as well as week-day meetings). He also patrolled Portsmouth's slums and docks as a young constable, and this had an effect on Young. Guided by his curate, the Reverend Frederick Dillistone, later Dean of Liverpool, he decided that he must seek ordination (become a priest). The Bishop of Portsmouth, Neville Lovett, however, rejected his application to attend theological college, telling him at interview that "policemen do not become priests". Although later in life Young would drift away from regular worship, the impact of Portsmouth on his world-view never shifted. Shocked by the poverty and injustice which he discovered, Young became a staunch Christian socialist and, very rare for a chief constable, a lifelong Labour Party voter. Throughout his career, he sought out contact with clergymen and in the later 1960s, encouraged by the Bishop of London, again considered Anglican ordination.
Young married three times. On 11 April 1939, at Boarhunt parish church, Hampshire, he married Ivy Ada May Hammond (born 20 December 1909), a nurse from the Royal Portsmouth Hospital whom he had courted for years - custom then dictated lengthy enagements and police pay then was very low. She died of cancer on 14 September 1956. They had one son, Christopher John Young, born in 1941.
Young married Mrs Margaret Furnival Homan, née Dolphin, in 1957. The marriage fell apart quickly and they separated. She committed suicide in Malta in 1966.
On 16 April 1970, he married Mrs Ileen Fryer Turner (née Rayner, born 19 April 1914), whom he had known since she was his police driver in Birmingham during the war and who at one time had been the mistress of his great friend Sir Edward ('Ted') Dodd, Chief Constable of Birmingham and later Chief Inspector of Constabulary. She died on 31 December 2002. In the 1980s, she declined a proposal of marriage from Sir Graham Shillington, Young's successor as Chief Constable of the RUC.
Young's career made him the most decorated policeman of his era. Young was awarded the King's Police Medal (KPM) in 1952 and was appointed Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG) in 1953 and Commander of the Royal Victorian Order (CVO) in 1962. He was knighted in 1965 and appointed Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) in 1971.
He was also Honorary Police Commissioner of New York City.

</doc>
<doc id="289341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289341" title="Speed of Sound (roller coaster)">
Speed of Sound (roller coaster)

Speed of Sound is a Boomerang coaster in Walibi Holland in the Netherlands. It is manufactured by Vekoma and opened in 2000 as "La Via Volta". It operated until 2007 when the park announced it would be shut down. In the same year, the train was sold to Pleasurewood Hills to be operating on Wipeout, also a boomerang coaster. On January 30, 2011, Walibi World announced that the roller coaster will reopen in 2011, with a new style train from Vekoma. The coaster was renamed to Speed of Sound and the track was painted orange.
The coaster also has a unique tunnel on the lift hill where the train go through before starting the ride.
Speed of Sound on the Walibi Holland website 

</doc>
<doc id="289342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289342" title="Royal Victorian Order">
Royal Victorian Order

The Royal Victorian Order is a British honour. It is given by The Queen, to people who have served her, or the Monarchy personally. Like the Orders of the Garter and Thistle, the Prime Minister does not have a say on who should get the honour.
The Order was created in April 1896, by Queen Victoria, as a way of rewarding personal service to her. Today, people receive their award either privately from The Queen or another member of the Royal Family, or during an investiture.
Often, and on a State Visit, the Queen will invest people in the country visited before returning to the United Kingdom. The British Ambassador and others who have helped the Visit may be rewarded, as can foreigners, and it is often awarded by the Sovereign during official tours overseas.
The first foreigners to get the Order were the Prefect of Alpes Maritimes and the Mayor of Nice, during Queen Victoria's visit to the south of France, in 1896.
The Chapel of the Order is The Queen's Chapel of the Savoy, a 'Royal peculiar', which for historic reasons is in the private possession of the Sovereign, in his or her right as the Duke of Lancaster.
The Savoy Chapel is not very big, so now, the service for those who have been given the award is held in St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle, every four years.
Many members of the Royal Family have been given the award, along with many other recipients, who include servants of The Queen, who have served the Monarchy for many years.
The motto is "Victoria".
In order, the ranks are:
The Royal Victorian Medal was set up at the same time as the order. It is for personal service to the Sovereign or the Royal Family, and as a mark of royal esteem. 
Although the Medal is related to the Royal Victorian Order, it differs in appearance and in the way it is worn. The Medal is given to civilians and non-commissioned military personnel, often to people who have worked for the Sovereign for a long time.

</doc>
<doc id="289344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289344" title="Santa's Little Helper">
Santa's Little Helper

Santa's Little Helper is a fictional character in "The Simpsons". Santa's Little Helper is a greyhound and is the Simpson family pet dog. He first appeared in the episode, Simpsons Roasting on an Open Fire where he was working as a race dog at a dog track and was abandoned by his owner after he finished in last place. He is then adopted by Homer and Bart. He is orange and brown colored. In the episode, The Canine Mutiny he was shortly abandoned by Bart after Bart gets a new dog named "Laddie" (a parody of Lassie) with his credit card and the repo-men took him but is then re-adopted by Bart after he gets bored of Laddie and goes to search for Santa's Little Helper who was at the time working as a seeing-eye dog for a blind man.

</doc>
<doc id="289345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289345" title="Snowball (The Simpsons)">
Snowball (The Simpsons)

Snowball is a fictional character in "The Simpsons". Snowball is the Simpson family's pet cat. She first appeared in the episode, I, (Annoyed Grunt)-Bot. There have been five cats in the Simpson's family and the current cat is named Snowball V (later renamed Snowball II). The first version of Snowball was killed when it was run over by a Chrysler. The second version of Snowball named Snowball II was killed Dr. Hibbert's Mercedes-Benz G500. The third version of Snowball was a male cat named Snowball III and was killed when he drowned after he tried to catch a goldfish in the aquarium while Lisa was in the kitchen preparing his cat food for the first time. The fourth cat was named Coltrane and was also known as Snowball IV, she was killed when she jumped out the window after being scared by Lisa's saxophone. 

</doc>
<doc id="289347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289347" title="Order of Canada">
Order of Canada

The Order of Canada was set up in 1967 by Queen Elizabeth II, to reward service to Canada. 
It is at the top of Canada’s honours system. It has three classes or ranks to recognize a lifetime of outstanding achievement, dedication to the community and service to the nation.
Only Canadian citizens can have the award, but every year up to five foreigners can be given an honorary award. 
The Order of Canada’s motto is ().
Given to recognize a lifetime of outstanding achievement and merit of the highest degree, especially in service to Canada or to humanity at large.
For a lifetime of achievement and merit of a high degree, especially in service to Canada or to humanity at large.
A Member of the Order of Canada has a lifetime of distinguished service in or to a particular community, group or field of activity
Appointments to the order are usually announced twice a year, at the end of December (the New Year's Honours List) and at the end of June to mark Canada Day. This is the same system as in the United Kingdom, except the Queen's Official Birthday at the beginning of June is marked instead.
Only a certain number of appointments can be made each year:

</doc>
<doc id="289348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289348" title="Barry Enright">
Barry Enright

Barry R. Enright (born March 30, 1986 in Stockton, California) is an American baseball player. He plays Pitcher for the Arizona Diamondbacks of Major League Baseball (MLB). He also played college baseball at Pepperdine University. He was drafted 2007 amateur draft in the second round by the Arizona Diamondbacks.

</doc>
<doc id="289349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289349" title="Dnepropetrovsk maniacs">
Dnepropetrovsk maniacs

The Dnepropetrovsk maniacs is a media name for two serial killers from Dnipropetrovsk, Ukraine, who caused 21 murders in June and July 2007. The murderers are named Viktor Sayenko (born March 1, 1988) and Igor Suprunyuck (born April 20, 1988). They gained notoriety when a video recording of one of the murders was leaked to the internet. The video on the internet is often called "3guys1hammer". Sayenko and Suprunyuck were charged with murder after they were arrested. Alexander Hanzha, one of their friends, was charged with two robberies that took place before the murder spree. They were all found guilty by a court in February 2009, and Suprunyuck and Sayenko were sentenced to life imprisonment. Hanzha received nine years in prison.
The leaked internet video shows the murder of a 48-year-old man named Sergei Yatzenko. He is shown lying on his back in a wooded area, and is struck many times in the face with a hammer that is held inside a yellow plastic bag. Suprunyuck pokes out Yatzenko's eyes, and stabs him in the abdomen with a screwdriver. He is then struck with the hammer again in order to ensure that he is dead. The attack lasts over four minutes, during which the victim slips in and out of consciousness. During the video, Suprunyuck is shown smiling at the camera.

</doc>
<doc id="289352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289352" title="Apterygota">
Apterygota

The Apterygota are a small subclass of primitive insects.
They are insects which have never had wings at any time in their evolutionary history. Their first known occurrence in the fossil record is in the Rhynie chert of the Devonian period, ~400 million years ago. While some other insects, such as fleas, also lack wings, these are descended from winged insects, and have lost them during the course of evolution. By contrast, the apterygotes are a primitive group of insects that diverged from other orders before wings evolved. 
They have some other primitive traits (features).
The nymphs (younger stages) go through little or no metamorphosis, so they look like the adults. They continue to moult throughout life, with multiple instars (stages) after reaching sexual maturity. All other insects have only a single sexually mature adult stage. Their skin is thin, making them appear translucent. Males deposit sperm packages rather than fertilising the female internally.
Currently, no species are listed as being at conservation risk.
The classification of the Apterygota changed over time. By the mid 20th century, the subclass included four orders (Collembola, Protura, Diplura, and Thysanura). With the advent of a more rigorous cladistic methodology, the subclass turned out to be paraphyletic. The first three groups formed a monophyletic group, the Entognatha. The Thysanura is more closely related to winged insects. thus rendering even the amyocerate apterygotes paraphyletic.
Some think the Collembola are no longer insects at all, but their position is not yet clear.

</doc>
<doc id="289358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289358" title="Psalms 152–155">
Psalms 152–155

Pslams 152-155 are psalms of the Bible that only exist in the Syriac language translation of the Bible, which is commonly known as Peshitta. Psalms 154 and 155 also exist in a Hebrew version in the Dead Sea Scrolls. Together with Psalm 151, which only exists in some versions of the Septuagint, these psalms are sometimes called the 'Five Apocryphal Psalms of David'.

</doc>
<doc id="289375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289375" title="Tiryns">
Tiryns

Tiryns () was an ancient Greek acropolis (city). The remains are in the Peloponnese, a large peninsula and region in southern Greece, near to Nauplion. Heinrich Schliemann excavated Tiryns in 1885 and 1886. Tiryns is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, listed with Mycenae.

</doc>
<doc id="289415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289415" title="Siberian roe deer">
Siberian roe deer

Siberian roe deer or eastern roe deer ("Capreolus pygargus") is a species of roe deer found in northeastern Asia. In addition to Siberia and Mongolia, it is found in Kazakhstan, the Tian Shan Mountains, Eastern Tibet, the Korean peninsula, and northeastern China. 

</doc>
<doc id="289417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289417" title="Angel of the North">
Angel of the North

The Angel of the North is a sculpture that was in Gateshead, England. It was made by the English sculptor Anthony Gormley. It was built in 1994 and was finished in 1998.

</doc>
<doc id="289422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289422" title="North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University">
North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University

North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University (abbreviated to NC A&T or A&T) is a university located in Greensboro, North Carolina, United States of America. The current chancellor of North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University is Harold L. Martin Senior.

</doc>
<doc id="289423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289423" title="Bagdad, Kentucky">
Bagdad, Kentucky

Bagdad is a city of Kentucky in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="289427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289427" title="Kite surfing">
Kite surfing

Kite surfing or Kite boarding is a kind of water sports that uses the wind to pull a rider on the water surface on a small surfboard or a kiteboard. There are a number of different styles of kiteboarding.
A "kitesurfer" or "kiteboarder" uses a board with or without foot-straps or bindings, combined with the power of a large controllable kite to propel the rider and the board across the water. In 2006, the number of kitesurfers has been estimated at around 150,000 to 210,000, with 114,465 inflatable kites sold that same year. Various surfing styles have appeared to suit both kitesurfers and conditions, such as "waveriding", "freestyle", "freeride", "jumping", and "cruising".

</doc>
<doc id="289428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289428" title="Warne, North Carolina">
Warne, North Carolina

Warne (sounds like worn) is an unincorporated community in Clay County, North Carolina, United States. In 2008, Clay County was one of the least populated counties in North Carolina. About 10,389 people live there. Like many other areas in the southern United States, there are many more people there than there used to be. 18.4% more people live there since 2000. Warne is closer to the capitals of six other states than to Raleigh, which is the capital of North Carolina.
Warne is 1,736 feet (529 m) above sea level. It has an area of . Although it is unincorporated, it has a volunteer fire department and a post office, with the ZIP code of 28909.
Before people moved there, Clay County was home to the Cherokee Indians. They were a tribe of Native Americans that lived in Southeastern United States (mainly in Georgia, the Carolinas and Eastern Tennessee) They were one of the "Five Civilized Tribes" because they adopted European-American culture and technology.
In 1791, Colonel David Vance and General William Lee Davidson made a petition to the North Carolina House of Commons that said "the people of Burke County west of the Appalachian Mountains want to be part of a new county. Part of Rutherford County would be made into a separate and distinct county." Originally, the new county would be called Union, but was changed to Buncombe in honor of Col. Edward Buncombe, a Revolutionary War hero.
The Bill was ratified (made into law) on January 14, 1792. The new county included most of Western North Carolina and was so large people sometimes called it the "State of Buncombe." About 1,000 people lived in the county.
In 1808, the western part of Buncombe County was separated to make Haywood County. The bill became law on December 23, 1808 and was official in March 1809.
In 1838, Macon County was formed from the Western side of Haywood County. 11 years later, part of Macon County made Cherokee County.
In 1861, Part of Cherokee County formed Clay County, the last County Warne is in.
Warne's Sheriff is Vic Davis. He works for the Clay County Sheriff's Office which is in Hayesville, North Carolina.
According to the 2009 Crime Rate Index, Warne got a personal crime risk score of 23. Warne also scored a property crime risk of 45. The average for the United States is 100.
According to the 2000 Census, there were 573 people living in Warne. There were 71.17 people per square mile (27.48/km2). 98.3% of people living in warn are White. 1.4% of people in Warne are black. 
The middle house value in Warne is $81,300.00
12.1% of people over 16, are employed in management. 17.1% are employed in the service industry. 32.5% are employed in sales or office industries. 15.7% are employed in construction, extraction and maintenance. 22.5% are employed in production and transportation.
1.9% make less than $10,000 per year. 36.9% make between $15,000 and $24,999 per year. 16.8% make between $50,000 and $74,999 per year and 20.1% make between $35,000 and $49,999 per year. 22% make between $50,000 and $74,999 per year while the remaining 2.3% make over $75,000 per year.
8.4% of Warne individuals are unemployed and 3.9% living below poverty. Median household income is $33,120.
Warne is in close to many schools and colleges including Young Harris College, in Young Harris, Georgia, Tri-County Community College in Peachtree, North Carolina, John C. Campbell Folk School in Brasstown, North Carolina, and Georgia Mountain Research and Education Center near Blairsville, Georgia.
The public school system (Clay County Schools) is run by the Clay County Board of Education with superintendent Scott Penland. The school system is small with only about 1,250 students attending the school. All schools are accredited by the North Carolina State Board of Education and Hayesville High School is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. Test scores are unfailingly in the top 10% of all North Carolina Schools.
Hayesville Elementary School covers grades K-4 and has 450 students. It has been rated Exemplary every year since the ABC's began.
Hayesville Middle School covers grades 5-8 with about 400 students. It has been classified as either a School of Distinction or School of Excellence every year since the ABC's began.
Hayesville High School covers grades 9-12 with about 400 students. It has the best SAT scores of any school in the area.
Warne sits on Old Hwy 64, which connects between Hayesville, North Carolina, and the Murphy Hospital in Peachtree, North Carolina. Young Harris Road connects Warne to State Road 515 in Young Harris, Georgia.
Western Carolina Regional Airport , known locally as the Murphy Airport, Andrews Airport, or Murphy-Andrews Airport, is about twenty miles (32 km) north of Warne between the cities of Andrews, North Carolina and Murphy, North Carolina.
Warne is also close to Blairsville Airport . It is about 16.8 miles (27 km) southwest of Warne, near Blairsville, Georgia
Warne is in the Southeastern United States in the southwestern portion of the North Carolina State, about halfway between Atlanta, GA. and Knoxville, TN. The location in the Blue Ridge Mountains of Appalachia, has helped the community retain a rural character, surrounded by wildlife such as bear, deer, fox and recently reintroduced elk.
According to the United States Census Bureau, Warne has a total area of and is 15 minutes north of Brasstown Bald, the tallest mountain in Georgia at 4,784 feet above sea level.
Warne has a humid subtropical climate, (Cfa) according to the Köppen classification, with hot, humid summers and mild, but occasionally cold winters by the standards of the southern United States.
July highs average 85 °F (29 °C) or above, and lows average 55 °F (12.8 °C). Infrequently, temperatures can even exceed 100 °F (38 °C). January is the coldest month, with an average high of 48 °F (9 °C), and low of 33 °F (.6 °C).
Like the rest of the southeastern U.S., Warne receives abundant rainfall, which is relatively evenly distributed throughout the year. Average annual rainfall is 55.9 inches (1,420 mm). Blizzards are rare but possible; one nicknamed the 1993 Storm of the Century hit the entire Eastern United States in March, 1993.
Climate Data for Warne
Warne is in the Brasstown Township of Clay County. It is surrounded by many places of cultural significance. One is the John C. Campbell Folk School, which offers weekly and weekend classes in traditional and contemporary crafts such as basketry.
'Possum Drop, is an annual New Year's celebration held at a local gas station called Clay's Corner, which celebrates every New Year's by dropping a live opossum in a plexiglass pyramid from the roof of the store. They also hold the annual Miss Possum Queen, have many snacks and beverages, and Bluegrass Music.
The Bi-annual Celebration of Flight Airshow, at the Andrews-Murphy Airport, is a huge presentation of aircraft, both vintage and hi-tech. There are many vendors that sell food, drink, and other festivities.
Warne is a very rural town, surrounded by wildlife, countryside, and national forests. It is north of the Nantahala National Forest, 1.8 miles (2.9 km) north of the Chattahoochee National Forest, 5.5 miles (8.8 km) west of Chatuge Lake, 11.8 miles (19 km) northeast of Nottely Lake, and about 15 miles (24.1 km) west of the Appalachian Trail, a 2,178 mile (3,505 km) long hiking trail that runs from Georgia to New York.
Rollins Planetarium is on the Young Harris College Campus in Young Harris, Georgia, and offers 30 shows a year. If the sky is clear, the Young Harris College Observatory is open immediately following planetarium shows. The observatory features a Schmidt-Cassegrain telescope and is about 1.5 miles from campus at Twiggs Overlook on the exit road leading from Brasstown Valley Resort.
There are several WhiteWater Rafting guides and tours in northeast Cherokee County, Including Carolina Outfitters, Rafting America, and White Water.
Historically, religion has been a very important part of Appalachian life. Christianity, like much of the rest of the Southern United States, is very predominant in Warne and the surrounding communities. Baptist Christian faiths are well represented here. Some local Churches are Mount Pisgah Baptist Church, Shady Grove Church and Copperhill Church.
Warne and the surrounding area is served by a few local television stations, many local radio stations that serve several genres of music including sports, news and talk radio in addition to three local papers.
The notable television stations in Warne include W50AB (Channel 50) based in Hiawassee, Georgia, W42AT (Channel 42) based in Hayesville, North Carolina and W31AN (Channel 31) Based in Murphy, North Carolina
Warne is also served by 11 local radio stations. WCVP-AM (600), WCNG-FM (102.7), and WKRK-AM (1320) are based in Murphy, North Carolina. WACF-FM (95.1) and WYHG-AM (770) are based in Young Harris, GA. WCVP-FM (95.9) in Robbinsville, WGHC-AM (1400) in Clayton, Georgia and WFSC-AM (1050), WPFJ-AM (1480), WFQS-FM (91.3), and WNCC-FM (96.7) based in Franklin, North Carolina
The most important newspaper in Clay County is the Clay County Progress which, in addition to Clay County, covers Cherokee County, North Carolina and Towns County, Georgia. Two other notable newspapers are the Cherokee Scout and the Towns County Herald.

</doc>
<doc id="289441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289441" title="Wind engineering">
Wind engineering

Wind engineering studies effects of wind on the buildings and its possible damage or problems to their inhabitants. From the point of structural engineering, it is interested in strong winds, which may cause discomfort, as well as extreme winds, such as in a tornado, hurricane or heavy storm, which may cause widespread destruction. 
Wind engineering needs information from meteorology, fluid dynamics, mechanics, and a number of special engineering disciplines including aerodynamics, and structural dynamics. The tools may also include atmospheric models, atmospheric boundary layer, wind tunnels and computational fluid dynamics models.

</doc>
<doc id="289446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289446" title="Vinnie Vincent">
Vinnie Vincent

Vinnie Vincent (born Vincent John Cusano; August 6, 1952) is an American guitarist and songwriter. He is best known for being a former member of the band Kiss. He was also the leader of his own band, Vinnie Vincent Invasion.
Vincent began his career in the early 1970s, playing guitar in local bands as Hunter and Treasure. In early 1980, Vinnie Vincent moved to Los Angeles, California, where he began composing songs for ABC TV series Happy Days. Vinnie Vincent shot to fame in 1982 replacing the guitarist Ace Frehley in the hard rock band Kiss. Was large the contribution to the band co-wrote the songs I Love It Loud, Killer, I Still Love You, of Album Creatures of the Night. For legal reasons Frehley appeared on the album cover and I Love It Loud video. In 1983, he recorded with Kiss the Album Lick It Up, where he co-wrote the themes Lick It Up, Exciter, Not for the Innocent, Young and Wasted, Gimme More, All Hell's Breakin' Loose, A Million to One, And on the 8th Day. After several tours with the group left the band in 1984, and was replaced by guitarist Mark St. John. In 1992 he returned to work with the band to co-write the lyrics of the album Revenge.
In 1984 Vincent, formed the Glam metal band Vinnie Vincent Invasion, with Vinnie Vincent in guitar, Robert Fleischman vocal, Dana Strum in Bass, and Bobby Rock in Drums.
They recorded three albums Vinnie Vincent Invasion (1986), All Systems Go (1988), and the 1990 unreleased album Pyro Messiah aka Guitars From Hell. The band disbanded in 1989.
In the decade of 1990, Vincent was dedicated to his solo career and recorded the album Euphoria, 1996, with vocalist Robert Fleischman. Also released the album in the collection Speedball Jamm (2001), which were recordings of Vinnie Vincent Invasion, recorded during rehearsals for the band in 1986.

</doc>
<doc id="289447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289447" title="Manhattan Chess Club">
Manhattan Chess Club

The Manhattan Chess Club is the second-oldest chess club in the United States (after the Mechanics' Institute Chess Club in San Francisco). The club was founded in 1877 and permanently closed in 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="289448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289448" title="Dokken">
Dokken

Dokken is an American Heavy metal band that was formed in 1978. The group accumulated numerous charting singles and has sold more than 10 million albums worldwide.The band was nominated for a Grammy.
Dokken was composed of founder Don Dokken on vocals, George Lynch on lead guitars, Juan Croucier on bass, and "Wild" Mick Brown on drums. In 1983 Croucier left Dokken in order to join Ratt and was replaced by Jeff Pilson. Currently, Dokken and Brown remain from the original line-up. After several personnel changes on guitar, Dokken's attorney Jon Levin stepped in to fill the role in 2004. In 2001, Barry Sparks replaced Jeff Pilson on the bass guitar. In 2009, Sean McNabb replaced Barry Sparks on bass guitar.

</doc>
<doc id="289479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289479" title="Just Can't Get Enough">
Just Can't Get Enough

"Just Can't Get Enough" is a song by American hip hop group The Black Eyed Peas. William Adams, Allan Pineda, Jaime Gomez and Stacy Ferguson of the Black Eyed Peas wrote the song. Joshua Alvarez, Stephen Shadowen, Rodney "Darkchild" Jerkins, LaShawn Daniels, Julie Frost also helped in writing it. The song was written for the group's sixth studio album, "The Beginning" (2010). It was announced on January 21, 2011 as the album's second single. The song has been successful on music charts. It reached the top-five in many countries, such as Australia, France, United Kingdom and the United States, among others. The video for this song was made a week before the 2011 Tohoku earthquake and tsunami had began. 

</doc>
<doc id="289485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289485" title="David Yelldell">
David Yelldell

David Yelldell (born October 1, 1981, in Stuttgart) is a German-American goalkeeper who is currently playing for Bayer 04 Leverkusen. Yeldell has dual citizenship. His mother is German; his father is African-American.
At March 29, 2011, he had his first match for the United States national team. He is allowed to join the team because his father is American.

</doc>
<doc id="289488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289488" title="Simone Rethel">
Simone Rethel

Simone Rethel (born 1949 in Germany) is a German actress, painter and photographer. She is the widow of actor and singer Johannes Heesters. Rethel came from a large, artistic family. Her grandfather was a painter.
Rethel married Heesters, 46 years her senior, in 1991. In December 2010, the 107-year-old Heesters said that he had quit smoking for his then 61-year-old wife: "She should have me as long as possible."

</doc>
<doc id="289493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289493" title="Messel Pit">
Messel Pit

The Messel Pit () is a disused quarry near the village of Messel, Hesse about 35 km southeast of Frankfurt am Main, Germany. It is a special site where fine fossils are preserved: a lagerstätte.
Bituminous shale was mined there. Because of its fossils, it has significant geological and scientific importance. After almost becoming a landfill, strong local resistance eventually stopped these plans. The Messel Pit was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1995. It was placed on the list solely due to fossils.
Amateur collectors developed a "transfer technique" that enabled them to preserve the fine details of small fossils, the method still used to preserve the fossils today.
Many of the known specimens from the site have come from amateur collectors, and in 1996, an amnesty on previously collected fossils was put in effect, in the hope of getting privately owned collections back into public ownership and available to science.
The current surface of the Messel pit is roughly 60 m below the local land and is about 0.7 km² in area. The oil-shale bed originally extended to a depth of 190 m. 
47 million years ago in the Eocene when the Messel deposits formed, the area was 10° further south than it is now. The period was after the Palaeocene–Eocene Thermal Maximum, and the climate and ecology of the site were very different from today. A large series of lakes, surrounded by lush sub-tropical forests supported an incredible diversity of life. The Messel lake bed was probably a center point for drainage from nearby rivers and creeks. 
The pit deposits were formed during the Eocene epoch of the Palaeogene period about 47 million years ago. This is based on dating of basalt fragments under the fossilbearing strata.
Oil shale, formed by the slow anoxic deposition of mud and dead vegetation on the lake bed, is the primary rock at the site.
Its sediments extend 130 m downward and lie atop an older sandstone foundation. The fossils within the shale show a remarkable clarity and preservation due to the unique depositional characteristics of the lake.
The upper layers of the lake had a great deal of life, but the bottom was anoxic. Because the water was not much disturbed, little oxygen got to the lower levels. This prevented many epifaunal (bottom-living) and infaunal (burrowing) species from living there. That is why dead bodies were so little damaged. Overturn of the lake layers (caused by seasonal variations) lowered oxygen content near the surface and led to a periodic "die-off" of aquatic species. Combined with a relatively low rate of deposition (0.1 mm/yr), this was a prime environment for the preservation of fauna and flora.
The area around the Messel Pit was geologically and tectonically active during the Eocene. Volcanic gas releases could account for the large deposition of non-aquatic species.
Subsurface shifts released large concentrations of reactive gases (such as carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide) into the lake and adjoining ecosystems, killing susceptible organisms. During these releases, birds and bats might have fallen in if near the lake surface, and terrestrials could be overwhelmed near the lake shore.
The Messel Pit provides the best preserved evidence of early Eocene flora and fauna so far discovered. Most other sites are lucky to contain partial skeletons, but Messel boasts extensive preservation of structural integrity, even going so far as to preserve the fur, feathers, and "skin shadows" of some species. Unusual preservation has sparked some closely-reasoned interpretations. The symptomatic "dumb-bell"-shaped bite marks on either side of the leaf vein on a fossilised leaf have been identified as the death-grip of a carpenter ant terminally parasitized by a fungus that, apparently then as today, took over its behaviour to release its spores at a good location; it is the earliest clear example of fungal behavioural manipulation.
The diversity of species is astonishing. Here is a brief summary of some of the fossils found at the site:

</doc>
<doc id="289496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289496" title="Jedi Mind Tricks">
Jedi Mind Tricks

Jedi Mind Tricks is a hip-hop group from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Jedi Mind Tricks formed when Vinnie Paz and Stoupe the Enemy of Mankind were in high school and Jus Allah later joined in 1999. The first debuted when they released their first EP called, "Amber Probe".

</doc>
<doc id="289497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289497" title="The Psycho-Social, Chemical, Biological &amp; Electro-Magnetic Manipulation of Human Consciousness">
The Psycho-Social, Chemical, Biological &amp; Electro-Magnetic Manipulation of Human Consciousness

The Psycho-Social, Chemical, Biological & Electro-Magnetic Manipulation of Human Consciousness is the first studio album by American underground hip hop group, Jedi Mind Tricks. It was released on November 4, 1997 through Superegular Records. It was re-released in 2003 through Babygrande Records. The producer of the album was Stoupe the Enemy of Mankind. The album is sometimes called The Psycho-Social CD for short.

</doc>
<doc id="289498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289498" title="Category:Marilyn Manson albums">
Category:Marilyn Manson albums


</doc>
<doc id="289499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289499" title="Category:Jedi Mind Tricks albums">
Category:Jedi Mind Tricks albums


</doc>
<doc id="289503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289503" title="Violent by Design">
Violent by Design

Violent by Design is the second studio album by American hip hop group, Jedi Mind Tricks. It was released on October 3, 2000. The producers of the album were Stoupe and Mr. Len. The album was re-released on May 25, 2004 by Jedi Mind Tricks current label, Babygrande Records.

</doc>
<doc id="289505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289505" title="Visions of Gandhi">
Visions of Gandhi

Visions of Gandhi is the third studio album by American hip hop group, Jedi Mind Tricks. It was released on August 26, 2003. The producer of the album was Stoupe. Jus Allah quit the group after the release of "Violent by Design".

</doc>
<doc id="289506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289506" title="Mainstream Top 40">
Mainstream Top 40

The Mainstream Top 40 is an airplay chart from "Billboard" magazine. It is also known as Pop Songs on billboard.com. People often mistook it for the now discontinued Pop 100 Airplay chart. The chart is solely based on radio airplay, ranking the week's hottest pop songs based on monitored radio detections from a panel of 200 Top 40/CHR radio stations in the United States as measured by Nielsen BDS Nielsen Broadcast Data Systems. Arbitron sometimes refers to the format as contemporary hit radio.
The chart was launched the week of October 10, 1992, along with the Rhythmic Songs Chart as a way to distinguish stations that played a broad based mix of current hits from those who focused on offering a direction centering on R&B/Hip and Dance material.

</doc>
<doc id="289509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289509" title="Legacy of Blood">
Legacy of Blood

Legacy of Blood is the fourth studio album by American hip hop group, Jedi Mind Tricks. It was released on August 24, 2004. The producer of the album was Stoupe. The intro for the song features a promo that was cut by professional wrestler, Kane.

</doc>
<doc id="289511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289511" title="Servants in Heaven, Kings in Hell">
Servants in Heaven, Kings in Hell

Servants in Heaven, Kings in Hell is the fifth studio album by American hip hop group Jedi Mind Tricks. It was released on September 19, 2006. The producer of the album was Stoupe. The album was the group's most commercially successful release and was their first album that made it into the Billboard 200. The album also won "Verse Of The Year" at the HipHopDX 2006 awards for .

</doc>
<doc id="289516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289516" title="Judiciary of the Isle of Man">
Judiciary of the Isle of Man

The lowest courts in the Isle of Man are the Summary Courts, Coroner of Inquests, Licensing Court, Land Court, etc. These courts are presided over by magistrates. There are two stipendiary magistrates, the High Bailiff and the Deputy High Bailiff, along with lay Justices of the Peace.
The court on the next level is the High Court of Justice of the Isle of Man. It has two parts, the Civil Division and an appeal division called the Staff of Government Division.
The judges of the High Court are the Deemsters and the Judicial Officers. The Deemsters are appointed by The Queen on the advice of the Secretary of State for Justice of the United Kingdom. The Judicial Officers are appointed by the Lieutenant Governor. The High Bailiff and the Deputy High Bailiff are ex officio Judicial Officers, and other Judicial Officers (full-time or part-time) may be appointed. Often they are appointed because they have special knowledge of a complex legal case
Civil matters are usually heard at first instance by a single Deemster sitting in the High Court. Criminal proceedings are heard at first instance before either the High Bailiff or the Deputy High Bailiff or a bench of lay magistrates, in less serious cases. More serious criminal cases are heard before a Deemster sitting in the Court of General Gaol Delivery; in a defended case the Deemster sits with a jury of seven (twelve in cases of treason or murder).
Civil and criminal appeals are dealt with by the Staff of Government Division. Appeals are usually heard by a Deemster (the one not involved with the case previously in the High Court or Court of General Gaol Delivery) and the Judge of Appeal.
Final appeal is to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in the United Kingdom. This dates back to an ancient right of the Manx to appeal to the Crown of England against the decisions of the Lord of Mann. The right still exists, even though the Lord of Mann is now the Crown of England. The right was confirmed by the Privy Council in their decision of "Christian v. Corren" in 1716, several years before revestment.
In the Isle of Man, and the Channel Islands, the Queen's Bench Division of the English High Court can hear appeals about habeas corpus. This was to allow the king to find out why any of his subjects was being impisoned. It dates from before the revestment, applied to all the king's dominions even for all other cases the Kings's Bench was restricted to England.

</doc>
<doc id="289524" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289524" title="Category:Symmetry">
Category:Symmetry

All pages related to symmetry are in this category.

</doc>
<doc id="289526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289526" title="Category:Real estate">
Category:Real estate

This category contain pages related to real estate.

</doc>
<doc id="289528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289528" title="Category:Activism">
Category:Activism

This category contains pages related to activism.

</doc>
<doc id="289529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289529" title="Misery (Maroon 5 song)">
Misery (Maroon 5 song)

Misery is a song by American band Maroon 5. It was released on June 22, 2010 by A&M/Octone Records via the iTunes Store. The song was released in advance of the band's mid-2010 tour, and is the first single from their third studio album, Hands All Over, which was released on September 21, 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="289530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289530" title="Lord of Mann">
Lord of Mann

Lord of Mann (), is used on the Isle of Man as part of Queen Elizabeth II's title. The Lord of Mann was the island's feudal Lord Proprietor, the Monarch of England was head of state.
The title is not used on its own. Since 1399, the Kings and Lords of Mann were feudal subjects of the reigning King of England, and then of Great Britain and the United Kingdom, who was the ultimate sovereign of the island. This right of 'Lord Proprietor' was revested into the Crown when the Isle of Man was bought by the Isle of Man Purchase Act 1765 and stopped to exist separately. However, for reasons of culture and tradition, the title Lord of Mann continues to be used. For these reasons, the correct formal usage, as used on the Isle of Man for the Loyal Toast, is "The Queen, Lord of Mann".
The title is now "Lord of Mann" regardless of gender. However, during her reign Queen Victoria was styled as "Lady of Mann".
The formal Latin style is .
In 1598, a succession dispute between the daughters of Ferdinando Stanley, 5th Earl of Derby and Stanley's brother, William Stanley was heard. It was decided by the Privy Council that the right to the Isle of Man belonged solely to Queen Elizabeth I, and the letters-patent of 1405 which have conferred the Isle of Man to the Stanley family were declared null and void. This was because Percy had not been subject to legal attainder, despite his treason, and the 1405 and 1406 letters-patent had therefore not taken effect.
The Queen, in consideration of the "many eminent services performed to herself and to her royal predecessors by the honourable and noble House of Stanley," withdrew her right and referred the contending claimants to the decision of the Privy Council as to the best claim of inheritance.
The Law Lords on the Privy Council decided "the grant being by letters patent under the Great Seal of England, such right would descend according to the Common Law of England to the heirs general, and not to the heirs male", and the island was therefore awarded to Ferdinando's daughters; whereupon William agreed to purchase their several shares and interests.
The original letters-patent having been declared void, the Parliament of England in 1609 under James I passed a Private Act of Parliament entitled "An Act for assuring and establishing the Isle of Man in the name and blood of William, Earl of Derby" [(1609) 7 Jac.1 c."4"] which established the title in law as "Lord of Mann". The lordship was conferred by letters-patent dated 7 July 1609 upon William Stanley, 6th Earl of Derby. Subsequent succession was under the terms of this grant.
Following the resolution of the succession dispute, it was ruled that the daughters of Ferdinando Stanley were the rightful heirs. As the oldest of them would not reach the age of majority until 1609, two temporary Lords of Mann were appointed by James I, using letters patent, so that the daughters could benefit from the Island's revenues.
Following the coming of age of the heirs to the Lordship of the Isle of Man, the rights over the island were sold to their uncle, William Stanley. He took up the title of Lord of Mann following the passing of an Act of Parliament.
In 1765, Charlotte Murray, 8th Baroness Strange, sold the suzerainty of the island to the British government for £70,000. By the passage of the Isle of Man Purchase Act 1765 the title of Lord of Mann was revested into the British Crown. It has therefore since been used on the Isle of Man to refer to the reigning Monarch of the United Kingdom.
All remaining rights and property of the Dukes of Atholl on the island were sold to the British government in 1828.

</doc>
<doc id="289540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289540" title="Nikolayevsk Incident">
Nikolayevsk Incident

The was a series of several events during the Russian Civil War. They happened between February and March 1920. It ended with the killing of many Japanese people in Russia and most of the Russians living in the town Nikolayevsk-on-Amur. Nikolayevsk-on-Amur is in the far eastern section of Russia.
In September 1918, about 350 troops of the 14th division the Imperial Japanese Army held the town. They're were part of the Siberian Intervention. Early in February 1920, the town also had about 450 Japanese civilians. The Russian "White Army" also had about 300 members in Nikolayevsk. Roughly 15,000 civilians also lived in Nikolayevsk. In January 1920, the town had been surrounded by an army of four thousand controlled by Yakov Triapitsyn, an anarchist who was allied with the Red Army.
On February 24, the commander of the Japanese Army's people in Nikolayevsk realized that there were too many enemy troops, so he allowed Triapitsyn's troops to enter the town under a flag of truce. However, Triapitsyn began rounding up all of his forces and deploying White Army supporters, the only force cooperating, the small Japanese garrison. He then demanded that the Japanese garrison disarm–remove all their weapons they are holding, sure that the small Japanese force would not agree with his request.
The Japanese then had an unexpected attack on 12 March. However, the attack was unsuccessful, and most people in the Japanese Army died. The few who survived did not stop the attack until they were ordered by the Japanese high command. Triapitsyn decided to attack the remaining Japanese troops, which helped capture the Japanese garrison and deaths of all but 122 Japanese non-army members. In all, about 700 people died.
Triapitsyn decided to terrorize and kill any civilians he felt were a danger to his forces. The other way to execute those who he only injured was to stab them with a bayonet and throw them into a hole in the Amur River. Using this method, Triapitsyn and his army killed thousands of people in Nikolayevsk-on-Amur. In late May, as other Japanese people were coming to help, Triapitsyn killed everyone living in Nikolayevsk-on-Amur–Japanese or Russian–and burned the town to the ground.
The Japanese government protested to the Bolshevik government in Moscow, demanding compensation for the execution of all the residents in Nikolayevsk-on-Amur. The government of Russia responded by murdering Triapitsyn; however, the Japanese government felt that this didn't make up for what had happened. Japan used this as an excuse to have it residents live in Sakhalin island, where they remained till 1925.

</doc>
<doc id="289541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289541" title="William Peter Van Ness">
William Peter Van Ness

William Peter Van Ness (February 13, 1778–September 6, 1826) was a United States federal judge.
Van Ness was born in Ghent, New York. He is the son of Judge Peter Van Ness (1734– 1804), a lawyer and farmer. The home and land were later purchased by Martin Van Buren, who renamed the estate Lindenwald. Peter Van Ness is buried on the Lindenwald estate.
William Van Ness's brothers included U.S. Representative and Washington, D.C. mayor John Peter Van Ness and Vermont governor Cornelius Peter Van Ness.
William Van Ness attended Washington Seminary and graduated from Columbia College in 1797.
After graduating from college William Van Ness read law in the office of Edward Livingston, attaining acceptance to the bar in 1800.
William Van Ness practiced law in New York City, Albany, and Hudson from 1800 to 1812.
Van Ness, a friend of Aaron Burr, was an active participant in the 1800 presidential campaign as a vocal supporter of the Democratic-Republican candidates, Thomas Jefferson and Aaron Burr.
In 1801 Van Ness served as a Delegate to the New York Constitutional Convention, which was called to amend the state constitution of 1777.
Martin Van Buren completed his legal studies in Van Ness's office in 1802 and became an attorney in Columbia County, New York.
In July, 1804 William Van Ness served as Aaron Burr's second in Burr's duel with Alexander Hamilton, and was present when Burr killed Hamilton.
On May 25, 1812, Van Ness was nominated by President James Madison to a new seat on the United States District Court for the District of New York. He was confirmed by the United States Senate on May 26, 1812, and received his commission on May 27, 1812. On April 9, 1814, he was reassigned by operation of law to the newly subdivided United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
Van Ness was the author of several political and judicial works, including: "Examination of Charges against Aaron Burr" (1803); "The Laws of New York, with Notes," (with John Woodworth), (2 vols. 1813); "Reports of Two Cases in the Prize Court for New York District" (1814); and "Concise Narrative of Gen. Jackson's First Invasion of Florida" (1826).
Van Ness served on the bench until his death in New York City. He was buried in Brooklyn's Greenwood Cemetery.

</doc>
<doc id="289544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289544" title="Sundae">
Sundae

The sundae is an ice cream dessert. It typically consists of a scoop of ice cream topped with sauce or syrup, and in some cases other toppings including chopped nuts, sprinkles, whipped cream, or maraschino cherries. The first historically documented sundae was created on Sunday, April 3, 1892.

</doc>
<doc id="289545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289545" title="Category:Order of the Star of India">
Category:Order of the Star of India


</doc>
<doc id="289546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289546" title="Category:Order of the Indian Empire">
Category:Order of the Indian Empire


</doc>
<doc id="289550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289550" title="Category:Companions of the Bath">
Category:Companions of the Bath


</doc>
<doc id="289567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289567" title="Category:Knights Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order">
Category:Knights Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order


</doc>
<doc id="289569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289569" title="Category:Knights and Dames Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire">
Category:Knights and Dames Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire


</doc>
<doc id="289575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289575" title="Category:Companions of the Order of St Michael and St George">
Category:Companions of the Order of St Michael and St George


</doc>
<doc id="289576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289576" title="Soyuz (spacecraft)">
Soyuz (spacecraft)

Soyuz (, ) is a series of spacecraft designed for the Soviet space programme. It was first used in the 1960s. The Soyuz spacecraft is launched on a Soyuz rocket, the most frequently used and most reliable launch vehicle in the world to date. All Soyuz spacecraft are launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan.
The first Soyuz flight had no people aboard. It launched on November 28, 1966. The first Soyuz mission with a crew, Soyuz 1, launched on 23 April 1967 but crashed, killing cosmonaut Vladimir Komarov. Soyuz 3 (October 26, 1968) was the first successful manned mission. Now, the Soyuz is widely considered the world's safest, most cost-effective human spaceflight vehicle. Soyuz spacecraft were used to carry cosmonauts to and from Salyut and later Mir Soviet space stations, and are now used for transport to and from the International Space Station (ISS). At least one Soyuz spacecraft is docked at the ISS at all times for use as an escape craft in the event of an emergency.
The newest Soyuz spacecraft is the Soyuz MS-01. It is due to be launched on June 21st 2016. The crew will consist of a Russian commander, a Japanese flight engineer, and an American flight engineer.
The Soyuz spacecraft has three parts:
The orbital module is also called the Habitation section. It has all the equipment not needed for reentry, such as experiments, cameras and cargo. It also contains a docking collar for docking to space stations. It does not come back to earth.
The reentry module is used for launch and the journey back to earth. Half of it is covered in heat protection tiles. It comes back to earth.
The service module has solar panels. It contains systems for temperature control, electric power supply, long-range radio communications and radio telemetry. It does not come back to earth.

</doc>
<doc id="289577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289577" title="Category:Commanders of the Royal Victorian Order">
Category:Commanders of the Royal Victorian Order


</doc>
<doc id="289579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289579" title="Category:Giftedness">
Category:Giftedness

This category contains pages related to gifted education.

</doc>
<doc id="289584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289584" title="Space Shuttle Challenger disaster">
Space Shuttle Challenger disaster

The Space Shuttle Challenger Disaster occurred on January 28, 1986, when the NASA Space Shuttle Challenger broke up 73 seconds after liftoff. All seven crew members were killed. The cause of the explosion was a part called an O-ring that broke in the right solid rocket booster. During the flight, hot gases escaped from the O-ring and made it break apart.
It was very cold on the morning of the Space shuttle's launch. The "Challenger's" engineers argued that the "Challenger" should not take off because the temperature was 31°F (-1°C) and the O-Rings could not seal right if the temperature was under 53 °F (12°C). The NASA commanders did not agree and said that the backup O-ring would work. They were later proved wrong.
Another problem was that the temperature had gotten so low that icicles were hanging from some parts of the "Challenger".
At 66 seconds after liftoff, the command was given to allow the engines to produce the highest thrust possible (Known as throttling up) as the shuttle started moving faster than the sound it was making. Michael J. Smith responded with ""Roger that, go to throttle up." However, at 72 seconds after liftoff, the right booster pulled away from one of the parts attaching to the external tank. Right then, the "Challenger" suddenly went off its intended path, which may have been felt by the crew. At 73 seconds after liftoff, Smith said the last words picked up by the recorder designed to record all interactions in the crew area of the shuttle during flight: "Uh oh..."". Smith may have been responding to the shuttle's computer telling him that the engines were moving quickly to compensate for the now loose booster in a useless attempt to get the shuttle back on the planned path, which showed that he knew about the problem about 3 hundredths of a second before the shuttle was torn apart.
Little is known of what happened in the minutes after the breakup. The crew cabin was still intact as it started falling. The official report into the disaster says that the crew survived the first breakup and that at least three people were still alive. They were able to move switches which required a cover to be pulled off before they could be moved, probably when they tried to regain control of the craft. The crew cabin did not have any kind of parachute, and it hit the ocean after falling for 2 minutes and 45 seconds at roughly 207 mph (333 km/h), killing any crew that did survive the first break up instantly with well over 200 times the force of normal gravity, which is like going from 0 to over 4,384 mph (7056 km/h) and then slowing back down to 0 all within a second.
Many people wanted to know why the "Challenger" exploded. President Ronald Reagan asked for a report about the disaster. It was called the "Rogers Commission Report" and it was written by a group of astronauts, scientists and engineers. They worked out what had happened and why the "Challenger" exploded. The report said that the people in charge at NASA did not listen to the engineers who said the O-rings were not safe; and that sometimes the people in charge thought that parts of the shuttle were well made when they were not. They also wrote that NASA sometimes did unsafe things because people would get angry if the shuttle launches were delayed. 
There were no shuttle flights while the report was written. After the report was written, NASA had to be more careful in many different ways.

</doc>
<doc id="289591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289591" title="Royal Society of Arts">
Royal Society of Arts

The Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce (RSA) is a British multi-disciplinary institution, based in London. It is often called the "Royal Society of Arts" instead of by its long formal name. The front of the building uses the short name too — see photograph. It was founded in 1754 and was granted a Royal Charter in 1847. Notable members have included Benjamin Franklin, Karl Marx, Adam Smith, William Hogarth, John Diefenbaker, Stephen Hawking and Charles Dickens.
The RSA was set up to "embolden enterprise, enlarge science, refine art, improve our manufactures and extend our commerce", but also to reduce poverty and secure full employment.
The RSA was founded in 1754 by William Shipley as the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce, modelled on the Dublin Society for improving Husbandry, Manufactures and other Useful Arts. In 1774, it moved into a new building near the Strand in central London which had been purpose-designed by the Adam Brothers (James Adam and Robert Adam) as part of their Adelphi scheme. The address was 8 John Street (now 8 John Adam Street). The RSA is still in there, but it also occupies nearby buildings (2-6 John Adam Street, plus 18 Adam Street). The original building includes the Great Room, which features a magnificent sequence of paintings by Irish artist James Barry: "The progress of human knowledge and culture". The first occupant of 18 Adam Street was the Adelphi Tavern, which is mentioned in Dickens's "The Pickwick Papers". The former private dining room of the Tavern contains a magnificent Adam ceiling with painted roundels by the school of Kauffman and Zucchi.
In its early years, the Society offered prizes — which it called "premiums" — for people who could successfully achieve one of a number of published challenges. Captain William Bligh suffered the Mutiny on the Bounty while attempting to win a premium for shipping breadfruit from the East to the West Indies. He tried again and this time succeeded, and the Society awarded him the prize. The Society offered premiums for a very wide range of challenges including inventing new forms of machinery and agricultural improvements (which included seeking ways to improve the cultivation of opium poppies).
The RSA hosted Britain's first exhibition of contemporary art which was a big success. As a result, the Royal Academy of Arts was formed in 1768 by Sir Thomas Gainsborough and Sir Joshua Reynolds — two early members of the RSA — as a spin-off organisation.
It was granted a Royal Charter in 1847. In 1908, King Edward VII granted it the right to use the term "Royal" in its name.
The National Training School for Music in London was founded by the Society in 1876. This was later succeeded by the Royal College of Music.
The RSA is probably best known for creating the RSA Examinations Board, now part of the separate OCR (Oxford, Cambridge and RSA Examinations) Board, following the Society's launch of the modern world's first public examinations in 1882.
It devised a scheme for remembering the links between famous people and buildings by placing plaques on the walls — these continue today as "Blue Plaques" which are administered by a range of government bodies. The first of these plaques was, in fact, of red terracotta placed on the outside of a former home of Lord Byron (since demolished). The Society erected 36 plaques until, in 1901, responsibility for them was transferred to the London County Council (which changed the colour of the plaques to the current blue) and later the Greater London Council and most recently English Heritage. Similar schemes are now operated in all the constituent countries of the United Kingdom.
The Society was instrumental in the preservation of West Wycombe, purchasing the entire village and handing it over the National Trust.
In 1936, the RSA awarded the first distinctions of Royal Designers for Industry (RDI or HonRDI). The honour gained royal endorsement in 1936, and "The Faculty of Royal Designers for Industry" was established as an association in 1937 to "further excellence in design and its application to industrial purposes": membership of the Faculty is automatic for (and exclusive to) all RDIs and HonRDIs. The Faculty currently has 120 Royal Designers (RDI) and 45 Honorary Royal Designers (non-UK citizens can be HonRDI): the number of designers who may hold the distinction of RDI at any one time is strictly limited. The Faculty consists of the world’s leading practitioners from fields as disparate as engineering, furniture, fashion and textiles, graphics, theatre and movie design. Early members include Eric Gill, Enid Marx, Sir Frank Whittle and numerous other household names.
An example of the Society's success is offered by the "Oxford English Dictionary", which records the first use of the word "sustainability" in an environmental sense in the RSA's Journal in 1980.
The Society states that, 'Fellows attach the letters FRSA after their name'. Membership of the fellowship is considered an honour.
This was not, however, always the case. According to Sutherland Lyall in 2003, 'the Royal Society of Arts used to ask you not to use [the suffix FRSA] because anybody who pays the modest fee becomes a Fellow'. Being elected a Fellow currently depends on having achieved (or demonstrating the potential to achieve) a contribution to society in a cultural or arts-related sphere.
The organisation is Incorporated by Royal Charter, is registered as a charity in England, and has more than 27,000 Fellows living in around 70 countries who support the aims of the society, and who have achieved — or who have the potential to achieve — eminence in their profession or calling. Its Patron is currently HM Queen Elizabeth II, its President is HRH The Princess Royal (who replaced her father, HRH Prince Philip in 2011), its Chairman is Luke Johnson (businessman) and its Chief Executive is Matthew Taylor.
Each year a number of medals are awarded, including the "Albert Medal", the "Benjamin Franklin Medal", and the "Bicentenary Medal". Medal winners include Nelson Mandela, Sir Frank Whittle and Professor Stephen Hawking.
In Great Britain and Ireland, the RSA has offered some regional activities to encourage Fellows to interact with each other locally and to address local topics of interest. The UK Regions are: East of England, East Midlands, London, North East, North West, Scotland, South East, South West, Wales, West, West Midlands and Yorkshire; Northern Ireland, part of the UK, is treated, for historical reasons, as a single all-Ireland region — 'Ireland' — that includes the Republic of Ireland. The RSA also has a presence in Belgium (to increase its influence in Brussels) and, further afield, in Australia, India, Southern Africa and the USA.
The Society runs a free public events programme which seeks to introduce new and challenging thinking. These are made freely available on its website after the event as mp3 audio files and videos. Recent lecturers include Michael Sandel, Nassim Nicholas Taleb, Sir Ken Robinson, Don Tapscott, Alain de Botton, Al Gore, Anthony Grayling, Zarine Kharas (founder of Justgiving), Amir Aczel, and Chris Anderson.
The choice of speaker for the recent annual Presidential lecture has been a matter of interest in the press. Danish professor Björn Lomborg, was chosen; his latest book, "Cool It", suggests that the imminent demise of polar bears is a myth. As president of the RSA, Prince Philip's first choice of speaker was Ian Plimer, professor of mineral geology at Adelaide University, but this was rejected as too controversial, as Plimer argues that the theory of Anthropogenic Global Warming is unproven.
On January 14, 2010, the RSA in partnership with Arts Council England hosted a one-day conference in London called "State of the Arts". A number of speakers from various dispclines from art to government gathered to talk about the state of the arts industry in the United Kingdom. Notable speakers included Jeremy Hunt MP, Secretary of State for Culture, Media & Sport and his counterpart Ben Bradshaw MP, who was then the Secretary of State for Culture, Media & Sport. Notably, Jeremy Hunt stated that if the Conservative party won the next elections then government funding for the arts would be cut.
The RSA House is also available to hire by external clients, providing hospitality facilities for conferences, dinners, parties and weddings. The stunning Vaults are of significant interest and provide a unique space for entertaining.
In July 2008, the RSA became a sponsor of an academy in Tipton, The RSA Academy, which opened in September 2008. New buildings are currently under construction to designs by John McAslan and Partners.
Current projects include Arts and Ecology, Citizen Power, Connected Communities, Design and Society, Education, Public Services, Social Brain and Technology in a Cold Climate.
Past projects include delivering fresh drinking water to the developing world, rethinking intellectual property from first principles to produce a Charter (published as the Adelphi Charter), investigating schemes to manage international migration and exploring the feasibility of a UK-wide personal carbon trading system. It still promotes the practice of inclusive design, and is working with artists to communicate ideas about environmental sustainability (for example, through one of the RSA's past projects, WEEE Man, and currently through the Arts and Ecology project).
"Informational"

</doc>
<doc id="289593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289593" title="Nolan Ryan">
Nolan Ryan

Lynn Nolan Ryan (born January 31, 1947) is a former Major League Baseball pitcher. He played in the major leagues from 1966 to 1993. He played for the New York Mets, California Angels, Houston Astros, and Texas Rangers. As a pitcher, Ryan struck out 5,714 batters. This is the most all-time. Ryan is the only pitcher in the MLB to strike out 5,000 batters. Ryan has also walked more batters and thrown more no-hitters than anyone else. He is now the president and one of the owners of the Texas Rangers. Ryan is from Refugio, Texas.

</doc>
<doc id="289595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289595" title="Category:Royal Society of Arts">
Category:Royal Society of Arts


</doc>
<doc id="289610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289610" title="Nickelodeon Games and Sports for Kids">
Nickelodeon Games and Sports for Kids

Nickelodeon Games and Sports for Kids (also called Nickelodeon GAS, Nick GAS, or GAS) was an American cable television network. It was part of MTV Networks's digital cable channels, and was available to all companies that provide digital cable and to Dish Network.
Nick GAS started on March 1, 1999. Dave Aizer (1999–2003), Vivianne Collins (1999–2003), and later Mati Moralejo (2001–2005) were the network's first on-air hosts.
Nick GAS focused on Nickelodeon game shows, which by 2000 were no longer available on the main Nickelodeon network. It was basically a children's version of Game Show Network, which had started in 1994.

</doc>
<doc id="289619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289619" title="Noah Cyrus">
Noah Cyrus

Noah Cyrus is Miley Cyrus's younger sister. She was born in Nashville, Tennessee. She has been in some TV shows like "Hannah Montana" but had very small roles. 
She appeared in the straight-to-DVD movie "". She was also in the film Ponyo with Frankie Jonas the youngest brother of the Jonas Brothers and played the character Yuria Nara. She also sang the theme song for Ponyo with Frankie too.

</doc>
<doc id="289620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289620" title="Category:Royal Society of Literature">
Category:Royal Society of Literature


</doc>
<doc id="289631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289631" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Noah Cyrus">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Noah Cyrus


</doc>
<doc id="289638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289638" title="Enver Galim">
Enver Galim

Enver Galim (March 15, 1915, Kazan, Russian Empire – March 2, 1988, New York, US), Tatar writer and journalist, was one of the translators of the Bible into the Tatar language.
After graduating from the Institute of the Tatar Language and Literature in 1938, Enver Galim worked as a school teacher and a journalist. He was drafted into the Soviet Army in 1941 and sent to the front to fight against Nazi Germany. A year later he was severely wounded and captured by German soldiers. After spending a few months in the POW camp Enver Galim was released. Fearing repression in Stalinist Russia, he decided to stay in Germany. To avoid deportation, he applied for Turkish citizenship and after receiving it, changed his name to Enver Galimoglu.
After the war, he continued his career as a journalist, writing articles for the magazine "Azad Vatan" and other publications. Between 1953 and 1988 Ebver Galim worked for the Tatar-Bashkir Service of Radio Liberty. After 1968 he was Radio Liberty's correspondent based in New York. He contributed numerous articles and analyses to "Problems of the Peoples of the USSR", the Turkish-language magazine "Dergi" and the Russian-language newspaper "Vestnik." One of his major works was the translation of the Bible into the Tatar language.

</doc>
<doc id="289643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289643" title="Acorales">
Acorales

Acorales the sweet flag order of flowering plants and the most basal lineage among the monocotyledons, which are characterized by having a single seed leaf. This order contains the single family Acoraceae and one genus ("Acorus"), which comprises two to four species of plants that resemble the irises.

</doc>
<doc id="289665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289665" title="Magazine (firearms)">
Magazine (firearms)

A magazine is a place for keeping ammunition. For artillery it can be a special warehouse or a special room in a warship. 
In firearms, a magazine (often incorrectly called a "clip") is a container that holds ammunition for a firearm. An external magazine is pushed into the firearm, which is called loading. An Internal magazine(common in bolt action rifles) is built into the gun and cannot be easily taken out, these are usually reloaded individually or via a stripper clip. Taking an empty magazine out of a firearm and putting in a full one is known as reloading the gun, but putting more bullets inside the magazine is known as reloading the magazine. 
The most common type of magazine is a box magazine, which holds the bullets in columns. There are also other types of magazines such as drum, pan and helix that hold more bullets that a normal box magazine.
The most common type of ammo used with magazines is bullets. Most modern guns that shoot bullets use magazines for loading ammo (with the notable exception of revolvers). Some kinds of shotguns use shotgun shell speed-loader magazines for faster reloading. 
Most magazines use a spring and follower inside to push the ammunition into the gun. Magazines may be made out of metal or plastic. Metal magazines are more common, but some plastic magazines can be partly see-through so that the user can see how much ammo is left inside.

</doc>
<doc id="289666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289666" title="Shotgun shell">
Shotgun shell

A shotgun shell is the standard type of ammunition for a shotgun. It is fired after being loaded into the chamber or chambers of a shotgun. The shell is cylindrical in shape and is normally between and long. It holds a charge of gunpowder and either lead shot or a shotgun slug made to be fired from the shotgun. Shotgun shells are usually mostly plastic but have thin brass at the base, though they can be made of solid brass, paper, or other combinations of these materials.
A shotgun shell's size is usually measured in gauge (also known as bore). The most common size of shotgun shell is the 12-gauge. When measuring gauge, a smaller number means a larger shell: a 12-gauge shell is larger than a 20-gauge shell. Shell gauge is an old measurement. Except for the .410 bore or gauge, which is not a gauge at all but a caliber, 
the gauge of a shotgun was equal to the number of lead balls that added up to . So in a 12 gauge, 12 balls add up to about a pound of lead. So the diameter is equal to a ball weighing 1/12th of a pound of lead. A 20 gauge, another popular size today, has the diameter of a ball weighing 1/20th of a pound of lead.
Besides lead shot and slugs which are designed to be lethal, there are special less lethal types of shotgun shells which shoot things made to hurt but not kill people. Less lethal shells are most often used by police. These can be loaded with plastic or rubber shot, rubber slugs, beanbags, or salt.

</doc>
<doc id="289681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289681" title="Eric Carr">
Eric Carr

Eric Carr (July 12, 1950 - November 24, 1991) was an American rock drummer. He was a member of the rock band Kiss from 1981 to 1991.
One of Carr's first bands was "Salt and Pepper". They played covers of various artists. They had success in the 1970s playing in small clubs. The band continued playing for nine years. Salt & Pepper became the opening act for artists such as Stevie Wonder and Nina Simone. The group changed their name to "Creation" in 1973 and began to play Disco. 
In 1981, Carr replaced Peter Criss on drums in the hard rock band Kiss. Carr brought a heavy metal style to the band. The band's first album with Carr was "Music from The Elder", released on November 16, 1981. Carr co-wrote some songs on the album. He co-wrote "Escape from the Island" with Ace Frehley, and "Under the Rose" with Gene Simmons. Other albums with Kiss were "Creatures of the Night", "Lick It Up", "Animalize", and "Hot in the Shade".
Carr's last public appearance with Kiss was at the MTV Video Music Awards in September 1991. Carr died of heart cancer on November 24, 1991 at age 41.

</doc>
<doc id="289699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289699" title="Royal Canadian Navy">
Royal Canadian Navy

The Royal Canadian Navy (RCN) was the navy of Canada from 1911 to 1968.
From 4 May 1910 to 29 August 1911 the navy was known officially as the "Naval Service of Canada" and operationally as Canadian Naval Forces.
During the early years of the 20th century, there was a lot of talk in the British Empire as to the role the Dominions would play in defence and foreign affairs. Because of the developing naval arms race with Germany, a key part of this discussion focused on naval issues.
In Canada, the naval debate came down to a choice between two options: either the young country could provide funds, support and manpower to the Royal Navy, or it could form its own navy, which could help support the Royal Navy if necessary. After extensive political debates, Canadian politicians chose to set up their own navy.
The Royal Canadian Navy Served with the Royal Navy in World Wars I and II, but during the Suez Crisis of the 1950s Canada and the United Kingdom had different political views. Coupled with mutinies in 1949 partly linked to old British ways the Canadian government started looking at making sure the Canadian Navy had a very separate identity from the Royal Navy. In August of 2011 the three services were once again separated, ending decades of confusion and low morale. The Royal Canadian Navy, the Canadian Army and Royal Canadian Air Force were reinstated.

</doc>
<doc id="289701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289701" title="Leo (constellation)">
Leo (constellation)

Leo is one of the constellations of the zodiac. Its name is Latin for lion. Its symbol is (). Leo lies between dim Cancer to the west and Virgo to the east.
Leo contains many bright shining stars, such as Regulus (also called α Leonis); the lion's tail, Denebola (also called β Leonis); and γ Leonis (also called Algieba). Many other fainter stars have been named as well, such as δ Leo (Zosma), θ Leo (Chort), κ Leo (Al Minliar al Asad), λ Leo (Alterf), and ο Leo (Subra).
Regulus, Al Jabbah, and Algieba, together with the fainter stars ζ Leo (Adhafera), μ Leo (Ras Elased Borealis), and ε Leo (Ras Elased Australis), make up the pattern known as "the Sickle". These stars represent the head and the mane of the lion.
The star Wolf 359, one of the nearest stars to Earth (7.78 light-years), is in Leo. 
The carbon star CW Leo (IRC +10216) is the brightest star in the night sky at the infrared N-band (10 μm wavelength).
Leo contains many bright galaxies, Messier 65, Messier 66, Messier 95, Messier 96, Messier 105, NGC 3521 and NGC 3628 are the most famous. The first two are part of the Leo Triplet.
The Leo Ring is a cloud of hydrogen and helium gas. It is found in orbit of two galaxies found within Leo.
Many civilizations over thousands of years have portrayed the constellation of Leo as a lion. One theory for this is that the Sun was among its stars in Midsummer. This was the time when the lions of the Egyptian desert left their usual home for the banks of the river Nile. There they could find relief from the heat in the water. The Roman writer Pliny the Elder wrote that the Egyptians worshipped the stars of Leo. He says this is because the Nile would overflow with water at the same time as the Sun entering into the constellation. 
In Egypt, the Ramesseum ("the memorial temple of Pharaoh Ramesses II") at Thebes mentions Leo in the inscription on the wall. On the planisphere of Dendera Leo is shown standing on an outstretched serpent. 
The Persians called Leo "Ser" or "Shir"; the Turks, "Artan"; the Syrians, "Aryo"; the Jewish, "Arye"; the Indians, "Simha" ; all meaning a lion. In Babylonian astronomy these stars were called UR.GU.LA - the 'Great Lion'; the bright star, Regulus, that stands at the Lion's breast also had distinctly regal associations as it was known as the King Star.
In Greek mythology, it was identified as the Nemean Lion which was killed by Hercules during one of his twelve labours, and after that put into the sky.
The Roman poet Ovid called it "Herculeus Leo" and "Violentus Leo". "Bacchi Sidus" (Star of Bacchus) was another of its titles, the god Bacchus always being identified with this animal. However, Manilius called it "Jovis et Junonis Sidus" (Star of Jupiter and Juno).
Early Hindu astronomers knew it as "Asleha" and as "Sinha", the Tamil "Simham".
As of 2002, the Sun appeared in the constellation Leo from August 10 to September 15. In tropical astrology, the Sun is considered to be in the sign Leo from July 23 to August 22. In sidereal astrology the sun is said to be in Leo from August 16 to September 15.
H.A. Rey has suggested an alternative way to connect the stars, which shows a lion walking. The stars delta Leonis, gamma Leonis, eta Leonis, and theta Leonis form the body of the lion. The stars gamma Leonis, zeta Leonis, mu Leonis, epsilon Leonis, and eta Leonis form the lion's neck. The stars mu Leonis, kappa Leonis, lambda Leonis, and epsilon Leonis form the head of the lion. Delta Leonis and beta Leonis form the lion's tail: beta Leonis, also known as Denebola, is the bright tip of the tail with a magnitude of two. The stars theta Leonis, iota Leonis, and sigma Leonis form the left hind leg of the lion, with sigma Leonis being the foot. The stars theta Leonis and rho Leonis form the right hind leg, with rho Leonis being the foot. The stars eta Leonis and alpha Leonis mark the lion's heart, with alpha Leonis, also known as Regulus, being the bright star of magnitude one. The stars eta Leonis and omicron Leonis form the right front foot of the Lion.

</doc>
<doc id="289704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289704" title="Leo (astrology)">
Leo (astrology)

) is the fifth astrological sign of the Zodiac, starting from the constellation of Leo. Leo is considered to be a "masculine", positive (extrovert) sign. It is also considered a fire sign and is one of four fixed signs ruled by the Sun. Being the fifth sign of the zodiac, Leo has been associated with the astrological fifth house.
Individuals born when the Sun is in this sign are considered Leo individuals. The Sun is in Leo roughly from July 23 to August 22. Under the sidereal zodiac, it is currently there roughly from August 10 to September 15.
Generally, people with starsign Leo are thought to be compatible with people of the other fire signs, Aries and Sagittarius. They are also compatible with people with an air sign: Gemini, Libra and Aquarius. Taurus and Scorpio are signs of the other nature (feminine/introverted), but are said to be semi-compatible with Leo because they have the same fixed quality.
There are many variables that determine compatibility in astrology, such as birth dates, birth months, personalities, birth years, times of birth (specific), position of a sign within the Sun, the Moon, Stars, etc. The signs listed as compatible are a general guideline and reference to compatibility. The branch in astrology dealing with specific interpersonal compatibilities is called Synastry.
"See Leo (constellation) "
Leo's are fierce

</doc>
<doc id="289707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289707" title="Celestial sphere">
Celestial sphere

In astronomy and navigation, the celestial sphere is an imaginary sphere ("ball") of a very large unspecified size. The earth and the spere have the same centre: they are "concentric". They also rotate upon the same axis. All objects in the sky can be thought of as projected ("drawn, written") upon the celestial sphere. This imaginary sphere is a very practical tool for positional astronomy.
The equator divides the earth into the Northern Hemisphere and the Southern Hemisphere. Similarly, the celestial sphere is divided by projecting the equator into space. This divides the sphere into the north celestial hemisphere and the south celestial hemisphere. One can also locate the Celestial Tropic of Cancer, Celestial Tropic of Capricorn, North Celestial Pole, and South Celestial Pole.
The Earth rotates from west to east around its axis in slightly less than 24 hours. The celestial sphere and all objects on it appear to rotate from east to west around the celestial poles in the same time. This is the diurnal motion ("daily motion"). This is why stars will rise in the east and set in the west, (unless a star is circumpolar). On the next night a particular star will rise again, but with our normal clocks running a 24-hour 0-minute cycle, it will do so slightly less than 4 minutes earlier. By the following night the difference will be 8 minutes, and so forth with every following night (or day).
The reason for this is that the Sun does not stand still on the celestial sphere, and the stars do (except for a tiny proper motion). The sun moves about 1° per day eastwards over a great circle known as the ecliptic (which is 360° or a full circle in one year, the annual motion of the Sun). As an angle of 1° corresponds to 4 minutes in time (360° = 24 hours), we need therefore four extra minutes of diurnal motion to see the Sun back on the same meridian again, making the duration of one rotation just 24 hours exactly (on the average, ignoring small seasonal variations, see equation of time)
Normal clocks therefore indicate solar time. Astronomers studying the movements of stars may want clocks indicating sidereal time, going around once in 23h56m (solar time units).
A celestial sphere can also refer to a physical model of the celestial sphere or celestial globe.
Such globes map the constellations on the "outside" of a sphere, resulting in a mirror image of the constellations as seen from Earth. The oldest surviving example of such an artefact is the globe of the Farnese Atlas sculpture, a 2nd-century copy of an older (Hellenistic period, ca. 120 BC) work.

</doc>
<doc id="289710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289710" title="Capricornus">
Capricornus

Capricornus is one of the constellations of the zodiac. It is often called Capricorn, especially when referring to the corresponding astrological sign. Its name is Latin for "horned male goat" or "goat horn", and it is commonly represented in the form of a sea-goat: a mythical creature that is half goat, half fish. Its symbol is (Unicode ♑).
Capricornus is one of the 88 modern constellations, and was also one of the 48 constellations listed by the 2nd century astronomer Ptolemy. Under its modern boundaries it is bordered by Aquila, Sagittarius, Microscopium, Piscis Austrinus and Aquarius. The constellation is in an area of sky called the Sea or Water, consisting of many water-related constellations such as Aquarius, Pisces and Eridanus.
Capricornus is the second faintest constellation in the zodiac after Cancer. Its brighter stars are on a triangle whose corners are α Capricorni (also known as Giedi), δ Capricorni (Deneb Algiedi), and ω Capricorni.
Capricorn has several galaxies and clusters. Messier 30 is a globular cluster that is one degree south of the galaxy group NGC 7103. The constellation also harbors the wide spiral galaxy NGC 6907.
Despite it being very faint, Capricornus has one of the oldest mythological associations. It has consistently been represented as a cross of a goat and a fish since the Middle Bronze Age. The earliest picture of Capricornus is on a cylinder-seal dating c. 21st century BCE. From the mid second Millennium it became a popular motif on boundary stones. It was explicitly recorded in the Babylonian star catalogues as "The Goat-Fish" before 1000 BC. The constellation was a symbol of Ea and in the Early Bronze Age marked the winter solstice.
Because of the precession of the equinoxes the December solstice no longer takes place while the sun is in the constellation Capricornus. The astrological sign called Capricorn now begins with the solstice. The sun's most southerly position is now called the Tropic of Capricorn. This term also applies to the line on earth where the sun is directly overhead at noon on that solstice.
The planet Neptune was discovered in this constellation by German astronomer Johann Galle, near Deneb Algedi (δ Capricorni) on September 23, 1846, which is reasonable as Capricornus can be seen best at 4:00am in September.
In Chinese astronomy, constellation Capricornus is in "The Black Tortoise of the North" (北方玄武, "Běi Fāng Xuán Wǔ").
Capricorn the sea goat was a goat that decided to take over the world. The gods of Greece looked down upon that and sent there wrath and killed him with one of Zeus thunderbolts. Then they hung him in the sky to humiliate him.
As of 2002, the Sun appears in the constellation Capricornus from January 19 to February 15. In tropical astrology, the Sun is considered to be in the sign Capricorn from December 22 to January 19, and in sidereal astrology, from January 15 to February 15.
Ptolemy's method of connecting the stars of Capricornus has been influential.
H. A. Rey has suggested an alternative way to join the stars, which graphically shows a goat. The goat's head is formed by the triangle of stars ι Cap, θ Cap, and ζ Cap. The goat's horn sticks out with stars γ Cap and δ Cap. Star δ Cap, at the tip of the horn, is of the third magnitude. The goat's tail consists of stars β Cap and α Cap: star β Cap being of the third magnitude. The goat's hind foot consists of stars ψ Cap and ω Cap. Both of these stars are of the fourth magnitude.
USS Capricornus (AKA-57) is once of United States navy ship.

</doc>
<doc id="289726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289726" title="SV Ried">
SV Ried

SV Ried is a soccerclub from Austria, playing in the Bundesliga, the highest class in Austria.
The club was founded in 1912 and played till 1955 in Upper Austrias footballleague. With some up and downs they reached the 1. Landesliga(highest class in Upper Austrian football) in 1976. 1988 and 1990 they won the Championship but failed to reach the 2. Division(at that time second level in Austrian football). 1991 they promoted after the third title to the 2.Division. 
After four years in this class they promoted to the highest class in Austrian football. From 1995 to 2003 they played in the Bundesliga, but in the season 2002/2003 they only reached the 10th place and were relegated to the First Division. 2005 they reached the title of the second league and came back to the Bundesliga. 77 points are a all-time point record for the second level in Austrian football. 
2007 they were runner-up in the Bundesliga and 1998 and 2011 they won the Austrian Cup. In the Cup Winners Cup 1998/1999 they reached the 3rd round.

</doc>
<doc id="289736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289736" title="Navarre">
Navarre

Navarre is an autonomous community in northern Spain. The capital of Navarre is Pamplona.
When the Roman Empire existed, most of the people who lived in Navarre were the Vascones.

</doc>
<doc id="289738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289738" title="Barbary falcon">
Barbary falcon

The Barbary falcon ("Falco pelegrinoides") is a species of bird. It is a medium-sized falcon about the size of a crow. This bird of prey breeds in the Canary Islands and on the coasts of North Africa. It is mainly resident. It is thought to be related to the peregrine falcon.

</doc>
<doc id="289746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289746" title="L-DOPA">
L-DOPA

Levodopa, or -DOPA is an amino acid. In the body of mammals, it is made from Tyrosine in a process named synthesis. It also occurs in different plants. As such it can be used as a dietary supplement. L-Dopa is the precursor to the neurotransmitters dopamine, norepiphedrine and epiphedrine, which are part of a group known as Catecholamines. L-dopa can also be used as a drug for diseases such as Parkinson's disease. The substance used in the drug is usually called "Levodopa", and the naturally occurring substance is called "L-Dopa".

</doc>
<doc id="289749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289749" title="Austrobaileyales">
Austrobaileyales

Austrobaileyales is the botanical name for an order of flowering plants. There are about 100 species of woody plants, perhaps the most famous of which is the spice star anise, from "Illicium verum". 
The APG system, of 1998, did not recognize such an order. However, the APG II system, of 2003, did accept this order and placed it among the basal angiosperms. 

</doc>
<doc id="289751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289751" title="Chloranthaceae">
Chloranthaceae

Chloranthaceae is the botanical name of a family of flowering plants. The family consists of four genera, totalling several dozen species, of herbaceous or woody plants occurring in Southeast Asia, the Pacific, Madagascar, Central & South America, and the West Indies. The flowers are inconspicuous, and arranged in inflorescences. Petals are absent in this family, and sometimes so are sepals. The flowers can be either hermaphrodite or of separate sexes. The fruit is drupe-like, consisting of one carpel.

</doc>
<doc id="289761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289761" title="Category:Navarre">
Category:Navarre


</doc>
<doc id="289763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289763" title="Category:Sockpuppets of Mr. Berty">
Category:Sockpuppets of Mr. Berty

Sockpuppets of 

</doc>
<doc id="289767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289767" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/The Rags (Band)">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/The Rags (Band)


</doc>
<doc id="289768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289768" title="Creodont">
Creodont

The Creodonta are an extinct order of mammals which lived from the Palaeocene to the Miocene epoch. They are distant relatives of the Carnivora.
Creodonts were the dominant group of carnivorous mammals from 55 to 35 million years ago (mya) in the ecosystems of Africa, Eurasia and North America. They competed with the Mesonychids and the Entelodonts and ultimately outlasted them. In Oligocene Africa, they were the dominant predatory group. 
At last, they lost ground to the Carnivora. The Carnivora are the only group to survive today. The last creodont genus went extinct 8 million years ago, and modern carnivores now occupy their ecological niches.
The first creodont fossils were in the Palaeocene, about 60 million years ago (mya), and the last "Dissopsalis", perhaps 8 mya. So, the creodonts lasted for at least 50 million years.
Creodonts show various adaptations to their carnivorous life-style, and show convergent evolution with modern carnivores. They share, for example, the carnassial shear, a modification of teeth that sliced meat like scissors.
The Carnivora also developed larger brains and more efficient running. Once forest and woodland was partly replaced by grassland, in the Miocene, the true carnivores had the advantage, and the creodonts lost ground and eventually became extinct.

</doc>
<doc id="289779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289779" title="Peter Criss">
Peter Criss

Peter Criss (b. December 20, 1945, in Brooklyn, New York) is an American drummer. He was one of the first member of the band kiss.
Criss was born George Peter John Criscuola. He is of Italian descent. His parents were Joseph and Loretta Criscuolo. Criss was a student of art and jazz. He got his start in music in the pop rock group Chelsea. They recorded an album in 1970. 
In 1972 Peter began his career in the band Kiss. The band included Paul Stanley on guitar and Gene Simmons on bass, and Ace Frehley as a first guitar. With the painted faces, in 1973 released their first album Kiss. The album was very successful. Peter Criss proved to be a good singer. He wrote and sang the ballad "Beth". On the band's third album, "Dressed to Kill" (1975), Criss sang the song "Getaway", written by Ace Frehley. In 1980 Peter Criss released his last album as the drummer of Kiss "Unmasked". In 1981 he was replaced by drummer Eric Carr. 
In 1996, Criss returned to the band to record some acoustic tracks on the album "Unplugged". Peter Criss left the band again in 2004. He was replaced by Eric Singer
Jazz musicians of the early years, to 1945, by David Dicaire

</doc>
<doc id="289801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289801" title="Kamaboko">
Kamaboko

"Kamaboko" has been made in Japan since the 14th century CE and has become commonly available in many other countries. One example that can be found in the West is "kanikama" (also known as "kani kamaboko"), or imitation crab. This variation of "surimi" is quite common in the West as it is a cheap substitute for real crab meat.
In Japan, "kamaboko" can often be seen served as a topping over ramen or udon. It is also commonly sold at convenience stores as "chikama" ("kamaboko" and cheese) and bought by people like Jeff Hammond in Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="289803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289803" title="Banga Sena">
Banga Sena

The Banga Sena (Bengal Army) is a separatist Hindu organisation, which supports the making of a Bangabhumi/separate homeland for Bengali Hindus in the People's Republic of Bangladesh. The group is led by Kalidas Baidya.

</doc>
<doc id="289804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289804" title="Swadhin Bangabhumi Andolan">
Swadhin Bangabhumi Andolan

Bangabhumi (, meaning the land of Bengal) also known as Bir Bango (), is a separatists movement to create a Hindu country using southwestern East Bengal envisioned by Banga Sena of Bangladesh.
The movement was founded in 1973 in the Republic of India soon after Bangladeshi independence to support the Hindu refugees from Bangladesh, who were targeted by the Pakistani national army in the 1971 Bangladesh atrocities based on ideas of reconquest. However, this movement did not receive much support at that time. In an interview with BBC in 2001, Chittaranjan Sutar, one of the alleged organisers of the movement, denied any existence of the movement at that time. The movement openly became active again on 2003 when it declared the independence of Hindu Republic of Bangabhumi.

</doc>
<doc id="289806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289806" title="Tempura">
Tempura

Batter for tempura is generally made from cold water and a light wheat flour. However, sometimes other ingredients may be added, such as eggs, baking soda or baking powder, starch, oil, or spices. Traditionally, the batter is mixed a small amount at a time using chopsticks. The batter is only mixed for a few seconds and the lumps are left behind, giving the fried tempura its unique shape. Great care is taken to make sure the tempura is not over-mixed, otherwise it will become chewy and dough-like.
Special tempura flour has become widely available in supermarkets around the world. Tempura generally does not use breadcrumbs ("panko"). Foods made with this are usually referred to as "furai"--Japanese-style fried foods, such as tonkatsu (fried pork cutlet) or ebi furai (fried shrimp).
Seafood or thinly sliced vegetables are dipped in the batter and then quickly fried in hot oil. Usually vegetable oil is used and is heated to around 160 to 180 degrees Celsius. The cooking time for different types of tempura varies greatly, from only a few seconds for very thin vegetables to minutes for thicker ingredients or "kakiage" (mixed vegetables fritters).
Common ingredients for tempura include both seafood and vegetables, such as shrimp, squid, bell peppers, kabocha squash, eggplant, sweet potato, and lotus root, among many others.
Tempura is served hot immediately after cooking. Sometimes a sauce for dipping will be provided, the most common being made from dashi stock, mirin, and soy sauce ("shōyu"). Sometimes a special salt is served with the tempura. In other cases it may be used as a topping on soups like soba or udon.

</doc>
<doc id="289818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289818" title="1985 Mexico City earthquake">
1985 Mexico City earthquake

The 1985 Mexico City Earthquake was an earthquake that happened in Mexico City on September 19, 1985. It had a magnitude of 8.1, and the number of people killed added up to 10,000 deaths.

</doc>
<doc id="289820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289820" title="Warkany syndrome 2">
Warkany syndrome 2

Warkany syndrome 2, also known as chromosome 8 trisomy syndrome or trisomy 8, is a condition where chromosome 8 in humans has three sets of chromosomes, as opposed to the normal two. This condition is called "trisomy", and is where Warkany syndrome 2 derives its alternative names. People born with Warkany syndrome 2 typically have mental retardation and renal or skeletal malformations.

</doc>
<doc id="289821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289821" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/List of ThunderClan characters">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/List of ThunderClan characters


</doc>
<doc id="289825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289825" title="Yothu Yindi">
Yothu Yindi

Yothu Yindi was the first major indigenous band in Australia. They released many hits and albums such as "One Blood", "Treaty", "Garma", "Homeland Movement" and "Birrkuda". The name Yothu Yindi translates from 'yolngo matha' to English as "child and mother". This term refers to the connection the tribe has to their land.
Some of their achievements include spending 22 weeks in the national charts for their single "Treaty", the prime minister Paul Keating awarded them with $30000.
Mandawuy is a crocodile man and also lead singer and song writer with the band Yothu Yindi. He is very kind and inspirational as well as he is strongly Aboriginal. His brother won The Australian of the Year.

</doc>
<doc id="289826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289826" title="Andreas Ulmer">
Andreas Ulmer

Andreas Ulmer (born October 30, 1985) is an Austrian footballplayer playing for F.C. Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga as defender. His father,Gerhard Ulmer, and his uncle, Fritz Ulmer, were also footballplayers, playing for SK Voest Linz.
He started playing football in the local clubs SK Asten and LASK Linz. At the age of 14 he went to the Frank Stronach Academy in Hollabrunn (a school, where you can also visit a school beside your football education). He got his A-levels and then played for the second squad of FK Austria Wien after his debut for Austria Wien in the 2004/05 season. 2008/09 he played for SV Ried and then went to F.C. Red Bull Salzburg.
For Red Bull Salzburg he played regularly as left defender. In the 2009/10 season he played all matches of Red Bull Salzburg. This year he even played 37 matches in the league, because he came in Winter to Red Bull Salzburg which had to play a match from the first half of the season in the second half, so Andreas Ulmer played this year 22 matches for SV Ried and 15 for Red Bull Salzburg. So far he is the only player in the whole football history of Austria who did one match more than the regular 36. During the warm-up for a Championsleague qualifing match versus Omonia Nikosia he was badly injured so he missed the first half of the season 2010/11. At the moment he is working at his comeback and is sitting on the replacement bench.

</doc>
<doc id="289827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289827" title="WrestleMania XXVIII">
WrestleMania XXVIII

WrestleMania XXVIII was the twenty-eighth yearly WrestleMania professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It took place at Sun Life Stadium in the Miami suburb of Miami Gardens, Florida.
The city of Miami was one of the two major contenders for hosting WrestleMania XXVII along with Atlanta, Georgia. In the end in February 2010, Atlanta was awarded the right to host the event. According to the Miami-Dade Sports Commission, WWE management felt that Miami's planning for the event would have been too hectic with many other sporting events held in the area around the same time of the planning, such as Super Bowl XLIV. However, Miami was reportedly considered for the next event due to its international ties, arenas, airports and experience of hosting past major events.
Bidding documents were sent to seventeen cities in mind for hosting a WrestleMania event between 2012 and 2014, with fourteen replying in interest. Other cities in mind for WrestleMania XXVIII were Los Angeles, New Orleans, New York City, Toronto, Detroit, Tampa, Vancouver, St. Louis, Jacksonville, Orlando and Houston. The city of Dallas also showed interest but had to pull out of bidding for the next two years due to hosting events such as the NCAA Final Four.
On February 9, 2011, it was announced by "The Miami Herald" that Miami had won the right to host the event. WWE would later officially announce the event in a press conference held at the Fontainebleau Miami Beach. WrestleMania XXVIII will be the second event to be hosted in the state of Florida, the fourth event without a closed roof, and the third event to be held entirely outdoors. For hosting the event, WWE will receive a $250,000 cash incentive from the Miami-Dade Sports Commission raised through grants and sponsorships. Along with WrestleMania XXVIII, a series of events grouped as "WrestleMania Week" will be held in the week before the event including WrestleMania's yearly "WrestleMania Axxess" fan convention at the Miami Beach Convention Center, the 2012 WWE Hall of Fame ceremony at the American Airlines Arena, the finals of the WrestleMania Reading Challenge, and a Celebrity Pro-Am Golf tournament.

</doc>
<doc id="289834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289834" title="Juan Miranda">
Juan Miranda

Juan Miguel Miranda (born April 25, 1983 in Consolación del Sur, Cuba) is an Cuban Major League Baseball first baseman who currently plays for the Arizona Diamondbacks. Miranda also played for the New York Yankees from 2008 to 2010 before being traded to the Arizona Diamondbacks for Scott Allen.

</doc>
<doc id="289836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289836" title="Hop (movie)">
Hop (movie)

Hop is a 2011 Easter-themed comedy movie that was produced by Chris Meledandri and was directed by Tim Hill. Hop was released on April 1, 2011 in North America. The movie received negative reviews with a 23% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 41 out of 100 from Metacritic. Even though the movie got bad reviews, it opened at #1 at the Friday box office in the US, earning $11.4 million and also topped the weekend box office with $38.1 million, which made it the highest opening weekend so far in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="289839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289839" title="Heckler &amp; Koch">
Heckler &amp; Koch

Heckler & Koch (H&K, "Heckler und Koch") is a German firearm manufacturing company. They make many guns such as the MP5 series submachine gun and the rifle G3. Heckler and Koch are one of the most famous weapon manufacturers and deliver weapons to many countries like to the German Armed Forces or the US Army.
The company is in Oberndorf in the state of Baden-Württemberg, but also has locations in the United Kingdom, France and the United States. The company motto is "Keine Kompromisse!" (No Compromise!). H&K makes firearms for many military and paramilitary units, like the Special Air Service, U.S. Navy SEALs, Delta Force, FBI HRT, the German KSK and GSG 9 and many other counter-terrorism and hostage rescue teams.

</doc>
<doc id="289841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289841" title="Garfield: The Movie">
Garfield: The Movie

Garfield: The Movie is an 2004 animated comedy movie that was produced by John Davis, John Kilkenny, Michele Imperato, Neil A. Machlis and Brian Manis and was directed by Peter Hewitt. Garfield: The Movie was released on June 11, 2004 in North America. The movie received negative reviews with a 14% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 27 out of 100 from Metacritic. A sequel to the movie was released in 2006 and was called, .

</doc>
<doc id="289843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289843" title="Garfield: A Tail of Two Kitties">
Garfield: A Tail of Two Kitties

Garfield: A Tail of Two Kitties is an 2006 animated comedy movie that was produced by John Davis, Michele Imperato and Brian Manis and was directed by Tim Hill. "Garfield: A Tail of Two Kitties" was released on June 16, 2006 in North America. The movie received negative reviews with a 11% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 37 out of 100 from Metacritic.
This movie is a sequel to "".

</doc>
<doc id="289850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289850" title="Ritchie Blackmore">
Ritchie Blackmore

Ritchie Blackmore (born 14 April 1945) is an English guitarist. He is former member and founder of British hard rock band Deep Purple. 
Blackmore was born in Weston-super-Mare, Somerset. His family moved to Heston, Middlesex when he was two.
In the 1950s, Blackmore played with small bands. In 1968, Blackmore , with keyboardist Jon Lord, singer Rod Evans, bassist Nick Simper and drummer Ian Paice created the band Deep Purple. Deep Purple had a hit song in the United States with "Hush". Although they were doing well, Ritchie Blackmore and Deep Purple decided to get a different singer. They replaced Evans with Ian Gillan. The band's album "Deep Purple In Rock" was released in 1970. In 1972, Deep Purple made the album "Machine Head". It included one of their most popular songs, "Smoke on the Water. In 1972, they recorded the live album "Made in Japan". Gillan and Glover left the group in 1974. They were replaced with singer David Coverdale and bassist David Coverdale. The new Deep Purple released two albums "Burn" (1974) and "Stormbringer" (1974). Blackmore left the band soon after these albums were released. 
In 1984, Blackmore got together with Gillan, Glover, Lord and Paice and made the album "Perfect Strangers". The album had many successes with the songs "Knocking at Your Back Door" and "Perfect Strangers". After recording the album "The Battle Rages On", Blackmore left the band in 1993.
In 1975, Blackmore founded the band The Rainbow. The band included Ronnie James Dio as singer, Craig Gruber on bass, Micky Lee Soule on keyboards, and Gary Driscoll on drums. The band's first album, "Ritchie Blackmore's Rainbow", was released August 4, 1975. It was followed by "Long Live Rock 'n' Roll" in 1978, with Cozy Powell in drums. On "Difficult to Cure" (1981), The band included the vocalist Joe Lynn Turner, replacing Dio. After several changes in it's members, Blackmore disbanded the band in 1997. 

</doc>
<doc id="289853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289853" title="Clint Mansell">
Clint Mansell

Clinton Darryl "Clint" Mansell (born 7 January 1963 in Coventry, England) is an English musician, composer, and was also the lead singer and guitarist of the band Pop Will Eat Itself. He is known for scores on movies. Some of the most famous movies that he has scored are Requiem for a Dream, The Fountain, Moon, Smokin' Aces, The Wrestler, and Black Swan. His composition has become very popular and has been used in many advertisements and movie trailers.
Mansell has scored many movies:

</doc>
<doc id="289861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289861" title="Microsoft Publisher">
Microsoft Publisher

Microsoft Publisher is a desktop publishing application (program). It is made by Microsoft and it is part of Microsoft Office. Publisher is similar to Word except that it places the emphasis on page layout and design (rather than writing text and proof reading). With Publisher, you can create a variety of publication types. For example, you can make brochures, newsletters, postcards and greeting cards as well as normal, 'Word-like' documents. Publisher's file extension is ".pub". The current version is 2013 for Windows; there is no version for Macintosh.

</doc>
<doc id="289866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289866" title="Daily Express">
Daily Express

The Daily Express is a British newspaper. It is published daily and it is a tabloid. It was founded in 1900.

</doc>
<doc id="289867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289867" title="LGBT rights in Bangladesh">
LGBT rights in Bangladesh

LGBT human rights are not respected in the People's Republic of Bangladesh, and there appears to be no organized movement to advance such human rights. And such acts of homosexuality will lead to life in prison, or even face the death penalty.
The Constitution has several provisions that could apply to LGBT citizens;
According to Section 377A of BPC, adult homosexual sex acts are illegal and will be punished with deportation, fines and/or up to 10 years, sometimes life imprisonment. This legal prohibition extends to any sort of LGBT-human rights organization.
BPC Section – 377A. Whoever voluntarily has carnal intercourse against the order of nature with any man, woman or animal, shall be punished with imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.
Explanation : ” Penetration is sufficient to constitute the carnal intercourse necessary to the offence described in this section.

</doc>
<doc id="289869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289869" title="A History of Violence (album)">
A History of Violence (album)

A History of Violence is the sixth studio album by American hip hop group, Jedi Mind Tricks. It was released on November 11, 2008. The producer of the album was Stoupe. The first single off the album is "Monolith".

</doc>
<doc id="289870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289870" title="Sindhi people">
Sindhi people

Sindhis (, Sindhī) are a Sindhi speaking socio-ethnic group of people originating from the Sindh province of Pakistan. Today Sindhis that live in Pakistan belong to various religious denominations including Islam, Zoroastrianism, Hinduism, Sikhism and Christianity. The original inhabitants of ancient Sindh were believed to be aboriginal tribes speaking languages of the Indus Valley civilization around 3000 BC.
In his book Kitab-ul-Hind, the Persian scholar Abū Rayhān Bīrūnī (Al-Beruni) declared that even before the advent of Islam into Sindh (711 A.D.), the Sindhi language was prevalent in Sindh.
Every year for 30 years during the early 20th century, Sikh missionary groups were sent to work among Sindhis. Because of this, the number of Sindhi Sikhs increased from 1000 in 1901 to over 39,000 in 1941. During the Partition of former British India in 1947, a lot of Sindhi Sikhs left for India. They settled in Mumbai, New Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat. Later, a small number of them decided to settle in the Punjab State of India. Their main centers of pilgrimage are Sadhu Bela, an Udasi sect shrine built in 1823 in Sukkur District. And they also visit the Sikh shrines of Nankana Sahib, Panja Sahib, and Dehra Sahib in Punjab Province of Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="289874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289874" title="Persian and Urdu">
Persian and Urdu

The Persian language influenced the formation of many modern languages of the Greater Middle East, Central Asia, and South Asian regions, including Urdu. 
Following the Turko-Persian Mahmud of Ghazni's Ghaznavid conquest of South Asia, a hybrid language of Turkish, Arabic and Persian and local dialects began to form, one that would eventually be known as Urdu. This language was called "Zaban-e-Ordu" ('language of the army') to distinguish it from Persian, the court language, and was later shortened to just Urdu. It grew from the interaction of Persian and Turkic speaking Muslim soldiers and the native peoples. Under Persian influence from the state, the Persian script and Nasta'liq form of cursive writing was adopted, with additional figures added to accommodate the Indic phonetic system. The national anthem of Pakistan is highly Persianized.
Urdu is a morpho-syntax/grammatically an Indic language, written in the Perso-Arabic script, and contains literary conventions and specialised vocabulary largely from Persian. Some grammatical elements peculiar to Persian, such as the enclitic "ezāfe", and the use of the "takhallus", were readily absorbed into Urdu literature both religious and secular.
Despite the heavy influence of Persian on Urdu, linguistically, Urdu is not classified as an Iranian language (as is Persian) but rather as an Indo-Aryan language (like Punjabi, Gujarati, Punjabi, Seraiki and Sindhi). Urdu soon gained distinction in literary and cultural spheres because of the hybrid nature of the language. Many distinctly Persian forms of literature, such as Ghazal, Qasida, Marsia and Nazms, caried over into Urdu literature, producing a distinct melding of Iranian and South Asian heritages. A famous cross-over writer was Amir Khusro, whose Persian and Urdu couplets are to this day read in South-central Asia.

</doc>
<doc id="289897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289897" title="Pure-bred">
Pure-bred

Pure-bred organisms are homozygous for the desired characteristics that a breeder wants. The offspring of a pure bred organism will always show the desired phenotype. The type is often got by inbreeding. Standard laboratory white rats are so genetically similar that they will accept skin grafts from other rats of the type. See strain (biology) for a fuller discussion.

</doc>
<doc id="289899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289899" title="Diagnosis">
Diagnosis

A diagnosis is an accurate and precise account of the nature or cause of something. 
Medical diagnosis is the best-known field, but diagnosis can be applied to any subject. Whereas a doctor diagnoses what is wrong with a patient, a motor mechanic can diagnose the fault in a car. In all cases they replace a vague query, such as "My car will not start", with an exact analysis, such as "It's out of petrol". Notice the diagnosis is precise enough so the solution can be seen.
These ideas work even in more subtle cases. A boy brings an insect in a box to a natural history museum. He asks an expert "What is this?" The expert says "You mean, apart from it being a beetle?" When the boy nods, the expert looks at the insect under a magnifying glass, or a binocular microscope. Chances are, it is a common beetle, and the expert can give the boy quite a lot of information about it. 
But if it is not known to the expert, a much longer study is needed. Large reference books will be consulted; trays of similar insects will be taken out of store to be compared. A full diagnosis needs at least the genus and species. If the species is unknown, the detailed work of description is needed for publication.
Mostly, in biological taxonomy, the adjective diagnostic is used for any distinctive trait which places the specimen in a precise category. For example, A single bone making up the lower jaw is "diagnostic" of a mammal.
Diagnostics is the name given to procedures which spell out what to do to find the cause of a fault. This term is used a lot in computer systems.

</doc>
<doc id="289909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289909" title="Agoraphobia">
Agoraphobia

Agoraphobia is a medical condition that causes anxiety. The sufferers are afraid of large open spaces, crowds, and new places. Doctors believe that people with the condition are afraid of becoming anxious. Places that make them feel unsafe and increase their feelings of anxiety and panic. They are afraid they might lose control and embarrass themselves. They worry that they may not be able to get away, or find help if they have a panic attack. The word "agoraphobia" means "fear of the market place". People with agoraphobia believe that their home is the only safe place. They try to avoid leaving home, and may stay in the house for months or in some cases years. In extreme cases they may only feel safe in one room.
Agoraphobia is usually treated successfully with medication and cognitive behavioral therapy.
People with agoraphobia may show these signs and symptoms:

</doc>
<doc id="289910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289910" title="Russian Far East">
Russian Far East

The Russian Far East is a geographical term that describes the eastern section of Russia.

</doc>
<doc id="289912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289912" title="Remington 700">
Remington 700

A Remington 700, also called an R700 is a bolt sniper rifle. It is called M24 by the United States Army.

</doc>
<doc id="289918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289918" title="Amur River">
Amur River

The Amur River is a river extending from northeastern China to the Russian Far East. It is also the tenth longest river in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="289922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289922" title="Garrison">
Garrison

A garrison is the group of soldiers who stay in a place, such as a fort, usually to defend it from possible attack

</doc>
<doc id="289924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289924" title="Civilian">
Civilian

A civilian is a person who is not a member of a country's military or any other fighting group. This is what the word means under the laws of war. Civilians are the opposite of soldiers, who fight in wars.
Civilians are protected by international law from being harmed during war. The treatment of civilians during times of war is covered by the Fourth Geneva Convention. Prisoners are covered by the Third Convention. These are based on humanitarian doctrines (ethical beliefs) and that most countries follow them as law.
Civilians have the right to defend themselves. If they participate in other fighting, they are usually called partisans, and they can be tried for war crimes.
The modern use of the word also has problems:

</doc>
<doc id="289925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289925" title="Imperial Japanese Army">
Imperial Japanese Army

, also known as the IJA, was the army of Imperial Japan from 1871 to 1945.
The IJA was dissolved at the end of World War II.
Article 9 of the Constitution of Japan prohibits the use of aggressive force as a means for settling international disputes.
In order to defend Japan, if necessary, the Japan Self-Defense Forces (JSDF) was formed.
The ground-reach of JSDF is the Japan Ground Self-Defense Force (JGSDF).

</doc>
<doc id="289928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289928" title="Catastrophism">
Catastrophism

Catastrophism is the idea that Earth has been affected in the past by sudden, short-lived, violent events. Catastrophes, possibly worldwide in scope, came between long periods of quiet inactivity. This was called 'Catastrophism' by William Whewell in 1837.
Catastrophes were thought to be the main cause of the changes seen in the record of the rocks and fossils. This record appeared to show that the Earth had suffered occasional gigantic upheavals in what was otherwise a quiet planet.
Supporting this view was the greatest comparative anatomist and palaeontologist of the early 19th century. He was Georges Cuvier, Director of the "Muséum national d'histoire naturelle" in Paris. Cuvier had shown that extinction of species had definitely taken place. His catastrophism was an explanation for the regular changes in species seen in the rock strata. He had no real explanation of why later species were different from earlier ones. He rejected the idea of evolution, but did not propose a religious solution.
James Hutton's "Theory of the Earth" (2 vols, 1795), followed lated by Charles Lyell's "Principles of Geology" (3 vols, 1830–33), painted a quite different picture.
This was uniformitarianism, also a word coined by Whewell. Hutton's basic idea was 'present-day processes also worked in the past'. The Earth's features had been shaped by same geological processes that could be observed in the present, acting gradually over an immense period of time.
Lyell developed these ideas, and presented a huge number of observations which could only be explained by gradual action. His book strongly influenced the young Charles Darwin, who took the first volume with him on the HMS "Beagle", and had the second volume sent ahead to Rio de Janeiro.
The age of the Earth is another factor in the debate. In the 19th century it was thought the Earth was perhaps 100 million years old. Now, we know it to be about 4,560 million years old, and that is definitely long enough for slow process to take effect.
As a result, for a long period from 1840 to 1980, virtually all geologists were uniformitarians, believing 'the present is the key to the past'.
Finally, it became clear that both slow processes and rapid disasters have played a part in Earth history.
A major reason for this is the realisation that asteroid impacts, and some other events, have influenced Earth history.
Walter and Luis Alvarez suggested in 1980 that a asteroid struck Earth 65 million years ago at the end of the Cretaceous period. 
The impact wiped out about 70% of all species, including the dinosaurs, leaving evidence of the K/T extinction event. In 1990, a candidate crater marking the impact was identified at Chicxulub in the Yucatán Peninsula, Mexico.
The only debate now is whether the main extinction mechanism was the asteroid impact or widespread flood volcanism from the Deccan Traps (which occurred about the same time). Both mechanisms suggested are catastrophic in nature, though only the asteroid impact was sudden.
The observation of the Shoemaker-Levy 9 cometary collision with Jupiter illustrated that catastrophic events do occur as natural events.
The giant impact hypothesis is that the Moon was created out of the debris from a collision between the young Earth and a Mars-sized protoplanet. This is the favoured scientific hypothesis for the formation of the Moon. 

</doc>
<doc id="289929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289929" title="Steve Harris">
Steve Harris

Steve Harris (born March 12, 1956) is a bassist, keyboardist, and founder of the British band Iron Maiden.
In 1975 Steve Harris quits his job and founded the heavy metal band Iron Maiden with guitarist Dave Murray. In 1980 Harris and Murrray recorded the first album of Iron Maiden, released April 14, 1980, completing the formation of Maiden was Paul Di'Anno - vocal, Dennis Stratton - guitar, Clive Burr - drums. The album had some success, and a very good job of Harris on bass. The second album Killers (1981), by Iron Maiden had better impactand the incorporation of guitarist Adrian Smith. In 1982, Iron Maiden vocalist change of the band joins Bruce Dickinson, with a more powerful voice, throw one of the best Maiden album The Number of the Beast, In 1983 Harris and Maiden drummer change and was elected Nicko McBrain. In 1990 Smith left the band and was replaced by guitarist Janick Gers. With the new Iron Maiden guitarist launches one of the best albums of his career Fear of the Dark (1992). In 1995 the band changes and enters vocalist Blaze Bayley in substitution of Dickinson. Bayley did not fulfill all expectations and leaving Maiden after recording two albums. In 2000, Bruce Dickinson and Adrian Smith returned to the band, with the news that Janick Gers would remain a member of Iron Maiden Maiden, since then Maiden has three guitarists. Steve Harris is considered one of the greatest bassists of all time, he co-wrote most of the hits of Iron Maiden, and was the only member of the band will have been in all its formations.

</doc>
<doc id="289947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289947" title="Kid Rock">
Kid Rock

Robert James "Bob" Ritchie (better known as Kid Rock) (born January 17, 1971) is an American musician. He has made songs with parts of many different styles of music, including rap, heavy metal, and country. 
Kid Rock grew up in Romeo, Michigan, which is near Detroit. He made his first album, "Grits Sandwiches for Breakfast", in 1990, but it did not have much success. He made several more records over the next few years, but they did not sell much either. However, by 1998, bands such as Korn and Limp Bizkit were becoming popular with music that had both rap and heavy metal. Because Kid Rock was making similar music, Atlantic Records, a big record label, signed Kid Rock to a contract. In 1998, his album "Devil Without A Cause" came out. Songs such as "Bawitdaba" and "Cowboy" came out, and Kid Rock was a star.
In 2000, Kid Rock released "The History of Rock", an album that mostly had old songs from before he became famous, along with two new songs. He released the album "Cocky" in 2001, "Kid Rock" in 2003, "Rock n Roll Jesus" in 2007, and "Born Free" in 2010.
Kid Rock is a supporter of people in the United States Military. He has performed several concerts for soldiers, and gave soldiers free copies of his album "Born Free".
In 2004, Kid Rock performed during the Super Bowl halftime show. Although the show was more controversial for an incident where one of Janet Jackson's breasts was seen on television, Kid Rock was criticized for playing while wearing an American flag.

</doc>
<doc id="289952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289952" title="Amborellaceae">
Amborellaceae

Amborellaceae is a family of flowering plants native to New Caledonia. The family contains only one species, "Amborella trichopoda". It is currently accepted by plant systematists as the most basic lineage in the angiosperms clade.

</doc>
<doc id="289969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289969" title="Castro">
Castro

Castro is a Chilean city with 39.366 inhabitants (2002 census).
Castro was discovered by the Spanish conqueror Martín Ruiz de Gamboa on 1567
Castro is well known for its "palafitos", traditional wooden stilt houses that are common on the Chiloé Island. Some of them are preserved in in the west of the town in a bay named "Fiordo de Castro".
In Gamboa, there is also an interesting wooden chapel.

</doc>
<doc id="289970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289970" title="Puerto Montt">
Puerto Montt

Puerto Montt is a Chilean city with 175.847 inhabitants (2002 census).
The actual Puerto Montt was discovered by a thick forest man who founded the city as "Melipulli" on 1853.

</doc>
<doc id="289976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289976" title="Temuco">
Temuco

Temuco is a Chilean city with 245.347 inhabitants (2002 census).
The actual Temuco was founded by Manuel Recabarren naming the place like "Fuerte Recabarren"("Fort Recabarren") during the Occupation of the Araucania on 1881.

</doc>
<doc id="289979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289979" title="Talca">
Talca

Talca is a Chilean city with 201.797 inhabitants (2002 census).
Talca was founded like "Villa San Agustín de Talca" by the Spanish José Antonio Manso de Velasco on 1881.

</doc>
<doc id="289980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289980" title="Rancagua">
Rancagua

Rancagua is a Chilean city with 214.344 inhabitants (2002 census).
Rancagua was founded by the Spanish José Antonio Manso de Velasco on 1743.

</doc>
<doc id="289985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289985" title="Coyhaique">
Coyhaique

Coyhaique is a Chilean city with 50.041 inhabitants (2002 census).
Coyhaique was founded like "Baquedano" on 1929.

</doc>
<doc id="289986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289986" title="Grackle">
Grackle

A Grackle is a bird that lives around North and South America. They belong to the Icterid family.

</doc>
<doc id="289991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289991" title="Crystallography">
Crystallography

Crystallography is the study of the arrangement of atoms in solids. 
Before the development of X-ray crystallography, the study of crystals was based on their geometry. This involves measuring the angles of crystal faces, and establishing the symmetry of the crystal in question.
Crystal structure is now found by analysis of the diffraction patterns of a sample targeted by a beam of some type.
The technique was jointly invented by Sir William Bragg (1862–1942) and his son Sir Lawrence Bragg (1890–1971), who jointly won the Nobel Prize in Physics for 1915. Lawrence Bragg was the youngest to become a Nobel Laureate. He was the Director of the Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge University, when the discovery of the structure of DNA was made by James D. Watson and Francis Crick in February 1953. 
X-rays are most commonly used, but for some purposes electrons or neutrons are used. Because of the different forms of interaction, the three types of radiation are suitable for different crystallographic studies.
Some materials studied using crystallography, proteins for example, do not occur naturally as crystals. Such molecules are placed in solution and allowed to crystallize over days, weeks, or months.
Once a crystal is obtained, data can be collected using a beam of radiation. Although X-ray equipment is commonplace, crystallography often uses special synchrotron light sources to make X-rays. They produce purer and more complete patterns. Synchrotron sources also have a much higher intensity of X-ray beams, so data collection takes a fraction of the time normally necessary at weaker sources. 
Producing an image from a diffraction pattern requires sophisticated mathematics.
The mathematical methods for the analysis of diffraction data only apply to "patterns," which in turn result only when waves diffract from orderly arrays. Hence crystallography applies for the most part only to crystals, or to molecules which can be got to crystallize. 
In spite of this, a certain amount of molecular information can be deduced from the patterns that are generated by fibres and powders. For example, the double-helical structure of DNA was deduced from an X-ray diffraction pattern that had been got from a fibrous sample.
Electron crystallography is a method to determine the arrangement of atoms in solids using a transmission electron microscope (TEM). The method was invented by Aaron Klug, who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for this, and his studies on virus structures and transfer RNA, in 1982.
The first electron crystallographic protein structure to achieve atomic resolution was bacteriorhodopsin in 1990.
Crystallography is a tool that is often employed in materials science. The understanding of crystal structures is needed to understand crystallographic defects. 
A number of other physical properties are linked to crystallography. For example, the minerals in clay form small, flat, platelike structures. Clay can be easily deformed because the platelike particles can slip along each other in the plane of the plates, yet remain strongly connected in the direction perpendicular to the plates. Such mechanisms can be studied by crystallographic texture measurements.
Crystallography includes the symmetry patterns which can be formed by atoms in a crystal. 
X-ray crystallography was the primary method for determining the 3-D molecular structure of biological macromolecules. The most important of these are enzymes, and nucleic acids such as DNA and RNA. In fact, the double helix structure of DNA was worked out from crystallographic data. 
The first crystal structure of a macromolecule was solved in 1958 The Protein Data Bank (PDB) is a freely accessible repository for the structures of proteins and other biological macromolecules. Computer programs can be used to help visualize biological molecular structures.
X-ray crystallography has now given way to electron crystallography for macromolecules which do not form large 3-D crystals.

</doc>
<doc id="290001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290001" title="Tea Party movement">
Tea Party movement

The Tea Party is an American populist political movement. Most people say it is conservative and libertarian.
The Tea Party 
The name "Tea Party" comes from the Boston Tea Party, a protest by colonists who objected to a British tax on tea in 1773. They demonstrated by dumping British tea taken from docked ships into the harbor. Some say that the "Tea" in "Tea Party" also stands for "Taxed Enough Already".
The Tea Party movement has caucuses (groups) in the House of Representatives and the Senate of the United States. Many of the members of the Tea Party caucus were first elected in the 2010 midterm elections. Some of them had never held any public office before.
The Tea Party movement has no central leadership but is composed of a loose linking of national and local groups that decide their own platforms and agendas. The Tea Party movement has been cited as an example of grassroots political activity, although it has also been cited as an example of .
The Tea Party's most famous national figures include Republican politicians such as Sarah Palin, Ron Paul, and Michele Bachmann. As of 2010, the Tea Party movement is not a national political party, but has endorsed Republican candidates. 
A Gallup poll shows almost 80% of Tea Partiers say they are Republicans. Commentators, including Gallup Editor-in-Chief Frank Newport, have suggested that the movement is not a new political group but simply a rebranding of traditional Republican candidates and policies. An October 2010 "Washington Post" canvass of local Tea Party organizers found 87% saying "dissatisfaction with mainstream Republican Party leaders" was "an important factor in the support the group has received so far". Though many are opposed to GOP leadership, they are even more opposed to President Obama. Some members believe that President Obama was not born in the United States (despite a birth certificate showing he was born in Hawaii). 
One of the main positions the Tea Party took was against the debt ceiling (the amount of money the U.S. is allowed to borrow). Many voted against any raising of the debt ceiling. Others demanded large spending cuts and a balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution.

</doc>
<doc id="290005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290005" title="Maurice Wilkins">
Maurice Wilkins

Maurice Hugh Frederick Wilkins CBE FRS (15 December 1916 – 5 October 2004) was a New Zealand-born English physicist and molecular biologist.
Wilkins was born in New Zealand to a family from Dublin. When he was six, he moved to Birmingham.
His research contributed to the understanding of phosphorescence, isotope separation, light microscopy and X-ray crystallography. 
He worked on the development of radar during World War II, and was a member of the Manhattan Project. 
He is best known for his work at King's College London on the structure of DNA. 
In recognition of this work, he, Francis Crick and James Watson were awarded the 1962 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, "for their discoveries concerning the molecular structure of nucleic acids and its significance for information transfer in living material". His obituary provides extensive information on the topics mentioned here.
Wilkins was the Assistant Director of the Biophysics Unit at Kings College, and responsible for work on the structure of DNA. Wilkins and a graduate student, Raymond Gosling, got the first X-ray diffraction photos of DNA in 1950. He introduced Francis Crick to the importance of DNA, and hired Rosalind Franklin on a three-year grant. Franklin made progress with the crystallography, and produced some better photographs of the structure. 
In 1953 Watson visited King's, and Crick got sight of a progress report. This report included useful information from Franklin about features of DNA she had deduced from her X-ray diffraction data.
Watson and Crick published their proposed DNA double helix structure in a paper in the journal "Nature" in April 1953. In this paper Watson and Crick acknowledged that they had been "stimulated by... the unpublished results and ideas" of Wilkins and Franklin.
By this time Franklin was suffering from cancer of the ovary. She died in 1958, which explains why she was not included in the 1962 Nobel Prize. A controversy exists as to the relative contributions of her and Wilkins.

</doc>
<doc id="290008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290008" title="Adolf Eichmann">
Adolf Eichmann

Adolf Eichmann (19 March 1906 - 31 May 1962) was a German SS'er. He was an important member of the government of Nazi Germany during the Third Reich. He was the architect of The Holocaust who organized the death camps, like the Auschwitz concentration camp, that were used to kill 11 million people during World War 2. After the war he escaped and in 1960 was discovered to be living in Argentina. The Israeli secret service, the Mossad, kidnapped him and took him back to Israel. Eichmann was put on trial for war crimes and crimes against humanity. He was found guilty on 11 December 1961, and executed by hanging in Ramla. His body was cremated and the ashes were scattered in the sea.
The trial of Adolf Eichmann was broadcast on radio in Israel, and millions of people around the world watched it on television. This was the first time that victims of the Holocaust talked openly about what had happened. This was an event that helped bring together and unify the many people who had come to live in the new nation of Israel.

</doc>
<doc id="290017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290017" title="Category:American science fiction writers">
Category:American science fiction writers


</doc>
<doc id="290018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290018" title="Category:Geography of China">
Category:Geography of China


</doc>
<doc id="290021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290021" title="Phat Wilson">
Phat Wilson

Gordon Allan "Phat" Wilson (December 29, 1895 – August 1970) was a Canadian amateur ice hockey forward who won the Allan Cup three times as a member of the Port Arthur Bearcats. Seen as one of the top amateur players of his time, Wilson was added into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1962.
A native of Port Arthur, Ontario, Wilson did not even know how to skate when he joined the town's church league in 1914. Serving as a substitute, he improved his skating enough that he earned a full-time role on his team the following year and played two seasons of junior hockey before joining the Port Arthur War Veterans senior team at the age of 18.
Wilson moved to Iroquois Falls, Ontario, for a season to play in the Northern Ontario Hockey Association (NOHA) in 1921–22 before returning to Port Arthur a year later to play for the Port Arthur Bearcats. He was a top player in the NOHA, leading Port Arthur to an Allan Cup championship in 1925 as Canada's national senior champions. Wilson and the Bearcats repeated as champions the following year and won a third Allan Cup in 1929. Professional teams took note of his play; teams from Calgary, Edmonton and Toronto all offered him but he declined, preferring to remain in his hometown.
He was an outstanding offensive defenceman who won several scoring titles during his career. He retired as a player in 1932 at the age of 37 and took on the dual role of coach and manager of the Bearcats. In recognition of his career in Port Arthur, Wilson was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1962 and the Northwestern Ontario Sports Hall of Fame in its inaugural class of 1982.
In addition to hockey, Wilson played baseball and served as a volunteer and executive in both sports. He was named the first president of Port Arthur's little league when it was founded in 1952 and helped found the community's girls hockey league, serving also as a coach and referee.

</doc>
<doc id="290022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290022" title="Benny Woit">
Benny Woit

Benedict Francis Woit (born January 7, 1928 in Fort William, Ontario) was a National Hockey League defenceman of the 1950s.
Woit made his presence known as a junior while playing for the Port Arthur Flyers and Bruins of the TBJHL and the St. Mike's Majors of the OHA. He began playing for the Indianapolis Capitals of the AHL for the 1948–49 season. The Detroit Red Wings promoted him in 1951, and his defensive play would help them secure the Stanley Cup in 1952, 54, and 55. Woit was traded to Chicago Black Hawks following the 1954–55 season but never produced as he did with the Red Wings. He went on to play in the AHL and later the EHL, for the Clinton Comets as both a player and a successful head coach. In 334 NHL games Benny Woit recorded 7 goals and 26 assists for 33 points.

</doc>
<doc id="290023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290023" title="Murray Wing">
Murray Wing

Murray Alan Wing (born October 14, 1950) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey defenceman who played in one National Hockey League game for the Detroit Red Wings during the 1973–74 NHL season.

</doc>
<doc id="290030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290030" title="Zwolle">
Zwolle

There are three towns and villages with the name Zwolle:

</doc>
<doc id="290033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290033" title="Category:1997 births">
Category:1997 births


</doc>
<doc id="290034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290034" title="Category:1996 births">
Category:1996 births


</doc>
<doc id="290035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290035" title="Category:1998 births">
Category:1998 births


</doc>
<doc id="290039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290039" title="Bindi Irwin">
Bindi Irwin

Bindi Sue Irwin (born 24 July 1998 in Buderim, Queensland) is an Australian actress, singer, television personality and conservationist. She is the daughter of Terri Irwin and Steve Irwin and has a younger brother Robert Clarence "Bob" Irwin.

</doc>
<doc id="290045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290045" title="Category:Human body features">
Category:Human body features


</doc>
<doc id="290047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290047" title="Category:1980s music groups">
Category:1980s music groups


</doc>
<doc id="290048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290048" title="Category:1990s music groups">
Category:1990s music groups


</doc>
<doc id="290049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290049" title="Category:2000s music groups">
Category:2000s music groups


</doc>
<doc id="290050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290050" title="Category:2010s music groups">
Category:2010s music groups


</doc>
<doc id="290053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290053" title="Category:Weather instruments">
Category:Weather instruments


</doc>
<doc id="290058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290058" title="Category:Hunger">
Category:Hunger

This category contains pages related to hunger.

</doc>
<doc id="290059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290059" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Guayacanes (San Pedro de Macorís)">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Guayacanes (San Pedro de Macorís)


</doc>
<doc id="290061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290061" title="Microsoft TechNet">
Microsoft TechNet

Microsoft TechNet is a website owned by Microsoft, as source for information, news and events for IT professionals. There is also a paid magazine called "TechNet Magazine".
TechNet used to be restricted to paying customers. Now the website is free, with extra possibilities for paying customers.

</doc>
<doc id="290082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290082" title="Tom Araya">
Tom Araya

Tom Araya (born Tomás Enrique Araya June 6, 1961 in Viña del Mar, Chile) is an Chilean-American musician, best known as the bassist and vocalist of the American thrash metal band Slayer. Araya is ranked fifty-eighth by "Hit Parader" on their list of the 100 Greatest Metal Vocalists of All Time. 
Araya was employed as a respiratory therapist in the early 1980s and used his earnings to finance Slayer's debut album "Show No Mercy". Much of Araya's lyrical content is about serial killers, a subject he finds interesting, first making his lyrical contribution to 1985's "Hell Awaits" with the track "At Dawn They Sleep".

</doc>
<doc id="290093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290093" title="Jakob Jantscher">
Jakob Jantscher

Jakob Jantscher (8 January 1989 in Graz) is an Austrian footballer, he plays as midfielder for F.C. Red Bull Salzburg.
He started his career at SC Unterpremstätten und LUV Graz and than, at the age of 14, he moved to SK Sturm Graz. On October 20, 2007 he made his first match for the first squad versus F. C. Red Bull Salzburg. His first goal was against SC Altach on November 24, 2007. With SK Sturm he won the Austrian Cup in 2010. 2010 he went to F. C. Red Bull Salzburg. In the 2010/11 season he had 22 matches and shot 4 goals and gave one assist.
He played five times for the Austrian national team U 19 and U 20 and two times for U 21. His debut in the A- team was on June 6, 2009 in the qualifing match for Worldchampionship 2010 versus Serbia.His first goal was in a friendly match versus Spain, where he scored the only goal for Austria. (1 - 5)

</doc>
<doc id="290097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290097" title="Valery Leontiev">
Valery Leontiev

Valery Yakovlevich Leontiev (; born 19 March 1949 in Ust-Usa, Soviet Union) is a well-known Russian and formerly Soviet singer and actor.
Valery Leontiev began his career in Soviet times, and actively continues to this day. He has recorded more than 30 albums.

</doc>
<doc id="290111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290111" title="Andrew Neiderman">
Andrew Neiderman

Andrew Neiderman (born 1940) is an American novelist. He became a "ghostwriter" for V. C. Andrews after she died. Her estate hired him to complete the "Casteel" series of books and continue her unfinished stories.
Andrew Neiderman is also the author of "The Devil's Advocate," which was made into a movie, and wrote the libretto for a live musical adaptation of "The Devil's Advocate". He is currently (as of 2011) developing a new script with revised music and lyrics.
He is the screenwriter of the movie based on the "Rain" series published as V. C. Andrews' novels. Six of Neiderman's own novels have been adapted into movies also.
As of January 2011, Andrew Neiderman has written 100 published novels, between the V. C. Andrews books and the books published with his name.

</doc>
<doc id="290118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290118" title="Ghostwriter">
Ghostwriter

A ghostwriter is a professional writer whose published work is credited to another person. One famous ghostwriter is Andrew Neiderman. He was hired by the estate of V. C. Andrews, who died in 1986. Niederman completed the "Casteel" series of books and continues writing books credited to Andrews.
Ghostwriters are paid a fee to help write the autobiographies of celebrities, athletes and politicians. They also help write letters, song lyrics, magazine and news articles that get published under someone else's name.

</doc>
<doc id="290119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290119" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Involuntary">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Involuntary


</doc>
<doc id="290120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290120" title="Category:Anglicans">
Category:Anglicans


</doc>
<doc id="290121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290121" title="Category:Korean War">
Category:Korean War

This category contains pages related to the Korean War.

</doc>
<doc id="290125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290125" title="Category:Nanotechnology">
Category:Nanotechnology


</doc>
<doc id="290129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290129" title="Remember When (Alan Jackson song)">
Remember When (Alan Jackson song)

"Remember When" is a country-western song recorded by Alan Jackson. It was the second single released from the 2003 album "Greatest Hits Volume II". "Remember When" reached number one on the "Billboard" Hot Country Songs and number 29 on the U.S. "Billboard" Hot 100.

</doc>
<doc id="290131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290131" title="Dasypogonaceae">
Dasypogonaceae

Dasypogonaceae is a botanical name of a family of flowering plants. Such a family has not been commonly recognized by taxonomists are the plants involved were usually included in the family Ashphodelaceae.
The family is native to Australia, and contains 16 species in four genera.

</doc>
<doc id="290146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290146" title="Category:Accidental deaths">
Category:Accidental deaths


</doc>
<doc id="290156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290156" title="Classical liberalism">
Classical liberalism

Classical liberalism is a type of liberalism. It is a belief in economics and a political ideology. It emphasizes civil and economic freedom. 
Classical liberals believe in a small government, and believe that people will be ruled mostly by natural law. They believe that people have inalienable rights. They also believe in a free market and property rights. 
Notable people who developed classical liberalism during the 18th and 19th century are Adam Smith, Thomas Malthus and Thomas Jefferson. More recently, in the mid-20th century, Ludwig von Mises, Friedrich Hayek and Milton Friedman were in favor. Many of the beliefs of classical liberalism are similar to those of libertarianism.

</doc>
<doc id="290168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290168" title="Safeway Inc.">
Safeway Inc.

Safeway, Inc. is the third-largest supermarket chain in North America. The company has around 198,000 employees worldwide. In some of the Safeway stores, they have fuel stations where they allow customers to use a phone number or club (loyalty) card to receive fuel savings. Safeway stores also have a Safeway ATM Network. The name "Safeway" came from a contest that was held in 1925 to develop a name for the store and Safeway was chosen. Safeway has stores in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia, West Germany, Mexico, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.

</doc>
<doc id="290171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290171" title="Gamma-ray burst">
Gamma-ray burst

Gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) are flashes of gamma rays from extremely energetic explosions. They have been seen in distant galaxies. They are the most luminous electromagnetic events known to occur in the universe. 
Bursts can last from milliseconds to several minutes, although a typical burst lasts a few seconds. The initial burst is usually followed by a longer-lived 'afterglow' emitted at longer wavelengths (X-ray, ultraviolet, visible light, infrared and radio waves).
Most GRBs are a narrow beam of intense radiation released during a supernova, as a huge rapidly spinning star collapses to form a black hole. A subclass of GRBs (the 'short' bursts) seem to come from a different process, perhaps the merger of binary neutron stars.
The sources of most GRBs are billions of light years away from Earth. This suggests the explosions are extremely energetic: a typical burst releases as much energy in a few seconds as the Sun will in its entire 10 billion year lifetime. They are very rare (a few per galaxy per million years). 
All observed GRBs have come from outside the Milky Way galaxy. Similar phenomena, soft gamma repeater flares, are associated with magnetars within the Milky Way. It has been suggested that a gamma-ray burst in the Milky Way could cause a mass extinction on Earth. No such case is known.
Gamma-ray bursts were first observed in the late 1960s by the U.S. Vela satellites, which were built to detect gamma radiation pulses emitted by nuclear weapons tested in space. 
On July 2, 1967, at 14:19 UTC, the Vela 4 and Vela 3 satellites detected a flash of gamma radiation unlike any known nuclear weapons signature. Uncertain what had happened but not considering the matter particularly urgent, the team at the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory filed the data away for investigation. 
By analyzing the different arrival times of the bursts as detected by different satellites, the team was able to determine rough estimates for the sky positions of sixteen bursts and definitively rule out a terrestrial or solar origin. The discovery was published in 1973.
Most observed events last longer than two seconds and are classified as long gamma-ray bursts. They have been studied in much greater detail than their short counterparts. Almost every well-studied long gamma-ray burst has been associated with a rapidly star-forming galaxy and in many cases a core-collapse supernova as well. This links long GRBs with the deaths of massive stars. Long GRB afterglow observations at high redshift (great distances) also suggest GRBs originate in star-forming regions. This is because observing distant galaxies is to look back in time to galaxies at an earlier stage.
Gamma-ray bursts are thought to be highly focused explosions, with most of the explosion energy in a narrow relativistic jet travelling at speeds over 99.995% of the speed of light. 
The approximate angular width of the jet (that is, the degree of beaming) can be estimated directly by observing "jet breaks" in afterglow light curves: a time after which the slowly-decaying afterglow begins to fade suddenly, as the jet slows down and can no longer beam its radiation so effectively. Observations suggest significant variation in the jet angle from between 2 and 20 degrees.
Because their energy is strongly beamed (very narrow), the gamma rays emitted by most bursts miss the Earth and are never detected. When a gamma-ray burst is pointed towards Earth, the focusing of its energy along a relatively narrow beam causes the burst to appear much brighter than it would have been were its energy emitted spherically. When this effect is taken into account, typical gamma-ray bursts are observed to have a true energy release of about 10 J, or about 1/2000 of a Solar mass energy equivalent. 
This is comparable to the energy released in a bright type Ib/c supernova (sometimes called a 'hypernova'). Very bright supernovae have been seen at the position of some of the nearest GRBs. 

</doc>
<doc id="290179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290179" title="Philosophy of religion">
Philosophy of religion

Philosophy of religion is a branch of philosophy. Religions, and religious beliefs can manifest themselves in different ways. Philosophy of religion looks into explaining certain answers to questions of religion using understanding. It is also looks into different ways religions are practiced and their importance for the everyday lives of the people practicing them. Other domains of it include criticism and analysis of religious texts using philosophy of language. 
According to Winfried Löffler, philiosphers of religion can be grouped as follows. Many of the philosophers mentioned belong to more than one group:
Philosophy of religion also looks at more practical matters like defining the features that make up a religion. There are two main schools of thought. The one called Essentialist says that all religions have a common"essence". The following have been proposed:
The problem with this is that using only these definitions leas to a common "philiosphy of religion" that is harly usable for studies. The other approach (called "functional") tries to counter this: Rather than trying to get an "abstract idea" of religion, it looks at the use or function religion has in the live of people or societies. Among the things mentioned are that religions help keep a psychological equilibrium and that they provide a certain amount of stability to a society. Thinkers with this opion include Karl Marx, Émile Durkheim, Bronisław Malinowski and Talcott Parsons. Critics of these theories say that such explanations often go against common sense, as religions can also have the popposite effect to that mentioned.
Other topics include arguments for the existence of God, the problem of evil, divine attributes and the relationship between science and religion.
Important philosophers of religion include Thomas Aquinas, Augustine and Alvin Plantinga. Philosophers of religion can be religious or non-religious

</doc>
<doc id="290182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290182" title="Rough-skinned newt">
Rough-skinned newt

The rough-skinned newt ("Taricha granulosa") is a North American newt known for its strong poison. 
Juveniles live on land for four or five years after metamorphosis. Adults are amphibious, and live in water and on land. Eggs are laid in water. They can be found especially after there has been a lot of rain.
Many newts make toxin in their skin to avoid predation, but the rough-skinned newt is especially poisonous. Toxicity is generally experienced only if the newt feels threatened, although sometimes skin irritation can be experienced after touching it. 
The toxin that the rough-skinned newt makes can either paralyze or kill a human. Recently, a drunk 29-year-old man in Coos Bay, Oregon, died after swallowing a rough-skinned newt for a dare.
Throughout much of the newt’s range, the common garter snake ("Thamnophis sirtalis") is resistant to the newt's toxin. In several populations, these snakes successfully prey upon the newts. Toxin resistant garter snakes are the only known animals today that can eat a "T. granulosa" newt and survive.
This is an example of co-evolution. The snake’s resistance to the toxin has resulted in a selective pressure that favours newts which produce more potent levels of toxin. Increases in newt toxicity then apply a selective pressure favouring snakes with mutations conferring even greater resistance. 
This cycle of a predator and prey co-evolving is sometimes called an evolutionary arms race. In this case it results in the newts producing levels of toxin far in excess of what is needed to kill any other conceivable predator.
Toxic animals usually warn predators that they are not good food. There's no point in being toxic unless it helps survival and reproduction. The underside of these newts is vividly coloured a yellow-orange. When a threat appears, the newt curls up its tail and lifts its head to show the warning colour. This can be seen in photographs.
Habitats of rough-skinned newts are found throughout the west coast of the United States and British Columbia. The southern range extends to California and the northern in Alaska.

</doc>
<doc id="290184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290184" title="Category:Government of India">
Category:Government of India


</doc>
<doc id="290186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290186" title="Category:Foreign relations of India">
Category:Foreign relations of India


</doc>
<doc id="290187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290187" title="Category:Local government of India">
Category:Local government of India


</doc>
<doc id="290188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290188" title="Category:Mumbai">
Category:Mumbai


</doc>
<doc id="290189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290189" title="Category:Territories of India">
Category:Territories of India


</doc>
<doc id="290190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290190" title="Category:Himachal Pradesh">
Category:Himachal Pradesh


</doc>
<doc id="290191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290191" title="Category:Uttar Pradesh">
Category:Uttar Pradesh


</doc>
<doc id="290194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290194" title="SV Mattersburg">
SV Mattersburg

SV Mattersburg is an Austrian soccerclub from Mattersburg, Burgenland. He is playing in the Austrian Bundesliga. The coulors are green and white.
Football came to Mattersburg in 1912 through students from Vienna who played there in their sparetime. The input for forming a footballclub came from the Sieberer family, which came to Mattersburg from Vienna. Their sons had already played in Viennese footballclubs. The SV Mattersburg was founded on Juny, 10th 1922. The club plays since the 2003/04 season in the Austrian Bundesliga, the highst division of Austrian football. The most successful season was 2006/07 reaching the 3rd place. In this year also 4 players of SV Mattersburg have played in the nationalteam (Cem Atan, Michael Mörz, Christian Fuchs,Jürgen Patocka)

</doc>
<doc id="290198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290198" title="Category:Uttarakhand">
Category:Uttarakhand


</doc>
<doc id="290200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290200" title="Category:West Bengal">
Category:West Bengal


</doc>
<doc id="290202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290202" title="Category:Rajasthan">
Category:Rajasthan


</doc>
<doc id="290203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290203" title="Category:Andhra Pradesh">
Category:Andhra Pradesh


</doc>
<doc id="290204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290204" title="Category:Arunachal Pradesh">
Category:Arunachal Pradesh


</doc>
<doc id="290212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290212" title="December 2009 North American blizzard">
December 2009 North American blizzard

There was a blizzard in Mid December 2009 in the northeast. The blizzard dumped heavy snow and strong winds. 31 inches of snow fell on Washington DC.
The storm formed on December 16 in Texas with heavy rain. On December 17, the heavy rain moved NE towards the Northeast and by the evening of December 17 it was in North Carolina. On December 18, the rain turned to snow and was in Virginia in the morning, and in Maryland in the evening. By the night of December 18, it was in Delaware. On December 19 it raced across New jersey, and hit NYC. Blizzard warnings and winter storm warnings have been put in action. Then it moved towards Connecticut and Massachusetts. By December 20, the blizzard wasn't from Maine to Canada and then dissipated over sea.
North Carolina saw mostly heavy rain from the storm, but some of it saw very heavy snow, near-blizzard and even blizzard conditions. Greensboro saw 5 inches of snow after heavy rain.
Virginia saw mainly heavy snow except for the South and the coastline. 8 to 14 inches of snow fell on Richmond. Washington saw 31 inches of snow and was the hot spot for the blizzard!
Maryland saw heavy snow and a blizzard. The blizzard dumped over 17 inches of snow on Cambridge, and Ocean city, on the immediate coast saw several inches of drenching rain and even thunderstorms.
Delaware saw heavy snow and a blizzard. The blizzard dumped 20-26 inches of snow on Dover. The immediate coast saw rain. The blizzard made rally a lot of heavy snow and strong winds on Delaware.
New Jersey saw a blizzard from the storm. There was heavy snow and strong winds. There were 29 inches of snow in Camden, and only 1 to 3 inches in Milford. There was rain in Atlantic City, and Cape May.
New York City saw heavy snow and a blizzard. There were about 10 inches of snow in NYC. There was some sleet in Bay ridge for a very short moment, and even some freezing rain.
The rest of the Northeast saw also heavy snow, and parts saw a blizzard. Connecticut saw from 20-26 inches of snow in the South, to 0.1 to 0.3 inches of snow in the Northwest. Massachusetts also saw from 0.2 to 0.7 inches in the Northwest, to 20-19 inches in the South.
Maine and Canada also saw similar amounts with sleet and freezing rain near the immediate coast.

</doc>
<doc id="290220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290220" title="National Secular Society">
National Secular Society

The National Secular Society is a group that campaigns for secularism in the United Kingdom. It was founded by Charles Bradlaugh in 1866.

</doc>
<doc id="290221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290221" title="Category:Secularism">
Category:Secularism


</doc>
<doc id="290224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290224" title="Jill Scott">
Jill Scott

Jill Scott (born April 4, 1972) is an American poet, actress and soul and R&B singer. She is from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Scott has recorded three albums. She has also acted in some movies and television series. These include "Hounddog", "Why Did I Get Married?" and "The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency".

</doc>
<doc id="290226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290226" title="Heythrop College">
Heythrop College

Heythrop College is a philosophy and theology college that is part of the University of London. It was started in 1614 in Leuven in Belgium by the Society of Jesus but moved to Stonyhurst in England due to persecution of Catholics.
The college offers undergraduate and postgraduate degree courses in philosophy, theology, religious studies and psychology. It became part of the University of London in 1971. It moved to Kensington in 1993.

</doc>
<doc id="290228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290228" title="Mosaic evolution">
Mosaic evolution

In mosaic evolution some characters in a transitional form are basal, while others are remarkably advanced.
Apparently, evolutionary change takes place rapidly in some body parts or systems without simultaneous changes in other parts. Another definition is the "evolution of characters at various rates both within and between species". Its place in evolutionary theory comes under long-term trends or macroevolution.
Evolution from a basal (early) form to a derived (later) form takes place in stages. Modules (groups of characters) change semi-independently of each other. They change at different times, so producing a mosaic of primitive and derived traits.
These changes play a leading role in major evolutionary transitions. It may involve speciations producing a series of species, only a few of which would be found as fossils.
By its very nature, the evidence for this idea comes mainly from palaeontology. It is not claimed that this pattern is universal, but it is common. There are now a wide range of examples from many different taxa. 
Huxley had pointed out that "Archaeopteryx" was a mixture of reptile and bird features. Without the feathers and arms, its skeleton looked just like that of "Compsognathus". We now know its bone growth physiology was much slower than modern birds, and more like that of its dinosaur ancestors. This means it would take longer after hatching before it could fly. A modern precocial bird takes for 3–6 weeks from hatching to flying. In "Archaeopteryx" this milestone might have taken about 18 weeks. It might have taken two to three years to reach its final adult size. The evolution of the physiology of modern forms occurred later in the group's history. They have had over 140 million years to evolve since "Archaeopteryx".
It has long been known that changes in the genes which control development cause changes in the final adult animal.
Recent work shows how master control systems in development ('homeoboxes') can organise selective changes in different parts of an organism. This is what underlies mosaic evolution.

</doc>
<doc id="290231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290231" title="Lyoto Machida">
Lyoto Machida

Lyoto Carvalho Machida (born May 30, 1978), nicknamed "The Dragon", is a mixed martial arts fighter from Salvador, Brazil. Machida fights in the Light Heavyweight division. He is a former Ultimate Fighting Championship Light Heavyweight champion. He is a third degree black belt in Machida Karate. He is a first degree black belt in Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu. He is known to have great counter-fighting ability.

</doc>
<doc id="290236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290236" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Reshipora, Saloora, District of Ganderbal">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Reshipora, Saloora, District of Ganderbal


</doc>
<doc id="290237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290237" title="Category:Territories of the United States">
Category:Territories of the United States


</doc>
<doc id="290238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290238" title="Nicktoons Racing">
Nicktoons Racing

Nicktoons Racing is a Nickelodeon racing game for the PlayStation, Game Boy Advance, Game Boy Color, Windows and arcade. This game was released in 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="290250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290250" title="Tommy Thayer">
Tommy Thayer

Tommy Thayer (born November 7, 1960 in Portland, Oregon) is a former guitarist of Black 'N Blue (1981-1989, 1998) and current guitarist of the band Kiss (2002-present).
Tommy Thayer in his childhood was influenced by bands like Black Sabbath and Deep Purple. In early 1980's Tommy Thayer, way the band of Heavy Metal Movie Star, with vocalist Jaime St. James. The band then changed his name to Black n' Blue. Thayer would record four studio albums for the band. Black 'n Blue (1984), Without Love (1985), Nasty Nasty (1986) and In Heat (1988).
In 1989, Thayer began working for Kiss, co-writing the themes "Betrayed" And "The Street Giveth & The Street Taketh Away" of the album Hot In The Shade (1989). Tommy Thayer replaced guitarist Ace Frehley when leaving Kiss in 2002, He used Frehley's makeup and became "Spaceman" Tommy Thayer recorded one live album, "Kiss Symphony: Alive IV" (2003) and two studio albums with the band. "Kiss Klassics" (2008), and "Sonic Boom" (2009).

</doc>
<doc id="290251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290251" title="Brazilian jiu-jitsu">
Brazilian jiu-jitsu

Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu (Portuguese pronunciation: [dʒɪwˈdʒitsu], English: /dʒuːˈdʒɪtsuː/) is a martial art, combat sport, and a self-defense system. It focuses on grappling and especially ground fighting.

</doc>
<doc id="290252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290252" title="MediaWiki:Abusefilter-warning">
MediaWiki:Abusefilter-warning


</doc>
<doc id="290257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290257" title="Charles Hendry">
Charles Hendry

Charles Hendry is the Member of Parliament for Wealden in East Sussex. He is a member of the Conservative Party.
His predecessor in the Wealden seat was Geoffrey Johnson Smith, also a Conservative.

</doc>
<doc id="290261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290261" title="Saul Kripke">
Saul Kripke

Saul Kripke (born November 13, 1940) is an American philosopher and logician. The work he is best known for is "Naming and Necessity" (1980). Much of his best known work deal with the logic and language. Kripke was born in Bay Shore, New York. 

</doc>
<doc id="290263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290263" title="Robert Nozick">
Robert Nozick

Robert Nozick (November 16, 1938 – January 23, 2002) was an American political philosopher. His best known work is "Anarchy, State, and Utopia" (1974). It responds to "A Theory of Justice", a book by John Rawls.
Politically, Nozick was a libertarian. He believed that the government should protect property and resolve contractual disputes but not much else.

</doc>
<doc id="290264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290264" title="Wikipedia:Requests for importer/The Three Headed Knight">
Wikipedia:Requests for importer/The Three Headed Knight


</doc>
<doc id="290265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290265" title="Graves' disease">
Graves' disease

Graves' disease is an autoimmune disease of the thyroid. In people affected by the disease, the thyroid produces a bigger quantity of hormones than normal, which is commonly known as hyperthyroidism. It occurs more often in women than men.

</doc>
<doc id="290267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290267" title="Sex shop">
Sex shop

A sex shop is a shop that sells adult products including sex toys, pornography, lingerie and fetish goods.
Most countries make it so that children cannot enter sex shops. Some require shops to have warnings outside the shop.
In the United Kingdom, sex shops must not show the products on sale inside the shop so that people on the street can see them. Sex shops in the United Kingdom are the only place where you can buy videos rated as "R18" by the British Board of Film Classification.

</doc>
<doc id="290277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290277" title="Infant attachment">
Infant attachment

Infant attachment is a special bond first developed in infancy. It is the first relationship an infant has, usually with its mother or parents.
Research on human babies by developmental psychologist Mary Ainsworth in the 1960s and 70s found that children may have different patterns of attachment. This depends mainly on how they experienced their early caregiving environment. Early patterns of attachment, in turn, shape – but do not determine - the individual's expectations in later relationships.
During the first stage of development the mother nurses the baby and the mother and infant(s) stay physically close to each other unless the mother needs to leave to seek food (etc.). While the mother is gone the infant(s) remain hidden and quiet, sometimes in a nest or den.
Infancy is a crucial time of development—of physical growth and of learning, developing social skills to interact with others and learning life skills such as what to eat and how to respond when predators are near.
Infancy is also a time of brain development. In mammals, only some behavior is hard-wired in their brain as a fixed-action pattern. Much behavior is genetically determined only as potential behavioral systems that must be activated and developed. These include: 
With their increasing size of neocortex, primates and especially humans, have progressively more complex social behaviors. Nursing is an integral part of this, and serves four functions:
If the infant is part of a litter it plays with its littermates; if it is a single infant, after the first stage of infancy it will begin peer play with other juveniles nearby, close enough for the mother to quickly respond to any difficulty.
Nursing requires proximity; proximity facilitates social interaction, and social interaction is essential for survival. Attachment exists to varying degrees among non-human mammals; it is greatly increased especially in humans. In hunter-gatherer and village-agricultural societies, the mother typically carried the baby or would leave it briefly with an allomother—someone with whom the child will have a life-long relationship such as a grandmother, aunt, or older sibling. Only with the rise of civilization and wealth, and especially within the last 60 years has this pattern of childraising, embedded in our mammalian biology, been significantly altered.
Conclusions: Infant attachment is a multipurpose behavioral system essential to social animals. During infancy patterns of behavior are established on which other long-term relationships are built. Originating in the infant’s protection, the primary purpose of attachment soon became to support brain development. The establishment of homeostasis of physiological systems, social and emotional development and learning are other functions. Infant attachment is found to some degree in all mammals and is greatly expanded in humans. Attachment is a behavioral system that is present at birth but that must be activated and developed.
Most of the time, the people who take care of a baby are the baby's mother and father. If the mother or the father comes when the baby cries and treats the baby with tenderness, the baby learns that the parents will take care of it. If the mother or the father smile at the baby, talk to the baby, sing to the baby, and hold the baby even when it is not crying, the baby learns that the parents love it. When a baby has learned that it is loved and that it will be taken care of if it cries, it usually grows up to be a person who expects other people to be nice. When a child feels loved and cared for and thinks other people will be nice, that child is said to be securely attached.
Two people were important in thinking about and writing about attachment theory, John Bowlby and Mary Ainsworth.
Bowlby wrote that the care and love a baby gets from its parents cause it to form an important idea. He called this idea the internal working model. The internal working model is how the baby or child thinks about itself, its parents, and other people. When parents have taken loving care of a baby and child, it grows up with a positive internal working model. This child will think that it is lovable, because it was loved. It will think that the parents are good, because they were caring. And the child will not be afraid to try to make friends with new people, because it will expect people to be nice. Children who have a positive internal working model are also likely to be kind to other people. Bowlby believed that a positive internal working model would help people make friends.
Bowlby wrote that the attachment process in people was like the closeness that exists between mother and baby chimpanzees, gorillas, orangutans and monkeys. In people, Bowlby believed that attachment developed gradually, in four steps.
Mary Ainsworth saw how mothers treated their babies in different cities and countries. She saw that many ways mothers and babies acted were the same, even when families lives were very different. Ainsworth made a way to test how the attachment relationship between a mother and her young child. She called it "The Strange Situation".

</doc>
<doc id="290281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290281" title="Hayfield University">
Hayfield University

Hayfield University is a university in Los Angeles, California, United States offering academic degree programs designed to prepare women and men for professional service in music, education and Christian theology. Students can take classes outside of California and online.

</doc>
<doc id="290290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290290" title="It's On (Dr. Dre) 187um Killa">
It's On (Dr. Dre) 187um Killa

It's On (<del>Dr. Dre</del>) 187 Killa is the second EP by American rapper, Eazy-E. It was released on October 25, 1993. The producers of the album were Eazy-E, DJ Yella, Rhythum D, Madness 4 Real, Dr. Jam and Cold 187um. The EP was certified 2x Platinum in late 1994. The album is a reply to then rival/former N.W.A bandmate Dr Dre. The songs "Real Muthaphuckkin G's" and "It's On" are diss songs meant to insult Dr Dre and his then new protegee Snoop Doggy Dogg. Other tracks such as "Down 2 tha Last Roach", "Any Last Werdz", "Still a Nigga" and "Exxtra Special Thankz" are about the gangster lifestyle. The song "Gimme That Nutt" tells a rather sexually vulgar story that was banned from being played on radio stations. 

</doc>
<doc id="290299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290299" title="Category:Constellation templates">
Category:Constellation templates


</doc>
<doc id="290308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290308" title="Rub' al Khali">
Rub' al Khali

The Rub' al Khali or Empty Quarter is a desert in Saudi Arabia. It is one of the largest sand deserts in the world. It covers an area of about 650,000 square kilometres, more than all of Holland, Belgium and France together. Some of the sand dunes are more than 250 metres high.

</doc>
<doc id="290310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290310" title="Bird bath">
Bird bath

A Birdbath is an artificial "puddle" or small shallow pond, created with a water-filled basin, for birds to bathe in, cool off, and drink from. A birdbath can be a garden decoration, small reflecting pool, or outdoor sculpture.
A birdbath is an attraction for many different species of birds to visit gardens, especially during the summer and drought periods. Birdbaths that provide clean and continual water all year makes more birds come.

</doc>
<doc id="290312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290312" title="Robert Bly">
Robert Bly

Robert Bly (born December 23, 1926) is an American poet, author, activist and leader of the Mythopoetic Men's Movement.
Bly's early collection of poems, "Silence in the Snowy Fields," was published in 1962, and its plain style had considerable influence on American poems of the next two decades. The following year, he published "A Wrong Turning in American Poetry", an essay.
In 1966, Bly co-founded American Writers Against the Vietnam War. In 1968, he signed the “Writers and Editors War Tax Protest” pledge, vowing to refuse tax payments in protest against the war. When he won the National Book Award for "The Light Around the Body," he contributed the prize money to the Resistance. During the 1970s, he published eleven books of poetry, essays, and translations. During the 1980s he published "Loving a Woman in Two Worlds," "The Wingéd Life: Selected Poems and Prose of Thoreau," "The Man in the Black Coat Turns," and "A Little Book on the Human Shadow".
Among his most famous works is "," an international bestseller which has been translated into many languages.

</doc>
<doc id="290316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290316" title="Mount Gongga">
Mount Gongga

Mount Gongga (), also known as Minya Konka, is the highest mountain in Sichuan, China. There have been a number of deaths on Gongga Shan, which has made some people think that Mount Gongga is a difficult and dangerous mountain for climbing. In 1981, eight Japanese climbers died after a hiking all the way to the top.

</doc>
<doc id="290317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290317" title="Jared Carter">
Jared Carter

Jared Carter (born January 10, 1939) is an American poet.
Carter studied at Yale University. After military service and travel abroad, he made his home in Indianapolis, where he has lived since 1969.
Carter writes in free verse and in traditional forms. Much of his early work is set in Mississinewa County, an imaginary place that includes the actual Mississinewa River. In recent years, as Carter began to publish his poems on the web, his poetry has ranged farther.
His first collection, "Work, for the Night Is Coming", won the Walt Whitman Award. His second, "After the Rain", received the Poets' Prize. His poems have appeared in literary journals in the U.S. and in the "Twentieth-Century American Poetry," "Contemporary American Poetry," and "Writing Poems." 

</doc>
<doc id="290319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290319" title="Red Bull Arena (Salzburg)">
Red Bull Arena (Salzburg)

The Red Bull Arena is a footballstadium in Salzburg, municipality Wals-Siezemheim. It is the homeground of F.C. Red Bull Salzburg. During the Euro 2008 football championship it was one of four venues in Austria.
The arena was built in 2003 and opened on March 8th, 2003 (Austria Salzburg – FC Kärnten 1:1 ). It replaced the old stadium in Lehen. The building is not located in the city of Salzburg but in the neighbouring borough of Wals- Siezenheim. In international matches the ground is called "EM Stadion Wals- Siezenheim". The architects were Schuster Architekten (Düsseldorf) and Atelier Albert Wimmer (Wien). The costs were around 70 millions €. 2005 two videowalls were erected.
At this time the capacity was around 18 000 but was expanded to over 30 000 in 2006 because the ground was used for the Euro 2008 football championship Austria-Switzerland. A second balcony was built. After the EURO it was decided, despite of neighbour protests, that this balcony should stay for further use by Red Bull Salzburg. The stadium was the only one in Austria with an artificial turf, but since 2010 the arena has got a natural lawn. In it´s history the Red Bull Arena only two times was sold out, in a friendly match of Red Bull Salzburg versus Arsenal London and another friendly match versus Bayern München. 
The Stadium is the homeground of F. C. Red Bull Salzburg, who rented the stadium from the owner, the SWS Stadion Salzburg Planungs- und Errichtungsgesellschaft m.b.H, which is a subsidiary company of the Land-Invest. Therefore, the stadium is indirectly owned by the state of Salzburg.

</doc>
<doc id="290322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290322" title="John James Audubon">
John James Audubon

John James Audubon (April 26, 1785 – January 27, 1851) was a French-American ornithologist, naturalist, hunter, and painter. He painted, described, and put in catalogues the birds of North America. His "Birds of America" is a collection of 435 life-size prints. It is still a standard against which 20th and 21st century bird artists are measured.
Audubon was born in Saint Domingue (now Haiti). He was the illegitimate son of a French sea captain and plantation owner and his French mistress. He was raised by his stepmother in Nantes, France. Early interests included birds, nature, drawing, and music. In 1803, at the age of 18, he was sent to America to escape conscription into Napoleon’s army. He lived on the family-estate at Mill Grove, near Philadelphia. It was here that he hunted, studied and drew birds. He married Lucy Bakewell. The couple became the parents of two sons, Victor Gifford and John Woodhouse. A daughter died in infancy. 
Audubon set up a dry goods business on the western frontier in Henderson, Kentucky. He continued to draw birds as a hobby. He was quite successful in business, but hard times hit. In 1819 he was briefly jailed for bankruptcy. Audubon had few prospects. He set off with his gun, his artist’s materials, and a young assistant to paint America's birds. Floating down the Mississippi River, he lived a rugged hand-to-mouth existence in the South. His wife earned money as a tutor to rich plantation families. In 1826 he sailed with his partly finished collection of bird drawings to England. "The American Woodsman" was an overnight success. 
Audubon found a printer for the "Birds of America", first in Edinburgh, then London, and later collaborated with the Scottish ornithologist William MacGillivray on the "Ornithological Biographies" – life histories of each of the species in the work.est comfort. The last print of his monumental work was issued in 1838. By this date, Audubon was famous. He traveled America several more times in search of birds, and settled in New York City. He made one more trip to the West in 1843 for his work of mammals, the "Viviparous Quadrupeds of North America". It was largely completed by his sons. The text was written by his long-time friend, the Lutheran pastor John Bachman (whose daughters married Audubon’s sons). Audubon spent his last years in senility and died at age 65. He is buried in the Trinity Cemetery at 155th Street and Broadway in New York City.
The National Audubon Society writes: "Audubon’s story is one of triumph over adversity; his accomplishment is destined for the ages. He encapsulates the spirit of young America, when the wilderness was limitless and beguiling. He was a person of legendary strength and endurance as well as a keen observer of birds and nature. Like his peers, he was an avid hunter, and he also had a deep appreciation and concern for conservation; in his later writings he sounded the alarm about destruction of birds and habitats. It is fitting that today we carry his name and legacy into the future".
In December 2010, "The Economist" magazine estimated that, adjusted for inflation, five of the ten highest prices ever paid for printed books were paid for copies of "Birds of America". Of the 119 copies known to survive, only eleven are held in private collections. 
On 6 December 2010, a complete copy of the first edition was sold in London at Sotheby's for £7,321,250 (about $11.5 million). The winning bid was a record auction price for a printed book and was placed by a London-based art dealer, who outbid three others during the auction. According to the provenance details reported by the auction house, the copy's original owner was Henry Witham of Durham, listed as subscriber #11 in Audubon's "Ornithological biography".

</doc>
<doc id="290324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290324" title="Lorine Niedecker">
Lorine Niedecker

Lorine Niedecker (pronounced Needecker) (May 12, 1903 - December 31, 1970) is a poet who was the only woman associated with the Objectivist poets.

</doc>
<doc id="290326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290326" title="Max Martin">
Max Martin

Karl Martin Sandberg, known professionally as Max Martin, (born 26 February 1971) is a Swedish music producer and songwriter. Raised in Sweden, he became a producer and songwriter in the mid 1990s after writing a string of hits for pop artists like the Backstreet Boys, Britney Spears, *NSYNC, Kelly Clarkson, Katy Perry, and Pink, among many others. Some of his earlier hits include "I Want It That Way", "...Baby One More Time", "Larger Than Life", "Show Me the Meaning of Being Lonely", "Oops!...I Did It Again", "Everybody (Backstreet's Back)", "That's the Way It Is", and "It's My Life". He also helped the Cheiron Studios create the Album "The Bridge", which has sold more than six million copies worldwide, including one million in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="290327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290327" title="Raise Your Glass">
Raise Your Glass

"Raise Your Glass" is a song by American recording artist and songwriter Pink. It was released as the lead single of her album, "Greatest Hits... So Far!!!". It celebrates the ten years Pink has spent in the music industry. She said it was for the fans who supported her during these years.
The song was released in October 2010. It was praised by critics who said it was a party anthem. It was successful commercially as well. It reached the Top 10 in several countries, including the United States. There it became Pink's second solo number one hit, following "So What," and her third overall.

</doc>
<doc id="290330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290330" title="Shellback (producer)">
Shellback (producer)

Karl Johan Schuster (born February 1, 1985), better known by his stage name Shellback, is a songwriter, record producer and musician from Karlshamn, a small town in Southern Sweden. Together with Max Martin, he wrote "So What" and "Raise Your Glass" by Pink, "If U Seek Amy" and "3" by Britney Spears, "DJ Got Us Fallin' in Love" by Usher featuring Pitbull, and "Whataya Want from Me" by Adam Lambert. Also with Martin he co-wrote the Maroon 5 single One More Night.

</doc>
<doc id="290333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290333" title="Vocal range">
Vocal range

Vocal range is the measure of the pitches that a human voice can make. Although the study of vocal range is not used in terms of speech, it is a topic of study within linguistics, phonetics, and speech and language pathology. However, the most common use of the term "vocal range" is in singing, where it is used for classifying singing voices into groups.

</doc>
<doc id="290337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290337" title="RCA Records">
RCA Records

RCA Records (originally The Victor Talking Machine Company, then RCA Victor) is one of the flagship labels of Sony Music Entertainment. The RCA initials stand for Radio Corporation of America (later renamed RCA Corporation), which was the parent corporation from 1929 to 1985 and a partner from 1985 to 1986.
RCA's Canadian unit the Sony's oldest label in Canada, because it was only one of two Canadian record labels to survive the Great Depression.

</doc>
<doc id="290339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290339" title="Compact Disc single">
Compact Disc single

A CD single (sometimes abbreviated to CDS) is a music single in the form of a Compact Disc. The format was introduced in the mid-1980s, but was not sold much in the market until the early 1990s.

</doc>
<doc id="290341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290341" title="Music download">
Music download

A music download is the act of downloading a song from the Internet to a user's computer. This term can mean both legal downloads (by paying to download the music) and downloads of copyright material without permission or paying.
As of 2006, digital music sales are estimated to have reached approximately US$2 billion. Around the world in 2006, an estimated 509 million songs were purchased online.
There are many websites that let you download music. Some of these sites are iTunes, Google Play, Windows Store, and Amazon.com. , The biggest of these stores is iTunes, which is run by Apple, and had an income of $1.1 billion.

</doc>
<doc id="290343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290343" title="Maratone Studio">
Maratone Studio

Maratone is a music production company, started by two music producers and songwriters, Max Martin and Tom Talomaa. It was started in January 2001 after the closing of the Cheiron Studios.
The first songs to be written and produced at Maratone were four tracks for Britney Spears´ third album "Britney".
With Kelly Clarkson's hits "Since U Been Gone" and "Behind These Hazel Eyes", which were produced at Maratone, Max Martin had reinvented himself (together with Lukasz Gottwald) by using a completely different sound than the "Cheiron sound" which he was so famous for. He has continued to use the new rock sound on hits for a-ha, Pink and many more.

</doc>
<doc id="290346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290346" title="About.com">
About.com

About.com is an online source for information and advice. It is written in English, and is aimed mostly at North Americans. It is owned by The New York Times Company.
About.com is divided into topic sites, which are grouped into channels and subjects such as home repair, pediatrics, and weather. The content is written by a network of writers, referred to as Guides, who have experience in the subject they look after. Each Guide looks after one subject only.
Guides receive money of about $100,000 per year, although the exact number is not disclosed.

</doc>
<doc id="290349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290349" title="Blogcritics">
Blogcritics

Blogcritics is a blog network and online magazine of news and opinion. The site—a self-proclaimed "sinister cabal of superior writers"—was founded in 2002 by Eric Olsen and Phillip Winn. Blogcritics features hundreds of original articles every week, and keeps an archive of all their published content.

</doc>
<doc id="290351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290351" title="Digital Spy">
Digital Spy

Digital Spy is a British entertainment and media news website. According to comScore figures, it is the fourth largest British entertainment website with 2.1 million special users on its news site. According to Alexa Internet traffic statistics, as of February 2011, Digital Spy is the 93rd most popular website in the United Kingdom, with an overall Alexa ranking of 2,088.

</doc>
<doc id="290358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290358" title="George Beadle">
George Beadle

George Wells Beadle (October 22, 1903 – June 9, 1989) was an American geneticist.
He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Edward Tatum; they shared the prize with Joshua Lederberg, who worked with Tatum on bacterial genetics. 
Beadle and Tatum discovered the role of genes in regulating biochemical synthesis in cells.
Beadle and Tatum's key experiments involved exposing the bread mould "Neurospora crassa" to x-rays, causing mutations. In a series of experiments, they showed that these mutations caused changes in specific enzymes involved in pathways making proteins. They proposed a direct link between genes and enzymatic reactions, known as the "one gene, one enzyme" hypothesis.
George Wells Beadle was born at Wahoo, Nebraska, on October 22, 1903. He was the son of farmers; his parents owned and operated a 40-acre (160,000 m) farm. 
George might himself have become a farmer if one of his teachers had not directed his mind towards science, and the College of Agriculture at Lincoln, Nebraska. 
In 1926, after his degree, he worked on hybrid wheat and "Zea mays". In 1931 he was awarded a National Research Council Fellowship at the California Institute of Technology at Pasadena, where he remained from 1931 until 1936. During this period he continued his work on Indian corn and began, in collaboration with Dobzhansky and Sturtevant work on crossing-over in the fruit fly, "Drosophila melanogaster".
In 1935 Beadle visited Paris for six months to work with Boris Ephrussi at the Institut de Biologie physico-chimique. Together they began the study of the development of eye pigment in "Drosophila" which later led to the work on the biochemistry of the genetics of the "fungus" "Neurospora".
In 1937 Beadle was appointed Professor of Biology (Genetics) at Stanford University and there he remained for nine years, working for most of this period in collaboration with Tatum. 
In 1946 he returned to the California Institute of Technology as Professor of Biology and Chairman of the Division of Biology. Here he remained until January 1961 when he was elected Chancellor of the University of Chicago and, in the autumn of the same year, President of this University.
George Beadle died on June 9, 1989.
The work of Beadle & Tatum was continued later by E.B. Lewis who worked on the way genes control the development of embryos, and by Phillip Sharp & Richard Roberts who discovered of introns and RNA splicing. All three won Nobel Prizes for their work.
In 1977, work by the Sharp and Roberts labs showed that genes of higher organisms are "split" or present in several distinct segments along the DNA molecule. 
The coding regions of the gene are separated by non-coding DNA that is not involved in protein expression. The non-coding regions, the introns, are cut from the precursor mRNAs in a process called "splicing". The split gene structure was found to be common to most eukaryotic genes. For this reason, one gene–one enzyme does not hold in the simple way put forward by Beadle and Tatum. This is because
However, their work was a great step forward in its time.

</doc>
<doc id="290370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290370" title="Category:Royal Air Force">
Category:Royal Air Force


</doc>
<doc id="290371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290371" title="MediaWiki:Tag-very short new article-description">
MediaWiki:Tag-very short new article-description

A new user created a very short new article that is not a disambiguation or redirect

</doc>
<doc id="290373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290373" title="MediaWiki:Tag-adding email address-description">
MediaWiki:Tag-adding email address-description

An email address is added to an article; this is a possible case for oversight.

</doc>
<doc id="290374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290374" title="MediaWiki:Tag-copy/paste from another Wikipedia?-description">
MediaWiki:Tag-copy/paste from another Wikipedia?-description

Tries to detect a copy paste of text from another wikipedia

</doc>
<doc id="290377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290377" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Maltese tiger">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Maltese tiger


</doc>
<doc id="290386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290386" title="Nur Muhammad Taraki">
Nur Muhammad Taraki

Nur Muhammad Taraki (1917–1979) was an Afghan politician. With other people he founded the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan, who stopped the monarchy in Afghanistan. Taraki was president of Afghanistan in 1978 and 1979. Taraki started economic reforms in mid-1978.

</doc>
<doc id="290402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290402" title="Category:Articles that need to be wikified from April 2009">
Category:Articles that need to be wikified from April 2009


</doc>
<doc id="290405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290405" title="Category:Articles that need to be wikified from June 2009">
Category:Articles that need to be wikified from June 2009


</doc>
<doc id="290415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290415" title="Category:Articles that need to be wikified from July 2010">
Category:Articles that need to be wikified from July 2010


</doc>
<doc id="290416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290416" title="Category:Articles that need to be wikified from August 2010">
Category:Articles that need to be wikified from August 2010


</doc>
<doc id="290461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290461" title="KMFDM">
KMFDM

KMFDM is a German industrial metal band. The five members of the band are leader, singer, and bassist Sascha Konietzko, singer Lucia Cifarelli, guitarist Jules Hodgson, guitarist Steve White, and drummer Andy Selway. The band has sold more than 2 million albums.
KMFDM formed on February 29, 1984, in Paris, France. They made eleven albums between then and 1999, when the band broke up. The band got back together in 2002, and has made eight albums between then and 2015.
KMFDM official website

</doc>
<doc id="290474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290474" title="V. C. Andrews">
V. C. Andrews

Cleo Virginia Andrews (V. C. Andrews) (June 6, 1923 – December 19, 1986) was an American writer from Portsmouth, Virginia. Her best-selling stories included "My Sweet Audrina" and two series of books about the "Dollanganger" and "Casteel" families. 
Her stories were written in English and translated into French, Italian, German, Spanish, Dutch, Japanese, Korean, Turkish, Greek, Finnish, Hungarian, Swedish, Portuguese and Hebrew.
Her first novel, "Flowers in the Attic," was published in 1979. 
V. C. Andrews died from breast cancer in 1986, leaving behind some unpublished stories. The estate of V. C. Andrews hired a ghostwriter, Andrew Neiderman, to continue the stories, which are still published under the name V. C. Andrews. 
This series and all subsequent novels were written by Neiderman, but are attributed to Andrews.

</doc>
<doc id="290483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290483" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Common phrases in different languages">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Common phrases in different languages


</doc>
<doc id="290484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290484" title="LGBT rights in Pakistan">
LGBT rights in Pakistan

There are few to no LGBT rights in Pakistan. Since 6 October 1860, it has been illegal to participate in homosexual acts (to have sexual contact with a person of the same gender). Unlike in the neighboring country of India, this Law has not yet been repealed (or gotten rid of). Homosexuality is also thought of as a taboo vice in Pakistan. The major religions in Pakistan do not approve of homosexuality. Because of this, many people in the country are against homosexuality and other forms of alternative sexual orientation.
Pakistan is officially an Islamic Republic. However, in reality, Pakistan is largely secular (non-religious). It mainly has Anglo-Saxon laws which were inherited from the British. More and more, there are trends (or patterns) of liberalization (becoming more liberal) in the country. Globalization and social tolerance are also increasing. Because of this, public gay parties have been taking place in the country, and these parties have been thriving for a number of years.
The Constitution of Pakistan does not specifically mention sexual orientation or gender identity. There are certain parts in the Constitution that may affect the rights of LGBT Pakistani citizens.
Most South Asian nations have a concept, or idea, called "hijra", or third gender. People who belong to prevails the third gender are thought of as not being either man or woman. Pakistan is no different. In the country, there is a vibrant culture of hijras. They are sometimes called transsexuals in English writings. Like transgender people in many countries, hijras are sometimes ridiculed (made fun of), abused, and treated violently. However, they are also accepted, to a point. This is because of the position they held in precolonial Desi society. For example, they are welcome at weddings, where they will dance as entertainment for the men, and are also welcome among the women.
Hijras are usually tolerated in Pakistani society. They are thought of as blessed in the Pakistani culture. Most hijras are thought to be cultural descendants (or relatives) of court eunuchs from the Mughal era.
Hijras are thought to be born with genital dysphoria. People sometimes feel afraid that the hijras might curse them so that they become the same way.
Because of this, people listen to the hijras' needs, give them alms (or charity), and invite them to events and special occasions, like the birth of a child, a child's circumcision, or weddings. Hijra communities live a very secretive life. Because of this, many people see the hijras as mysterious. 
In 2004, it was reported that Lahore alone has 10,000 active transvestites.
Despite the British Raj imposition, Pakistan was still a very much an open society. Gay Pakistanis have had a much better experience in Pakistan than they did in London or elsewhere. But, all of that changed in the 1980s, under the sixth President of Pakistan, General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, who was a close ally of Arabian countries. His government took the law to lifetime imprisonment, and even death in certain areas under Sharia law. More and more Wahabbi-style religious schools or madrasas were opened in the country, generally with money from the Middle East as well as teachers educated in that region.
However, 147 years after the British had brought Sodomy Laws to the entire region under their collective domain, the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) has noted in 2005 that gay life in Pakistan is still “less inhibited than in the west.” This is because the culture is much stronger than laws imposed by foreign powers and greedy local politicians. There have been a lot of changes, sometimes they are good and sometimes bad, but changes are constant companion to gay Pakistani life in the country. At the moment, one of the mysteries is that people deny the history of gay life in Pakistan while in Paksitan. Speaking to the National Public Radio, Pakistani-American scholar Taymiya R. Zaman, who happens to be an expert in Islamic History, said that “You can’t look at something that already existed – and there is a shrine devoted to it – and now say it was unacceptable.”
A number of the more liberal, secular parties in Pakistan tend to agree in principle to granting rights to various LGBT communities in the country, but are afraid to act too openly or quickly due to fear of extremist religious groups such as the Taliban who are against any such rights. 
Time and again, various such parties and leaders have said that Pakistan needs to be more open, in public, about sexual orientation and gender identity issues. Yet, the sense persists that no public organization, club, or society would be allowed to endorse (or officially support) LGBT human rights, or even act as a social network for LGBT people, in the Islamic State. Only the "Pakistan Greens" has publicly expressed support for their LGBT rights for its citizens in general and abroad (Overseas Pakistanis) and has called for greater public openness and awareness about Sexual orientations and gender identity issues.
Only now, recently, in 2012, the Supreme Court of Pakistan has acted in a very bold manner and defied the religious right, by granting for the first time, three basic rights to transsexuals i.e. (a) the right to be recognised as a 'Third sex or gender' (b) the right to vote as Pakistani citizens as transsexuals and (c) granted the fixation of job quotas in the public/government sector, for transsexual people. These are all landmark decisions by the apex court and hopefully the situation for LGBT rights will improve more in future.
Homosexuality is still illegal in the Pakistan-administered Kashmir and Occupied Kashmir. Pakistan was one of the 67 signatory nations opposing the UN declaration on sexual orientation and gender identity, which failed to pass.
In Kashmir same-sex marriages, civil unions, and domestic partnerships are not recognised.
There are no legal protection against discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity.

</doc>
<doc id="290497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290497" title="Spain Davis Cup team">
Spain Davis Cup team

The Spain Davis Cup team represents Spain in the Davis Cup tennis competition.
Spain has won the Davis Cup four times (2000, 2004, 2008 and 2009), and finished at second position three times (1965, 1967, 2003). 

</doc>
<doc id="290498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290498" title="Wilby, Suffolk">
Wilby, Suffolk

Wilby is a village and civil parish in the Mid Suffolk part of Suffolk in eastern England. It is around nine miles south-east of Diss, in 2001 there was 231 people living in Wilby. It has a primary school, village hall, Church, Trucking company (TG Askews) and a phone box (cards only).
Between 1908 and 1952 the village had a railway station on the Mid-Suffolk Light Railway.

</doc>
<doc id="290499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290499" title="Road Warrior Hawk">
Road Warrior Hawk

Michael James Hegstrand (September 12, 1957 – October 19, 2003) was an American professional wrestler who was best known for wrestling with World Wrestling Federation (WWF) and World Championship Wrestling (WCW) under the ring name, Road Warrior Hawk. He is probably best known for wrestling as one half of the tag team, Road Warriors in WCW and The Legion of Doom in WWF. On April 2, 2011, He was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame by Dusty Rhodes as part of The Road Warriors along with their manager, Paul Ellering.
Hegstrand held many championships during his professional wrestling career:

</doc>
<doc id="290500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290500" title="Developing 8 Countries">
Developing 8 Countries

The Developing 8 (D-8 or Developing Eight) are a group of developing countries with large Muslim populations that have formed an economic development alliance. It consists of Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, Malaysia, Nigeria, Pakistan, and Turkey.

</doc>
<doc id="290502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290502" title="Next Eleven">
Next Eleven

The Next Eleven (or N-11) are eleven countries—Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, South Korea, Turkey and Vietnam—that Goldman Sachs investment bank says will probably become some of the world's largest economies in the 21st century, together with the BRICs. The bank chose these states on December 12, 2005 because they are good places for people to invest money, and are likely to become a lot richer soon. 

</doc>
<doc id="290503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290503" title="Captain America: The First Avenger">
Captain America: The First Avenger

Captain America: The First Avenger is an American superhero movie based on the Marvel Comics character Captain America. It was produced by Kevin Feige and directed by Joe Johnston. It was released in the United States on July 22, 2011. The movie was converted to 3-D, but not filmed that way. The filming for the movie took place in Los Angeles, California, and the Northern Quarter of Manchester, England, United Kingdom. It was reported in February of 2011 that the screenwriters Stephen McFeely and Christopher Markus were hired to return to write a sequel for "Captain America: The First Avenger".

</doc>
<doc id="290506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290506" title="Ethnic groups of Pakistan">
Ethnic groups of Pakistan

About 98% of languages spoken in Pakistan are Indo-Iranian (sub-branches: 75% Indo-Aryan and 20% pure Iranian), a branch of Indo-European family of languages. Most languages of Pakistan are written in the Perso-Arabic script, with significant vocabulary derived from Arabic and Persian. Punjabi (Shahmukhi), Seraiki, Sindhi, Pashto, Urdu, Balochi, Kashmiri (Koshur), etc. are the general languages spoken within Pakistan. The majority of Pakistanis belong to various Indo-Aryan-speaking ethnic groups, while a large minority are various Iranic peoples and Dardic language groups. In addition, small groups language isolates such as Burusho and Brahui-speaking peoples also live in the country. The major ethnic groups of Pakistan in numerical size include: Punjabis, Pashtuns, Sindhis, Seraikis, Muhajirs, Balochis, Chitralis and other smaller groups.
The population comprises several main ethnic groups (2009):
Smaller ethnic groups, such as Kashmiris, Kalash, Burusho, Brahui, Khowar, Shina, and Turwalis are mainly found in the northern parts of the country. The people of the Potohar Plateau in Northern Punjab, (Potoharis) are sometimes listed separately from Punjabis. This would tend to decrease the Punjabs population further.
Hindkowans is a general term applied to the inhabitants of the Hazara Division of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The area falls in between the 'proper' Pashtun districts of the province, the Northern Punjab and Kashmir. Thus, it is a 'transitional' area where the Hindko dialect, or language, is mostly spoken, with a little Pashto and other languages. It must be noted that as such, there are no people or races of this name, but it is a purely linguistic definition or term. The people inhabiting the 'Hindko-speaking belt' are in fact from a number of ethnic origins—Pathan settlers such as the Yusufzai, Tarin, Mishwani, Jadoon, Utmanzai and others, as well as representatives of various Punjabi and Kashmiri tribes, as well as several indigenous hill and aboriginal tribes such as the Karlal, Dhund Abbasi, Malichas, Tanoli, Swatis and so on.
Whilst the term is generally applied to the inhabitants of Hazara (especially Abbottabad, Haripur and Mansehra districts)it is also applied, by extension to sizable pockets of Hindko-speaking populations of Peshawar city, Kohat and Dera Ismail Khan in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and in Dera Ghazi Khan and Mianwali in Punjab.
The Hazara race (not to be confused with the inhabitants of the Hazara region above) are a Persian language-speaking people. The local or Pakistani Hazara are residing in Quetta, Balochistan, and a small number from Afghanistan as refugees in the Islamabad area and a very few in Peshawar city too in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. They are closely related to the Mongols and the Uygurs. The total estimated population of Pakistani Hazaras is believed to be more than 200,000. Afghan refugee Hazaras are not more than between 10000 to 12000.
Makrani are the inhabitants of Makran coast of Balochistan in Iran and Pakistan. They are the Negroid people of Pakistan. They are the descendants of slaves first brought to Pakistan by Arab merchants in medieval times from the Bantu-speaking parts of eastern Africa.
Tajiks are a Persian-speaking people, with traditional homelands in present-day Afghanistan, Tajikistan, southern Uzbekistan, northern Pakistan and western China. The Pakistani Tajiks live amongst other majority Central Asian-origin peoples such as the Dardic and Chitralis, the Hunzukuts, Shina, Baltis etc., and proper Tajiks are estimated to be no more than between 100,000 to 125,000.
The Balti are an ethnic group of Tibetan descent with some Dardic admixture in Gilgit-Baltistan, Pakistan and Ladakh. In Pakistan they mainly live in major urban centres of Lahore, Karachi and Islamabad/Rawalpindi. The Balti language belongs to the Tibetan language family and is a sub-dialect of Ladakhi.

</doc>
<doc id="290511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290511" title="Industrial metal">
Industrial metal

Industrial metal is a heavy metal musical genre that draws from industrial music and many different types of heavy metal, using repeating metal guitar riffs, sampling, synthesizer or sequencer lines, and distorted vocals. Founding industrial metal acts include Ministry, Godflesh, and KMFDM. Industrial metal's popularity led to some criticism from other artists associated with the industrial scene. Subsequently, it is most well known in various European permutations. Industrial metal groups have produced many acclaimed music videos.

</doc>
<doc id="290512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290512" title="John Rawls">
John Rawls

John Rawls (February 21, 1921 – November 24, 2002) was an American political philosopher. His is known best for writing the book "A Theory of Justice" (1971).

</doc>
<doc id="290513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290513" title="Melinoe">
Melinoe

In Greek mythology, Melinoe is the goddess of ghosts. She is the daughter of Persephone and Hades. She lives in the Underworld. She has a pale complexion and a short temper and takes after her father in almost every way, except from her beauty that she gets from her mother Persephone. Melinoe has the powers to turn any mortal insane by her phantoms.
Little is known about Melinoe, but ancient Greeks used to conduct rituals and acts of praises to her as a sign of devotion and to garner protection from ghosts.

</doc>
<doc id="290528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290528" title="Austrian Football First League">
Austrian Football First League

"SKY Go" Erste Liga is the name of the second division in Austrian football.
The league was formed in 1975. The name "Erste Liga" was not new, because before the Second World War the name was in use for the second division in football. From 1949 to 1975 the 3 Regionalligen were the second level. With some modifications the league still exists.
There are ten clubs in the league. The champion promotes to the Bundesliga, the last team of the Bundesliga is relegated to the Erste Liga. The last three teams of this league are relegated to the Regionalliga, the champions of the 3 Regionalligen are promoted to the Erste Liga as fare they are licenced. There is no amateurteam of a club from the Bundesliga allowed.
Tivoli neu - FC Wacker Innsbruck

</doc>
<doc id="290529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290529" title="SV Kapfenberg">
SV Kapfenberg

The Kapfenberger SV (official Kapfenberger Sportvereinigung Superfund) is a football club from Kapfenberg, Styria.
The club was founded in 1919. Before the Second World War he played under the name Kapfenberger SC and was an important part of Styrian football. 1947 the club was new founded and got new sections (table tennis, ski and handball). During the 1950´s and 60´s Kapfenberg played in the Staatsliga A and in the 1980´s in the 2.Division. In 1997 the club, which was only a section of the SV, was dissolved from the Kapfenberger SV and became a legaly independent club. From 2002/03 to 2007/08 the club played in the Erste Liga and became Champion in the 2007/08 season.
In the season 2008/09 the club played in the Bundesliga for the first time since 41 years. In the 2009/10 season the LASK was beaten 7:2, which was the highest victory in the club history.
The club plays in the Franz-Fekete-Stadium, which was built in 1951 and named after a former mayor of Kapfenberg. 

</doc>
<doc id="290531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290531" title="Religious segregation">
Religious segregation

Religious segregation is the idea that people should be separated based on their religion. Certain laws of a country may only apply to one religious group. As an example, Sharia only applies to Muslims. The term religious apartheid has also been used. Apartheid was the term used to refer to racial segregation in South Africa. Other examples for religious segregation are that in Iran, certain students have been expelled from university because they were not Muslims, but Baha'i.
According to the Times Higher Education, Bahá'í are required to give up their faith in order to teach in Iranian universities. 
Bahá'í is not among the recognized "recognized religious minorities" in the Constitution of Iran. The Bahá'í faith is considered apostate in Iran
because it believes in a prophet (Bahá'u'lláh) more recent than Muhammad. This goes against Islamic teachings, which teach the belief that Muhammad is the last and final messenger sent to mankind.
Saudi Arabia sees the cities of Mecca and Medina as holy. Only Muslims may enter or travel through these cities. A Non-Muslim who enters one of them may be fined. People who are not Muslims will be deported from Mecca.

</doc>
<doc id="290533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290533" title="Paraphyly">
Paraphyly

Paraphyly is a term in cladistics. It means a group which does not include all its descendents. So Sauropsida without birds is paraphyletic, since birds are definitely descended from archosaurs, probably small theropod dinosaurs (origin of birds).
Paraphyly is corrected to monophyly when the missing group(s) are included. So if birds are included in Sauropsida, the larger group is then monophyletic. Traditional classification is often paraphyletic.

</doc>
<doc id="290536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290536" title="Polyphyly">
Polyphyly

Polyphyly is a term in cladistics. It describes a group of organisms whose last common ancestor is not a member of the group. Another way of expressing this is to say that polyphyly includes groups some members of which are descended from ancestral populations.
The diagrams show that birds and mammals are indeed related, but only at the level of the early amniotes. In terms of evolution, there is a vast gulf between them.
More common in traditional taxonomy is to include all descendants (say, living mammals) without the group they evolved from (which would be some clade in the therapsida). This is done for convenience; but it makes the mammals polyphyletic.
Biological classification aims to group species together such that every group is descended from a single common ancestor. A polyphyletic group can be "fixed" either by excluding clades or by adding the common ancestor.
According to cladistics it should be the aim of classification to ensure that all groups are monophyletic. However, other taxonomists argue that there is a valid place for groups that are paraphyletic, contain their most recent common ancestor but does not all the descendants of that ancestor.

</doc>
<doc id="290542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290542" title="Apache License">
Apache License

The Apache License is a free software license made by the Apache Software Foundation. All of the Apache Software Foundation's software and projects, such as the Apache HTTP Server, use this license. Some software that is not made by the Apache Software Foundation also use this license. In May 2008, Google said that 25.8 percent of projects hosted on Google Code used this license.

</doc>
<doc id="290546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290546" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Emily Grace Reaves">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Emily Grace Reaves


</doc>
<doc id="290554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290554" title="The All-American Rejects">
The All-American Rejects

The All-American Rejects are an American alternative rock band from Stillwater, Oklahoma. The All-American Rejects have four members in the band; the current band members are Tyson Ritter, Nick Wheeler, Mike Kennerty and Chris Gaylor.
The All-American Rejects first became a band in 1999 when band member Tyson Ritter and Nick Wheeler were in high school. The name All-American Reject was made from either a mix of two suggestions, "The Rejects" and "The All Americans" or the other being that it came from a song "Reject" by Green Day and had the chorus, "a reject, all american".
So far as of 2011, The All-American Rejects have made 3 studio albums and 8 EPs:

</doc>
<doc id="290555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290555" title="Mark Boal">
Mark Boal

Mark Boal (born 1973) is an American journalist, screenwriter and film producer. Boal won 2 Academy Awards in 2009 for The Hurt Locker in the categories of Best Writing (Original Screenplay) and Best Picture.

</doc>
<doc id="290556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290556" title="Vampirates">
Vampirates

Vampirates is a series of young adult fantasy books. It is written by British author Justin Somper. The series is about two twin children, Connor and Grace Tempest, who get separated at sea. They are saved by two very different ships. Connor is saved by a normal pirate ship called the Diablo, Grace by the mythical Vampirate ship called the Nocturne. The word "Vampirate" refers to a vampire living on the Nocturne.

</doc>
<doc id="290569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290569" title="Category:Articles containing Russian language text">
Category:Articles containing Russian language text


</doc>
<doc id="290571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290571" title="Sidney Lumet">
Sidney Lumet

Sidney Lumet (June 25, 1924 - April 9, 2011) was an American movie director, producer and screenwriter. He was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He directed more than 200 plays for live television. He also directed more than 40 movies. His movies include "Serpico", "Dog Day Afternoon", "12 Angry Men", "Network", "Prince of the City" and "Q&A". He died of lymphoma in New York City.

</doc>
<doc id="290581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290581" title="Category:Articles containing Azerbaijani language text">
Category:Articles containing Azerbaijani language text


</doc>
<doc id="290582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290582" title="Category:Articles containing Assamese language text">
Category:Articles containing Assamese language text


</doc>
<doc id="290584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290584" title="Category:Articles containing Aramaic language text">
Category:Articles containing Aramaic language text


</doc>
<doc id="290585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290585" title="Category:Articles containing Old English language text">
Category:Articles containing Old English language text


</doc>
<doc id="290586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290586" title="Category:Articles containing Afar language text">
Category:Articles containing Afar language text


</doc>
<doc id="290587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290587" title="Category:Articles containing Persian language text">
Category:Articles containing Persian language text


</doc>
<doc id="290593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290593" title="Category:Articles containing Bosnian language text">
Category:Articles containing Bosnian language text


</doc>
<doc id="290595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290595" title="Category:Articles containing Catalan language text">
Category:Articles containing Catalan language text


</doc>
<doc id="290603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290603" title="Category:Articles containing Basque language text">
Category:Articles containing Basque language text


</doc>
<doc id="290604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290604" title="Category:Articles containing Middle English language text">
Category:Articles containing Middle English language text


</doc>
<doc id="290606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290606" title="Category:Articles containing Ewe language text">
Category:Articles containing Ewe language text


</doc>
<doc id="290613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290613" title="Category:ISO 639 name from code templates">
Category:ISO 639 name from code templates

This category contains templaltes related to language name codes.

</doc>
<doc id="290615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290615" title="Category:Articles containing Scottish Gaelic language text">
Category:Articles containing Scottish Gaelic language text


</doc>
<doc id="290618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290618" title="Category:Articles containing Germanic language text">
Category:Articles containing Germanic language text


</doc>
<doc id="290622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290622" title="Category:Articles containing Old High German language text">
Category:Articles containing Old High German language text


</doc>
<doc id="290628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290628" title="Category:Articles containing Croatian language text">
Category:Articles containing Croatian language text


</doc>
<doc id="290629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290629" title="Category:Articles containing Hindi language text">
Category:Articles containing Hindi language text


</doc>
<doc id="290631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290631" title="Category:Articles containing Hebrew language text">
Category:Articles containing Hebrew language text


</doc>
<doc id="290632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290632" title="Category:Articles containing Hausa language text">
Category:Articles containing Hausa language text


</doc>
<doc id="290633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290633" title="Category:Articles containing Manx language text">
Category:Articles containing Manx language text


</doc>
<doc id="290639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290639" title="Category:Articles containing Cornish language text">
Category:Articles containing Cornish language text


</doc>
<doc id="290640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290640" title="Category:Articles containing Kurdish language text">
Category:Articles containing Kurdish language text


</doc>
<doc id="290641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290641" title="Category:Articles containing Italian language text">
Category:Articles containing Italian language text


</doc>
<doc id="290643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290643" title="Category:Articles containing Armenian language text">
Category:Articles containing Armenian language text


</doc>
<doc id="290650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290650" title="Category:Articles containing Punjabi language text">
Category:Articles containing Punjabi language text


</doc>
<doc id="290651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290651" title="Category:Articles containing Occitan language text">
Category:Articles containing Occitan language text


</doc>
<doc id="290652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290652" title="Category:Articles containing Norwegian language text">
Category:Articles containing Norwegian language text


</doc>
<doc id="290653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290653" title="Category:Articles containing Macedonian language text">
Category:Articles containing Macedonian language text


</doc>
<doc id="290654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290654" title="Category:Articles containing Mongolian language text">
Category:Articles containing Mongolian language text


</doc>
<doc id="290655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290655" title="Category:Articles containing Latvian language text">
Category:Articles containing Latvian language text


</doc>
<doc id="290661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290661" title="Category:Articles containing traditional Chinese language text">
Category:Articles containing traditional Chinese language text


</doc>
<doc id="290664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290664" title="Category:Articles containing simplified Chinese language text">
Category:Articles containing simplified Chinese language text


</doc>
<doc id="290667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290667" title="Category:Articles containing Urdu language text">
Category:Articles containing Urdu language text


</doc>
<doc id="290668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290668" title="Incertae sedis">
Incertae sedis

In taxonomy, the term incertae sedis (abbreviated inc. sed.) is used for a taxon when its broader relationship to other taxa is unknown. The first person who used the term in botany was probably Antoine-Laurent de Jussieu. In his book "Genera Plantarum" of 1789 he listed a few "plantae incertae sedis". 
Reasons why a taxon might be classified as "incertae sedis" include:

</doc>
<doc id="290676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290676" title="Category:Articles containing Polish language text">
Category:Articles containing Polish language text


</doc>
<doc id="290678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290678" title="Category:Articles containing Portuguese language text">
Category:Articles containing Portuguese language text


</doc>
<doc id="290680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290680" title="Category:Articles containing Romansh language text">
Category:Articles containing Romansh language text


</doc>
<doc id="290682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290682" title="Category:Articles containing Romanian language text">
Category:Articles containing Romanian language text


</doc>
<doc id="290685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290685" title="Dorudon">
Dorudon

Dorudon ("spear-tooth") was a genus of ancient cetacean. It lived alongside "Basilosaurus", 41 to 33 million years ago, in the Eocene. 
They were about five meters (16 ft) long and were most likely carnivorous, feeding on small fish and molluscs. "Dorudon" lived in warm seas around the world., Fossils have been found along the former shorelines of the Tethys Sea in present-day Western Sahara, Egypt, Pakistan, the United States, and New Zealand. Most finds have been in Egypt.

</doc>
<doc id="290687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290687" title="Category:Articles containing Sanskrit language text">
Category:Articles containing Sanskrit language text


</doc>
<doc id="290689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290689" title="Category:Articles containing Scots language text">
Category:Articles containing Scots language text


</doc>
<doc id="290691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290691" title="Category:Articles containing Sindhi language text">
Category:Articles containing Sindhi language text


</doc>
<doc id="290692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290692" title="Moeritherium">
Moeritherium

Moeritherium is a extinct genus of primitive mammals. It represent a very early stage in the evolution of elephants. These prehistoric mammals are related to the elephant and, more distantly, the sea cow. They lived during the later Eocene in what is now North Africa.
"Moeritherium" did not resemble living elephants. It was about as large as a tapir. It had short, strong legs, a relatively long body, and a short tail. The feet of "Moeritherium" were broad and had flat-hoofed toes. 

</doc>
<doc id="290697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290697" title="Category:Articles containing Karachay-Balkar language text">
Category:Articles containing Karachay-Balkar language text


</doc>
<doc id="290699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290699" title="Category:Articles containing Sinhala language text">
Category:Articles containing Sinhala language text


</doc>
<doc id="290701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290701" title="Category:Articles containing Slovak language text">
Category:Articles containing Slovak language text


</doc>
<doc id="290703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290703" title="Category:Articles containing Serbian language text">
Category:Articles containing Serbian language text


</doc>
<doc id="290705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290705" title="Somatic nervous system">
Somatic nervous system

The somatic nervous system (SNS) is part of the peripheral nervous system. It controls various muscles and the sensory input from external stimuli 
The SNS controls voluntary body movements by skeletal muscles. Its outgoing (efferent) nerves stimulate muscle contraction. Its incoming (afferent) nerves relay sensation from the skin, and sense organs to the central nervous system. This includes touch, hearing, and sight.
The SNS does not, however, control reflex arcs.

</doc>
<doc id="290708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290708" title="Category:Articles containing Swedish language text">
Category:Articles containing Swedish language text


</doc>
<doc id="290710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290710" title="Category:Articles containing Syriac language text">
Category:Articles containing Syriac language text


</doc>
<doc id="290712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290712" title="Category:Articles containing Tamil language text">
Category:Articles containing Tamil language text


</doc>
<doc id="290714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290714" title="Category:Articles containing Telugu language text">
Category:Articles containing Telugu language text


</doc>
<doc id="290717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290717" title="Category:ISO 639 name from code templates without a category">
Category:ISO 639 name from code templates without a category


</doc>
<doc id="290727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290727" title="National Basketball League (Australasia)">
National Basketball League (Australasia)

The National Basketball League is a basketball competition in Australasia. 
It's current sponsor is iiNet, so it is also known as the iiNet NBL Championship. It is the top-level basketball competition in Australasia. The Singapore Slingers once played in this league, meaning it is the first Australasian sporting league ever to have a team from Asia. The league started in 1979, and its most successful time is during the 1980s and 1990s. However, it started to struggle in the 20th century. At the start of the 2004/05 season the league had a deal with Fox Sports of Australia. On September 18, 2007, the National Basketball League had Hummer as their sponsor. one HD started broadcasting in 2010, the first time a game has been on TV for eight years.
Sydney Kings
Adelaide 36ers
Cairns Taipans
Gold Coast Blaze
Melbourne Tigers
New Zealand Breakers
Townsville Crocodiles
Wollongong Hawks
Perth Wildcats
Adelaide City Eagles
Bankstown Bruins
Brisbane Bullets
Canberra Cannons
City of Sydney Astronauts
Coburg Giants
Devonport Warriors
Eastside Spectres
Forrestville Eagles
Frankston Bears
Geelong Supercats
Glenelg Tigers
Gold Coast Rollers
Hobart (Tassie) Devils
Hunter Pirates
Launceston Casino City
Newcastle Falcons
North Melbourne Giants
Singapore Slingers
South Dragons
South East Melbourne Magic
Southern Melbourne Saints
Sydney Supersonics
Victoria Giants
West Adelaide Bearcats
West Sydney Razorbacks
West Torrens Eagles
The All-Star game is an event of the NBL held every year. At first it was fought between the East and West, but now it is contested between the Aussies and the World.

</doc>
<doc id="290728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290728" title="Category:Basketball leagues">
Category:Basketball leagues

Basketball leagues around the world.

</doc>
<doc id="290731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290731" title="ASEAN Basketball League">
ASEAN Basketball League

The ASEAN Basketball League (ABL) is a men's basketball competition. Six teams compete, all from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). Teams that participated in the first season were the Philippine Patriots, Thailand Tigers, SM BritAma, Kuala Lumpur Dragons, Brunei Barracudas and former National Basketball League (Australasia) team the Singapore Slingers. Similar to the Euroleague in Europe, the ABL has its own set of rules in terms of its roster and salary Teams are allowed two players of non-ASEAN citizenship and two ASEAN imports. Teams are allowed to have a team of all local players if they want. The KL Dragons were renamed the Westports KL Dragons and the Thailand Tigers were renamed Chang Thailand Slammers at the start of the 2nd (2010) season. ABL CEO Kuhan Foo said that 3 teams may be a part of the ABL for the next season.

</doc>
<doc id="290732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290732" title="Westports KL Dragons">
Westports KL Dragons

The Westports KL Dragons are a team in the ASEAN Basketball League. They are based in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. They were previously known as the Kuala Lumpur Dragons. They are coached by Goh Cheng Huat. They play home games in the MABA stadium.

</doc>
<doc id="290744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290744" title="Republican People's Party">
Republican People's Party

The Republican People's Party (, CHP) is the oldest political party in Turkey. Their ideology is social democracy and Kemalism.
They are currently the second largest party in the Turkish Parliament, with 132 out of 550 seats and they form the Main Opposition of Turkey. Their founder is Mustafa Kemal Atatürk and their current leader is Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu.
On September 7, 1919, Turkish nationalists established a resistance organisation against the invasion of Turkey. On September 9, 1923, the organisation officially declared itself as a political party and it was the Republican People's Party.

</doc>
<doc id="290750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290750" title="Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu">
Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu

Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu (born 17 December 1948) is a Turkish politician. He is the currently leader of the Republican People's Party (CHP) and the leader of the Main Opposition in Turkey. He has been the Member of Parliament for İstanbul since 2002.
He was nominated by the CHP as candidate for Mayor of İstanbul in 2009 local elections, in which he gained 36.8% of all votes.

</doc>
<doc id="290756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290756" title="İsmet İnönü">
İsmet İnönü

Mustafa İsmet İnönü (24 September 1884 – 25 December 1973) was a Turkish politician and military officer, who was the first Prime Minister and second President of Turkey. In 1938, Republican People's Party gave him "National Chief" and "Everlasting Chairman" titles.
İsmet İnönü was by the standards of his time a highly educated man, speaking Arabic, English, French and German in addition to his native Turkish. His resting place is in Anıtkabir with Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. He was close friend of Atatürk.

</doc>
<doc id="290769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290769" title="Twenty-fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution">
Twenty-fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution

The Twenty-fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution is the twenty-fourth time the United States Constitution has been amended (revised). The twenty-fourth amendment prevents the United States Congress and US states from charging a poll tax on federal elections. The amendment was proposed by Congress to the states on August 27, 1962, and was ratified by the states on January 23, 1964.

</doc>
<doc id="290778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290778" title="Category:United States Bill of Rights">
Category:United States Bill of Rights


</doc>
<doc id="290785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290785" title="Polemic">
Polemic

A polemic is a forceful argument or controversy made against one opinion, doctrine, or person. 
It is one-sided and extreme, not a debate or discussion. It often occurs in disputes. 
The word is derived from the Greek "polemikos" (πολεμικός), meaning "warlike, hostile". 
Polemic journalism was common in continental Europe, when libel laws were not as stringent. 
To support study of the polemics and controversies of the 17th-19th centuries, a British research project has placed thousands of pamphlets of that era online.

</doc>
<doc id="290786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290786" title="Thesis">
Thesis

A thesis (plural: 'theses') is a document written in support of an academic degree or professional qualification. It presents the author's research and findings. It means the same as dissertation.
The term dissertation can be used to describe an argument without relation to academic degrees. The term thesis may also be used for the central claim of an essay or similar work.
Originally, the words "dissertation" and "thesis" had separate meanings. When, at ancient universities, the professor had completed his lecture, there would be a disputation. During this, students could take up certain points and argue them. The position that one took during a disputation was the "thesis", while the "dissertation" was the line of reasoning with which one supported it.
The word "thesis" comes from the Greek , meaning "position", and refers to an intellectual proposition. "Dissertation" comes from the Latin "dissertātiō", meaning "discourse".

</doc>
<doc id="290793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290793" title="Charmin">
Charmin

Charmin () is a brand of toilet paper. It is made by Procter & Gamble.
The Charmin name was first created in 1928 by the Hoberg Paper Company in Green Bay, Wisconsin. In 1950, Hoberg changed its name to Charmin Paper Company and kept making toilet paper, paper napkins, and other paper products. Procter & Gamble (P&G) bought Charmin Paper Company in 1957, but sold the right to make and sell it in Europe (where it is now called "Cushelle") to SCA in 2008.
Older American adverts had actor Dick Wilson in them. He played the fake grocer Mr. George Whipple. He told customers "Please don't squeeze the Charmin!" in more than 500 commercials between 1964 and 1985. 
The Charmin Bear began being used in 2000. This happened at the same time that Charmin became available in Canada. The Charmin Bear is now the mascot for Charmin Ultra Strong and Charmin Ultra Soft.
From February 2010, Charmin's European name was changed to Cushelle by SCA.
There is also a new mascot, Koala which is a koala. Cushelle adverts are voiced-over by Robert Webb.
In February 2009, Greenpeace asked people not to use Charmin toilet paper. They said that it does not use recycled paper and uses ECF bleaching.
In 2008, Charmin was renamed to Zewa in Germany. There was no mascot in the adverts. However, in the first Zewa advert, the Charmin Bear was seen.

</doc>
<doc id="290794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290794" title="Follicle-stimulating hormone">
Follicle-stimulating hormone

Follicle-stimulating hormone (abbreviated FSH, sometimes called "Follitropine") is a glycoprotein and sex steroid. It is synthesised in the pituitary gland. In females it will cause the growth of follicles in the ovaries, in males, it will lead to the production of sperm. Other hormones control the release of FSH. Luteinizing hormone will cause ovulation in females, or the production of testosterone in males.

</doc>
<doc id="290801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290801" title="Henderson, Nevada">
Henderson, Nevada

Henderson is a city in Clark County, Nevada, United States. The population of Henderson was 257,729 in 2010. The mayor of Henderson is Andy A. Hafen. Henderson is the second largest city in the state of Nevada behind Las Vegas. The city of Henderson is named after the Senator Charles B. Henderson.

</doc>
<doc id="290802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290802" title="Primm, Nevada">
Primm, Nevada

Primm is a small city in Clark County, Nevada, United States. Primm was featured in the video game, where it had Vikki and Vance Casino which was based on Primm's Whiskey Pete's and the Bison Steve Hotel which was based on Buffalo Bill's Casino and had the roller coaster.

</doc>
<doc id="290813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290813" title="Provincial Assembly of Balochistan">
Provincial Assembly of Balochistan

The Provincial Assembly of Balochistan is one of the four provincial assemblies of Pakistan. The Balochistan assembly is the unicameral (single chamber) legislature of the province of Balochistan. It was set up by Article 106 of the Constitution of the Pakistan. The Assembly has 51 directly elected Members of the Provincial Assembly, representing constituencies from each district, as well as 11 seats reserved for women and 3 for non-Muslims.

</doc>
<doc id="290817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290817" title="Baloch Lions">
Baloch Lions

Baloch Lions is a member internal hockey team for the Balochistan Province in Pakistan part of Pakistan Hockey Federation.

</doc>
<doc id="290819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290819" title="Platybelodon">
Platybelodon

Platybelodon was a Gomphothere. These were extinct large herbivores related to modern elephants. They are commonly known as shovel tuskers. "Platybelodon" lived during the Miocene, about 154 million years ago in Africa, Europe, Asia and North America.
"Platybelodon" was previously believed to have fed in the swampy areas of grassy savannas, using its teeth to shovel up aquatic and semi-aquatic vegetation. 
However, wear patterns on the teeth suggest that it used its lower tusks to strip bark from trees. They may have used the sharp incisors that formed the edge of the "shovel" more like a modern-day scythe, grasping branches with its trunk and rubbing them against the lower teeth to cut it from a tree.

</doc>
<doc id="290821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290821" title="George Reeves">
George Reeves

George Reeves (born January 5, 1914 in Woolstock, Iowa - June 16, 1959 in Beverly Hills, Los Angeles, California), was an American actor.
Reeves was born with the name of George Keefer Brewer in Woolstock, Iowa, U.S., son of Don Brewer and Helen Lescher. He moved to California at a young age with his mother Helen. Reeves, started to acting in high school and then continuing to serve on student scenarios. In 1943, 17 months after the attack on Pearl Harbor, Reeves momentarily abandoned his career in Hollywood and was enrolled in aviation until the end of World War II. After a successful career, Reeves died on June 16, 1959.
He began his career playing small roles in short movies and movies as Ride, Cowboy, Ride (1939 short) and the classic movie starring by Clark Gable Gone with the Wind (1939), Reeves play of role Stuart Tarleton. In the 1940 Reeves continued to make appearances in movies such as Blood and Sand (1941) with Tyrone Power, So Proudly We Hail! (1943), Winged Victory (1944), Samson and Delilah (1949), and the Western starring by William Boyd Border Patrol (1943), Colt Comrades (1943), Bar 20 (1943). George Reeves gets his first starring role in 1948 movie Jungle Goddess (1948), he as Mike Patton an explorer to the rescue of a young woman who has been kidnapped by an African tribe. He also accompanied with Johnny Weissmuller, in the Tarzan saga Jungle Jim (1948).
In the 50 Reeves starred in several movies including Rancho Notorious (1952) with Marlene Dietrich - Arthur Kennedy and directed by Fritz Lang, Bugles in the Afternoon (1952) with Ray Milland, The Blue Gardenia (1953) by Fritz Lang, and without being listed in the credits had a role in Fred Zinnemann movie, From Here to Eternity (1953) with Burt Lancaster, Reeves as Sgt. Maylon Stark.
He started work in television in 1948, and in the years 1952 he was hired to play the double character of Superman and Clark Kent in Adventures of Superman, the series was a success without precedent in American television and launched to fame Reeves. George Reeves played Superman for 102 episodes broadcast between 1952 and 1958.
Reeves had guest appearances in television series such as Kraft Television Theatre (1949-1952), Believe It or Not (1950), The Ford Television Theatre (1952), Fireside Theatre (1952), and I Love Lucy (1957) playing Superman.

</doc>
<doc id="290823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290823" title="Category:Articles containing Thai language text">
Category:Articles containing Thai language text


</doc>
<doc id="290825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290825" title="Category:Articles containing Turkish language text">
Category:Articles containing Turkish language text


</doc>
<doc id="290827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290827" title="Category:Articles containing Ukrainian language text">
Category:Articles containing Ukrainian language text


</doc>
<doc id="290829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290829" title="Category:Articles containing Vietnamese language text">
Category:Articles containing Vietnamese language text


</doc>
<doc id="290832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290832" title="Category:Articles containing Walloon language text">
Category:Articles containing Walloon language text


</doc>
<doc id="290834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290834" title="Category:Articles containing Sorbian language text">
Category:Articles containing Sorbian language text


</doc>
<doc id="290836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290836" title="Category:Articles containing Yiddish language text">
Category:Articles containing Yiddish language text


</doc>
<doc id="290841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290841" title="Goodsprings, Nevada">
Goodsprings, Nevada

Goodsprings is a census-designated place in Clark County, Nevada, United States. The population of Goodsprings was 232 at the 2000 census. Goodsprings was featured in the video game, where it is the first place the player wakes up in.

</doc>
<doc id="290844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290844" title="Johnny Guitar">
Johnny Guitar

Johnny Guitar is a 1954 western movie. It was directed by Nicholas Ray. It stars Joan Crawford and Sterling Hayden. The movie received mixed reviews. The movie was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry. "Johnny Guitar" was adapted to a campy stage musical in 2004.
Vienna is a strong-willed, aggressive woman. She has built a saloon near an Arizona cattle town with money earned in her past life as a prostitute. She has a fiery relationship with the local cattlemen and townsfolk for many reasons. She supports the construction of a railroad across her land. This construction will make her land very valuable. The cattlemen oppose the railroad because it will bring sheepmen into the area. Sheepmen fence the land, making it difficult to herd cattle. She also permits a suspected stage robber called The Dancin' Kid to share her bed. His gang members hang out in her saloon. Vienna summons her ex-lover and reformed gunslinger Johnny Guitar to her side. She needs protection. The two renew their love. 
One day The Dancin' Kid and his gang rob the town bank. The townsfolk suspect Vienna has played a part in the heist. Emma Small is a cattle rancher who has long hated Vienna. She leads the posse to Vienna's saloon and burns it to the ground. Emma persuades the men to hang Vienna. At the last second she is saved by Johnny Guitar. Vienna and Johnny escape. They find refuge in The Dancin' Kid's secret hideaway. The posse tracks them. The Kid and his men are killed. Emma challenges Vienna to a showdown. Vienna is wounded in the duel, but she kills Emma. A halt is called to the bloodbath by the posse's leader, McIvers. Vienna and Johnny depart, hopeful that better days lie ahead.

</doc>
<doc id="290846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290846" title="Tequixquiac">
Tequixquiac

Tequixquiac is a municipality in the state of México in Mexico. About 30,000 people live there.

</doc>
<doc id="290848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290848" title="Boyz n the Hood">
Boyz n the Hood

Boyz n the Hood is a 1991 American hood movie that was produced by Steven Nicolaides and DJ Pooh and was directed by John Singleton. "Boyz n the Hood" was released on July 12, 1991 in North America. The movie received positive reviews with a 98% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 73 out of 100 from Metacritic. The movie was selected to be in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress to be preserved because it was considered to be "culturally significant" in 2002. This movie was the directorial debut for John Singleton.

</doc>
<doc id="290852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290852" title="Top Gun">
Top Gun

Top Gun is a 1986 American action-drama movie set in San Diego, California. It was produced by Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer and was directed by Tony Scott. "Top Gun" was released on May 16, 1986 in North America. The movie received positive reviews with a 45% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and Roger Ebert gave the movie a 2.5 out of 4 stars. The movie won an Academy Award in 1987 for "Best Music, Original Song" – Giorgio Moroder (music) and Tom Whitlock (lyrics) for the song "Take My Breath Away" and a Grammy Award for "Best Pop Instrumental Performance (Orchestra, Group or Soloist)" – Harold Faltermeyer and Steve Stevens for "Top Gun Anthem". 

</doc>
<doc id="290853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290853" title="Crimson Tide (movie)">
Crimson Tide (movie)

Crimson Tide is an 1995 submarine action/thriller movie that was produced by Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer and was directed by Tony Scott. Crimson Tide was released on May 12, 1995 in North America. 
The movie received positive reviews with a 87% "Fresh" rating on Rotten Tomatoes. The movie was nominated for three Academy Awards for Best Film Editing, Best Sound, and Best Sound Editing.

</doc>
<doc id="290857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290857" title="Face/Off">
Face/Off

Face/Off is an 1997 American science fiction action crime thriller movie that was directed by John Woo. "Face/Off" was released on June 27, 1997 in North America. The movie received positive reviews with a 93% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 82 out of 100 from Metacritic.

</doc>
<doc id="290860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290860" title="Broken Arrow (1996 movie)">
Broken Arrow (1996 movie)

Broken Arrow is an 1996 action/thriller movie that was produced by Bill Badalato, Terence Chang and Mark Gordon and was directed by John Woo. Broken Arrow was released on February 9, 1996 in North America. The movie received mixed reviews with a 57% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 61 out of 100 from Metacritic. 

</doc>
<doc id="290862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290862" title="Windtalkers">
Windtalkers

Windtalkers is an 2002 action war movie that was produced by John Woo, Terence Chang, Tracie Graham-Rice and Alison Rosenzweig and was directed by John Woo. "Windtalkers" was released on June 14, 2002 in North America. The movie received negative reviews with a 33% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and Roger Ebert gave the movie 2 stars out of 5. 

</doc>
<doc id="290864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290864" title="Ghost Rider (movie)">
Ghost Rider (movie)

Ghost Rider is a 2007 American-Australian supernatural superhero fantasy action movie that was produced by Avi Arad, Stan Lee, David S. Goyer, Michael DeLuca and Gary Foster and was directed by Mark Steven Johnson. Ghost Rider was released on February 16, 2007 in North America. The movie received negative reviews with a 27% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and Metacritic gave the movie a 35 out of 100. 

</doc>
<doc id="290873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290873" title="Caillou">
Caillou

Caillou is a Canadian TV show based on the series of books by author Christine L'Heureux and illustrator Hélène Desputeaux. It is about a young 4-year-old who lives with his dad named Boris, his mom named Doris, and his 2-year-old sister named Rosie. Caillou lives in a blue house on 17 Pine Street. Caillou was first voiced by Bryn McAuley, then Jaclyn Linetsky, but due to her death in 2003, Jaclyn was replaced with Annie Bovaird. 
The show is about a young boy named Caillou who lives with his mom, Doris; his dad, Boris; his little sister, Rosie; and his pet cat, Gilbert. Mr. Hinkle lives next door to Caillou's house and Caillou has a babysitter named Julie. In the first season, Caillou was 2–3 years old and wore a gray shirt, but later, he wore a yellow shirt. In season 4, Caillou started going to preschool.
The show aired in Canada between 1998–2006 and the episodes were later translated from French to other languages, such as German or English, for example. "Caillou" is meant for kids ages 2–6. The last episode aired in October 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="290889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290889" title="The Jayhawks">
The Jayhawks

The Jayhawks are an American alternative country and rock band from Minneapolis, Minnesota. They have released several studio albums. The band formed in 1985. They did not work together between 2005 and 2009, but reunited in 2010.
The band formed with Mark Olson (acoustic guitar and vocals), Gary Louris (electric guitar and vocals), Marc Perlman (bass) and Norm Rogers (drums). 
Their first album "The Jayhawks" was released in 1986. Their music at the time, mostly written by Olson, showed a strong roots/country-rock influence. It was released on the Bunkhouse Label, a small independent label. 
"Blue Earth", the second album, was released in 1989 on the Twin Tone label. Gary Louris shared more of the songwriting together with Olson for this album. After touring the U.S. in support of "Blue Earth", Spencer left the band. He was replaced by Ken Callahan in 1988 who stayed with the band until 1993.
In 1991, Dave Ayers, the president of Twin Tone, was on a phone call with A&R representative George Drakoulias from Def American while "Blue Earth" played in the background. Drakoulias asked about the music, and eventually met with and signed the band to the label later that year.
In 1992 album "Hollywood Town Hall" was the first to be released on the major label Def American. The album was produced by Drakoulias. The album was a hit, powered by the single "Waiting for the Sun", and it brought the Jayhawks more fans. With Karen Grotberg on the keyboards and vocals, the band toured a lot. 
In 1995 they went into the studio to make "Tomorrow the Green Grass". It was released on the renamed American Recordings label. Lead track "Blue" turned out to be a Top 40 hit in Canada (peaking at #33). The record's production had been very expensive and the album did not to sell as was expected in the U.S. Among the album's songs is "Miss Williams' Guitar," a love song for Olson's then-girlfriend, singer-songwriter Victoria Williams (the pair later married, but divorced in February, 2006). Drummer, singer and songwriter Tim O'Reagan joined the band for the 1995 tour.
By the end of 1995, Olson unexpectedly left the band to spend more time with Williams (with whom he would later form the Original Harmony Ridge Creekdippers). The band continued to record as The Jayhawks, adding Kraig Johnson on guitar. 
The album "Sound of Lies" was released in 1997. It has Gary Louris composing most of the songs. The album mixed straight rock (the ironic "Big Star"), psychedelic elements, acoustic elements and even some dub elements. The album did not sound like the band's country-influenced earlier work. 
The 2000 album "Smile" was produced by Bob Ezrin. It had more of a pop music feel, which some fans did not like. Though still a member through the recording of the album, Grotberg left the band before the "Smile" tour, and was replaced by Jen Gunderman. The song "I'm Gonna Make You Love Me" appeared in a Ralph Lauren commercial. 
"Rainy Day Music" (2003) was stripped down and more acoustic. It was generally seen as a return to their alt-country roots. The band now consisted of founding members Louris and Perlman, along with drummer O'Reagan, and touring band member ex-Long Ryder Stephen McCarthy, from Richmond, VA. McCarthy added pedal steel, lap steel, banjo, guitar and backing vocals to the album and subsequent live shows. This lineup toured in 2003 and early 2004.
After not playing together for a number of years, the Jayhawks reunited in 2010 and released Mockingbird Time in 2011. The album sees both Mark Olson and Karen Grotberg playing with the band again. Gary Louris also produced the album.
In addition to their studio albums, the Jayhawks released "Live From the Women's Club", an all-acoustic live recording of Louris/Perlman/O'Reagan from 2002. It was sold only at concerts as an "Official Jayhawks Bootleg."
Olson and Louris toured together in the winter of 2005 and spring of 2006, billed as "From the Jayhawks: An Evening with Mark Olson & Gary Louris, Together Again." Both old and new Jayhawks members progressed to solo efforts and side projects, and the band as a whole was generally considered to be broken up, and not expected to produce new material soon. However, the band members appear to keep in touch, tour together in their other projects, and have been known to "reunite" on occasion.
In September, 2008, the 1995 lineup of Louris, Olson, O'Reagan, Grotberg and Perlman reunited for the Azkena Rock Festival in Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain.
In January, 2009, Olson and Louris released an acoustic album titled "Ready for the Flood".

</doc>
<doc id="290894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290894" title="Mayan pyramid">
Mayan pyramid

The Maya pyramids are structures built in the jungles of Central America by the Maya civilization between 200 and 900 AD. Unlike the straight sides of the more commonly known Egyptian pyramids, the sides of Maya pyramids are typically stepped–sometimes for the purpose of enabling people to ascend to the top. Moreover, Egyptian pyramids have sharper tips, while Mesoamerican (including Maya) pyramids tend to have flatter tops. These flatter tops accommodate certain ceremonies, such as sacrificial rituals, and temples for gods. 
The pyramids served a variety of very important functions. Apart from the religious ceremonies, Maya pyramids were used as landmarks to aid in navigation. In the jungle where these pyramids were built, the pyramids were so tall that they could be seen above the trees. Finally, inside some of the pyramids, there were burial chambers for the highest-ranking officials, just as in Egyptian pyramids.
A whole complex of Maya pyramids can be found at the ruins of the ancient Maya city of Tikal. The pyramids at Tikal were the tallest structures in all of the Americas for around 1,500 years, until 1903, when the Flatiron building was constructed in New York City. There are a total of sixteen pyramids at Tikal, which is now a national park in Guatemala. 
Tikal was one of the largest urban centers of the pre-Columbian Maya civilization. Its population may have reached 90,000 people, which is surprising because the swampland at Tikal was unstable for habitation or agriculture. It is located in the tropical rainforests which today is northern Guatemala. The name Tikal comes from "ti ak'al" which means "water hole". 
The pyramids at Tikal all face one another. The rooms at the top of the pyramids have depressions in the walls which amplify sound and project it in all directions. Because of this, the normal speaking voice of a person at the top of one pyramid can be heard by someone standing at the top of another pyramid a great distance away.

</doc>
<doc id="290895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290895" title="Edward Tatum">
Edward Tatum

Edward Lawrie Tatum (December 14, 1909 – November 5, 1975) was an American geneticist. 
He shared half of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1958 with George Beadle for showing that genes control individual steps in metabolism. The other half of that year's award went to Joshua Lederberg.
Beadle and Tatum's experiments exposed the bread mold "Neurospora crassa" to x-rays, causing mutations. They showed the mutations caused changes in specific enzymes involved in metabolic pathways. These experiments, published in 1941, led them to propose a direct link between genes and enzymatic reactions, known as the "one gene, one enzyme" hypothesis.
Tatum went on to study genetics in bacteria. Tatum and his student Lederberg showed that "Escherichia coli" could share genetic information through recombination.
Ed Tatum was born in Boulder, Colorado. He attended college at the University of Chicago and received his PhD in biochemistry from the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1934. Starting in 1937, he worked at Stanford University, where he began his collaboration with Beadle. He then moved to Yale University in 1945 where he mentored Lederberg. He returned to Stanford in 1948 and then joined the faculty of Rockefeller Institute in 1957. A heavy cigarette smoker, he died in New York City of heart failure complicated by chronic emphysema.

</doc>
<doc id="290902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290902" title="François Jacob">
François Jacob

François Jacob (17 June 1920 – 19 April 2013) was a French biologist. He shared the 1965 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Jacques Monod and André Lwoff.
Jacob, with Jacques Monod, discovered a fundamental control system in cells. Enzyme levels in all cells is regulated by feedback on transcription.
Like his colleague Monod, Jacob was an almost lifelong atheist.
In 1961 Jacob and Monod explored the idea that the control of enzyme expression levels in cells is a result of feedback on the transcription of DNA sequences. 
For many years it had been known that bacterial and other cells could respond to external conditions by regulating levels of their key metabolic enzymes, and/or the activity of these enzymes. 
For instance, if a bacterium finds itself in a broth containing lactose, rather than the simpler sugar glucose, it must adapt itself to: 
It was known that cells increase the enzymes for these steps when exposed to lactose. 
With work on DNA, it became clear that all proteins were being produced from their genetic code. Jacob and Monod demonstrated that, in the bacterium "E. coli"), there are specific proteins that repress the transcription of the DNA to its product (RNA. This reduces the production of those particular enzymes. 
The lac repressor is a DNA-binding protein which inhibits the expression of genes which code for lactase enzymes. The repressor is active in the absence of lactose. 
This repressor (the lac repressor) is made in all cells. It binds directly to DNA at the genes it controls, and physically prevents transcription. When lactose becomes available, it is converted into allolactose, which inhibits the lac repressor's DNA binding ability.
In this way, a robust feedback loop is constructed that allows the set of lactose-digesting enzymes to be made only when they are needed.
The regulation of gene activity has developed into a very large sub-discipline of molecular biology. There are many mechanisms and many levels of complexity. Current researchers find regulatory events at every level of the processes that express genetic information. In the relatively simple genome of baker's yeast, ("Saccharomyces cerevisiae"), 405 of its 6,419 protein-encoding genes are directly involved in transcriptional control, compared to 1,938 that are enzymes.

</doc>
<doc id="290911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290911" title="Category:All articles that need to be wikified">
Category:All articles that need to be wikified


</doc>
<doc id="290914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290914" title="Abbey Dawn">
Abbey Dawn

Abbey Dawn is a clothing line designed by musician Avril Lavigne. It was designed only for Kohl's in the US. The name is from Lavigne's childhood. Her father had nicknamed her "Abbey Dawn", and her high school friends would often call her "Abbey". 
Abbey Dawn is featured in Lavigne's 2011 single, "What the Hell". There, the latter enters a vintage clothing store.

</doc>
<doc id="290917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290917" title="Eimear">
Eimear

Emer, in modern Irish Éimhear, or, Eimhear or Éimear, is the wife of the hero Cú Chulainn in Irish mythology. She is the daughter of Forgall Monach. 
Emer was a very common name for girls around the Midlands of Ireland. The name means that she has the "Six Gifts of Womanhood" – "beauty, a gentle voice, sweet words, wisdom, needlework and chastity".
As a child, She was to one day be married to the warrior Cuchulainn. They loved each other very much. But Cuchulainn was attracted to many women. Emer accepted this. She believed that "everything new is fair." But, when he made love to Fand, wife of the sea god Manannan, Emer had to say something. After seeing how much Fand love him, Emer said she would leave him and let them be together. Fand felt this showed that Emer thought more of others than she did of herself. Fand left Cuchulainn to be with Emer and went back to the sea. When Cuchulainn died, Emer spoke lovingly at his graveside.

</doc>
<doc id="290925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290925" title="Capital Dynamos">
Capital Dynamos

Capital Dynamos is the internal hockey team for the Islamabad Capital Territory in Pakistan. It is part of the Pakistan Hockey Federation.

</doc>
<doc id="290926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290926" title="Northern Cavaliers">
Northern Cavaliers

Northern Cavaliers is a field hockey team for the Gilgit–Baltistan in Pakistan. They are part of the Pakistan Hockey Federation.

</doc>
<doc id="290932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290932" title="Precocial">
Precocial

Precocial in biology is a developmental strategy. It refers to species in which the young are relatively mature and mobile from the moment of birth or hatching. It applies mainly to mammals and birds. 
The opposite developmental strategy is called altricial, where the young are born or hatched helpless. These two categories are at ends of a continuum. All degrees exist in birds and mammals. With the tiny eggs of invertebrates, different strategies have evolved. Many use some kind of metamorphosis, in which different stages of growth occupy different environmental niches.
A checklist is used to score a species between precocial and altricial. In each case, 'yes' means precocial:
The contrast between the two extremes is seen most clearly in birds. Precocial species leave the nest shortly after birth or hatching. Megapodes are a family of birds found in Australasia. Their eggs are not incubated by the parents. They are buried in compost, covered with sand and left, though the males test the temperature of the heap and make small adjustments. The eggs, which have a large yolk, hatch with full wing feathers. The hatchlings can run and purse prey, and many species can fly on their first day. These birds are super-precocial.
At the other extreme are the most intelligent birds: the passerines (the dominant group of birds, including crows) and hawks, owls and parrots.
Mammals never feed themselves at first. Mother's milk is part of the 'contract' a mammal inherits. But there is a big difference between some new-born deer and antelopes, which can run within an hour or so of birth, and a baby marsupial which is in the pouch for days or weeks.
Of advanced mammals, human beings have a long period before they are independent. This is partly because their brains have to grow and mature after birth, and partly because humans depend more on learning and less on inherited behaviour compared to other mammals. Mammalian carnivores take a long time to perfect their prey-catching skills, and some herd species like elephants also have to do a lot of learning.
Most accounts of the altricial/precocial differences point out that it is a trade-off. Altricial young require a great investment of parental time and care, and are in constant danger of predation. However, that system permits a long period of supervised learning. Also, their brains grow more after birth, fueled by rich food provided by parents.
Precocial young require more pre-birth preparation for larger eggs, but they are less open to predation and take less parental care after birth. Their brains are ready-to-go, but end up smaller in relation to body size.
Humans are rather a special case, for a baby makes great demands on the parent both before and after birth. With its hair, blue eyes, and large head, a baby looks precocial. But few of the bits are working, and a baby is completely helpless on its own. The key fact is that the cerebral cortex is not yet working properly. Nerve growth is still going on. During the first 18 months the cortex is getting larger and getting into working order. Then, after about 18 months to two years, the infant starts to learn language and from then on there's no stopping them.
There is an interesting reason why the brain is not more advanced at birth. It is that the baby's head (during natural birth) has to get through the female birth canal, which is a space between the bones of the female pelvis. Any larger, and the baby's head would not get through.
There is a cost to the human method. It greatly reduces the average number of offspring that any couple can raise.

</doc>
<doc id="290933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290933" title="Jaclyn Linetsky">
Jaclyn Linetsky

Jaclyn Linetsky (January 8, 1986 – September 8, 2003) was a Canadian teenage actress who has voiced many different people. She was best known for voicing Caillou in the animated television show between 2000–2002. She later played as Megan in the television show "15/love". She died in a car crash on September 8, 2003 at the age of 17.

</doc>
<doc id="290934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290934" title="Judith Barsi">
Judith Barsi

Judith Barsi (June 6, 1978 – July 25, 1988) was an American child actress. She was born in Los Angeles, California and started her acting in commercials. She also played Thea Brody in the movie "Jaws 4: The Revenge" in 1987 and voiced "Ducky" in "The Land before Time" and Annie-Marie in "All Dogs Go to Heaven" in June 1988. Her father, Jozef, was jealous and paranoid. He abused Judith and her mother for some years.
Barsi was the daughter of Hungarian immigrants József Barsi and Maria Barsi (née Benkő). Her parents fled the 1956 Soviet occupation of Hungary and then immigrated to Los Angeles. Maria Barsi wanted to be an actress herself, but later hoped that her daughter would be one, instead. Judith was discovered at a skating rink when she was five years old, but could still pass for age three. She went on to appear in over 70 commercials and soon appeared in movies. Later in her life, Barsi had growth hormone injections to help her growth.
On July 25, 1988 at 8:30 pm, her father shot Judith in the head. She was killed instantly. Her mother ran down the hall to see what was going on and was also shot. Jozsef later went down to the garage and killed himself. Judith was only 10 years old at the time of her death.
Judith's parents met at a restaurant in Los Angeles that was well known as a meeting place for immigrants. Mary worked there as a waitress. Jozsef was a plumber. He had problems with alcohol and was arrested three times for driving drunk. In the first years of their marriage, they were a happy couple. Soon Jozsef became jealous of the success of her daughter. When Judith was getting ready to go to Bahamas for the movie "", her father entered her bedroom. He locked the door and put a kitchen knife to her neck saying: "If you do not return after finished shooting, I'll slit your throat. " She came back after two months, but the atmosphere at the house was not better. Over time, there have been more problems. Judith's father called her a "spoiled brat". Judith's mood began to get bad. She didn't do anything wrong and was not "full of life, a happy girl." Unable to deal with the problems at home, Judith pulled the eyebrows and mustache off of her own cats. Jozsef has said many things that he would kill his wife. Sometimes he said he would kill himself and his daughter. In December 1986, Maria made a report to the police. She said he was abusing her mentally and physically. The police saw no injuries. In May 1988, Ruth Hansen saw the poor condition of the girl. Because Judit cried a lot and could not speak, Hansen told Mary to take her to a psychologist. She was taken to Children's Services. They could get no help from government organizations. Maria rented an apartment in Panorama City, where he wanted to move from Judith. Hansen told her to get a divorce from her husband. In July, Maria said she did not want to lose your house. It was bought with the money from her daughter's career.
Judith was seen riding her bike in the morning of July 25, 1988. On the same day, she had an audition for the role in a new production studio, Hanna-Barbera. When Judith was sleeping, her father shot Judith in the head. She was killed instantly. Her mother ran down the hall to see what was going on. She was also shot. Jozef later went down to the garage and took his own life.
The funeral was held on August 9, 1988. Judith was buried with her mother in unmarked graves in the cemetery Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Los Angeles. The short ceremony was attended by about 75 people. Many of these people were children.
The Judith Barsi Memorial was dedicated the song "Love Survives" from the movie "All Dogs Go to Heaven". The movie premiered over a year after the death of the girl. Judith Barsi's tombstone was placed on August 23, 2004. It says: "In Memory of the lovely Judith Eva Barsi "Our Concrete Angel Yep! Yep! Yep!". A similar plate mounted at January 25, 2005 at the tomb of Mary.

</doc>
<doc id="290940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290940" title="Lego minifigure">
Lego minifigure

A Lego minifigure (a.k.a. Lego person) is a small figure as part of Lego toys. Minifigures are found in Lego sets, although they are also sold separately as keychains and magnets. Minifigures in 1975 were the same size as minifigures today, but did not have any moving arms or legs. They had a small variety of headpieces, including caps, pigtail hair and cowboy hats. Since 1978, Lego minifigures have had more clothing, hats, shirts and pants to choose from. They started packing them in sets, including Star Wars.
Minifigures are still used in many Lego sets we know today. There are many minifigures such as mermaid with a identical tail to the ocean king and many shorter characters such as the evil dwarf.

</doc>
<doc id="290952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290952" title="Chilean Spanish">
Chilean Spanish

Chilean Spanish ( or "") is the variety of Spanish spoken in most of Chile. Though still entirely mutually intelligible with standard Spanish, Chilean Spanish has distinctive pronunciation, grammar, vocabulary, and slang usage. Spanish speakers often say that Chileans speak very quickly and "mix up words". Non-native speakers who are competent in Spanish may find the Chilean variety to be difficult to understand unless they have built up an ear for it.

</doc>
<doc id="290954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290954" title="Pacific Electric Railway">
Pacific Electric Railway

The Pacific Electric Railway was a streetcar system based in Los Angeles, California. It was formed when Henry E. Huntington started building and buying streetcar railroads in and around Los Angeles. Most of its lines were interurban, that is, they dealt with bringing people from one city to another. It also owned the Mount Lowe Railway, a tourist railway. In the 1910s and 20s, the PE had hundreds of miles of track and was the largest streetcar system in America. Many of its lines were built by Huntington and others to sell land in the community. Huntington lost money on the PE, but made money by selling land. The PE transported freight as well as people. The Pacific Electric's heyday was in the 1920s. The last PE train ran in 1961. A small part of the PE's network is now the Los Angeles Metropolitan Transportation Authority's Blue Line and Expo Line.
The Pacific Electric ran lines from Los Angeles to the following cities:

</doc>
<doc id="290956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290956" title="Brickfilm">
Brickfilm

A Brickfilm is a stop-motion movie using Legos, Mega Blocks, or other Lego-like products. Brickfilms are often used to help the Lego Group advertise more sets and themes. The first known Brickfilm was called "The Magic Portal". It was made 1980–1989 in Perth, Western Australia by Lindsay Fleay.
A brickfilm can be made by taking a Lego character, and placing it on a board. The creator takes a picture, and slightly moves the character, and Repeats this step many times. The easiest way to stream the pictures together, is to use video editing software, adding the pictures, and finally, setting them to a very short time. Fifteen frames per second (15 fps) is common, if a video editor only uses fps instead of changing time length.

</doc>
<doc id="290970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290970" title="Extreme Rules (2011)">
Extreme Rules (2011)

Extreme Rules was a professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event made by WWE. The event took place May 1, 2011 at the St. Pete Times Forum in Tampa, Florida. It was the third Extreme Rules event. Nine matches overall took place, with eight airing live on PPV.
On the April 11th edition of Raw held a 5-man gauntlet match which would decide the number one contender to face The Miz for the WWE Championship. This match featured John Cena, Randy Orton, John Morrison, R-Truth and Dolph Ziggler. The last two men in the final round were John Cena and R-Truth. After The Miz and Alex Riley beat down both wrestlers, the match was resulted in a double disqualification, which would then lead to the anonymous Raw general manager stating that both John Cena and R-Truth would compete for the WWE Championship against The Miz in a Triple Threat match. The following week on "Raw", John Morrison challenged R-Truth for Truth's spot in the match and won, but Truth turned heel and attacked Morrison after the match. Later in the night, it was revealed that the match would be contested inside a steel cage.
Also on Raw, commentators Michael Cole and Jerry Lawler are also continuing their rivalry from WrestleMania XXVII. At the event, Lawler made Cole submit to the ankle lock, but the anonymous Raw General Manager reversed special guest referee Stone Cold Steve Austin's decision, thus making Cole the winner via disqualification. On the April 11 edition of Raw, Lawler defeated Cole's trainer, Jack Swagger, allowing him to announce that he would team up with his former broadcast partner, Jim Ross, to face Cole and Swagger at Extreme Rules. Two weeks later, the Raw General Manager declared that the teams would face each other in a Country Whipping match.
Meanwhile on "SmackDown", Edge was scheduled to defend his World Heavyweight Championship against Alberto Del Rio in a ladder match at Extreme Rules after Del Rio won a number one contendership match against Christian on the April 8 edition of SmackDown. But less than a week later, on the April 11 edition of "Raw", Edge announced he was being forced to retire due to a real injury to his neck. That Friday, on the April 15 edition of SmackDown, Del Rio demanded to be crowned champion as he was the number one contender. SmackDown general manager Teddy Long didn't see it that way and announced that the match would still happen but that it would now be for the vacant title. Del Rio would be one contender. He also announced his opponent would be the winner of a 20-man over-the-top-rope Battle Royal. Later in the final match of the evening, Edge's real best friend for the past 20 years Christian won. Following this, on the April 25 edition of Raw, Del Rio was drafted to Raw as part of the year's draft. As such if Del Rio wins, he will bring the title to Raw, making the title a "Raw only" title.
Another feud from the SmackDown brand is between Layla and Michelle McCool, formerly known together as LayCool. Disagreement between the two divas started on the April 8 edition of SmackDown when McCool refused to tag Layla in a tag team match against Beth Phoenix and Kelly Kelly. The following two weeks, the two attended couple's therapy sessions, but the latter session ended with McCool attacking Layla, making their break up official. During the 2011 WWE Draft, after Layla lost her match against Eve, she attacked McCool for distracting her. On the April 29 edition of SmackDown, after fighting to a double count-out in their match, Layla and McCool agreed to have a No Count-out, No Disqualification match at Extreme Rules with the loser leaving WWE.

</doc>
<doc id="290972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290972" title="Dorgon">
Dorgon

Dorgon (, 1612 - 1650) was the Prince empire of Qing Dynasty. His surname was Aisin Gioro. His reign names were Sing Cong and Chong De.
Dorgon was the 4th illegitimate son of Taizu Emperor (Nurhaci). Half brother of Huang Taiji, Half Uncle of Shunzhi Emperor.

</doc>
<doc id="290976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290976" title="Slingshot">
Slingshot

A slingshot is a kind of projectile weapon which is used to launch small things. It is small and made to be handheld. It is made of a Y-shaped body with an elastic band such as rubber tied to the two top ends of the Y. The projectile is placed in the band, which is pulled back and let go of.
How strong and dangerous the slingshot is depends on how it is made and especially the elastic band. Although a slingshot is a type of weapon and a strong one can hurt people, they are not often used in modern war because there are many better weapons. Strong slingshots may be used to hunt small animals, or weaker ones may be used as toys.
In some places, a slingshot may be illegal because it can be a weapon.

</doc>
<doc id="290978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290978" title="Mortal Kombat (movie)">
Mortal Kombat (movie)

Mortal Kombat is an 1995 live-action/adventure movie that was produced by Lauri Apelian and Lawrence Kasanoff and was directed by Paul W.S. Anderson. It is based on the video game francise, "Mortal Kombat". "Mortal Kombat" was released on July 13, 1995 in Argentina & Israel, August 18, 1995 in North America, October 20, 1995 in the United Kingdom and on December 26, 1995 in Australia. The movie received mixed reviews with a 35% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and Metacritic gave it a 58 out of 100. The movie gained a sequel called "" and it was released in 1997.

</doc>
<doc id="290981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290981" title="Category:German broadcasting companies">
Category:German broadcasting companies


</doc>
<doc id="290982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290982" title="X-wing">
X-wing

The X-wing is a starfighter from the "Star Wars" fictional universe. It is seen in the original trilogy movies and many books, games, toys, and other things. It is shown as a main starfighter for the Rebellion and later the New Republic.
The X-wing was first made for the movie ' by Industrial Light & Magic (ILM). Joe Johnston drew and Colin Cantwell made models that became the final X-wing fighter in '. ILM made miniatures in different sizes, with wing markings showing which prop was for each pilot. Each X-wing model was built around a hollow core to hold parts for effects such as lighting.
Besides the models, the crew made one full-size X-wing for scenes in the Rebels' Yavin IV base hangar; they used editing and cardboard cutouts to make it seem as if there are dozens of fighters. The crew also made a full-size X-wing cockpit that was used for all actors; the astromech droid behind each actor was changed for each starfighter.
According to "Star Wars" backstory, the X-wing was designed by Incom Corporation, who left the Empire and gave the X-wing design to the rebels. It is a one-man starfighter which also has a socket for a droid.
The starfighter has four laser cannons and two proton torpedo launchers. Its four wings (called s-foils) can fold open or closed. It has four engines and can use hyperspace travel. It also has energy shields for defense.

</doc>
<doc id="290984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290984" title="One Step Closer">
One Step Closer

"One Step Closer" is a song by American rock band Linkin Park. It was released as the first single and second track off the band's first album, "Hybrid Theory".
All songs are written by Linkin Park except for "High Voltage", which is written by Mike Shinoda, Brad Delson and Joe Hahn; and "My December", which is also written by Shinoda.
US promo:<br>
10" vinyl:<br>
The video starts out with a group of teenage friends hanging out around a dark alley. Two of them follow a strange man wearing a black hooded robe into a door which leads them to an underground room where the band is playing. Strange figures are around doing martial-arts moves. Midway through the song, they knock over a box, and run away when the martial arts people notice them. Towards the end of the song, lead singer Chester Bennington is upside-down.
Joe Hahn, the band's DJ, made the story of the video. Since bassist Dave Farrell has not returned to the band yet, Scott Koziol plays the bass. Gregory Dark directed the video.
"One Step Closer" is the ending song the band's concerts until 2007, where the song was always performed first. In 2008, the band's concerts ended with either the song or "Bleed It Out". From 2003 to 2007, the performances of the song has the verse of Jonathan Davis from his remix of the song in "Reanimation". In their recent concert tour, "A Thousand Suns World Tour", the song is either the final song of the concert or the final song of the main set.

</doc>
<doc id="290988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290988" title="Áras an Uachtaráin">
Áras an Uachtaráin

Áras an Uachtaráin (), is the official home of the President of Ireland. The name means "House of the President" in Irish. It is in the Phoenix Park on the northside of Dublin. It used to be known as the Viceregal Lodge.
The original house was designed by park ranger and amateur architect, Nathaniel Clements in the mid eighteenth century. It was bought by the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. His official residence was in the Viceregal Apartments in Dublin Castle. The house in the park then became the "Viceregal Lodge", the "out of season" residence of the Lord Lieutenant (also known as the Viceroy), where he lived for most of the year from the 1820s onwards. During the Social Season (January to St. Patrick's Day in March) he lived in Dublin Castle.
In 1882, the grounds around the house became the location for a famous murder. Two men were stabbed to death with surgical knives while walking back to the residence from Dublin Castle. They were the Lord Frederick Cavendish, the British Cabinet minister with responsibility for Irish affairs, and Thomas Henry Burke, chief civil servant. A small insurgent group called the Invincibles was responsible for the deed. The Lord Lieutenant, the 5th Earl Spencer, heard the victims screams from a ground floor window in the drawing room.
In 1911, the house got a large extension for the visit of King George V and Queen Mary. After the Irish Free State was established in 1922, it became the home of the Governor-General of the Irish Free State until 1932. After that the new Governor-General, Domhnall Ua Buachalla, personally leased a private mansion in the southside of Dublin.
The house was left empty for some years, until the office of President of Ireland was created in 1937. In 1938, the first President, Douglas Hyde lived there temporarily while plans were made to build a new presidential palace on the grounds. The outbreak of World War II saved the building, which had been renamed "Áras an Uachtaráin" as plans were put on hold. By 1945 it had become too closely identified with the presidency of Ireland to be demolished. But because it had not been lived in, a lot of work was needed to rebuild and improve it, especially to the kitchens, servants' quarters and chapel. 
The first President, Douglas Hyde lived in the residential quarters on the first floor of the main building. Later presidents moved to the new wing attached to the main house that had been built on for the visit of King George V in 1911. However, in 1990 Mary Robinson moved back to the older main building. The current occupant, Mary McAleese lives in the 1911 wing.
Beside it being the home of the president, it has a few state rooms for official occasions. Áras an Uachtaráin also houses the headquarters of the Garda Mounted Unit.
Various visiting British kings and queens stayed at the Viceregal Lodge, notably Queen Victoria and George V. American presidents that visited include Presidents John F. Kennedy, Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton, who are all of Irish descent. Other famous visitors to the Áras an Uachtaráin have been Princess Grace of Monaco and her husband, Prince Rainier III; King Baudouin of the Belgians; King Juan Carlos and Queen Sophia; Pope John Paul II; Prince Charles, and Prince Philip.
Guests do not normally stay at Áras an Uachtaráin. Although it has ninety-two rooms, many of these are used for storage of presidential files, for household staff and official staff, including military "aides-de-camp", a Secretary to the President and a press office. In 2001, the Irish state opened a guest residence nearby in Farmleigh, a former Guinness mansion.
On 1 May 2004, during Ireland's six-month presidency of the European Union, Áras an Uachtarain was the Venue for the "European Day of Welcomes" (Accession Day) in which ten new members joined the EU. All 25 heads of government attended the flag raising ceremony in the gardens of the palace. 
Áras an Uachtaráin is now open for free tours every Saturday.

</doc>
<doc id="290990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290990" title="Hangar">
Hangar

A hangar is a closed structure made to hold an aircraft while it is on the ground. It is like a garage but for aircraft instead of cars. A hanger is most often metal, but may be made of other things like wood and concrete. It protects the aircraft from weather and sun damage.

</doc>
<doc id="290991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290991" title="Phoenix Park Murders">
Phoenix Park Murders

The Phoenix Park Murders were the fatal stabbings on 6 May 1882 in the Phoenix Park in Dublin. Lord Frederick Cavendish and Thomas Henry Burke were killed. Cavendish was the newly appointed Chief Secretary for Ireland, and Burke was the Permanent Undersecretary, the most senior Irish civil servant. The assassination was carried out by members of the "Irish National Invincibles".
Cavendish and Burke were attacked as they walked through Phoenix Park to the Viceregal Lodge. This was the "out of season" residence of the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland ("the King's representative and head of the Irish affairs"). Thomas Myles, surgeon at the nearby Dr Steevens' Hospital, was called to help the victims.
The Lord Lieutenant, Lord Spencer, described suddenly hearing screams, before seeing a man running to the Lodge grounds shouting "Lord Frederick Cavendish and Mr. Burke are killed." Responsibility for the political murders was claimed by a small, until then unknown Republican organisation called the "Irish National Invincibles".
The hunt for the murderers was led by Superintendent John Mallon, a Catholic who came from Armagh. Mallon had a pretty good idea of who was involved. He suspected a number of former Fenian activists. A large number of suspects were arrested and kept in prison by claiming they were connected with other crimes. Mallon got several of them to reveal what they knew about the murders.
The Invincibles' leader James Carey, Michael Kavanagh and Joe Hanlon agreed to testify against the others. Joe Brady, Michael Fagan, Thomas Caffrey, Dan Curley and Tim Kelly were convicted of the murder. They were hanged in Kilmainham Gaol in Dublin between 14 May and 4 June 1883. Others were sentenced to serve long prison terms.
Irish politician Charles Stewart Parnell made a speech condemning the murders in 1882. This increased his popularity in both Britain and Ireland.
In March 1887, "The Times" printed letters that said they were written by Parnell. The letters said that he agreed with the murderers of the English politicians, and that his speech saying otherwise was not true. It later came to light that the letters were not written by Parnell. They were forgeries written by journalist Richard Pigott. Parnell was personally shown to be innocent by the Parnell Commission in 1888-89.

</doc>
<doc id="290993" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290993" title="Garage">
Garage

A garage is a place for storing cars. There are many kinds of garages used for different things.
A residential garage is a garage that is part of a house or similar building. Some garages are directly connected (called "attached") to the house, while others are separate and called a "detached" garage". The garage will have a large garage door that opens to let cars in and out, which is often opened by a motor.
A parking garage is a large covered structure, often made of concrete, which is used for holding many cars. Parking garages may have more than one level.
An automobile repair shop may also be called a garage, although it is for repairing cars rather than just storing them.

</doc>
<doc id="290994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290994" title="Melatonin">
Melatonin

Melatonin is a hormone found in animals, plants, and microbes. In animals, levels of melatonin have a daily cycle. It drives the circadian rhythms of several biological functions.
Melatonin is produced in the pineal gland which is outside of the blood–brain barrier. It acts as an hormone, and is released into the blood.
Melatonin acts on melatonin receptors. It also acts directly because it is a powerful antioxidant, which protects DNA.
Melatonin supplements for humans have been given. Melatonin is categorized by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a dietary supplement, not a drug. A prescription-only, timed release melatonin product for people aged 55 and over was approved for use by the European Medicines Agency in 2007, despite having shown only small effects, and in Australia in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="291000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291000" title="Luria–Delbrück experiment">
Luria–Delbrück experiment

The Luria–Delbrück experiment, 1943, also called the 'Fluctuation Test', asks the question: are mutations independent of natural selection? Or are they directed by the selection?
Max Delbrück and Salvador Luria showed that in bacteria, DNA mutations happen randomly. This means they happen at any time, rather than being a response to selection. 
So, Darwin's theory of natural selection acting on random mutations applies to bacteria as well as to more complex organisms. 
Delbrück and Luria won the 1969 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine partly for this work.
In their experiment, Luria and Delbrück grew bacteria in tubes. After a period of growth, they put equal volumes of these separate cultures onto agar containing phage (virus). If virus resistance were not due to random gene mutations, then each plate should contain roughly the same number of resistant colonies. This, however was not what Delbrück and Luria found. Instead, the number of resistant colonies on each plate varied drastically.
Luria and Delbrück proposed that these results could be explained by the occurrence of a constant rate of random mutations in each generation of bacteria growing in the initial culture tubes.

</doc>
<doc id="291002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291002" title="Polydactyly">
Polydactyly

Polydactyly is a birth defect which may affects the hands, feet, or both. It causes one or more extra fingers or toes. It can affect people, and other mammals such as dogs, and cats.

</doc>
<doc id="291005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291005" title="Screen Actors Guild">
Screen Actors Guild

The Screen Actors Guild (SAG) is an American labor union representing over 200,000 film and television principal performers and background performers worldwide. According to SAG's Mission Statement, the Guild was created to negotiate and enforce reasonable salaries, benefits, and working conditions for its performers; collect compensation for exploitation of recorded performances by its members, and provide protection against unauthorized use of those performances; and preserve and expand work opportunities for its members.
The Guild was founded in 1933 in an effort to end exploitation of actors in Hollywood who were being forced into oppressive multi-year contracts with the major movie studios that did not include restrictions on work hours or minimum rest periods, and often had clauses that automatically renewed at the studios' discretion. These contracts were notorious for allowing the studios to dictate the public and private lives of the performers who signed them, and most did not have provisions to allow the performer to end the deal.
In addition to its main offices in Hollywood, SAG also maintains local branches in several major US cities, including: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Detroit, Honolulu, Houston, Las Vegas, Miami, Nashville, New York City, Philadelphia, Phoenix, Portland, Salt Lake City, San Diego, San Francisco, Seattle, and Washington DC.
Since 1995, the guild has annually awarded the Screen Actors Guild Awards, which are considered an indicator of success at the Academy Awards.

</doc>
<doc id="291007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291007" title="Screen Actors Guild Award">
Screen Actors Guild Award

A Screen Actors Guild Award is an award given by the Screen Actors Guild (SAG) to recognize outstanding performances by its members. The statuette given, a nude male figure holding both a mask of comedy and a mask of tragedy, is called "The Actor". It is 16 inches tall, weighs over 12 pounds, cast in solid bronze, and produced by the American Fine Arts Foundry in Burbank, California.
SAG Awards have been one of the major awards events in Hollywood since 1995. Nominations for the awards come from 4200 randomly selected members of the union, with the full membership (120,000 as of 2007) available to vote for the winners. The awards have been televised for the past several years on TNT, but now also airs on TBS.
The first SAG Awards aired live on February 25, 1995 from Stage 12, Universal Studios. The second SAG awards aired live from the Santa Monica Civic Auditorium, while later awards have been held at the Shrine Exposition Center. Bob Hope was given the first award.

</doc>
<doc id="291013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291013" title="Machair">
Machair

Machair or machar is a Gàidhlig (Scottish Gaelic) word used to describe a fertile low-lying grassy plain found on some of the north-west coastlines of Ireland and Scotland, in particular the Outer Hebrides. There are machairs in the Isle of Skye, The Isle of Barra, the Isle of Harris and all throughout the west coast and islands.

</doc>
<doc id="291022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291022" title="Max Delbrück">
Max Delbrück

Max Ludwig Henning Delbrück (September 4, 1906 – March 9, 1981) was a German-American biophysicist and Nobel laureate.
Delbrück was one of the most influential people in the movement of physical scientists into biology during the 20th century.
Delbrück's big idea was to explore genetics by means of the bacteriophage viruses which infect bacteria. This was important in the early development of molecular biology. 
Delbrück was born in Berlin, German Empire. Trained as a physicist, he got his Ph.D. in 1930. he traveled through England, Denmark, and Switzerland. He met Wolfgang Pauli and Niels Bohr, who got him interested in biology.
In 1937, he moved to the United States to pursue his interests in biology, taking up research in the Biology Division at Caltech on genetics of the fruit fly "Drosophila melanogaster". While at Caltech Delbrück became acquainted with bacteria and their viruses (bacteriophage or 'phage'). 
Delbrück remained in the US during World War II, teaching physics at Vanderbilt University in Nashville while pursuing his genetic research. In 1942, he and Salvador Luria of Indiana University demonstrated that bacterial resistance to virus infection is caused by random mutation and not adaptive change. This research, known as the Luria-Delbrück experiment, was also significant for its use of mathematics to make quantitative predictions for the results to be expected from alternative models. For that work, they were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1969, sharing it with Alfred Hershey. 
During the 1940s Delbrück developed a course in bacteriophage genetics at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory to encourage interest in the field. In 1947, Delbrück returned to Caltech as a professor of biology where he remained until 1977.

</doc>
<doc id="291024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291024" title="Salvador Luria">
Salvador Luria

Salvador Edward Luria (Turin, Italy, August 13, 1912 – Lexington, Massachusetts, February 6, 1991) was an Italian microbiologist.
He won the 1969 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his pioneering work with Max Delbrück and Alfred Hershey on phages in molecular biology.
Luria was born Salvatore Edoardo Luria in Turin, Italy to an influential Italian Sephardic Jewish family. He attended the medical school at the University of Turin. There, he met two other future Nobel laureates: Rita Levi-Montalcini and Renato Dulbecco. 
In Rome, he was introduced to Max Delbrück's theories on the gene as a molecule and began to formulate methods for testing genetic theory with bacteriophages, which are viruses that infect bacteria.
In 1938, he received a fellowship to study in the United States, where he intended to work with Delbrück. Soon after Luria received the award Benito Mussolini's fascist regime banned Jews from academic research fellowships. 
Without funding sources for work in the U.S. or Italy, Luria left his home country for Paris, France in 1938. As the Nazi German armies invaded France in 1940, Luria fled on bicycle to Marseilles where he received an immigration visa to the United States.
Luria arrived in New York City on September 12, 1940 and soon changed his first and middle names. With the help of physicist Enrico Fermi, whom he knew from his time at the University of Rome, Luria received a fellowship at Columbia University. He soon met Delbrück and Hershey, and they collaborated on experiments at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory and in Delbrück's lab at Vanderbilt University.
His famous experiment with Delbrück in 1943, known as the Luria-Delbrück experiment, demonstrated that inheritance in bacteria follows Darwinian rather than Lamarckian principles and that mutant genes occurring randomly can still give viral resistance without the virus being present. The idea that natural selection affects bacteria has profound consequences, for example, it explains how bacteria develop antibiotic resistance.
From 1943 to 1950, he worked at Indiana University, Bloomington. His first graduate student was James D. Watson, who went on to discover the structure of DNA with Francis Crick. In January 1947, Luria became a naturalized citizen of the United States.
In 1950, Luria moved to the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. While investigating how a culture of "E. coli" was able to stop the production of phages, Luria discovered that specific bacterial strains produce enzymes that cut DNA at certain sequences. These enzymes became known as restriction enzymes and developed into one of the main molecular tools in molecular biology.

</doc>
<doc id="291032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291032" title="Maya calendar">
Maya calendar

The Maya calendar is a system of calendars and almanacs used in the Maya civilization of pre-Columbian Mesoamerica, and in some modern Maya communities in highland Guatemala.
It shares many aspects with calendars employed by other earlier Mesoamerican civilizations, such as the Zapotec and Olmec, and contemporary or later ones such as the Mixtec and Aztec calendars. Although the Mesoamerican calendar did not originate with the Maya, their subsequent extensions and refinements of it were the most sophisticated. Along with those of the Aztecs, the Maya calendars are the best-documented and most completely understood.
There are three main Maya calendars: the 260 day ritual calendar called "Tzolk'in", the 365 day "Haab"', and the "Long Count". Approximately 52 years pass before the Haab and Tzolkin calendars converge and are back in the same alignment. This is called the Calendar round. The Tzolk'in is still in use today by the Ixil, Kek'chi and Quiche peoples of the Guatemalan highlands.
Here is an example of a Maya calendar date: 12.18.16.2.6, 3 Cimi 4 Zotz. The “12.18.16.2.6” is the Long Count. Going from right to left, the units are: kin (1 day), uinal (20 kin = 20 days), tun (18 uinal = 360 days), katun (20 tun = approximately 20 years), baktun (20 katun =394 years). The Long Count was used to track periods of time longer than the 52 years of the Calendar Round. The mythical starting date of the current creation was August 11, 3114 BCE (Gregorian). “3 Cimi” is the Tzolkin date. The Tzolkin date is a combination of thirteen days numbered one-thirteen and twenty day-names. “4 Zotz” is the Haab' date. The Haab' year contains 18 months (each named) with 20 days each. The number before the word is the day of that month. The Maya then added five days to the calendar after the last month, Cumku, ends, in order to make the year 365 days long. Those five days, called "Uayeb," were considered to be unlucky.
A common myth about the Maya calendar was that it predicted that the world would end on December 21st, 2012. This belief was mistaken. According to the Maya, there were three previous worlds. The first began with “the creation of the Earth, and it had upon it vegetation and living beings. Unfortunately, because they lacked speech, the birds and animals were unable to pay homage to the gods and were destroyed. In the second and third Ages the gods created humans of mud and then wood, but these also failed to please and were wiped out. The "zero date" 13.0.0.0.0 on the Long Count was when, according to the Maya, the third world ended and the fourth one, the current world, began. Another 13.0.0.0.0 would occur on December 21, 2012. There is no evidence that the Long Count would end on 13.0.0.0.0 or that the Maya believed that this would be the date of the apocalypse. Still, a variety of popular books and movies have contributed to the publicity surrounding the Maya calendar's supposed prediction of the end of the world in 2012. Some believers have taken advantage of this publicity to sell guides to surviving the apocalypse.

</doc>
<doc id="291033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291033" title="Mexican coat of arms">
Mexican coat of arms

The flag of Mexico contains a coat of arms which is derived from an Aztec symbol depicting an eagle with a snake in its mouth.
In the early 14th century, the Mexica people were a wandering tribe looking for a permanent settlement in modern day central Mexico. They survived by hunting and gathering and were often hired to fight as mercenaries for the city-states scattered throughout the region. According to legend, their god, Huitzilopochtli, told them to establish a city of their own at a site where they would find an eagle eating a snake on top of a cactus. The legend relates that the people saw the eagle on a small, swampy island in the middle of the shallow Texcoco lake. The Mexica invented a resourceful system of gardening, called chinampas, which allowed them to grow small gardens, eventually drying out the lake. In 1325, they completed construction of a city there. That city, which they called Tenochtitlan, became the capital of the Aztec Empire, which dominated central Mexico until its destruction by Spanish Conquistadores led by Hernando Cortes.
After winning its independence from Spain in 1810, the newly created nation of Mexico–whose capital was built on the ruins of Tenochtitlan–adopted the symbol of the eagle and the snake to commemorate its Aztec heritage. The symbol can be found at the center of the Mexican flag.

</doc>
<doc id="291034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291034" title="San Lorenzo Tenochtitlan">
San Lorenzo Tenochtitlan

San Lorenzo Tenochtitlan started out as an agricultural and population center for the Olmec civilization, which inhabited a region of what is today southeastern Mexico. The Olmecs emerged as early as 1500 BC as the earliest complex society in the Americas. San Lorenzo is best known as the first city established in the Americas.
The main reason San Lorenzo flourished at such an early period is its location within the Coatzacoalcos flood plain, which provided fertile land for farming. Thus, the settlement of San Lorenzo follows the pattern of settlement of the world’s very first urban centers, which emerged in the fertile river valleys of Mesopotamia. Because of the high farming value of the surrounding land, San Lorenzo ranked as the Olmecs’ most populous settlement from 1200-900 BC. During that period, San Lorenzo had the biggest trade market in all of the Olmec Heartland.
For unknown reasons, many people migrated out of San Lorenzo in 800 BC to the nearby city of La Venta. However, San Lorenzo was repopulated in 600 BC, when it became a center for Olmec ritual sacrifices until the population faded away in 400 BC along with the Olmec civilization. Today, San Lorenzo remains a significant archaeological site because the artifacts found there–including the famous Colossal Heads and jade masks–shed some light on Olmec culture and its profound influence on later Mesoamerican civilizations, such as the Aztec and Maya.

</doc>
<doc id="291035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291035" title="Category:Deaths from pneumonia">
Category:Deaths from pneumonia


</doc>
<doc id="291036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291036" title="Terrace farming">
Terrace farming

"Terrace farming" is a type of farming that consists of different "steps" or terraces that were developed in various places around the world. The Rice Terraces of the Philippine Cordilleras (hills and mountains) is a World Heritage Site. It dates back two thousand years.
This method of farming uses "steps" that are built into the side of a mountain or hill. On each level, various crops are planted. When it rains, instead of washing away all of the nutrients in the soil, the nutrients are carried down to the next level. Additionally, these steps prevent a free flowing avalanche of water that would take plants with it and destroy all of the crops on the hillside. This system also allowed them to build aqueducts, which carried water to each level.
The idea was also independently developed by the Inca people. The Incas built their aqueduct system so well that it is still used today.

</doc>
<doc id="291049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291049" title="Sapa Inca">
Sapa Inca

Sapa Inca was the Inca emperor. "" means "The Great Inca" or "The Only Inca" in Quechua, the Inca language. According to legend, the first Sapa Inca, Manco Cápac (c. 1200 CE- 1230) was the son of the sun god, Inti. Manco Cápac became Sapa Inca by founding the city of Cuzco after he was sent on a quest by a god to find a good location for a city and build one. He also united the tribes around Cuzco.
The position of Sapa Inca was hereditary, which means that it passed from father to son. The Sapa Inca was the sole and absolute ruler over the Incas. His word was law, and he was the supreme commander of the military. The Sapa Inca lived in great luxury with many wives, slaves, and riches. Another privilege that he had was that he was allowed to (and usually would) marry his sister even though it was prohibited for common people. When the Sapa Inca died he would be mummified.
The Inca Empire reached its height under Huayna Capac (1493–1527) when it stretched from modern day Argentina to Ecuador, although Tupac Inca Yupanqui (1471-1493) was responsible for expanding much of the empire to those borders. Tupac Yupanqui conquered the Kingdom of Chimor, the biggest rival to the Inca. He expanded the empire into modern day Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia. Atahualpa was the last pre-conquest Sapa Inca. He was killed by the invading Spaniards in 1533 and after that there were several Sapa Inca who were installed by the Spanish. The last person to hold the title was Tupac Amaru who was killed by the Spanish in 1572.

</doc>
<doc id="291061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291061" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/History of World Wrestling Entertainment">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/History of World Wrestling Entertainment


</doc>
<doc id="291065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291065" title="STS-1">
STS-1

STS-1 was the first flight of the space shuttle. It launched on April 12, 1981 and landed on April 14. It was launched 20 years after the first manned space flight. The space shuttle used was "Columbia". Space Shuttle Columbia orbited the Earth 37 times in this mission.
STS-1 was the first of two missions with a painted external tank. The paint was put to protect the external tank from ultraviolet light when it was standing on the launch pad. After STS-2, the paint was removed

</doc>
<doc id="291066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291066" title="Omar Hassan Ahmad al-Bashir">
Omar Hassan Ahmad al-Bashir

Omar Hassan Ahmad al-Bashir (; born 1944) is the current President of Sudan. He came into power in 1989. In October 2004, Omar's government negotiated an end to the second Sudanese civil war, one of the longest-running and deadliest wars of the 20th century. However, there has been a violent conflict in Darfur that has resulted in a death toll between 200,000 and 400,000. During his presidency, there have been several violent struggles between the rebel groups such as the Sudanese Liberation Army (SLA) and the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) in the form of warfare in the Darfur region. The civil war has resulted in over 2.5 million people being displaced, and the relations between Sudan and Chad are at a crisis.

</doc>
<doc id="291072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291072" title="Regression (psychology)">
Regression (psychology)

Regression is a word used in psychology. It means the act of reversing the ego into an earlier state which allows one to avoid dealing with impulses in an adult manner.

</doc>
<doc id="291073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291073" title="Displacement (psychology)">
Displacement (psychology)

Displacement is a word used in Freudian psychology for is an unconscious defence mechanism. Example: the mind redirects thoughts, emotions, desires from an object or person felt to be dangerous or unacceptable to an object or person felt to be safe or acceptable. 
More generally, the substitute of one response by another, when the original response is blocked: displaced aggression.

</doc>
<doc id="291076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291076" title="Ego depletion">
Ego depletion

Ego depletion is the idea that people get tired of making decisions because it is a neuro-chemical process that requires energy.

</doc>
<doc id="291077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291077" title="Central dogma of molecular biology">
Central dogma of molecular biology

The central dogma of molecular biology is a phrase by Francis Crick, who proposed the double helix structure of DNA.
It means that information passes from DNA to proteins via RNA, but proteins cannot pass the information back to DNA.
Crick first wrote it in 1958, and repeated it in 1970.
The dogma is a framework for understanding the transfer of sequence information. 
There are 3 major classes of such biopolymers: DNA and RNA (both nucleic acids), and protein. There are 3×3 = 9 conceivable direct transfers of information that can occur between these. The dogma classes these into 3 groups of 3: 
The general transfers describe the normal flow of biological information: DNA can be copied to DNA (DNA replication), DNA information can be copied into mRNA, (transcription), and proteins can be synthesized using the information in mRNA as a template (translation).
The dogma is a modern version of the Weismann barrier (after August Weismann). This is the principle that hereditary information moves only from genes to body cells, and never in reverse. Hereditary information moves only from germline cells to somatic cells.

</doc>
<doc id="291082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291082" title="Ubar">
Ubar

Ubar is a ruined city in Oman. English adventurer Ranulph Fiennes discovered the city in 1992. According to Nicolas Clapp, this probably is the lost city Iram of the Pillars the Qu'ran talks about. 
Today, ruins are left, which can be reached in a four-wheel drive. Part of the area forms the ceiling to underground vaults, which have collapsed. These vaults hold water supplies for a nearby settlement, which houses a small museum.

</doc>
<doc id="291083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291083" title="Wavves">
Wavves

Wavves (pronounced "waves") is an American noise pop band based out of San Diego, California. They formed in 2008, and are currently signed to Fat Possum Records.

</doc>
<doc id="291086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291086" title="Daniel Catan">
Daniel Catan

Daniel Catan (1949 - 9 April 2011) was a Mexican opera composer. He is best known for turning the Italian movie, "Il Postino", into an opera. He was working at the University of Texas at Austin on a new opera based on the Frank Capra movie, "Meet John Doe".

</doc>
<doc id="291096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291096" title="Rick Perry">
Rick Perry

James Richard "Rick" Perry (born March 4, 1950) is an American former politician. He was the Governor of Texas from 2000 to 2015. He is a Republican. He became governor when George W. Bush became President, and has been elected three more times. Perry was the longest governor in the United States for 14 years. 
On December 13, 2016, President-elect of the United States Donald Trump said he would soon nominate Perry to serve as United States Secretary of Energy during his administration.
Perry was born in Paint Creek, Texas. His parents were Joseph Perry and Amelia Holt. He grew up in West Texas and studied at Texas A&M University. During his early years, he was a farmer and a pilot.
In 1984, Perry was elected to the Texas House of Representatives as a Democrat from district 64, which included his home county of Haskell. He served on the House Appropriations and Calendars committees during his three two-year terms in office. 
In 1990, as a newly Republican, Perry challenged Jim Hightower, the incumbent Democratic Agriculture Commissioner. Karl Rove was Perry’s campaign manager. Perry won the election.
In April 1993, Perry, while serving as Texas agriculture commissioner, expressed support for the effort to reform the nation's health care, describing it as "most commendable".
In 1994, Perry was reelected Agriculture Commissioner by a large margin.
In 1998, Perry chose not to seek a third term as Agriculture Commissioner, running instead for Lieutenant Governor to succeed the retiring Democrat Bob Bullock. He won the election.
Perry assumed the office of governor on December 21, 2000, following the resignation of George W. Bush – who was preparing to become President of the United States. In the 2001 legislative session, Perry set a record for his use of the veto, rejecting 82 acts, more than
any other governor in any single legislative session in the history of the state since Reconstruction.
Perry's campaigns for lieutenant governor and governor focused on a tough stance on crime. He has supported block grants for crime programs. In 2007, Perry signed a law ending automatic arrest for cannabis possession.
Perry supports the death penalty. In June 2002, he vetoed a ban on the execution of mentally retarded inmates. As of September 18, 2014, there have been 278 executions since Perry first took office in December 2000.
Perry was re-elected in 2006 and in 2010. In 2014, Perry announced that he would not run for a fourth term.
On August 15, 2014, Perry was indicted by a grand jury on felony charges for abuse of power. He was accused of threatening a Democratic District Attorney who had been convicted of drunk driving to resign by threatening to veto funding for state public corruption prosecutors. The indictment received some support and also wide criticism from all sides of the political parties, and editorial criticism from major US newspapers.
Perry also ran for President of the United States in the 2012 Republican primaries. He was one of the last candidates to enter the race. He was a frontrunner for the nomination during the first month of his campaign, but he did not do well in many of the debates. On January 19, 2012, Perry withdrew his campaign and endorsed Newt Gingrich.
On June 4, 2015, Perry officially announced his bid with a new web site and a press conference at Addison Airport outside Dallas, Texas. Perry then announced his candidacy at the scheduled press conference. On September 11, 2015, Perry dropped out of the race after poor polling after the first debate. He later announced his support for Ted Cruz and later Donald Trump for president.
Perry has been mentioned as a possible challenger to U.S. Senator and fellow 2016 Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz in 2018. Speculation about Cruz being challenged in the Republican primary arose during the 2016 Republican National Convention, when Cruz refused to endorse Donald Trump, the eventual Republican presidential nominee, whom Perry had endorsed after Cruz suspended his campaign. In a poll conducted from August 12 to 14 of that year by "Public Policy Polling", Perry had a 46%-37% lead over Cruz. In November 2016, Perry declined to enter the senate race and endorsed Cruz in the elections.
On December 12, 2016, multiple sources reported that Perry is to be nominated by President-elect of the United States Trump to serve as Secretary of the United States Department of Energy. for which is completely unqualified.
Perry used to be a Methodist, but now attends an Evangelical "megachurch". Perry is also an Eagle Scout. Perry married Anita Thigpen in 1982. Together, they have two children.
On August 30, 2016, Perry was announced as one of the celebrities who would compete on season 23 of "Dancing with the Stars". He was partnered with professional dancer Emma Slater. Perry and Slater were eliminated on the third week of competition and finished in 12th place.

</doc>
<doc id="291097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291097" title="Jerry Jones">
Jerry Jones

Jerral "Jerry" Wayne Jones (born October 13, 1942 in Los Angeles, California) is the owner and general manager of the Dallas Cowboys in the NFL. He has owned the team since 1989.

</doc>
<doc id="291098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291098" title="Texas Motor Speedway">
Texas Motor Speedway

Texas Motor Speedway is a racetrack in Fort Worth, Texas. It hosts two races a year in the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series. It first opened in 1996. Its layout is similar to the track layout of Atlanta Motor Speedway and Charlotte Motor Speedway (which used to be known as Lowe's Motor Speedway).

</doc>
<doc id="291100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291100" title="Little Caesars">
Little Caesars

Little Caesars is a pizza company in the United States. It is the 4th biggest pizza company in the United States. It was founded on May 8, 1959 in Garden City, Michigan.

</doc>
<doc id="291101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291101" title="Whataburger">
Whataburger

Whataburger is a fast food restaurant that specifically makes hamburgers. It was founded in 1950 in the city of Corpus Christi, Texas.

</doc>
<doc id="291103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291103" title="Category:American fast food restaurants">
Category:American fast food restaurants


</doc>
<doc id="291105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291105" title="Monday Night Football">
Monday Night Football

Monday Night Football is a television show about the NFL which is broadcasted on the channel ESPN and is on every Monday during the NFL season. Monday Night Football's first run was on September 21, 1970. It is currently airing.

</doc>
<doc id="291107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291107" title="The Human League">
The Human League

The Human League is a British pop music band from Sheffield. The Human League has 3 members: Philip Oakey, Joanne Catherall, and Susan Ann Sulley. The band originally had 6 members. The other 3 members were Ian Burden, Jo Callis, and Philip Adrian Wright. They all left The Human League in the late 1980s.
The Human League started in 1977 and they had their greatest success during the 1980s. They continue to make new music today. Philip Oakey, the band's singer, is the only Human League member that has been with the band since it started. The other 2 members, Joanne Catherall and Susan Ann Sulley, joined The Human League in 1980.
The Human League has made 10 albums. Their newest album is called "Credo" and it was released in March 2011. Some of The Human League's hit songs are "Don't You Want Me", "Keep Feeling Fascination", "The Lebanon" and "Human".
Below is a list of all the albums by The Human League.

</doc>
<doc id="291109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291109" title="20/20">
20/20

20/20 is a television newsmagazine on ABC. It has been on ABC since June 6, 1978 and is currently airing. 20/20 is currently hosted by Chris Cuomo and Elizabeth Vargas.

</doc>
<doc id="291110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291110" title="Mesoamerican ball game">
Mesoamerican ball game

The Mesoamerican ball game is a sport that people in Mesoamerica have played since about 1,400 B.C.E. It was the first team sport in history, as far as historians know. 
The Olmecs, who lived from 1,200 B.C.E. to 400 B.C.E., played the Mesoamerican ballgame. They may have created the game. The ancient Mayans played the game; they called it pitz in Classical Maya. Later, the Aztecs played it; in their language, Nahuatl, they called the game ōllamaliztli.
In some parts of Mexico, indigenous people still play a more modern version of the game, called "ulama". This means that people have played the Mesoamerican ballgame for over 3,400 years longer than any other sport in history. The Mesoamerican ballgame was also the first sport in history ever to use a rubber ball.
The game's goal was to shoot a ball through a stone hoop about wide. The ball, called an "ulli", was made out of rubber. It weighed about , about as much as a brick. The court, called a "tlachtili", was around long. It had a wall on each side. The stone hoops hung on these walls. 
The court was usually in the shape of an “I,” although the shape was sometimes different. A line ran down the center of the court. From that line, the floor sloped to meet the walls.
The players were only allowed to use their heads, elbows, legs, and hips to hit the ball. The ball was not allowed to touch the ground, so the players often dove to avoid losing points. If one of the teams got the ball through the stone hoop, the game was over and that team won. However, this was very hard to do, since the stone hoops could be as high as off the ground. Since getting the ball through the hoop was uncommon, a team could also score points by hitting one of six markers alongside the edges of the court.
Gambling played a large part in the culture surrounding the ballgame. People could bet nearly anything on which team would win the game. Some ancient people bet things like beautiful feathers. Others bet children or even their own lives. The losers sometimes sold themselves into slavery just so they could pay off their debt.
Sometimes, city-states would play the game instead of going to war with each other. The city-state whose team won the game would rule over the losing city-state. Winning or losing a game could turn into an excuse to start an attack or try an assassination.
The Mesoamerican ballgame also held a very important religious meaning. In Aztec culture, for example, the game was meant to represent the combat that happened every day on the "ball court" in the underworld, where the sun fought with the night to get across.
The game's religious meaning was linked to the Mayan and Aztec practices of human sacrifice. Sometimes, the Mayans would make prisoners of war play the game, and would sacrifice them if they lost. However, Mayan art suggests that Mayan ballplayers, maybe team captains, were sacrificed too. 
The Aztecs also sacrificed losing teams (or, according to some historians, winning teams) after some games. The ancient Aztecs believed that without human sacrifice, the sun would stop and the earth would be plunged into darkness. Sometimes, ancient Aztecs would decorate the ball court with the skulls of people who had been sacrificed. The ball itself was a symbol of a sacrificed person's head. Sometimes, the actual head or skull of a sacrificed person was used as a ball in the game.
In modern times, the Aztec ballgame changed into "ulama." People still play this game in a few communities in the Mexican state of Sinaloa.
Ulama uses temporary courts, made by drawing thick lines in the dirt. There are three different ways to play ulama. In the different versions of the game, players may use their hips, forearms, or paddles to hit the ball.

</doc>
<doc id="291123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291123" title="Hit the Road, Jack">
Hit the Road, Jack

"Hit the Road Jack" is a rhythm and blues song from the 1960s.
Percy Mayfield wrote and sang "Hit the Road, Jack" in 1960. 
Ray Charles made the song famous. Ray Charles's song was number 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 in fall of 1961. 
The song is ranked #377 on the Rolling Stone magazine's list of "The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time".
The chorus of the song is:
The words of this song are not standard English. In standard English, the words could be "Hit the road, Jack, and don't come back again"
"Hit the road" is an idiom. It means "Immediately start on a journey". For example, a parent could say "Everyone into the car; let's hit the road! We don't want to be late to Grandma's house"
For the most popular recording

</doc>
<doc id="291125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291125" title="Olaf Scholz">
Olaf Scholz

Olaf Scholz, born in Osnabrück, is a German politician of the Social Democratic Party of Germany and has been Mayor of Hamburg since 7 March 2011.
From May to October 2001 he was Minister of the Interior "(Innensenator)" of the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg and from 2002 to 2004 he was general secretary of the SPD.
In 2005 Scholz was elected a member of the sixteenth Bundestag, and succeeded Franz Müntefering as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, when the latter left office in 2007. 
In 2010 Olaf Scholz took part in the annual Bilderberg Meeting in Sitges, Spain.
On 20 February 2011 the Social Democrats led by Scholz won the Hamburg state election, 2011 with 48.3% of the votes, resulting in 62 out of 121 seats in the Hamburg Parliament. Scholz resigned as a member of the seventeenth Bundestag on 11 March 2011 shortly after his election as First Mayor.

</doc>
<doc id="291126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291126" title="Lemmy">
Lemmy

Ian Fraser "Lemmy" Kilmister (24 December 1945 – 28 December 2015), commonly known by Lemmy, was a British musician, singer-songwriter and actor. He was best known as the bassist of the heavy metal band Motörhead.
Lemmy was born in Burslem, Stoke-on-Trent, Staffordshire, England. He went to school at Ysgol Syr Thomas Jones in Amlwch, Wales. At age 16 he attended a concert by The Beatles in the Cavern Club. Lemmy liked the sarcastic attitude of the Beatles, especially John Lennon. Around that time he began playing guitar in small local bands like The Sundowners.
In mid-1960, he played guitar in bands like The Rainmakers, then The Motown Sect, playing clubs in the north. In 1965, he joined the band The Rockin 'Vickers, and signed a contract with CBS. The band released three single albums and toured Europe. In 1967, he moved to London and got a job as a roadie on The Jimi Hendrix Experience. In 1968, he recorded an album titled "Escalator" with the band Sam Gopal. After that, Lemmy met Simon King in a shopping center in Chelsea and then joined the band Opal Butterfly for a short period.
Lemmy joined the Ladbroke Grove rock band Hawkwind as a bassist and vocalist. He gained experience as a bassist, because until then he had only worked as a guitarist. Lemmy was also lead vocals on several songs for the band.
In 1975, Lemmy founded a new band called Bastard with guitarist Larry Wallis and Lucas Fox on drums. Later, Lemmy changed the name of the band to Motörhead. Wallis and Fox left the band and were replaced by the guitarist Eddie Clarke and drummer Phil "Philthy Animal" Taylor. This new formation would begin Motörhead's success in live performances. In 1977, the band recorded their first album, "Motörhead", released 24 September 1977. The second album, titled "Overkill", contained two songs that would become Motörhead classics: "Louie Louie" and "Overkill". The peak of the band was 1980 and 1981 with a series of chart hits in the UK, including the classic single "Ace of Spades", one of the biggest hits of the band. 
Motörhead's members changed throughout the band's career, but Lemmy remained on bass and vocals from their start 1975 until today.
Lemmy's career as an actor began by playing small roles in low-budget UK films "Eat the Rich" (1988) and "Hardware" (1990). His credits include "Terror Firmer" (1998), "Frezno Smooth" (1999), and "Citizen Toxie: The Toxic Avenger IV" (2000).
On 28 December 2015, Lemmy died of prostate cancer, cardiac arrhythmia and congestive heart failure at his home in Los Angeles, California at the age of 70.

</doc>
<doc id="291129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291129" title="Category:Mayors of Hamburg">
Category:Mayors of Hamburg


</doc>
<doc id="291130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291130" title="Ole von Beust">
Ole von Beust

Carl-Friedrich Arp Ole Freiherr von Beust, generally called Ole von Beust, born 13 April 1955, in Hamburg, Germany, was Ole von Beust First Mayor of the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg () from 31 October 2001 to 25 August 2010, serving as President of the Bundesrat from 1 November 2007 on for one year. He was followed as mayor by Christoph Ahlhaus.
He is the son of Achim Helge Freiherr von Beust and Hanna, née Wolff, who was considered half Jewish in Nazi Germany. Through his father he is a descendant of Saxon and Austrian statesman Count Friedrich Ferdinand von Beust.
In 1971 von Beust became member of the conservative Christian Democratic Union (CDU). In 1973, after finishing high school, he worked for the CDU group in Hamburg's city-state parliament ("Bürgerschaft"), a position he held until he started to study law in 1975 at the University of Hamburg. From 1977 until 1983 he was Hamburg president of the youth organisation of his party. Since 1978 Beust has been a member of the Hamburg city-state's parliament. In 1983 he successfully completed his studies and became an independent lawyer.
He has been a member of the ruling council of the Hamburg Land CDU since 1992, and of the national ruling council of the CDU party since 1998.
On 31 October 2001, Ole von Beust became First Mayor of Hamburg.
On 19 August 2003, Beust dismissed his vice-mayor Ronald Schill, causing a scandal. Beust had earlier dismissed Walter Wellinghausen, senator of the interior and Schill's most important official, without consulting Schill beforehand. This was due to public allegations of misconduct on Wellinghausen's part. In a private conversation, Schill then demanded that Beust take back the dismissal, allegedly using personal threats. Beust then decided to dismiss Schill as well.
In the press conference Schill held minutes after he had heard of his own dismissal, he spoke vaguely of "homosexual relationships", a "flat in an infamous hustler district" and "certain things happened that let one infer the occurrence of love acts" between Beust and Roger Kusch, who Beust had appointed minister (in German city-states "senator") of justice. Beust in turn stated that Schill threatened to make his alleged liaison with Kusch public under the premise that Beust intermingled public and private affairs. He said he had no sexual relationship with Kusch, that they merely knew each other for 25 years and were good friends, and that Beust was Kusch's landlord. "This is all – absolutely all", according to Beust.
His unprepared statement to the press quickly earned Schill an homophobic reputation. A popular radio-station broadcast a song calling him "Mega-Proll" (mega redneck) and gay and lesbian associations protested vocally. Schill however later affirmed Beust's version of the story, except for the accusations of blackmail, saying that he warned Beust to stay clear of nepotism, and that this had nothing to do with Beust's sexual orientation. He stated "I have nothing against homosexuals".
In a later interview, Beust's father confirmed that his son is indeed homosexual. Beust himself considers his sexual orientation a private matter; when asked directly he usually ironically refers the interviewer to his father.
The Hamburg elections of 29 February 2004, ended with an unprecedented landslide victory for Ole von Beust and the CDU, with the party achieving absolute majority in the city-state's parliament. The CDU gained 47.2 percent of the vote, a full 21-point increase from the previous election in September 2001. This was the first time since 1993 the city-state has had only a single ruling party. In the Hamburg elections of 24 February 2008, the CDU gained 42.6 percent of the vote. Thus, the CDU continued to be the strongest party in Hamburg. However, since the CDU lost its absolute majority, it formed a coalition government with the Greens.
On 18 July 2010 Ole von Beust declared his resignation effective 25 August. He was a finalist for the 2010 World Mayor prize.

</doc>
<doc id="291132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291132" title="Category:German nobility">
Category:German nobility


</doc>
<doc id="291134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291134" title="Sunny Day Real Estate">
Sunny Day Real Estate

Sunny Day Real Estate is an American rock band from Seattle, Washington. Sunny Day Real Estate formed in 1992 when they were originally called "Empty Set". The started in 1992 and broke up in 1995 because Goldsmith and Mendel were leaving to join Dave Grohl's band The Foo Fighters. They reunited in 1997 and disbanded again in 2001. They reunited once again in 2009. 

</doc>
<doc id="291138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291138" title="Volbeat">
Volbeat

Volbeat is an Danish heavy metal band from Copenhagen. Volbeat formed in 2000 when singer Michael Poulsen formed a death metal band called Dominus. He became tired of the death metal genre and left the band. He then formed a new band called Volbeat with other members of Dominus. 

</doc>
<doc id="291142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291142" title="Alfred Hershey">
Alfred Hershey

Alfred Day Hershey (December 4, 1908 – May 22, 1997) was an American Nobel Prize-winning bacteriologist and geneticist.
He was born in Owosso, Michigan and received his B.S. in chemistry at Michigan State University in 1930 and his Ph.D. in bacteriology in 1934, taking a position shortly thereafter at the Department of Bacteriology at Washington University in St. Louis.
He began doing experiments with bacteriophages with Italian-American Salvador Luria and German Max Delbrück in 1940. He found that when two different strains of bacteriophage have infected the same bacteria, the two viruses may exchange genetic information.
He moved with his wife Harriet to Cold Spring Harbor, New York, in 1950 to join the Carnegie Institution for Science's Department of Genetics. There he performed the famous Hershey-Chase blender experiment with Martha Chase in 1952. This experiment provided additional evidence that DNA, not protein, was the genetic material.
He became director of the Carnegie Institution in 1962 and was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1969, shared with Luria and Delbrück for their discovery on the replication of viruses and their genetic structure.

</doc>
<doc id="291152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291152" title="Blues Hall of Fame">
Blues Hall of Fame

The Blues Hall of Fame is a list of people who are important in the development of blues music. The Hall is part of the Blues Foundation, and honors people who have performed, recorded, or documented blues.
Non Performers :
Non Performers:
Non Performers:
Non Performer:
Non Performers:
Non Performers:
Non Performer:
Non Performers:
Non Performer:
Non Performer:
Non Performer:
Non Performer:
Non-Performers:
Non-Performers:
Non-Performers:
Non-Performers:
Non-Performers:
Non-Performers:

</doc>
<doc id="291155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291155" title="Night terror">
Night terror

A night terror, also known as a sleep terror, is a sleep disorder that causes extreme terror and a temporary inability to regain full consciousness. The person having the night terror wakes up suddenly, usually gasping, moaning, or screaming while waking. It is often impossible to wake up the person fully because they are so concentrated on waking, and after the terror the subject normally settles back to sleep without waking. A night terror can rarely be recalled by the subject. They typically occur during non-rapid eye movement sleep.

</doc>
<doc id="291156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291156" title="Category:Football stadiums in Austria">
Category:Football stadiums in Austria


</doc>
<doc id="291160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291160" title="Category:Football stadiums in South Africa">
Category:Football stadiums in South Africa


</doc>
<doc id="291166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291166" title="David Hubel">
David Hubel

David Hunter Hubel (February 27, 1926 September 22, 2013) was a Professor of Neurobiology Emeritus at Harvard Medical School. 
Hubel was co-recipient with Torsten Wiesel of the 1981 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for their discoveries about information processing in the visual system. The prize was shared with Roger Sperry for his independent research on the cerebral hemispheres. 
Hubel died of renal failure.
Hubel and Wiesel received the Nobel Prize for two major contributions: 
In one experiment, done in 1959, they inserted a microelectrode into the primary visual cortex of an anesthetized cat. They then projected patterns of light and dark on a screen in front of the cat. They found that some neurons fired rapidly when presented with lines at one angle, while others responded best to another angle. Some of these neurons responded differently to light patterns than to dark patterns. Hubel and Wiesel called these neurons 'simple cells'.
Still other neurons, which they called 'complex cells', detected edges regardless of how they were placed in the visual field, and could detect motion in certain directions. These studies showed how the visual system constructs complex pictures of visual information from simple stimulus features.
They did important work in the study of cortical plasticity (flexibility).
By depriving kittens from using one eye, they showed that columns in the primary visual cortex receiving inputs from the other eye took over the areas that would normally receive input from the deprived eye.
These kittens did not develop areas receiving input from both eyes, a feature needed for binocular vision. Hubel and Wiesel's experiments showed that ocular dominance (dominance of one eye is normal) develops early in childhood development, and cannot be reversed. Several childhood vision problems were understood better after this work. 

</doc>
<doc id="291180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291180" title="Red Bull Arena (Harrison)">
Red Bull Arena (Harrison)

The Red Bull Arena is a football stadium in Harrison, New Jersey in the United States. It is the homeground of New York Red Bulls, a team playing in the MLS (Major League Soccer), the highest league in American soccer.
The construction started in 2006, but through differences of the clubowner and the state of New Jersey there was a delay. After the buying of the former Metro Stars by the Red Bull Company the stadium was opened on March 20th, 2010 with a friendly match of the NY Red Bulls versus FC Santos from Brazil. One week later the first leaguematch was held in the new stadium versus Chicago Fire. The stadium has 30 luxury suites and 1,000 premium seats. The design is customized to the design of the owner company, Red Bull.

</doc>
<doc id="291182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291182" title="Category:Football stadiums in the United States">
Category:Football stadiums in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="291188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291188" title="Roger Sperry">
Roger Sperry

Roger Wolcott Sperry (August 20, 1913 – April 17, 1994) was an American neurobiologist and Nobel Prize winner. 
He shared the 1981 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with David Hubel and Torsten Wiesel. In 1989, Sperry also received the National Medal of Science.
Before Sperry's experiments, some research evidence seemed to indicate that areas of the cerebral cortex were largely interchangeable. In his early experiments, Sperry showed that the opposite was true: after early development, circuits of the brain are largely hardwired. That is, they are set with a particular function.
Sperry's work was on 'split-brain' research. In his Nobel-winning work, Sperry tested ten patients who had undergone an operation developed in 1940 by William Van Wagenen, a neurosurgeon in Rochester, NY. 
The surgery, designed to treat epileptics with "grand mal" seizures, severed (cut) the corpus callosum, the area of the brain used to transfer signals between the right and left hemispheres. 
Sperry and his colleagues tested these patients with tasks that were known to be dependent on specific hemispheres of the brain and demonstrated that the two halves of the brain may each contain consciousness. In his words, each hemisphere is
This research contributed greatly to understanding how each cerebral hemisphere works. 
Some activities, such as naming objects or putting blocks together in a particular way, can only be done when using one side of the brain or the other. It seems the left hemisphere usually specializes in language processes and the right is dominant in visual-construction tasks.

</doc>
<doc id="291208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291208" title="Machair (TV series)">
Machair (TV series)

Machair was a Scottish Gaelic television soap opera produced by Scottish Television Enterprises between August 1992 and September 1998.
"Machair" was written in English and translated into Gaelic, then given English subtitles and broadcast during primetime. At first, critics thought this process would not work, but when the show aired it got lots of praise from reviewers. Kenneth Roy, television critic of Scotland on Sunday, described it as "A credit to the company (Scottish Television) and a smack in the face to those of us who were doubtful" and after a few episodes said "It is even better than it looked at first glance quite simply the best thing to have happened to television in Scotland for a long time." Audiences liked the show too. "Machair" got 30% audience share and made it into the Top Ten of programmes viewed in Scotland, even though fewer than 2% of the Scottish population can speak Gaelic. It was nominated for awards for production and writing from "The Celtic Film Festival" and Writers Guild of Great Britain.

</doc>
<doc id="291209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291209" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Omg wtf lol">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Omg wtf lol


</doc>
<doc id="291210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291210" title="Oil refinery">
Oil refinery

An oil refinery or petroleum refinery is an industrial plant where crude oil is made into useful petroleum products by distillation and other processs. Products include gasoline, diesel fuel, asphalt base, heating oil, kerosene, and liquefied petroleum gas.

</doc>
<doc id="291211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291211" title="IP Phone">
IP Phone

An IP Phone is a VoIP-based telephone service. Because it uses the internet instead of a phone company, call costs are often lower.

</doc>
<doc id="291213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291213" title="List of Rugrats episodes">
List of Rugrats episodes

The following is a list of episodes from the American animated series "Rugrats". The first episode aired on Sunday March 16, 1997. The first three seasons aired between 1997 and 1999. The series returned with two Jewish holiday specials in March 1998 and October 1998. From 1999 to 2005, the series began airing regular episodes again. "Rugrats" and Nickelodeon aired the Tenth Anniversary special "All Growed Up" on September 18, 2001, recognizing the day the series officially began as one of the original three Nicktoons. "Rugrats" ended on Tuesday June 28, 2005, along with fellow Nicktoon "Hey Arnold!". As of December 2010, "Rugrats" reruns still air sometimes on Nickelodeon's main channel as well as Nicktoons. There are 170 episodes, three movies, and two direct-to-DVD specials as of October 6, 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="291218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291218" title="American Express">
American Express

The American Express Company, is a financial company which today is best known for its credit card business. Sometimes called Amex cards, these credit cards make up nearly a quarter of all credit card transactions in the USA.
Since 1958 the company's mascot has been a Roman gladiator.
When the American Express Company was founded in 1850 it was an “express business”. This meant that it was a private company whose business was to carry money, packages or valuable things from one place to another. The US Postal Service had only recently begun. They delivered letters, but not large parcels. This is why some people started small “express businesses”. An express messenger would carry money in a money bag. He would travel by train or stagecoach. The trains were very slow and often came off the rails. The stagecoaches travelled on terrible roads which were much too bumpy for the horses to trot. It was a time when many people were going to California and other areas in the west of the US. There was a lot of demand for money to be transferred from one part of the country to another. This is why the American Express company was started.
Two very important people in the express business at the time were Henry Wells and William G. Fargo. They had formed a partnership in 1844. When the American Express was formed its headquarters were in a building in Manhattan, New York. Three other companies merged to form the new company. They soon bought several other buildings nearby to use as stables for their horses. For many years it was the most successful company transporting goods, securities, money etc. (these were called “express shipments”). In 1874 the American Express moved its headquarters to 65 Broadway in the financial district of Manhattan. It has been there ever since.
Gradually American Express began to focus their attention on banks and other big financial groups because they found the American Express very reliable and paid them good money for their services. The American Express gradually changed to be a financial company. In the late 1890s they started to compete with the banks by issuing money orders. They had big offices in London, Paris, Antwerp, Zurich and Berlin.
By 1890 the company needed a new building, so they pulled down the old building and built a new ten-story building in its place. By 1903, the company had assets of about $28 million. In 1916-17 a new building was constructed. It was made of concrete and steel and was shaped like an H. This building was sold in 1975.
When their director J. C. Fargo travelled to Europe around 1890 he found it very difficult to get cash. He was very annoyed, because he was carrying with him letters of credit, and he felt that, as president of the American Express, it should have been no problem. Fargo went to Marcellus Flemming Berry and asked him to invent a better way getting cash. Berry invented the Traveler's Cheque. The traveler’s cheque was a very safe way of getting cash from a bank when travelling. The American Express Traveller’s Cheque, started in 1891, was to be used worldwide for nearly a century, when credit cards took over. Traveler's cheques made the American Express a great international company.
In 1914, when World War I started, many people who happened to be travelling could not get at their money, but American Express offices in Europe were among the few companies to honor the letters of credit so that the American tourists could get money to travel back home.
The war made the American Express enter the travel business. In 1922 they provided a luxury steamship to take tourists round the world. The traveler’s cheque business made them hugely successful for many years.
The idea of a charge card for travel was discussed as early as 1946 but it was not until 1958 that the American Express introduced their first cards. The early ones were paper. In 1959 plastic cards were introduced.
In 1966, American Express introduced the Gold Card and in 1984 the Platinum Card. The Platinum Card had a $250 annual fee (today it is $450). It was only offered to trusted customers. Today customers can apply for it.
In 1987, American Express introduced a credit card, known as the Optima card. Customers did not have to pay in full every month. They could now wait to pay later.
From early 1980s until the early 1990s, American Express offered merchants and restaurants a discount if they accepted only American Express and no other credit or charge cards. However, in 1991, several restaurants in Boston started accepting Visa and MasterCards, even encouraging their customers to use them. These cards had a much lower fee than American Express fees, which at the time charged 4% for each transaction. Some restaurants even stopped accepting American Express cards. This revolt was called the “Boston Fee Party” (a pun on the name “Boston Tea Party”). In the end the American Express decided to reduce their charges.
The director of the American Express is Kenneth Chenault. The American Express continues to be one of the world’s biggest financial companies.

</doc>
<doc id="291220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291220" title="Traveler's cheque">
Traveler's cheque

A traveler's cheque (also traveller's cheque, travellers cheque, traveller's check or traveler's check) is a preprinted cheque for a fixed amount. The person who buys it must sign it and then sign it again when he "cashes" it. It is a good way for a traveller to take money when going on holiday. If a traveler's cheque is stolen it can be replaced so long as the person still has a receipt to prove that he bought it.
Traveler's cheques were a large part of the business of American Express. Since 2005 the American Express have been issuing "American Express Travelers Cheque Cards". These can be used in stores like a credit card.

</doc>
<doc id="291226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291226" title="Catscratch">
Catscratch

Catscratch is a cartoon television show that aired on Nickelodeon and Nicktoons Network from 2005 to 2007. 

</doc>
<doc id="291231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291231" title="Nabarlek">
Nabarlek

The Nabarlek ("Petrogale concinna") is a small marsupial, also known as the Pygmy Rock-wallaby or the Little Rock-wallaby, a type of wallaby from northern Australia. Nabarleks are small kangaroos. They can hop and jump with their powerful legs, and balance on their long tail.

</doc>
<doc id="291236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291236" title="Mathias Grünewald">
Mathias Grünewald

Mathias Grünewald (born between 1475 and 1480 in Würzburg, died 31 August 1528) was a German painter and artist. Today he is seen as one of the important German artists of the Renaissance. His real name was "Mathias Gothart" or "Mathias Neidhardt", his first name is also spelled "Mathis". Sometimes he is called Mathias of Aschaffenburg. Today, only ten paintings and 35 drawings survive. At first many of his works were attributed to Albrecht Dürer, even though Dürer's style of paining is completely different. All the surviving works have religious motifs.

</doc>
<doc id="291247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291247" title="American Airlines Center">
American Airlines Center

The American Airlines Center (also known as the AAC) is a multi-purpose arena. It is in the Victory Park neighborhood, near downtown Dallas, Texas. It is currently used by the Dallas Stars, Dallas Mavericks and, Dallas Vigilantes. It is also used for concerts and entertainment.

</doc>
<doc id="291253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291253" title="Category:Articles containing Danish language text">
Category:Articles containing Danish language text


</doc>
<doc id="291258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291258" title="Category:Articles containing Middle High German language text">
Category:Articles containing Middle High German language text


</doc>
<doc id="291265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291265" title="Torsten Wiesel">
Torsten Wiesel

Torsten Nils Wiesel (born June 3, 1924) is a Swedish neuroscientist. 
He and David Hubel won the 1981 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, for their discoveries of information processing in the visual system. The prize was shared with Roger Sperry for his independent research on the cerebral hemispheres.
After serving as president of the Rockefeller University, he is now director of the Shelby White and Leon Levy Center for Mind, Brain and Behavior at the same institution. He is also an advisor to several countries and organizations, mainly helping young scientists do research. He is a member of the President's Council of University of the People.

</doc>
<doc id="291267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291267" title="Yi-junyong">
Yi-junyong

Yi junyong (or Lee Junyong, , hanja: , June 25 1870 - March 22, 1918) was a Korean politician. He was a member of the Joseon Dynasty royal family. He was the grandson of Heungseon Daewangun, and elder nephew of Emperor Kojong of the Korean empire. He was rival of his uncle Kojong 1874 to 1907. His title was 'Prince Youngseon' ().

</doc>
<doc id="291277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291277" title="Keine Sorgen Arena">
Keine Sorgen Arena

The Keine Sorgen Arena ("Don´t worry arena") is a football stadium in Ried, Austria. It is the homeground of SV Ried. The stadium is named after a slogan used by one sponsor of SV Ried, an upper Austrian insurance company.
The stadium replaced the former stadium of SV Ried which had only 1 100 places and was a multipurpose stadium with a running track. The new stadium is only used for football and has 7 700 seats of whom 120 are a VIP-area. The weststand and the awaystand offer only standingroom.

</doc>
<doc id="291287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291287" title="Barbara McClintock">
Barbara McClintock

Barbara McClintock (June 16, 1902 – September 2, 1992) was an American biologist. She was a distinguished cytogeneticist who worked on inheritance in maize. McClintock was awarded the 1983 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.
McClintock got her PhD in botany from Cornell University in 1927. Maize cytogenetics was the focus of her research for the rest of her career.
From the late 1920s, McClintock studied chromosomes and how they change during reproduction in maize. She used microscopic analysis to show genetic recombination by crossing-over during meiosis—a mechanism by which chromosomes exchange information.
She produced the first genetic map for maize, and demonstrated the role of the telomere and centromere. These are regions of the chromosome that are important in preserving genetic information.
She was recognized amongst the best in the field, awarded prestigious fellowships, and elected a member of the National Academy of Sciences in 1944.
During the 1940s and 1950s, McClintock discovered transposition and used it to show how genes are responsible for turning physical characteristics on or off. She developed theories to explain the control of genetic information from one generation of maize plants to the next. Encountering skepticism of her research and its implications, she stopped publishing her data in 1953. Later, she made an extensive study of the cytogenetics of maize races from South America.
McClintock's research became well understood in the 1960s and 1970s, as researchers discovered the mechanisms behind the genetic change and gene regulation that she had shown in her maize research in the 1940s and 1950s.
Awards and recognition for her contributions to the field followed for the discovery of transposons; she is the only woman to receive an unshared Nobel Prize in the category 'Physiology or Medicine'.
In the summer of 1944 at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, McClintock began systematic studies on the inheritance of colour patterns of maize seeds. In early 1948, she made the surprising discovery that two genetic loci, "Dissociator" and "Activator" could transpose, or change position, on the chromosomes.
McClintock also found that the transposition of "Ds" and the is determined by the number of "Ac" copies in the cell.
Between 1948 and 1950, she developed a theory: these mobile elements regulated genes by inhibiting or modulating their action. She referred to "Dissociator" and "Activator" as "controlling units"—later, as "controlling elements"—to distinguish them from genes.
She suggested that gene regulation could explain how complex multicellular organisms made of cells with identical genomes have cells of different function. McClintock's discovery challenged the concept of the genome as a static set of instructions passed between generations.
In 1950, she reported her work on "Ac/Ds" and her ideas about gene regulation in a paper. In summer 1951, when she reported on her work on gene mutability in maize at the annual symposium at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory.
Her work on controlling elements and gene regulation was difficult and was not immediately understood or accepted by her contemporaries; she described the reception of her research as "puzzlement, even hostility". Nevertheless, McClintock continued to develop her ideas on controlling elements. She published a paper in 1953 where she presented all her statistical data, and undertook lecture tours to universities throughout the 1950s to speak about her work. She continued to investigate the problem and identified a new element that she called "Suppressor-mutator" ("Spm"), which, although similar to "Ac/Ds", displays more complex behavior.

</doc>
<doc id="291297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291297" title="PKN Orlen">
PKN Orlen

Polski Koncern Naftowy ORLEN S.A. (PKN Orlen) is a Polish oil and gas company. It has a lot of petrol stations in Poland, Germany, Czech Republic, Lithuania and Slovakia. It is the biggest company in Poland and one of the biggest oil and gas companies in Europe.
PKN Orlen was founded in People's Repubic of Poland.In 1999 it was privatized.

</doc>
<doc id="291299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291299" title="Richard Roberts">
Richard Roberts

Sir Richard John Roberts FRS (born 6 September 1943, Derby) is a British biochemist and molecular biologist. 
He was awarded the 1993 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Phillip Sharp for "the discovery that genes in eukaryotes are not contiguous strings but contain introns, and that the splicing of messenger RNA to delete those introns can occur in different ways, yielding different proteins from the same DNA sequence".
Roberts has worked at Harvard University, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory and New England Biolab. He was knighted in the 2008 Birthday Honours.
It used to be thought that each gene on DNA coded for a single protein in a continuous strip. Roberts and Sharp independently found out that the genes in adenovirus (which causes the common cold), were split into segments that were combined later in RNA processing. 
In 1997 Roberts proved that in the adenovirus coding DNA is separated by stretches of DNA which are non-coding. The coding sections are exons, and the non-coding sections are introns. 
Furthermore, it turned out that this structure occurs in all higher organisms. The discovery that a gene in could be present in the genetic material as several distinct and separate segments was revolutionary.
The second part of Robert's work was in gene-splitting and gene splicing. This means to cut pieces out of, and add pieces to, a coding sequence. This creates a protein which works differently from the original version. This is now used in genetic engineering.
This kind of structure may allow more flexible responses to environmental change, and so speed up evolution. The structure may also be responsible for a number of inherited genetic defects.
Here's a key part of the Nobel presentation speech by Professor Bertil Daneholt of the Nobel Assembly of the Karolinska Institute:

</doc>
<doc id="291302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291302" title="Asseco">
Asseco

Asseco Poland S.A. is a Polish company in the technology sector, the biggest in Warsaw Stock Exchange.
It was founded in 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="291315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291315" title="Etta Baker">
Etta Baker

Etta Baker (March 31, 1913 – September 23, 2006) was an American blues guitarist and singer from North Carolina, United States. She played in the Piedmont blues style.
Baker was born as Etta Lucille Reid in Caldwell County, North Carolina of African American, Native American, and European American origin. Since the age of three she played 6- and 12-string guitar and Banjo. She was thought by her father, who was also a Piedmont blues musician. She did her first recording in 1956, when folk singer Paul Clayton was asked by her father to listen to his daughter. She played "One Dime Blues" and Clayton was very impressed. Next day he did some recordings with his taperecorder in Etta Bakers home.
Over the years she played with different musicians like Bob Dylan, Taj Mahal, and Kenny Wayne Shepherd. Etta Baker had nine children, one of them died in the Vietnam War. She died at the age of 93 in Fairfax, Virginia, while visiting a daughter who had suffered a stroke.

</doc>
<doc id="291316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291316" title="Susumu Tonegawa">
Susumu Tonegawa

Susumu Tonegawa (born 6 September 1939) is a Japanese scientist who won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1987.
He discovered the genetic mechanism that produces antibody diversity. Although he won the Nobel Prize for his work in immunology, Tonegawa is a molecular biologist by training. In his later years, he has turned his attention to the molecular and cellular basis of memory.
Tonegawa is best known for elucidating the genetic mechanism in the adaptive immune system. If each antibody was coded by one gene, it would take millions of genes to protect against antigens. 
Instead, as Tonegawa showed in a landmark series of experiments beginning in 1976, genetic material can rearrange itself to form the vast array of available antibodies. The main mechanism is called RNA splicing.
Antibodies have a 'variable region' in their structure. Tonegawa compared the DNA of B cells (a type of white blood cell) in embryonic and adult mice. He found that genes in the mature B cells of the adult mice are moved around, recombined, and deleted to make the many versions of the variable region of antibodies.
The critical work was started in Basle, Switzerland, and later at MIT. "Our work resolved the long held debate on the genetic origin of antibody diversity. It turned out that this diversity is generated by somatic recombination of the inherited gene segments and by somatic mutation".

</doc>
<doc id="291319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291319" title="Wikipedia:AutoEd/core.js">
Wikipedia:AutoEd/core.js

//

</doc>
<doc id="291325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291325" title="Edexcel">
Edexcel

Edexcel is a UK examination board. It is one of England, Wales and Northern Ireland's five main examination boards. Edexcel is owned by the private-sector Pearson PLC. The company offers many qualifications including A levels and GCSEs. Edexcel's name is from the words "education" and "excellence".

</doc>
<doc id="291333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291333" title="Chamber pot">
Chamber pot

A chamber pot (also a chamberpot), a piss pot, a potty, or a thunder pot) is a container with a handle, usually used as a urinal at night. It is kept in a bedroom under a bed or in a nightstand.
During Victorian times, some chamber pots were built into a cabinet with a closeable cover. 
The chamber pot was originally designed for females. Called the "Bourdaloue", it allowed women to urinate squatting or sitting without accidents. It was supposedly named after the French Catholic priest Louis Bourdaloue, whose sermon were so long that women brought "Bourdaloue" so they could urinate without having to leave.
In the 19th century, water closets started to be more common than chamber pots, but chamber pots were still used until the mid-20th century. Today, they are used in countries that have no indoor plumbing.
In North America and the UK, "potty" refer to the toilets made especially for potty training. These toilets are similar to chamber pots.
In the Philippines, chamber pots are used as urinals and are commonly called "Arinola" in Philippine languages like Tagalog and Cebuano.
In Korea, chamber pots are referred to as yogang (요강). Currently, they are still used in some country regions in the North.

</doc>
<doc id="291344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291344" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/GWS (TV Show)">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/GWS (TV Show)


</doc>
<doc id="291363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291363" title="SimCity 2000">
SimCity 2000

SimCity 2000 is a city building computer game released in 1994. It is the sequel to "SimCity". It had a lot of new things such as more power plants, hills and mountains, subways, water pipes, prisons, schools, libraries, museums, and hospitals. There were also roads, highways, and other buildings.
The game also had different scenarios.

</doc>
<doc id="291366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291366" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Cryoshell">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Cryoshell


</doc>
<doc id="291369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291369" title="Jonathan Dickinson State Park">
Jonathan Dickinson State Park

Jonathan Dickinson State Park is a Florida State Park and historic site in Martin County, Florida, between Hobe Sound and Tequesta. The park has many kinds of areas, such as sand pine scrub, pine flatwoods, mangroves, and river swamps. The Loxahatchee River, which was named a National Wild and Scenic River in 1985 (the first in Florida), runs through the park. The address is 16450 S.E. Federal Highway, Hobe Sound.
The park is named after Jonathan Dickinson, a Quaker merchant who was shipwrecked in 1696, with his family and others, on the Florida coast near the present-day park. He wrote a journal about their encounters with local tribes, and their journey up the coast to St. Augustine.
A man known as Trapper Nelson lived on the banks of the Loxahatchee River after coming to the area in the 1930s, living off the land trapping and selling furs. He soon became known as the "Wildman of the Loxahatchee". After he died in 1968 the state got his land, and gave it to the park. 
The United States Army established Camp Murphy, a top-secret radar training school, in the area that is now the park, in 1942. The camp included over 1,000 buildings, and housed more than 6,000 officers and soldiers. The camp stopped being used in 1944, after only two years. Most of the camp buildings were torn down, but some of the building foundations remain. The property was given to the State of Florida in 1947, and opened as a state park in 1950.
The park has such activities as bicycling, boat tours, boating, cabins, canoeing, fishing, hiking, horse trails, kayaking, picnicking areas, swimming, wildlife viewing and full camping facilities. It also has the Elsa Kimbell Environmental Education and Research Center, with exhibits about the park's natural and cultural history. The park operates a 44-passenger boat for tours of Trapper Nelson's homestead.

</doc>
<doc id="291386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291386" title="Phillip Sharp">
Phillip Sharp

Phillip Allen Sharp (born June 6, 1944) is an American geneticist and molecular biologist.
He co-discovered gene splicing, and shared the 1993 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Richard Roberts for "the discovery that genes in eukaryotes are not contiguous strings but contain introns, and that the splicing of pre-messenger RNA to delete those introns can occur in different ways, yielding different proteins from the same DNA sequence".
Sharp was born in Falmouth, Kentucky. He completed his PhD in chemistry at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1969. After completing his PhD he worked at the California Institute of Technology until 1971, where he studied plasmids and, later, gene expression in human cells at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory under James Watson.
In 1974 he was offered a position at MIT by biologist Salvador Luria. He was director of MIT's Center for Cancer Research (now the Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research) from 1985 to 1991; head of the Biology department from 1991 to 1999; and director of the McGovern Institute for Brain Research from 2000 to 2004.
It used to be thought that each gene on DNA coded for a single protein in a continuous strip. In 1997 Sharp and Roberts independently found out that genes were split into segments that were combined later in RNA processing. 
Sharp and Roberts proved that the coding DNA is separated by stretches of DNA which are non-coding. The coding sections are exons, and the non-coding sections are introns. 
Furthermore, it turned out that this structure occurs in all higher organisms. The discovery that a gene in could be present in the genetic material as several distinct and separate segments was revolutionary.
The second part of Sharp's work was in gene-splitting and gene splicing. This means to cut pieces out of, and add pieces to, a coding sequence. This creates a protein which works differently from the original version.
This kind of structure may allow more flexible responses to environmental change, and so speed up evolution. The structure may also be responsible for a number of inherited genetic defects.
Here's a key part of the Nobel presentation speech by Professor Bertil Daneholt of the Nobel Assembly of the Karolinska Institute:

</doc>
<doc id="291389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291389" title="Anti-Comintern Pact">
Anti-Comintern Pact

The Anti-Comintern Pact was a pact between Nazi Germany and the Empire of Japan, which would later joined by more countries, in Berlin on November 25, 1936. It was set up directly against Comintern (Communist International), an organization of the Soviet Union. On November 6, 1937, Italy joined the pact, which would be the start of the Axis Powers.

</doc>
<doc id="291391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291391" title="Reichstag fire">
Reichstag fire

The Reichstag fire () was an arson (setting fire) on the Reichstag building, the meeting place of the German Parliament, in Berlin on 27 February 1933. It was an important event in the creation of Nazi Germany.
A Berlin fire station was called, and by the time the police and firefighters had arrived, most of the building was covered in flames. Inside the building, Marinus van der Lubbe was found. He was a Dutch communist. The Nazis abused it as a proof that communists were beginning a plot against the German government. Van der Lubbe and four other Communist leaders were arrested shortly after that. Adolf Hitler, who had become Chancellor of Germany four weeks before, urged President Paul von Hindenburg to pass an emergency law neglecting rule of law to fight back "the confrontation of the Communist Party of Germany". 
As a result, Enabling Act of 1933 was passed, increasing Hitler's power as dictator and the people had less freedom. Many Communists were arrested, including all the Communist Party members of Parliament. This made the Nazis the majority of the Parliament. Following elections gave Hitler more power. 
More investigation continued. In early March 1933, three men were brought to the court. All of them were senior Bulgarians Comintern agents. 
Historians still have no idea about the planning of the fire or who did it. It is still an ongoing topic of research.

</doc>
<doc id="291394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291394" title="Operation Sea Lion">
Operation Sea Lion

Operation Sea Lion () was the plan to invade the United Kingdom by the Nazis during World War II. The plan began in 1940. However, Germany first had to control the sky and sea of the English Channel before a land invasion. With the German Air Force defeated in the Battle of Britain, the operation was put off on 17 September 1940 and never happened.
The invasion force would have used a varied amount of weapons, developing underwater tanks, the first Jet powered airplane, and a massive underwater army armed with old an innovative Scuba Suits.

</doc>
<doc id="291401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291401" title="Max Perutz">
Max Perutz

Max Ferdinand Perutz FRS OM CBE (19 May 1914 – 6 February 2002) was an Austrian-born British molecular biologist.
He shared the 1962 Nobel Prize in Chemistry with John Kendrew, for their studies of the structures of haemoglobin and globular proteins. The method used was mainly X-ray crystallography.
He went on to win the Royal Medal of the Royal Society in 1971 and the Copley Medal in 1979. At Cambridge he founded and chaired (1962–79) The Medical Research Council Laboratory of Molecular Biology, fourteen of whose scientists have won Nobel Prizes. Perutz's contributions to molecular biology in Cambridge are documented in "The History of the University of Cambridge: Volume 4 (1870 to 1990)" published by the Cambridge University Press in 1992.
Perutz was born in Vienna, Austria. His family was Jewish. He had worked in Cambridge (Peterhouse College) since 1936, and moved to Britain permanently after the Anschluss, the Nazi takeover of Austria. He did his war work in Canada, and returned to Cambridge after the war. Max did some of his most important work after winning the Nobel award, and is still held in the highest esteem.

</doc>
<doc id="291404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291404" title="Battle of Moscow">
Battle of Moscow

The Battle of Moscow (, ) is a name given by Soviet historians to two periods of fighting on a 600 km area of the Eastern Front during World War II. It took place between October 1941 and January 1942. The Soviet defenses made the Germans unable to attack on Moscow, the Soviet capital, which was one of the Axis's primary military and political objectives in the invasion of the Soviet Union.
The German strategic offensive named Operation Typhoon was planned to attack Moscow from the north and south. The Soviets reacted by sending in more reserve from the Far East. Shortly, German attacks were stopped, and the Soviets began counter-attack and forced to push the Axis back.

</doc>
<doc id="291405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291405" title="Second Battle of El Alamein">
Second Battle of El Alamein

The Second Battle of El Alamein was a great turning point in the Western Desert Campaign of the Second World War. The battle lasted from 23 October to 5 November 1942. The First Battle of El Alamein had stopped the Axis from attacking deep into Egypt further. Thereafter, Lieutenant-General Bernard Montgomery took command of the British Eighth Army in August 1942.
The Allied victory turned the tide in the North African Campaign. It ended Axis's hopes of occupying Egypt, taking control of the Suez Canal, and reaching the Middle Eastern oil fields.
The battle forced Erwin Rommel and his Afrika Corps to retreat back to the former French fortifications in the Mareth Line in the border between Tunisia and Libya.

</doc>
<doc id="291407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291407" title="John Kendrew">
John Kendrew

Sir John Cowdery Kendrew CBE FRS (24 March 1917– 23 August 1997) was an English biochemist and crystallographer.
He shared the 1962 Nobel Prize in Chemistry with Max Perutz. Their group in the Cavendish Laboratory was the first to determine the structure of proteins, using X-ray crystallography. He was also a Fellow (teacher) at Peterhouse College in Cambridge.
In what became the MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Kendrew determined the structure of the protein myoglobin, which stores oxygen in muscle cells.
He spent the early months of World War II doing research on radar. In 1940 he became engaged in operational research at the Royal Air Force headquarters, holding the honorary rank of Wing Commander R.A.F.

</doc>
<doc id="291413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291413" title="Chelsea Kane">
Chelsea Kane

Chelsea Kane Staub (born September 15, 1988) is an American actress and singer professionally known as Chelsea Kane since December 2010. She is best known for her role as Stella Malone in the Disney Channel sitcom "Jonas L.A.". She also appeared in the Disney Channel Original Movies, "Minutemen" and "Starstruck". She also co-stars in the Disney Channel animated series, "Fish Hooks".
Kane grew up in Phoenix, Arizona, where she attended Mohave Middle School. She is an alumna of Valley Youth Theatre.
In 2007, she played her first starring role as well as her first theatrical role, in the theatrical motion picture "", as "Meredith Baxter Dimly", the film's primary antagonist. She performs two of the songs on the film's soundtrack.
In 2008, she acted in one of the Disney Channel Original Movies "Minutemen" as "Stephanie Jameson", which aired on Disney Channel in January 2008. She will be in the Jonas Brothers' brand new Disney Channel series "JONAS" as "Stella Malone", the boys' stylist and childhood best friend. She also has a song written about her performed by The Summer Set.

</doc>
<doc id="291416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291416" title="Common marmoset">
Common marmoset

The common marmoset ("Callithrix jacchus") is a very small New World monkey that lives in Brazil. Marmosets can found in many forest habitats. Common marmosets eat gum, sap, latex, and resin from trees the most out of all the members of the "Callithrix" family. 
A common group of marmosets is made up of 15 members, but usually has nine members. Common marmosets have a complex mating system. In a group of marmosets, there will usually be one or two females that will have babies and one male to be the father. The females are usually closely related, while the male is distantly related. If the male dies, the group will break up and form new groups. When marmosets get older, they leave the group they were raised with. It is not known why.
To show fear or submission, marmosets flatten their ear-tufts close to their heads. Marmoset alarm calls tend to be brief and high-pitched. Marmosets monitor and find group members with calls called "trills".

</doc>
<doc id="291421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291421" title="Intron">
Intron

An intron is a non-coding sequence in a gene.
It is any nucleotide sequence within a gene that is removed by RNA splicing to get the final RNA product of a gene. The term "intron" refers to both the DNA sequence within a gene, and the corresponding sequence in RNA transcripts. 
Sequences of coding DNA which are joined together in the final RNA after RNA splicing are exons. They code for amino acids in the final polypeptide.
Introns are in the genes of most organisms and many viruses. They can be in a wide range of genes, including those that generate proteins, ribosomal RNA (rRNA), and transfer RNA (tRNA). RNA splicing takes place after transcription and before translation.
The discovery of introns led to the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1993 for Phillip Sharp and Richard Roberts. The term "intron" was introduced by American biochemist Walter Gilbert.
There are many unanswered questions about introns. It is unclear whether introns serve some specific function, or whether they are selfish DNA which reproduces itself as a parasite.
Recent studies of entire eukaryotic genomes have now shown that the lengths and density (introns/gene) of introns varies considerably between related species. There are four or five different kinds of intron. Some introns represent mobile genetic elements (transposons).
Alternative splicing of introns within a gene allows a variety of protein isoforms from a single gene. Thus multiple related proteins can be generated from a single gene and a single precursor mRNA transcript. The control of alternative RNA splicing is performed by complex network of signalling molecules. In humans, ~95% of genes with more than one exon are alternatively spliced.

</doc>
<doc id="291427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291427" title="Lake Clarke Shores, Florida">
Lake Clarke Shores, Florida

Lake Clarke Shores is a town in Palm Beach County, Florida, United States. The population was 3,451 at the 2000 census. , the population recorded by the U.S. Census Bureau is 3,475.
Lake Clarke Shores is next to the cities of West Palm Beach and Lake Worth. The Village of Palm Springs is west of the town. The town is roughly bounded by Interstate 95 to the east, Florida Mango Road to the west, Summit Boulevard to the north, except for the Lake Patrick neighborhood, and 10th Avenue North to the south, except for the Waterside neighborhood. 
Lake Clarke Shores is located at (26.645644, -80.075379). According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of 1.0 square miles (2.7 km²). 1.0 square miles (2.5 km²) of it is land and 0.1 square miles (0.2 km²) of it (7.62%) is water.
As of the census of 2000, there were 3,451 people, 1,407 households, and 1,029 families living in the town. The population density was 3,538.9 people per square mile (1,359.6/km²). There were 1,462 housing units at an average density of 1,499.2 per square mile (576.0/km²). The racial makeup of the town was 93.16% White (77.8% were Non-Hispanic White,) 1.04% African American, 0.23% Native American, 1.94% Asian, 0.03% Pacific Islander, 2.46% from other races, and 1.13% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 18.52% of the population.
There were 1,407 households out of which 25.2% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 62.5% were married couples living together, 8.0% had a female householder with no husband present, and 26.8% were people who were not related. 21.0% of all households were made up of people living alone and 8.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.45 and the average family size was 2.82.
In the town the population was spread out with 18.8% under the age of 18, 5.9% from 18 to 24, 27.1% from 25 to 44, 29.6% from 45 to 64, and 18.5% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 44 years. For every 100 females there were 98.9 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 95.3 males.
The median income for a household in the town was $61,328, and the median income for a family was $71,641. Males had a median income of $48,000 versus $33,774 for females. The per capita income for the town was $31,526. About 2.3% of families and 4.0% of the population were below the poverty line, including 5.8% of those under age 18 and 3.2% of those age 65 or over.
As of 2000, speakers of English as a first language accounted for 84.76% of all residents, while Spanish was the mother tongue of 15.23% of the population.
As of 2000, Lake Clarke Shores had the forty-first highest percentage of Cuban residents in the US, with 10.08% of the town's population.

</doc>
<doc id="291431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291431" title="List of busiest Amtrak stations">
List of busiest Amtrak stations

This article lists the 25 busiest Amtrak stations in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="291433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291433" title="Sacramento (disambiguation)">
Sacramento (disambiguation)

Sacramento may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="291435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291435" title="New Haven (disambiguation)">
New Haven (disambiguation)

New Haven may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="291438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291438" title="Harrisburg">
Harrisburg

Harrisburg may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="291439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291439" title="Flagler County, Florida">
Flagler County, Florida

Flagler County, in Florida, United States, was created in 1917. It was named for Henry Morrison Flagler, a famous railroad builder who built the Florida East Coast Railway.
In 1998, when two brush fires threatened to become one huge brush fire in Flagler County, a mandatory evacuation was ordered for the entire county. This was the first and so far the only time a whole county was evacuated in Florida. Flagler is also a sports town. Three Flagler baseball teams have made it to the State Tournament in the last 2 years.
According to the 2000 census, the county has a total area of , of which (or 84.97%) is land and (or 15.03%) is water.
As of the census of 2000, there were 49,832 people, 21,294 households, and 15,672 families living in the county. The population density was 103 people per square mile (40/km²). There were 24,452 housing units at an average density of 50 per square mile (19/km²). The racial makeup of the county was 87.27% White, 8.83% Black or African American, 0.27% Native American, 1.17% Asian, 0.02% Pacific Islander, 0.96% from other races, and 1.47% from two or more races. 5.09% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race. 90.1% spoke English, 5.0% Spanish and 1.2% German as their first language.
1.8% of the population identified themselves as being of non-Hispanic West Indian Ancestry.
In 2000 there were 21,294 households out of which 21.10% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 62.80% were married couples living together, 8.10% had a female householder with no husband present, and 26.40% were not related. 21.60% of all households were made up of people living alone and 12.00% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.32 and the average family size was 2.67.
In the county the population was spread out with 17.90% under the age of 18, 4.80% from 18 to 24, 20.30% from 25 to 44, 28.30% from 45 to 64, and 28.60% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 50 years. For every 100 females there were 92.10 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 89.90 males.
The median income for a household in the county was $40,214, and the median income for a family was $45,625. Males had a median income of $31,184 versus $24,865 for females. The per capita income for the county was $21,879. About 6.70% of families and 8.70% of the population were below the poverty line, including 15.70% of those under age 18 and 4.40% of those age 65 or over.
Flagler county was ranked the fastest-growing county in the nation by the US Census Bureau from 2000 to 2005, with a 53.3% change, with a July 1, 2005 population estimate at 76,410.
Because the demographics of the county are changing quickly, Flagler County is often an unpredictable county in presidential and other elections, although the general trend has been towards the Democratic party in recent years.
Flagler County Public Schools enroll about 13,000 students. It includes two public high schools: Flagler Palm Coast and Matanzas High School. The county also has 5 elementary schools and 2 middle schools.
Flagler county schools are:

</doc>
<doc id="291443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291443" title="Davis">
Davis

Davis may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="291449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291449" title="David McAllister">
David McAllister

David James "Mac" McAllister (born 12 January 1971) is a German politician of the conservative Christian Democratic Union (CDU). On 1 July 2010 he was elected Minister-President of the state of Lower Saxony, succeeding Christian Wulff, who resigned following his election as President of Germany. Until 2013, McAllister headed a coalition government with the liberal FDP, the Cabinet McAllister. In 2013, he was succeeded by Social Democrat Stephan Weil.
A lawyer by profession, he has been the chairman of the CDU parliamentary group in the Landtag of Lower Saxony from 2003 to 2010 and was elected chairman of the state party from 2008 until 2016. From 2010 until 2013, he was also a member of the supervisory board of Volkswagen.
McAllister is of German and Scottish descent, and he leads a state that has historic ties to Britain, as the old Kingdom of Hanover makes up parts of the state and the state capital is Hanover City.
McAllister was born in West Berlin on 12 January 1971 to a Scottish father and a German mother. His father, James Buchanan McAllister, was a British civil servant, originally from Glasgow (where the family still has relatives). He had been stationed in West Berlin since 1969, attached to the Royal Corps of Signals. His mother, Mechthild McAllister, is a music teacher. David McAllister was raised bilingual (speaking English and German) and attended a British primary school in Berlin.
After his parents moved to the small town of Bad Bederkesa in Lower Saxony in 1982, he went to the Lower Saxon "Internatsgymnasium" (boarding school) in Bederkesa, where he took his Abitur in 1989. From 1989 till 1991, McAllister served as a soldier in the Bundeswehr, in Panzerbataillon 74 in Cuxhaven. From 1991–96 he studied law with a scholarship of the Konrad Adenauer Foundation at the University of Hanover. In 1994, McAllister became local chairman of the Junge Union, the CDU youth organisation, in the Cuxhaven district. 
David McAllister is both a German and a British citizen, but says that he is "more or less completely German. I've lived in Germany all my life. I did all my school in Germany and my military service in Germany." His upbringing in West Berlin, however, he describes as "very British" with "British network, British schools". Holding dual citizenship, he could have relinquished his German citizenship to avoid compulsory military service in Germany (the UK does not have compulsory military service), but opted to serve instead.
McAllister has said that "my upbringing in West Berlin may have had an impact on my resentment towards communists. I became a member of the CDU when I was 17 – it was a birthday present. My parents said, ‘What do you want for your birthday?’ I said I wanted to become a member of the CDU", explaining that his father was a Conservative, although none of his parents were involved in party politics.
From 1996 till 2010, McAllister was a member of the Cuxhaven district council (Kreistag). He served as mayor of his hometown of Bad Bederkesa from 2001 to 2002. From 2002 to 2003, he also was secretary general of the CDU in Lower Saxony. Since 2003, McAllister has been the leader of the CDU parliamentary party group in the Parliament of Lower Saxony, of which he has been a member since 1998. McAllister succeeded Christian Wulff as party chairman of the CDU in Lower Saxony in June 2008, winning the election by a record margin. In 2016, he was succeeded by Bernd Althusmann. In the United Kingdom, McAllister is a supporter of the Conservative Party.
In 2005, Chancellor Angela Merkel offered him the position of Secretary General of the CDU, but McAllister declined, arguing he did not want to rise too far too fast.
On 4 June 2010, he was chosen by his party to follow Christian Wulff as Minister-President of Lower Saxony, if the latter was to be elected President of Germany on 30 June. After the election of Wulff as President, David McAllister was elected the new Minister-President of Lower Saxony the following day. In 2013, he lost the re-election to Stephan Weil, of the Social Democrats. He was subsequently also appointed to the supervisory board of Volkswagen, the largest company of Lower Saxony and of which the state of Lower Saxony is a major stockholder.
He is married to Dunja McAllister, who is also a lawyer. They have two daughters, Jamie Elizabeth and Mia Louise. He lives in Bad Bederkesa in the district of Cuxhaven.
Proud of his Scottish heritage, McAllister proposed to his wife at Loch Ness, and married in August 2003, wearing a kilt. He later explained it was a family tradition.

</doc>
<doc id="291452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291452" title="Dixie County, Florida">
Dixie County, Florida

Dixie County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. As of 2000, 13,827 people lived there. The U.S. Census Bureau 2005 estimate for the county is 14,647. Its county seat is Cross City, Florida.
Dixie County was created in 1921 from the southern portion of Lafayette County. "Dixie" is a common nickname for the Southern United States.
According to the 2000 census, the county has a total area of , of which (or 81.51%) is land and (or 18.49%) is water.
As of the census of 2008, there were 14,957 people living in Dixie County. In 2000 there were an estimated 5,205 households, and 3,659 families living in the county. The population density was 20 people per square mile (8/km²). There were 7,362 housing units at an average density of 10 per square mile (4/km²). The racial makeup of the county was 88.80% White, 8.98% Black or African American, 0.46% Native American, 0.25% Asian, 0.03% Pacific Islander, 0.45% from other races, and 1.03% from two or more races. 1.80% of the people were Hispanic or Latino of any race.
There were 5,205 households out of which 27.40% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 54.90% were married couples living together, 10.60% had a female householder with no husband present, and 29.70% were non-families. 23.90% of all households were made up of people living alone and 11.60% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.44 and the average family size was 2.87.
In the county the people were spread out with 22.10% under the age of 18, 7.90% from 18 to 24, 26.60% from 25 to 44, 26.20% from 45 to 64, and 17.10% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 41 years. For every 100 females there were 113.90 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 117.20 males.
The median income for a household in the county was $26,082, and the median income for a family was $31,157. Males had a median income of $26,694 versus $17,863 for females. The per capita income for the county was $13,559. About 14.50% of families and 19.10% of the people were below the poverty line, including 23.90% of those under age 18 and 16.10% of those age 65 or over.
In Presidential elections, Dixie County tends to vote Republican, although both Democrat Bill Clinton and Reform Party candidate Ross Perot did very well in 1992 and 1996.

</doc>
<doc id="291463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291463" title="Gadsden County, Florida">
Gadsden County, Florida

Gadsden County is a county in the panhandle of the U.S. state of Florida. As of the 2000 census, 45,087 people lived there. The U.S. Census Bureau 2005 estimate for the county is 46,428 people. Its county seat is Quincy, Florida. Gadsden County is the only majority African American county in Florida. Gadsden county is home to two high schools - West Gadsden High School (a combination of former Chattahoochee High and Greensboro High) on the western edge of Quincy near Greensboro, and East Gadsden High School (a combination of former James A. Shanks High and Havana Northside High) located on Highway 90 East of Quincy.
The county is part of the Tallahassee, Florida Metropolitan Statistical Area.
Gadsden County was created in 1823. It was named for James Gadsden of South Carolina, who served as Andrew Jackson's aide-de-camp in Florida in 1818.
There were once only two high schools that blacks in Gadsden County could attend: Carter-Parramore (which is now a middle school) and Stevens High Schools.
According to the 2000 census, the county has a total area of , of which (or 97.66%) is land and (or 2.34%) is water.
Gadsden County is part of the Tallahassee Metropolitan Statistical Area. Gadsden County is in the Eastern Time Zone. Its western border with Jackson County forms the boundary in this area between the Eastern and Central Time Zones.
Gadsden County is known for being a stronghold of the Democratic Party in north Florida, along with Leon County and Jefferson County to its east, and Alachua County to its southeast. 
Gadsden County is the state's only county with an African American majority population. As of the census of 2000, there were 45,087 people, 15,867 households, and 11,424 families living in the county. The population density was 87 people per square mile (34/km²). There were 17,703 housing units at an average density of 34 per square mile (13/km²). The racial makeup of the county was 57.14% Black or African American, 38.70% White, 0.23% Native American, 0.26% Asian, 0.02% Pacific Islander, 2.76% from other races, and 0.89% from two or more races. 6.17% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race.
There were 15,867 households out of which 32.60% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 44.50% were married couples living together, 22.50% had a female householder with no husband present, and 28.00% were non-families. 23.90% of all households were made up of people living alone and 9.50% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.69 and the average family size was 3.18.
In the county the population was spread out with 26.40% under the age of 18, 9.50% from 18 to 24, 28.90% from 25 to 44, 23.00% from 45 to 64, and 12.20% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 36 years. For every 100 females there were 90.70 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 86.50 males.
The median income for a household in the county was $31,248, and the median income for a family was $36,238. Males had a median income of $27,159 versus $21,721 for females. The per capita income for the county was $14,499. About 16.40% of families and 19.90% of the population were below the poverty line, including 28.50% of those under age 18 and 16.90% of those age 65 or over.

</doc>
<doc id="291467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291467" title="Gulf County, Florida">
Gulf County, Florida

Gulf County is a county in the panhandle of the U.S. state of Florida. As of 2000, 13,332 people lived there. The U.S. Census Bureau 2005 estimate for the county is 13,975. Its county seat is Port St. Joe, Florida.
Gulf County, created in 1925, was named for the Gulf of Mexico. Wewahitchka was its first county seat and the 1927 Gulf County Courthouse is still there. In 1965, the county seat was moved to Port Saint Joe, which under its original name Saint Joseph, had been the site of Florida's first Constitutional Convention in 1838.
According to the 2000 census, the county has a total area of , of which (or 74.48%) is land and (or 25.52%) is water.
Gulf County is one of a few counties in the United States to be in two time zones, Eastern and Central in this case. Other examples include Idaho County, Idaho, and Malheur County, Oregon, having parts in both Mountain and Pacific Time Zones as well as Cherry County, Nebraska which is in both the Mountain and Central Time Zones. 
As of the census of 2000, there were 13,332 people, 4,931 households, and 3,535 families living in the county. The population density was 24 people per square mile (9/km²). There were 7,587 housing units at an average density of 14 per square mile (5/km²). The racial makeup of the county was 79.89% White, 16.94% Black or African American, 0.65% Native American, 0.40% Asian, 0.05% Pacific Islander, 0.53% from other races, and 1.55% from two or more races. 2.03% of the people were Hispanic or Latino of any race.
There were 4,931 households out of which 28.40% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 55.50% were married couples living together, 11.90% had a female householder with no husband present, and 28.30% were not related. 25.50% of all households were made up of people living alone and 11.40% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.42 and the average family size was 2.87.
In the county the people was spread out with 21.70% under the age of 18, 6.80% from 18 to 24, 29.40% from 25 to 44, 26.00% from 45 to 64, and 16.20% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 40 years. For every 100 females there were 114.60 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 116.70 males.
The median income for a household in the county was $30,276, and the median income for a family was $36,289. Males had a median income of $27,539 versus $20,780 for females. The per capita income for the county was $14,449. About 13.70% of families and 16.70% of the people were below the poverty line, including 20.80% of those under age 18 and 14.10% of those age 65 or over.
Gulf County is heavily Democratic. However, the county tends to vote Republican in statewide and national elections. As of November 2008, there are 9074 registered voters, the Democratic Party's 5529 members (61%) hold a large advantage over the Republican Party's 2853 members (31%). 
Republican Steve Southerland represents the county in the US House of Representatives.
Despite remaining a Democratic stronghold, In the 2008 Presidential election John McCain carried the county with 69% of the vote. In 2004, Gulf County re-elected President George W. Bush by a 2 to 1 margin.

</doc>
<doc id="291469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291469" title="Spliceosome">
Spliceosome

A spliceosome is a complex of special RNA and protein subunits. Spliceosomes are amazingly complex molecular machines. They remove introns from a transcribed pre-mRNA segment. This process is generally referred to as splicing.
Each spliceosome is composed of five small nuclear RNAs, (snRNA)s, and more than 50 proteins.

</doc>
<doc id="291471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291471" title="Hamilton County, Florida">
Hamilton County, Florida

Hamilton County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. As of 2000, 13,327 people lived there. The U.S. Census Bureau 2005 estimate for the county is 13,983. Its county seat is Jasper, Florida.
Hamilton County was created in 1827 from portions of Jefferson County. It was named for Alexander Hamilton, first United States Secretary of the Treasury.
According to the 2000 census, the county has a total area of , of which (or 99.14%) is land and (or 0.86%) is water.
The Suwannee River forms the borders it shares with all of the neighboring Florida counties - Suwannee County, Columbia County, and Madison County.
As of the census of 2000, there were 13,327 people, 4,161 households, and 2,995 families living in the county. The population density was 26 people per square mile (10/km²). There were 4,966 housing units at an average density of 10 per square mile (4/km²). The racial makeup of the county was 58.79% White, 37.72% Black or African American, 0.42% Native American, 0.20% Asian, 0.02% Pacific Islander, 1.69% from other races, and 1.17% from two or more races. 6.36% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race.
There were 4,161 households out of which 32.90% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 50.30% were married couples living together, 16.80% had a female householder with no husband present, and 28.00% were not related. 24.10% of all households were made up of people living alone and 9.10% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.60 and the average family size was 3.07.
In the county the population was spread out with 23.50% under the age of 18, 10.80% from 18 to 24, 31.80% from 25 to 44, 22.80% from 45 to 64, and 11.20% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 35 years. For every 100 females there were 135.00 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 145.40 males.
The median income for a household in the county was $25,638, and the median income for a family was $30,677. Males had a median income of $26,999 versus $20,552 for females. The per capita income for the county was $10,562. About 21.70% of families and 26.00% of the population were below the poverty line, including 35.70% of those under age 18 and 16.10% of those age 65 or over.

</doc>
<doc id="291474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291474" title="RNA splicing">
RNA splicing

RNA splicing is a stage in gene transcription. Messenger RNA (mRNA), which transfers the code from DNA to proteins, is built in two stages. 
In the first stage, each gene is translated into a pre-mRNA. Then the exons in pre-mRNAs are joined by splicing, which is done in the spliceosomes. 
This is needed because the gene is split into code sections called exons and non-coding sections called introns. The exons are brought together by splicing.
So, in molecular biology, splicing is a process where introns are removed and exons are joined. This makes the final mRNA. This messenger RNA is then used to produce a correct protein by translation. 
In many cases, the splicing process creates a range of unique proteins by varying the exon composition of the same messenger RNA. This phenomenon is called alternative splicing. Alternative splicing can occur in many ways. Exons can be extended or skipped, or introns can be retained.
Splicing occurs in all the kingdoms or domains of life, however, the extent and types of splicing can be very different between the major divisions. Eukaryotes splice many protein-coding messenger RNAs and some non-coding RNAs. Prokaryotes, on the other hand, splice rarely. Another important difference is that prokaryotes completely lack spliceosomes.
Phillip Sharp and Richard Roberts were awarded the 1993 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for their discovery of introns and the splicing process.
In 1977, work by the Sharp and Roberts labs showed that genes of higher organisms are "split" or present in several distinct segments along the DNA molecule. 
The coding regions of the gene are separated by non-coding DNA which is not involved in protein expression. The non-coding regions, the introns, are cut from the precursor mRNAs in a process Sharp called "splicing". The split gene structure was found to be common to most eukaryotic genes.

</doc>
<doc id="291476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291476" title="Holmes County, Florida">
Holmes County, Florida

Holmes County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. As of 2000, 18,564 people lived there. The U.S. Census Bureau 2005 estimate for the county was 19,264. Its county seat is Bonifay, Florida.
Holmes County was named after an Indian Chief that lived in the area when the land was settled. Holmes County has had three county seats in its history, the first being Cerro Gordo, then Westville, and finally Bonifay. Bonifay has been the county seat since 1905.
Historic places in the county include:
According to the 2000 census, the county has a total area of , of which (or 98.72%) is land and (or 1.28%) is water.
As of the census of 2000, there were 18,564 people, 6,921 households, and 4,893 families living in the county. The population density was 38 people per square mile (15/km²). There were 7,998 housing units at an average density of 17 per square mile (6/km²). The racial makeup of the county was 89.79% White, 6.51% Black or African American, 1.01% Native American, 0.39% Asian, 0.03% Pacific Islander, 0.79% from other races, and 1.48% from two or more races. 1.93% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race.
There were 6,921 households out of which 30.90% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 55.60% were married couples living together, 10.80% had a female householder with no husband present, and 29.30% were not related. 26.10% of all households were made up of people living alone and 12.40% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.43 and the average family size was 2.92.
In the county the population was spread out with 23.10% under the age of 18, 8.80% from 18 to 24, 29.30% from 25 to 44, 24.00% from 45 to 64, and 14.80% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 38 years. For every 100 females there were 112.90 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 113.60 males.
The median income for a household in the county was $27,923, and the median income for a family was $34,286. Males had a median income of $25,982 versus $19,991 for females. The per capita income for the county was $14,135. About 15.40% of families and 19.10% of the population were below the poverty line, including 25.70% of those under age 18 and 17.90% of those age 65 or over.
The so-called "Dominickers", a number of related mixed-race (white, black, and Euchee Indian) families, lived for decades after the American Civil War and well into the twentieth century in a rural area near Ponce de Leon, with a separate church and segregated public elementary school. Although considered a separate ethnicity from both whites and blacks, many Dominickers married into local white families, so that group boundaries blurred; some descendants still live in the area. The 1950 federal census identified 60 members of this group living in Holmes County at that time. Few facts are known about their origins, and little has been published about them.

</doc>
<doc id="291479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291479" title="Nassau County, Florida">
Nassau County, Florida

Nassau County is a county in the state of Florida. As of 2000, 57,663 people lived there. The U.S. Census Bureau 2008 estimate for the county was 69,835. Its county seat is Fernandina Beach, Florida.
Nassau County is part of the Greater Jacksonville Metropolitan area.
Nassau County was created in 1824. It was named for the Duchy of Nassau in Germany.
Nassau County is governed by the five-member Nassau County Board of County Commissioners, who are elected to four-year terms by the voters. The terms are set up so that either three or two commissioners (alternately) are up for election every two years.
The main environmental and agricultural body is the Nassau County Soil and Water Conservation District, which works closely with other area agencies.
Local law enforcement is conducted by the Nassau County Sheriff's Office.
According to the 2000 census, the county has a total area of , of which (or 89.76%) is land and (or 10.24%) is water, much of it in the Atlantic Ocean. Fernandina Beach is located on Amelia Island, the county’s only island with people living on it.
As of the census of 2000, there were 57,663 people, 21,980 households, and 16,528 families living in the county. The population density was 34/km² (88/sq mi). There were 25,917 housing units at an average density of 15/km² (40/sq mi). The racial makeup of the county was 90.02% White, 7.74% Black or African American, 0.43% Native American, 0.46% Asian, 0.03% Pacific Islander, 0.32% from other races, and 1.00% from two or more races. 1.51% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race.
According to the 2000 Census, the largest European ancestry groups in Nassau County were: English (36.2%), Irish (13.6%) and German (11.7%).
There were 21,980 households out of which 32.80% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 61.20% were married couples living together, 9.90% had a female householder with no husband present, and 24.80% were not related. 20.10% of all households were made up of people living alone and 7.70% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.59 and the average family size was 2.97.
In the county the population was spread out with 25.00% under the age of 18, 7.20% from 18 to 24, 28.80% from 25 to 44, 26.30% from 45 to 64, and 12.60% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 38 years. For every 100 females there were 97.30 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 94.80 males.
The median income for a household in the county was $46,022, and the median income for a family was $52,477. Males had a median income of $37,027 versus $25,443 for females. The per capita income for the county was $22,836. About 6.40% of families and 9.10% of the population were below the poverty line, including 10.90% of those under age 18 and 8.90% of those age 65 or over.
Nassau County is home to nine elementary schools, three middle schools, three high schools, and one middle-senior high school.
The Betty Cook Center, started and run by Florida State College at Jacksonville, offers classes for post-secondary degrees.
There are four newspapers in Nassau County. The largest, the "Fernandina Beach News-Leader", is owned by Community Newspapers Incorporated, a media company headed by Tom Wood and Dink NeSmith. "The Nassau County Record" is also owned by Community Newspapers Incorporated. Both of these are available by subscription or from newsstands. "The Westside Journal", an independent newspaper, is published by Florida Sun Printing, and is available for free through the mail and usually features submitted stories. My Nassau Sun, a community section of "The Florida Times-Union", is also available for free by subscription for delivery cost.

</doc>
<doc id="291482" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291482" title="Category:Eastern Catholicism">
Category:Eastern Catholicism

The Eastern Catholic churches are in communion with Rome.

</doc>
<doc id="291483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291483" title="Alternative splicing">
Alternative splicing

Alternative splicing allows DNA to code for more than one protein. It varies the exon make-up of the messenger RNA. 
In alternative splicing the exons of the pre-messenger RNA produced by transcription are reconnected in different ways during RNA splicing. 
This produces different mature messenger RNAs from the same gene. They get translated into different proteins. Thus, a single gene may code for multiple proteins. 
Alternative splicing is normal in eukaryotes. It greatly increases the diversity of proteins that can be encoded by the genome. In humans, ~95% of multiexonic genes are alternatively spliced.
There are various kinds of alternative splicing: the most common is exon skipping. An exon may be included in mRNAs under some conditions or in particular tissues, and omitted from the mRNA in others. There are splicing activators that promote the use of a particular splice site, and splicing repressors that reduce the use of a particular site. New types of alternative splicing are being found.
Abnormal variations in splicing occur in disease. Many human genetic disorders come from splicing variants. Abnormal splicing variants may also contribute to the development of cancer. Non-working splicing products are usually dealt with by post-transcriptional quality control. That is, they are chopped up by enzymes.
Alternative splicing (the re-combination of different exons) is a major source of genetic diversity in eukaryotes. One particular Drosophila gene (DSCAM) can be alternatively spliced into 38,000 different mRNA.

</doc>
<doc id="291485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291485" title="Category:Slovenian people">
Category:Slovenian people


</doc>
<doc id="291487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291487" title="Category:Roman Catholic martyrs">
Category:Roman Catholic martyrs


</doc>
<doc id="291503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291503" title="Gun control">
Gun control

Gun control is the attempt, usually by a government, to restrain or stop people from owning or using guns. Gun control may also regulate the making, moving, and selling of guns. People want gun control because guns are very dangerous. Gun control is very controversial in some countries, such as in the United States. Some countries such as the United States, Switzerland, and Israel allow people to own guns to defend themselves, but most countries do not.
Because of the 2nd Amendment to the United States Constitution, every American citizen has the right to "keep and bear arms". This has been taken to mean that most people can own guns. Originally, it was thought that the federal government could not ban guns, but states and cities could. But recently, the Supreme Court said that states and cities could not ban handguns. Although banning all guns is not allowed anymore, states and cities can still stop the sale and use of certain kinds of guns, such as guns that fire many bullets very quickly. They can also say that certain people, such as criminals, cannot own guns. There is a strong "gun lobby" in the United States. It is led by the National Rifle Association, which supports the right to own guns. They want it to be fairly easy to get a gun. Other groups, such as the Brady Campaign, want guns to be hard to get because they believe that guns cause violence, injury and death. Some states have very strict gun laws, but others, such as Arizona, Utah, and Mississippi, do not. 

</doc>
<doc id="291504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291504" title="St. Lucie County, Florida">
St. Lucie County, Florida

St. Lucie County is a county in the state of Florida. The county seat is the city of Fort Pierce. As of 2000, 192,695 people lived there. The 2005 census estimate for the county was 241,305.
The current St. Lucie County was created in 1905 from the southern part of Brevard County. Brevard County had been named St. Lucie County from 1844 until 1855 when it was renamed Brevard County. 
In 1925, Indian River County was created out of the northern part of St Lucie County, while northern Martin County was created from a small part of southeastern St. Lucie County and the northern part of Palm Beach County. Much of western St Lucie County had gone in 1917 to form Okeechobee County.
According to the 2000 census, the county has a total area of , of which (or 83.20%) is land and (or 16.80%) is water, much of it in the Atlantic Ocean.
St. Lucie County is part of the Port St. Lucie Metropolitan Statistical Area.
As of the census of 2000, there were 192,695 people, 76,933 households, and 54,237 families living in the county. The population density was 337 people per square mile (130/km²). There were 91,262 housing units at an average density of 159 per square mile (62/km²). The racial makeup of the county was 79.14% White, 15.42% African American, 0.24% Native American, 0.95% Asian, 0.05% Pacific Islander, 2.37% from other races, and 1.82% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 8.16% of the population. 86.6% spoke English, 7.6% Spanish, 1.6% French Creole and 1.0% French as their first language. 3.3% of the population identified themselves as being of non-Hispanic West Indian Ancestry.
In 2005 St. Lucie county had a population that was 69.2% non-Hispanic white, 16.5% African-American, 12.4% Latino and 1.3% Asian.
In 2000 there were 76,933 households out of which 26.30% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 55.30% were married couples living together, 11.10% had a female householder with no husband present, and 29.50% were not related. 23.50% of all households were made up of people living alone and 12.40% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.47 and the average family size was 2.89.
In the county the population was spread out with 22.60% under the age of 18, 6.60% from 18 to 24, 25.10% from 25 to 44, 23.00% from 45 to 64, and 22.70% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 42 years. For every 100 females there were 95.50 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 92.80 males.
The median income for a household in the county was $36,363, and the median income for a family was $41,381. Males had a median income of $30,047 versus $22,684 for females. The per capita income for the county was $18,790. About 9.60% of families and 13.40% of the population were below the poverty line, including 20.50% of those under age 18 and 7.70% of those age 65 or over.
Schools in the county are managed by St. Lucie County Public Schools.

</doc>
<doc id="291511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291511" title="Tommy Ramone">
Tommy Ramone

Tommy Ramone, also known as Thomas Erdelyi (born Erdélyi Tamás; January 29, 1949 - July 11, 2014), was a Hungarian-American record producer and musician. He was born to Jewish parents in Budapest and grew up in Queens, New York City. He was the drummer for an early and important punk rock band, the Ramones.
 

</doc>
<doc id="291512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291512" title="Arsinoitherium">
Arsinoitherium

Arsinoitherium is an extinct genus, a large mammal that lived during the early Oligocene (about 38 to 23 million years ago). Although it looked like a rhinoceros, it is more closely related to elephants. Fossils of "Arsinoitherium" have been found in Faiyum, Egypt.

</doc>
<doc id="291535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291535" title="Sydney Brenner">
Sydney Brenner

Sydney Brenner CH FRS (born 13 January 1927) is a South African biologist and a 2002 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine laureate, shared with Robert Horvitz and John Sulston.
Brenner made significant contributions to work on the genetic code, and other areas of molecular biology. 
He established the roundworm "Caenorhabditis elegans" as a model organism for the investigation of developmental biology, and founded the Molecular Sciences Institute in Berkeley, California.
Brenner made several important contributions to molecular biology in the 1960s. With Francis Crick and others, he worked out the genetic code, where triplets of nucleic acid bases are translated into amino acids.
Brenner then focused on establishing "Caenorhabditis elegans" as a model organism for the investigation of animal development including development of the nervous system. Brenner chose this 1 millimeter-long soil roundworm mainly because it is simple, is easy to grow in bulk populations, and turned out to be convenient for genetic analysis. For this work, he shared the 2002 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Robert Horvitz and John Sulston. His Nobel lecture in December 2002, "Nature's gift to science" is a homage to this modest nematode. He considers chosing the right organism is as important as picking the right problems to work on. In recognition of his pioneering work on "C. elegans", another closely related nematode was given the scientific name "Caenorhabditis brenneri".
Brenner founded the Molecular Sciences Institute in Berkeley, CA in 1996. He is currently associated with the Salk Institute, the Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology, the Singapore Biomedical Research Council and the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. In August 2005 Brenner was appointed president of the Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology. He is also on the Board of Scientific Governors at the Scripps Research Institute. 
Known for his scientific insight and wit, Brenner for many years penned a regular column ("Loose Ends") in the journal "Current Biology". Brenner is noted for his generosity of ideas and the great number of students and colleagues his ideas have stimulated.

</doc>
<doc id="291538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291538" title="Gerhard-Hanappi-stadium">
Gerhard-Hanappi-stadium

The Gerhard Hanappi stadium is a football stadium in Vienna, Austria. It is the homeground of SK Rapid Wien and is named after Gerhard Hanappi, the architect of the stadium and former player of Rapid Wien.
The work started in 1971 but there was a delay in finishing it. The plan was not fully built because it should be cheaper. The new stadium was named "Weststadion" (western stadium) because it lays in the western part of Vienna. It was planned that the two major clubs should play in this new stadium, but Austria Wien was not amused that her rival has got a stadium in its own district, so they went back to their former homeground, the Franz Horr stadium. But till 1992 they often came back because the Horr stadium was not licensed for international matches. In April 1981 it got the name of its architect Gerhard Hanappi, who was player for Rapid Wien.
The first match which was played here was a leaguematch SK Rapid versus Austria Vienna. But the official opening was on September 14th, 1977 with a UEFA-Cup match Rapid versus FK Inter Bratislava (1:0). It was not love at first sight between the fans and the new stadium, but meanwhile they accept it. It is even called "Saint Hanappi" following the slogan of the fans "Rapid is our religion."

</doc>
<doc id="291543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291543" title="Observe and Report">
Observe and Report

Observe and Report is a 2009 black comedy movie that was produced by Donald De Line and was directed by Jody Hill. Observe and Report was released on April 10, 2009 in North America. The movie received mixed reviews with a 51% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 54 out of 100 from Metacritic. 

</doc>
<doc id="291547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291547" title="Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist">
Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist

Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist is a 2009 romantic comedy movie that was produced by Kerry Kohansky Roberts, Andrew Miano, Chris Weitz and Paul Weitz and was directed by Peter Sollett. "Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist" was released on October 3, 2008 in North America. The plot involves Nick and Norah following rabbit-associated clues to see a music band, and during their adventure they fall in love. The movie received positive reviews with a 72% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 64 out of 100 from Metacritic. 

</doc>
<doc id="291551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291551" title="Kicking &amp; Screaming">
Kicking &amp; Screaming

Kicking & Screaming is a 2005 sports comedy movie that was produced by Jimmy Miller and Judd Apatow and was directed by Jesse Dylan. "Kicking & Screaming" was released on May 13, 2005 in North America. The movie received mixed reviews with a 41% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 47 out of 100 from Metacritic. 

</doc>
<doc id="291554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291554" title="How Do You Know (movie)">
How Do You Know (movie)

How Do You Know is a 2010 American romantic comedy-drama movie. It was produced by Julie Ansell, James L. Brooks and Paula Weinstein and was written and directed by James L. Brooks. "How Do You Know" was released on December 17, 2010 in North America. The movie received negative reviews with a 30% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 47 out of 100 from Metacritic. The movie also did poorly at the box office with only $7.6 million made in the United States and Canada, which made it eighth in the box office at its first weekend. It fell off the chart by its third weekend. The movie only grossed a total of $47,707,151 worldwide, which failed to recoup for its $120 million budget and as a result, made the movie a massive box-office bomb.

</doc>
<doc id="291556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291556" title="The Girl He Left Behind">
The Girl He Left Behind

The Girl He Left Behind is a 1956 romantic comedy movie that was produced by Frank P. Rosenberg and was directed by David Butler. The Girl He Left Behind was released on 1956 in North America and in 1957 in Europe by Premier Productions.

</doc>
<doc id="291570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291570" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Adolphe-Marie Hardy">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Adolphe-Marie Hardy


</doc>
<doc id="291571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291571" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Ahn Joong-sik">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Ahn Joong-sik


</doc>
<doc id="291573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291573" title="Thermal power plant">
Thermal power plant

A thermal power plant is a power plant where steam is used to drive a steam turbine. This turbine is connected to an electrical generator. After this, the water is condensed, and may be used again. This is known as the Rankine cycle. There are different procedures that can be used to heat the water; this gives different types of thermal power plants:
Fossil fueled thermal power plants produce a large part of man-made CO2 emissions to the atmosphere, and efforts to reduce these are varied and widespread.

</doc>
<doc id="291602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291602" title="Ruth Buzzi">
Ruth Buzzi

Ruth Ann Buzzi (born July 24, 1936) is an American comedian and actress. She is most famous for her performances on the variety show "Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In". She most often appeared as the unwilling object of "dirty old man" character Tyrone F. Horneigh's affection. Ruth appeared as Ruthie on seasons 25 (1993-1994)-32 (2001) of Sesame Street.
Buzzi received 5 Emmy Award nominations. She won the Golden Globe Award in 1973 for her work on "Laugh-In". 
Buzzi received the Lifetime Achievement Award by the Pasadena Playhouse of the Performing Arts.
Buzzi received a Clio Award for Best Spokesperson in a television commercial for her series of Clorox-2 commercials. She is among the first of only a few Caucasian women to win an NAACP Image Award. 
Ruth Buzzi guest starred as a music and comedy performer on dozens of prime time television specials with colleagues including Jonathan Winters, Carol Burnett, Jim Nabors, Dean Martin, Frank Sinatra, Jerry Lee Lewis, Wayne Newton, Anne Murray, Rolf Harris, Dom DeLuise, Tony Orlando to name just a few. She appeared 8 times on "The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson" and has made more than 200 other television guest appearances. 
Ruth Buzzi graduated with honors from the Pasadena Playhouse in Pasadena, California. She was one of the first recipients of the Pasadena Playhouse Alumni Achievement Award along with her former classmates Dustin Hoffman and Gene Hackman.
Buzzi was a presenter at the 2009 Emmy Awards along with several members of her debut series, "Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In".
Buzzi lives in Fort Worth, Texas with her husband. 
Buzzi and her husband collect automobiles. Some of their collection is at the Petersen Automotive Museum in Los Angeles, California.

</doc>
<doc id="291605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291605" title="NART TV">
NART TV

NART TV (National Adighe Radio and Television) is a Circassian satellite TV channel which broadcasts from Amman, Jordan. The channel is gaining in popularity and is beginning to get a larger audience in Jordan, Syria and Turkey.
Young Circassians from Jordan decided to open a Circassian-language TV channel with a hope to find international exposure for the Circassian people who live overseas. The experimental channel began broadcasting Circassian music and dance like on MTV. Through the years it has become a commercial channel broadcasting social events, documentaries and activities of the Circassian diaspora. It is continuously under development and regeneration with the increase of advertising incomes from local commercial activities.
The footpath of the transmission covers a large area of Europe, Africa, Asia and the Middle East. Starting in 2011, the channel began to broadcast new programs, moving to normal entertainment schedules. It also switched to including some programs in Arabic because of the concern that many young Circassians (especially in Jordan) do not understand the original Circassian language. A collection of new shows were introduced including live interviews and specific social programs and entertainment programs. Teaching Circassian language in different dialects was also introduced. 

</doc>
<doc id="291625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291625" title="Volcano Rabbit">
Volcano Rabbit

The Volcano Rabbit (also known as teporingo or zacatuche) is a small rabbit native to Mexico. The Volcano Rabbit lives on approximately 280 square kilometers of land in central Mexico. The Volcano Rabbit is ranked as endangered by the IUCN.

</doc>
<doc id="291638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291638" title="Happy Science">
Happy Science


</doc>
<doc id="291639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291639" title="Tommy's First Birthday">
Tommy's First Birthday

"Tommy's First Birthday" is the first episode of the Nickelodeon show "Rugrats". It was made in August 11, 1990 and aired August 11, 1991. It's preceded by the season 0 (pre-1) (pilot) episode recorded and made in August 7, 1989, produced in August 7, 1990 and released in 2001.
On the morning of Tommy Pickles' first birthday, he sees a commercial for dog food and decides that he wants to eat it, believing it will turn him into a dog. Meanwhile, his mother Didi is panicking over having the perfect party for Tommy. This includes a puppet show (to which th stage and puppets are booked, but not the puppeteers), a carrot cake (much to Grandpa Boris' displeasure, hoping it will be a chocolate cake), and a really elaborate invention from Tommy's dad, Stu (the Hooverama). After convincing the other Rugrats to eat dog food, Tommy discovers that Spike eaten all of it. But when he spots another can of the top of the shelf, he attempts to get it with Angelica and Chuckie's help. However, all he ends up doing is destroying the kitchen and ruining the Hooverama. Soon, all the adults are complaining about various items, when Grandpa opens a can of dog food for Spike. The Rugrats finally eats it, but all but Phil spits it out. Then, thinking they are dogs, they start walking around (hands and legs) are barking. This breaks the adults out of the arguing and watching them in awe, and the episode ends with Grandpa Lou taking a picture of the party, which ends up in the Pickles Family Album (1999 Movie).
"Tommy's First Birthday" was released on the DVD "Rugrats: Season 1" and will be released on "Rugrats: The Complete Series".

</doc>
<doc id="291647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291647" title="Daniel Sedin">
Daniel Sedin

Daniel Sedin (born September 26, 1980) is a Swedish professional ice hockey winger with the Vancouver Canucks of the National Hockey League (NHL), and serves as an alternate captain for the Canucks during home games. His identical twin brother Henrik also plays for the Canucks, and is the team captain. Born and raised in Örnsköldsvik, Sweden, they have played together throughout their careers; the pair are known for their effectiveness playing off one another. Daniel is known as a goal-scorer, while Henrik is known as a playmaker.

</doc>
<doc id="291648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291648" title="West Coast Eagles">
West Coast Eagles

The West Coast Eagles are an Australian Rules Football team situated in Perth, Western Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="291649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291649" title="Subiaco Oval">
Subiaco Oval

Subiaco Oval, widely known as Patersons Stadium is a stadium. is the largest sports stadium in Perth, Western Australia. It is in the suburb of Subiaco, about three kilometres west of Perth's city centre.

</doc>
<doc id="291656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291656" title="John Sulston">
John Sulston

Sir John Edward Sulston FRS (27 March 1942) is a British biologist. He is a joint winner of the 2002 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.
He was the first Director of the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, and is now Chair of the Institute for Science, Ethics and Innovation at the University of Manchester.
Sulston was one of 20 Nobel laureates who signed the "Stockholm memorandum" at the 3rd Nobel Laureate Symposium on Global Sustainability in Stockholm, Sweden on 18 May 2011.
He first studied at the University of Cambridge in Pembroke College, where he graduated in 1963. He then stayed on to do his PhD there. After working at the Salk Institute, La Jolla, California, for a while, he returned to Cambridge to work under Sydney Brenner at the MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology.
Sulston played a central role in both the "Caenorhabditis elegans" roundworm and human genome sequencing projects. He had argued successfully for the sequencing of "C. elegans" to show that large-scale genome sequencing projects could be done. As sequencing of the worm genome proceeded, the project to sequence the human genome began. At this point he was made director of the newly established Sanger Centre (named after Fred Sanger).
One of Sulston's most important contributions during his research years at the LMB was to find the precise order in which cells in "C. elegans" divide. In fact, he and his team succeeded in tracing the nematode's entire embryonic cell lineage. Sulston is now a leading campaigner against the patenting of human genetic information.

</doc>
<doc id="291666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291666" title="Category:Underpopulated categories">
Category:Underpopulated categories

These categories contain few articles/categories. A user has placed the template on them to request that the category be populated. For empty categories, try .

</doc>
<doc id="291673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291673" title="Category:Venezuelan football clubs">
Category:Venezuelan football clubs


</doc>
<doc id="291674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291674" title="Aaron Klug">
Aaron Klug

Sir Aaron Klug OM PRS (Želva, Lithuania, 11 August 1926) is a British chemist and biophysicist. 
Klug won the 1982 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing crystallographic electron microscopy and working out the structure of nucleic acid-protein complexes.
Klug was born in Želva, Lithuania to Jewish parents. The family moved to South Africa when he was two. Klug graduated with a degree in science at the University of Witwatersrand and studied crystallography at the University of Cape Town before moving to England, completing his doctorate at Trinity College, Cambridge in 1953. 
He moved to Birkbeck College, University of London, in late 1953, and started working with Rosalind Franklin in John Bernal's lab. This experience aroused a lifelong interest in viruses. During his time there he worked on the structure of the tobacco mosaic virus. 
In 1962 he moved to the newly built MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology in Cambridge. Klug used methods from X-ray diffraction to develop crystallographic electron microscopy. In this method, two-dimensional images of crystals taken from different angles are combined to make three-dimensional images of the target. He worked out the structure of important nucleic acid-protein complexes.
Between 1986 and 1996 he was Director of the Laboratory of Molecular Biology in Cambridge, and was knighted in 1988. He was elected President of the Royal Society, and served from 1995–2000. He was appointed to the Order of Merit in 1995.

</doc>
<doc id="291676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291676" title="Deportivo Petare">
Deportivo Petare

Deportivo Petare Fútbol Club (until summer 2010 called Deportivo Italia Fútbol Club) is a Venezuelan football club based in Caracas. Formed in 1948 as "Deportivo Italia F.C.", the club after fifty years merged with "Deportivo Chacao F.C." in 1998, and was called "Deportivo Italchacao" for eight years. The club has won the Primera División Venezolana five times and the Copa de Venezuela three times.
The actual "Deportivo Petare" was founded on 18 August 1948 with the name "Deportivo Italia" by nine Italian immigrants: Carlo Pescifeltri, Lorenzo Tommasi, Bruno Bianchi, Giordano Valentini, Samuel Rovatti, Angelo Bragaglia, Giovanni de Stefano, Giuseppe Pane and Alfredo Sacchi.
The golden years of the team were those of the "D'Ambrosio era", that lasted from 1958 to 1978. In those golden years, Deportivo Italia won the Venezuelan First Division tournament four times (1961, 1963, 1966 and 1972) and the "Copa Venezuela" three times (1961,1962 and 1970), and was runner up in the first division in 1965, 1968, 1969, 1970 and 1971 and in the Copa Venezuela in 1976.
This period was crowned by the victory 1:0 with the Fluminense, champion team of Brazil in 1971.
Deportivo Italia changed their name to "Deportivo Petare" in the summer of 2010. There is an ongoing dispute because of the strong opposition from the Italian community in Caracas.
Deportivo Petare has started de 2010/2011 season with good results, ending fourth at the end of the first half of the season in December 2010. The last match ended in a draw with Deportivo Tachira, the eventual "Torneo Apertura" champion.
" "Torneo Apertura 2010" Standings"
The club played their home matches at Estadio Brígido Iriarte until 2006, which has a maximum capacity of 15,000 people. Now the team plays at the Estadio Olímpico (Caracas), with a capacity of 30,000.
The Olimpico stadium is also used as headquarters for some of the matches of the national team, as well as FC Caracas.
The colors from 1948 to 2010 were the same as the Italian national football team (blue and white). After the name change, the actual Deportivo Petare uses those colors as second choice. In the 2010-2011 championship the main colors are white and black.

</doc>
<doc id="291677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291677" title="Category:Foreign Members of the Royal Society">
Category:Foreign Members of the Royal Society


</doc>
<doc id="291680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291680" title="STS-2">
STS-2

STS-2 was the second flight of the space shuttle. It flew in November 1981.

</doc>
<doc id="291682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291682" title="Category:English botanists">
Category:English botanists


</doc>
<doc id="291683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291683" title="Planck units">
Planck units

The Planck units are physical units of measurement. The system of these units was first developed by Max Planck. The definition of the five base Planck units are based only on five physical constants found in nature. When Planck units are used to express any of these five physical constants, the value is 1. This allows physicists to simplify many equations about physical law. Planck proposed these units in 1899. They are also known as "natural units" because the origin of their definition comes only from properties of nature and not from any human construct. Planck units are only one system of natural units among other systems. They are considered unique, because these units are not based on properties of any prototype object, or particle (that would be arbitrarily chosen) but are based only on properties of free space. The constants that Planck units, by definition, normalize to 1 are the:
Each of these constants can be associated with at least one fundamental physical theory: "c" with special relativity, "G" with general relativity and Newton's law of universal gravitation, "ħ" with quantum mechanics, "ε" with electrostatics, and "k" with statistical mechanics and thermodynamics. Planck units are very important for theoretical physics, because they simplify several recurring algebraic expressions of physical law. They are particularly relevant in research on unified theories such as quantum gravity.
Planck units may sometimes be semi-humorously referred to by physicists as "God's units". They eliminate human centred arbitrariness from the system of units: some physicists argue that communication with extraterrestrial intelligence would have to use such a system of units to make common reference to scale. Unlike the meter and second, which exist as fundamental units in the SI system for historical reasons (in "human" history), the Planck length and Planck time are conceptually linked at a fundamental physical level.
Natural units help physicists to reframe questions. Frank Wilczek puts this succinctly:
The strength of gravity is simply what it is and the strength of the electromagnetic force simply is what it is. The electromagnetic force operates on a different physical quantity (electric charge) than gravity (mass) so it cannot be compared directly to gravity. To note that gravity is an extremely weak force is, from the point-of-view of Planck units, like comparing apples and oranges. It is true that the electrostatic repulsive force between two protons (alone in free space) greatly exceeds the gravitational attractive force between the same two protons, and that is because the charge on the protons is approximately the Planck unit of charge but the mass of the protons is far, far less than the Planck mass.

</doc>
<doc id="291685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291685" title="Blah Blah Blah">
Blah Blah Blah

"Blah Blah Blah" is a song by American singer Kesha. It is from her first album, "Animal". It was produced by Benny Blanco. Kesha, Blanco, Neon Hitch and Sean Foreman wrote the song. It was released as the album's second single on February 19, 2010. It features 3OH!3. The song is an electropop song. The lyrics are about a woman who would rather have sex than listen to a man speak.
Critics have mixed opinions on the song. The single was successful commercially by reaching the top five in Australia and Canada. It reached the top ten in the United States and New Zealand. The song became Kesha's second top ten single in Australia, Canada and the United States. It has gone on to sell over two million copies in the United States. It has been certified two times platinum in Canada.

</doc>
<doc id="291687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291687" title="Dorothy Hodgkin">
Dorothy Hodgkin

Dorothy Mary Hodgkin OM FRS (12 May 1910 – 29 July 1994), "née" Crowfoot, was a British chemist, credited with the development of protein crystallography.
She advanced the technique of X-ray crystallography, a method used to determine the three dimensional structures of biomolecules. 
She confirmed the structure of penicillin, which Ernst Chain had proposed, and she worked out the structure of vitamin B. For her work she was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. 
In 1969, after 35 years of work and five years after winning the Nobel Prize, Hodgkin was able to decipher the structure of insulin. 
X-ray crystallography became a widely used tool and helped to find structures of many biological molecules such as DNA. The structure of molecules helps us understand how they work.
Apart from the Nobel Prize, she was appointed to the Order of Merit, and given the Copley Medal, the top award of the Royal Society.
She was Chancellor of Bristol University from 1970 to 1988, and President of Pugwash from 1976 to 1988. Pugwash is an organisation which holds conferences on Science and World Affairs. Because of her reputation as a 'peacenik', and her relationship with her left-wing mentor J.D. Bernal, Hodgkin was not allowed to enter the US except by CIA waiver. She received the Lenin Peace Prize in 1987.
Her best-known student was Margaret Thatcher, who consulted her when she (Thatcher) was in office. 
The Order of Merit display at the Royal Society (see infobox) mentions two interesting facts:

</doc>
<doc id="291691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291691" title="Friday (Rebecca Black song)">
Friday (Rebecca Black song)

"Friday" is a song by American singer Rebecca Black. It was written and produced by Clarence Jey and Patrice Wilson. It was released as a single on March 14, 2011 by Ark Music Factory as Black's debut single.
An worker for Ark Music Factory told Rebecca Black's mother about the company's production services in late 2010; Black was 13 years old at the time. She was living in Anaheim Hills, California. Rebecca Black's mother, Georgina Kelly, paid Ark Music $4,000 for a song and a music video that included a choice of two songs written beforehand. Black chose "Friday", as "the other song was about adult love – I haven't experienced that yet. I felt like it was my personality in that song."
The payment covered one half or less of the production costs of the music video, and Black's family could have paid nothing in exchange for giving up all rights to the song. Black chose "Friday", as "the other song was about adult love – I haven't experienced that yet. I felt like it was my personality in that song." Ark Music extensively used the pitch-correcting software Auto-Tune. Although Kelly had some doubts over the quality of the lyrics, Black assured her that "I sang it as they wrote it, Mom." "Friday" co-writer Patrice Wilson explained that "I wrote the lyrics on a Thursday night going into a Friday. I was writing different songs all night and was like, 'Wow, I've been up a long time and it's Friday.' And I was like, wow, it is Friday!"
The music video for the song became a viral video. The song was criticized for the lyrics, the use of Auto-Tune and the video. On March 11, 2011, the video's view count on YouTube was still about 4,000. As of April 15, 2011, the video had over 102 million views, 2.1 million comments, 240 000 "likes" and 2 million "dislikes". Since the growth in popularity of the song and video, there have been numerous parody videos and remixes. "Forbes" has said that the unpopularity of the song is another sign of the power of social media – specifically Twitter, Facebook, and Tumblr. It also said these media could create "overnight sensations." Despite the very bad reviews, pop music celebrities Chris Brown, Miley Cyrus, and Simon Cowell have supported Black.

</doc>
<doc id="291694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291694" title="Aurora, Colorado">
Aurora, Colorado

Aurora is a Home Rule Municipality in the U.S. state of Colorado. The city is in Arapahoe, Adams, and Douglas counties. It is the third biggest city by number of people in Colorado, and the 59th biggest city by number of people in the United States. The city's population was 325,078 during the 2010 United States Census. Denver and Aurora are the main cities of the Denver-Aurora-Broomfield, CO Metropolitan Statistical Area, a United States metropolitan area (MSA). In 2007, the cities within the statistical area had about 2,464,866 people, which makes it the MSA with the 22nd most people. However, Denver and Aurora together make up less than half of the Denver-Aurora-Broomfield Metropolitan Statistical Area's people and Aurora has about half of the population of Denver. In 2007, the Denver–Aurora–Boulder Combined Statistical Area (CSA) had about 2,998,878 people. That makes it the CSA with the fifteenth most people.
Aurora started in the 1880s, when it was known as Fletcher, the name of Denver businessman Donald Fletcher. Donald Fletcher thought of Aurora as a chance for real estate. He and his companions went out four square miles east of Denver, but the town and Colorado were not doing well after the Silver Crash of 1893. On July 20, 2012, a spree shooting took place at a during the midnight premiere of "The Dark Knight Rises" at a local movie theater - 12 people were shot dead.

</doc>
<doc id="291696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291696" title="SpongeBob SquigglePants">
SpongeBob SquigglePants

SpongeBob SquigglePants is a video game based on the television series "SpongeBob SquarePants". It is the fourth game in the uDraw Series. It was published by THQ and developed by WayForward Technologies. 
The game was released for Wii on April 12, 2011. It was released for Nintendo 3DS on May 17, 2011.
It contains over 100 mini-games that require using the uDraw GameTablet. It allows players to draw their own paintings or color in them.

</doc>
<doc id="291697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291697" title="Category:2011 video games">
Category:2011 video games


</doc>
<doc id="291706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291706" title="Derby Museum and Art Gallery">
Derby Museum and Art Gallery

Derby Museum and Art Gallery was started in 1879 in a new building given to Derby by a local brewer. The collection today includes paintings of Joseph Wright of Derby and porcelain from Derby and the surrounding area. 
In 2011, Derby City Council announced that it was to use Joseph Wright of Derby to brand the city of Derby. At the same time, the Museum announced that it was "joining forces" with Wikipedia to improve the quality of its information. In February 2011 it was announced that Derby Museum had been given an award for its collection of paintings and drawings by Joseph Wright.

</doc>
<doc id="291710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291710" title="All Killer, No Filler">
All Killer, No Filler

All Killer, No Filler is the first studio album by Canadian rock band, Sum 41. It was released on May 8, 2001. The producer of the album was Jerry Finn. The album was ranked as the 9th greatest punk pop album of all time by Top40.com.

</doc>
<doc id="291713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291713" title="Joseph Wright of Derby">
Joseph Wright of Derby

Joseph Wright (3 September 1734 – 29 August 1797), (Wright of Derby), was an English landscape and portrait painter. He painted the Industrial Revolution."
Wright showed the contrast of light and dark. His paintings of early science in the English Midlands, show the Age of Enlightenment.
Many of Wright's paintings and drawings are on display at the Derby Museum and Art Gallery.

</doc>
<doc id="291719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291719" title="Rotary evaporator">
Rotary evaporator

A rotary evaporator (or rotavap) is commonly used in chemical laboratories to remove solvents by evaporation.
The liquid is put in a round-bottomed flask and placed in the device. The rotavap spins and heats the flask and reduces the pressure inside by creating a vacuum. The vacuum makes the liquid evaporate at a low temperature than normal. The liquid becomes a gas and is collected by cooling it so it condenses into another flask.
If there are substances dissolved in the liquid they will be left behind in when it evaporates. If water with salt dissolved in it is evaporated, then pure water and dry salt will be separated. Scientists use rotary evaporators to remove the liquid a solid is dissolved in.
Rotary evaporators are often quicker to use than evaporating basins. They can be used for distillations.

</doc>
<doc id="291720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291720" title="Reptar on Ice">
Reptar on Ice

"Reptar on Ice" is the twenty-third episode of the Nickelodeon show "Rugrats". It aired November 8, 1992.
Tommy is disgruntled at a comment Angelica makes at a breakfast about the dinosaurs being extinct and expresses his concern to the other babies of the possibility of Reptar being extinct too. After an accidental suggestion by Chuckie's that he's "hiding," the babies look for him in the backyard and discover a lizard which looks exactly like him and come to assumption that it is Reptar's child. To keep him in a secret from the grown-ups, Tommy hides the lizard inside his diaper while the baby ponder what to do with Reptar's Baby. A commercial for "Reptar on Ice" suddenly plays, to the shock of the babies and Stu decides to take them all. The babies are now thrilled because they can now "return" the lizard to its "father".
As they arrive at the ice show, Leo, the actor portraying "Reptar", shows his outrage at the theme of the show manager, Harry, how he questions why he chose to the play the part due to his dislike of children, lizards, and his inability to the ice skate. The performance begins and as it continues, the adults fall asleep; the babies then take this time to give the lizard to "Reptar." They go onto the ice and rides on the props to catch up with him. They get caught in the midst of a scene and inadvertently interrupt the performance; Leo tries to continue performing, but freaks out and runs off when Tommy shows him the lizard. Stu gets on the ice and picks up the babies, to the audience's applause.
"Reptar on Ice" was released on the VHS "Rugrats: Return of Reptar", the DVD "Rugrats: Decade in Diapers", "Rugrats: Season 2" and will be released on "Rugrats: The Complete Series".

</doc>
<doc id="291725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291725" title="Death of Baby P">
Death of Baby P

Peter Connelly (1 March 2006 - 3 August 2007) (also known as "Baby P", "Child A" and "Baby Peter") was a 17-month-old baby who lived in the UK. Peter died of child abuse on 3 August 2007 in London after suffering more than 50 injuries over an eight-month period.
The case resulted in several big investigations into how the Social Services department of Haringey Council carried out its job looking after children in danger.

</doc>
<doc id="291728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291728" title="Waikiki">
Waikiki

Waikīkī is a neighborhood of Honolulu, on the south shore of Oahu, Hawaii. Waikiki Beach is the shoreline in front of Waikīkī.
The name "" means "spouting fresh water" in the Hawaiian language. This because the area had springs and streams that fed wetlands.

</doc>
<doc id="291732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291732" title="Interchange (road)">
Interchange (road)

A freeway interchange a place where two freeways meet, or where a freeway and another road meet. There are many different types of freeway interchanges.
Two main types of freeway interchanges are the diamond interchange and the cloverleaf interchange.
A diamond interchange is where a freeway and a road meet. Traffic from the freeway can keep going or veer (turn a little bit) onto a road on an offramp. This meets a road at a stoplight. Traffic can also go from the road to the freeway by going on an onramp. It is called that because it looks like a diamond.
A cloverleaf interchange is where two freeways meet. There are still on- and offramps, but no stoplights and no right turns across traffic. To turn left, traffic goes in a 270° turn. It is called that because it looks like a four-leaf clover.

</doc>
<doc id="291738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291738" title="A Rugrats Passover">
A Rugrats Passover

"A Rugrats Passover" (possibly known as "Passover" in the opening title) is the sixty-fifth episode of the Nickelodeon show "Rugrats". It aired April 13, 1995.
While attending a Passover seder at Didi's parents' house, Boris and the kids (and later, most of the adults), get locked in the attic because the door doesn't open from the inside. To pass the time, Boris tells the kids the story of why Jews celecrate Passover, and how Moses saved his people from slavery.
"A Rugrats Passover" was released on the VHS "Rugrats: A Rugrats Passover", and will be released on the DVD "Rugrats: The Complete Series".

</doc>
<doc id="291739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291739" title="Major Oak">
Major Oak

The Major Oak is the main Tree in Sherwood Forest. Legend said Robin Hood lived near here.
It weighs an estimated 23 tons, has a waistline of 33 feet (10m), and is about 800–1000 years old. Because of its age, the tree is held up by chains.
In June 2002, the Tree Council decided that The Major Oak was one of fifty "Great British Trees" in because of its place in the national heritage.

</doc>
<doc id="291742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291742" title="Jar Jar Binks">
Jar Jar Binks

Jar Jar Binks is a fictional character from the Star Wars movie '. He also appears in ' and "". He is a Gungan and was born on the planet Naboo. Jar Jar is treated like the "class clown" by the other Gungans, and is often yelled at for being clumsy. This changes when two Jedi named Obi-Wan Kenobi and Qui-Gon Jinn are stranded on Naboo and Jar Jar accidentally stumbles into them in a swamp. He shows them his home, an underwater city built by Gungans to stay away from humans. There, he gets in trouble for letting humans into their secret city. The Jedi use the Force to convince the Gungan leader, Boss Nass, to let them leave safely.

</doc>
<doc id="291744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291744" title="Gungan">
Gungan

The Gungans are a fictional race of creatures from the Star Wars universe. They are amphibious (frog-like) creatures that live on the planet Naboo. The most famous Gungan is a character named Jar Jar Binks from "".

</doc>
<doc id="291751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291751" title="Sonic &amp; Knuckles">
Sonic &amp; Knuckles

Sonic & Knuckles is the fourth video game in the "Sonic the Hedgehog" series. It was made by Sonic Team and published by Sega for the Sega Mega Drive in 1994. In the game, you are able to play as Sonic the Hedgehog and Knuckles the Echidna. You can insert a "Sonic the Hedgehog 2" or "Sonic the Hedgehog 3" cartridge into it and you will get new modes for those games. This is called "Lock-on Technology".
This game is similar to "Sonic the Hedgehog 3". The point of the game is to collect Rings, defeat robots and get to the end of a Zone.
In Sonic and Knuckles, there are eight Zones. But only Super Sonic can reach the last Zone of the game. Only Sonic or Tails can play the second to last Zone, the Death Egg. Most zones have two levels, which are named "acts" in the game. At the end of every act 1, you've got to fight one of Dr. Eggman's robots, and at the end of every act 2, you've got to fight Dr. Eggman himself. There are small robots called "Badniks" in the acts. Most of them can be destroyed if you jump on them. If the badnik is destroyed, a little animal jumps out of it. 
Rings are floating in the air and they are gold. If you collect 100 or 200 Rings, you get a life. If you have no Rings and something hits you (for example, a badnik, spike, or Dr. Eggman), you lose a life. 
There are also Starposts in the acts. If you hit a Starpost, it will spin for a bit, and if you lose a life, you restart at the last Starpost you touched. Starposts can be used to go to the Bonus Stage, if you touch them if you have 20 or more Rings. Then, a ring made of stars will spin above the Starpost, and if you jump into it, you go to the Bonus Stage. 

</doc>
<doc id="291753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291753" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Call of duty modern warfare 3">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Call of duty modern warfare 3


</doc>
<doc id="291754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291754" title="Controller">
Controller

Controller may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="291755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291755" title="Half-Life (series)">
Half-Life (series)

Half-Life, is a series of video games created by Valve Software. The Player plays as a character named Gordon Freeman, who is a survivor of a terrible accident at the Black Mesa Science Research Company. A group of scientists make a portal to another Dimension, and accidentally let in many alien monsters that start killing everyone.
In the first game, Half-Life, made in 1998, you play through this disaster and try to escape.
In 2004, the sequel, Half-Life 2, was released. Half-Life 2 was followed by two expansions, and .
, the next game, is currently in production, but the official release date is November 15, 2014 .
A related game, Portal, was released in 2007 and takes place in the same universe. Portal, Half-life 2, Half-Life 2: Episode One, Half-Life 2: Episode Two, and Team Fortress (an unrelated game) were put together into one package for sale in 2007. This package is known as The Orange Box.

</doc>
<doc id="291757" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291757" title="Frank Oz">
Frank Oz

Frank Oz (born Richard Frank Oznowicz on May 25, 1944) is an American puppeteer and filmmaker. He is known for his work on "The Muppets", "Star Wars", and "Sesame Street". He also directed some popular films, such as "Little Shop of Horrors" and "Dirty Rotten Scoundrels". His most popular puppets are Yoda and Cookie Monster.

</doc>
<doc id="291758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291758" title="Gingerbread man">
Gingerbread man

Gingerbread men are cookies made of gingerbread shaped like people. In America, they are most popular at Christmastime. Ingredients include ginger, molasses, spices, flour, butter, eggs, etc. The dough is rolled out on a flat surface, and the gingerbread man is made with a cookie cutter. The cookies can be frosted and decorated with various trims such as raisins and silver dragees.

</doc>
<doc id="291770" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291770" title="Electron crystallography">
Electron crystallography

Electron crystallography is a method to determine the arrangement of atoms in solids using a transmission electron microscope (TEM).
This method works in many cases where X-ray crystallography does not. The latter needs large 3-D crystals to work.
Protein structures are usually done from 2-dimensional crystals (sheets or helices), polyhedrons such as viral capsids, or dispersed proteins. Electrons can be used in these situations, whereas X-rays cannot, because electrons interact more strongly with atoms than X-rays do.
Electron crystallography is a method to determine the arrangement of atoms in solids using a transmission electron microscope (TEM). The method was invented by Aaron Klug, who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for this, and his studies on virus structures and transfer RNA, in 1982.
The first electron crystallographic protein structure to be solved was bacteriorhodopsin in 1990.
Since then, several other high-resolution structures have been done by electron crystallography, including the light-harvesting complex, and the bacterial flagellum.

</doc>
<doc id="291777" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291777" title="Paul Nurse">
Paul Nurse

Sir Paul Nurse PRS (Paul Maxime Nurse, born Norwich, 25 January 1949) is a British geneticist and cell biologist. 
He was awarded the 2001 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, with Leland Hartwell and Timothy Hunt, for their discoveries about cell division.
They discovered cycle of cell division is regulated by cyclin and cyclin dependent kinases. 
Sir Paul is the current President of the Royal Society and Chief Executive and Director of the UK Centre for Medical Research and Innovation.
He is also Emeritus Professor and Head of the Laboratory for Yeast genetics and Cell Biology at the Rockefeller University, New York City.
Nurse was awarded the Royal Society's Copley Medal in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="291782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291782" title="Dysnomia">
Dysnomia

The term Dysnomia can refer to three different concepts:

</doc>
<doc id="291794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291794" title="Kevin DuBrow">
Kevin DuBrow

Kevin Mark DuBrow (October 29, 1955 – November 19, 2007) was an American singer of rock music. He is best known as the lead singer of the heavy metal band Quiet Riot from 1975, when the band started, until 2007, when he died.
On December 10, 2007, media reported that DuBrow had been found dead on the afternoon of November 25, 2007. He died because he took an accidental overdose of cocaine.

</doc>
<doc id="291797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291797" title="Fighting game">
Fighting game

A fighting game is a video game in which two or more players battle for the winning spot, usually by fighting to the death or K.O.. Most fighting games have a selection of characters with different abilities. Some popular fighting games are "Mortal Kombat", "Street Fighter", and "Soul Calibur".

</doc>
<doc id="291798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291798" title="Push-button">
Push-button

A push-button is a switch in the shape of a small button or knob. When it is pushed it completes an electrical circuit that controls something. For example a doorbell rings when a person pushes a button, or numbers are displayed on a calculator.

</doc>
<doc id="291800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291800" title="Heavyweights">
Heavyweights

Heavyweights is a 1995 Disney movie directed by Steven Brill. "Heavyweights" is about a fat camp for children that is taken over by fitness expert Tony Perkis (Ben Stiller).

</doc>
<doc id="291807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291807" title="Charlie Brown">
Charlie Brown

Charlie Brown is the main character in the comic strip "Peanuts" by Charles M. Schulz.

</doc>
<doc id="291813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291813" title="Stan Berenstain">
Stan Berenstain

Stan Berenstain (September 29, 1923 - November 26, 2005) was an American author. He was best known for his books about the "Berenstain Bears". His first book was called "The Berenstain Bears Baby Book". It was released in 1951.
Berenstain was born in West Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on September 29, 1923. He wrote books with his wife Jan. They were married on April 14, 1946.
On November 26, 2005, Berenstain died of cancer. He was 82.

</doc>
<doc id="291821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291821" title="Category:Articles lacking reliable references">
Category:Articles lacking reliable references

Please do not add pages to this category directly. Any one of the following templates will add a page to this category:

</doc>
<doc id="291824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291824" title="Category:Articles lacking sources from September 2010">
Category:Articles lacking sources from September 2010


</doc>
<doc id="291829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291829" title="Svante Arrhenius">
Svante Arrhenius

Svante August Arrhenius (19 February 1859 – 2 October 1927) was a Nobel Prize-winning Swedish scientist who made discoveries in physics, chemistry and earth science. 
Originally he was a physicist, but he won the 1903 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, and was a founder of physical chemistry.
Later in life, he turned to other scientific problems. He was the first person to predict that emissions of carbon dioxide, from processes like the burning of fossil fuels, would cause global warming. 
His early work was on the conductivity of electrolytes. In 1884, based on this work, he submitted a 150-page essay on electrolytic conductivity to University of Uppsala for his doctorate. It did not impress the professors, and he received a low-class degree. Later, extensions of this work would earn him the Nobel Prize in Chemistry.
The most important idea in the thesis was his explanation that neither pure salts nor pure water is a conductor, but solutions of salts in water are.
Arrhenius' explanation was that in forming a solution, the salt splits up into charged particles (which Michael Faraday had given the name ions many years earlier). Faraday's belief had been that ions were produced in the process of electrolysis; Arrhenius' idea was that, even in the absence of an electric current, solutions of salts contained ions. He proposed that chemical reactions in solution were reactions between ions.
In an extension of his ionic scientific theory Arrhenius proposed definitions for acids and bases, in 1884. He believed that acids were substances which produce hydrogen ions in a solution and that bases were substances which produce hydroxide ions in a solution.
About 1900, Arrhenius became involved in setting up the Nobel Institutes and the Nobel Prizes. For the rest of his life, he would be a member of the Nobel Committee on Physics and a member of the Nobel Committee on Chemistry. 
He used his positions to arrange prizes for his friends (Jacobus van't Hoff, Wilhelm Ostwald, Theodore Richards) and to attempt to deny them to his enemies (Paul Ehrlich, Walther Nernst). In 1903 he became the first Swedish persn to be awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry.
After he had made his name, he turned to other scientific questions.
In 1904 he delivered (at the University of California) several lectures, to try and show the application of the methods of physical chemistry to the study of the theory of toxins and antitoxins, and which were published in 1907 under the title "Immunochemistry".
He also turned his attention to geology (the origin of ice ages), astronomy, physical cosmology, and astrophysics, accounting for the birth of the solar system by interstellar collision. 
He considered radiation pressure as accounting for comets, the solar corona, the aurora borealis, and zodiacal light.
He thought life might have been carried from planet to planet by the transport of spores. This idea is now known as panspermia.
Arrhenius thought of a theory to explain the ice ages, and in 1896 he was the first scientist to think that changes in the levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere could make a big change to the surface temperature through the greenhouse effect. He was influenced by the work of others, including Joseph Fourier. Arrhenius used infrared observations of the moon to work out the absorption of infrared radiation by atmospheric CO and water vapour. 
In its original form, Arrhenius' greenhouse law reads as follows:
This simplified expression is still used today: 
His book "Worlds in the making" (1908) was directed at a general audience. He suggested that the human emission of CO would be strong enough to stop the world from entering a new ice age, and that a warmer Earth would be needed to feed the rapidly increasing population: 
He was the first person to predict that emissions of carbon dioxide from the burning of fossil fuels and other combustion processes would cause global warming. Arrhenius clearly believed that a warmer world would be a positive change. Nevertheless, until about 1960, most scientists dismissed the greenhouse effect because they thought it was very unlikely to happen. Milutin Milankovitch had presented a mechanism for ice ages: it used cyclical changes in the orbit of the Earth (Milankovitch cycles). Nowadays, the accepted explanation is that orbital forcing sets the timing for ice ages with CO acting as amplifying feedback.
He thought of the idea of a universal language (one language that would be spoken by everybody), proposing a modification of the English language.
Arrhenius was one of several leading Swedish scientists who helped create The State Institute for Racial Biology in 1922. This was a eugenics-influenced idea. It had originally been proposed as a Nobel Institute. Arrhenius was a member of the institute's board, as he had been in The Swedish Society for Racial Hygiene (Eugenics), founded in 1909.

</doc>
<doc id="291833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291833" title="Tivoli-Neu">
Tivoli-Neu

The Tivoli-Neu is a football stadium in Innsbruck, Austria. It is the homeground of FC Wacker Innsbruck and the Swarco Raiders Tirol, an American Football team. The stadium was one venue of the UEFA Euro 2008.
The Tivoli-Neu replaces the old Tivoli stadium which was closed down in 2004. Since the insolvency of FC Tirol in 2002 the stadium is used by FC Wacker Innsbruck, the follower of the old club. For the UEFA Euro 2008 the stadium was used for matches. It was temporarily expanded to a capacity of 30 000.

</doc>
<doc id="291836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291836" title="Denmark-Norway">
Denmark-Norway

The Kingdom of Denmark-Norway was a union between the two kingdoms Denmark and Norway, which lasted from 1536 to 1814. During this time, the capital of both countries was Copenhagen, and they shared the same military. The kingdom also possessed colonies in Greenland, Iceland, Africa, the Caribbean and India.

</doc>
<doc id="291839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291839" title="Sony Vegas">
Sony Vegas

Sony Vegas is a non-liner video editing software developed by Sony Creative Software. There are four versions of the software. The first version was 7.0 released in 2006, then came the 8.0 version released in 2007, then the 9.0 version released in 2009 and then the 10.0 version released in 2011. The Film Paranormal Activity was edited using the software and has won many awards.
The software is only for Windows computers and PCs only and cost 600 dollars. 
Sony Vegas contains a lot of video and audio effects and transitions including the Mirror Effect and Chroma Key. Sony Vegas also has tittles and other video generators.
Sony Vegas also allows users crop video, Flip video horizontal or upside down, change the speed of video and audio with or without the pitch changing if going faster or slower and more.
The 8.0 version was released in late 2007. It contains features including ProType Titling technology, Multicamera editing tools, 32-bit floating point video processing, Customizable window layouts, Improved HDV/SDI/XDCAM support and Mixing console window.
The 9.0 version was released in 2009. The color of the program is now black rather than white. It contains features including support for 4K resolution and native support for pro camcorder formats like Red and XDCAM EX. 
The latest 9.0 version was released in May 2010 called "Vegas Pro 9.0e" which includes a new white balance video effect.
The 10.0 version was released in October 2010 and is the latest version of the software. It contains new features including Stereoscopic 3D Editing, Comprehensive Closed Captioning, GPU-Accelerated AVC Encoding (Using NVIDIA CUDA), Image Stabilization, Audio Event FX, Track Management, OpenFX plugins support.

</doc>
<doc id="291840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291840" title="William Henry Bragg">
William Henry Bragg

Sir William Henry Bragg OM KBE PRS (2 July 1862 – 10 March 1942) was a British physicist, chemist, mathematician and active sportsman.
Bragg shared a Nobel Prize with his son William Lawrence Bragg – the 1915 Nobel Prize in Physics.
In 1885, at 23, Bragg was appointed Elder Professor of Mathematics and Experimental Physics at the University of Adelaide, and started work there early in 1886.
Bragg was an able and popular lecturer; he encouraged the formation of the student union, and the attendance, free of charge, of science teachers at his lectures.
Bragg was elected Fellow of the Royal Society in 1907.
Bragg returned to England at the end of 1908 and took the Cavendish Chair in Physics at the University of Leeds in 1909. He published an imporant early work on radioactivity, "Studies in radioactivity", in 1912. 
He invented the X-ray spectrometer, and began work with his son. Together they founded the new technique of X-ray crystallography, for which they won the Nobel Prize in Physics for 1915. That year was also marked by their book "X-rays and crystal structure", the standard text for many years.
From 1914, both father and son contributed to the war effort; W.H. Bragg was connected with submarine detection, at Aberdour on Forth and at Harwich, and returned to London in 1918 as a consultant to the Admiralty.
Bragg was appointed Quain Professor of Physics at University College London in 1915, but did not take up his duties there until after World War I. 
From 1923 he was Fullerian Professor of Chemistry at the Royal Institution and director of the Davy Faraday Research Laboratory. This institution was practically rebuilt in 1929-30 and, under Bragg's directorship, many valuable papers were issued from the laboratory.

</doc>
<doc id="291842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291842" title="Christine of France">
Christine of France

Christine of France (Christine Marie; 10 February 1606 – 27 December 1663) was the second daughter of Henry IV of France and Marie de Medici. A sister of Louis XIII, she was married to the future Victor Amadeus I, Duke of Savoy in 1619 aged fourteen. She was said to be volatile and frivolous. Educated at the French court, she introduced French culture into Savoy. Her husband succeeded to the Savoyard throne in 1637 and thus Christine became Duchess of Savoy through marriage. At the death of Victor Amadeus I in 1637, Christine was created "regent" in the name of her son Francis Hyacinth. However, at the death of Francis Hyacinth in 1638, the throne went to her second surviving son who became Charles Emmanuel II. Officially regent till 1648, she maintained huge influence within the Savoyard government at the time which only ended at her death in 1663. 
Christine was born in the Palais du Louvre in Paris and was the third child of King Henry IV of France and his second wife, Marie de' Medici. As a daughter of the king, she held the prestigious rank of "Fille de France". Baptised with the names "Christine Marie", she was known simply as Christine. She was a younger sister of Louis XIII of France and Élisabeth, a future queen of Spain. After the marriage of Princess Élisabeth in 1615 to the future Philip IV of Spain, Christine took on the honorary title of "Madame Royale" indicating her status as the eldest and most senior unmarried daughter at the court. She would be known as this till her own marriage.
She married Victor Amadeus of Savoy, on 10 February 1619 at the Louvre in Paris. Her husband was styled the Prince of Piedmont and as such she the Princess. Victor Amadeus was the eldest surviving son of Charles Emmanuel I, Duke of Savoy and Catherine Michelle of Austria the latter of which had died in 1597 as a result of childbirth. As such, Christine was the most senior female at the Savoyard court from the time of her arrival. Her husband was nineteen years older than she. Despite the age gap, the couple were happy and overall produced eight children, four of whom would survive childhood. 
Victor Amadeus became Duke after the death of his father in July 1630. Her husband died in October 1637 having left Savoy with little money due to wars with Spain. 
When her husband died in October 1637, she was created regent in the name of her son Francis Hyacinth who succeeded her husband. At the death of Francis Hyacinth in 1638, her second son succeeded as Charles Emmanuel II. As a result of Charles Emmanuel's age, Christine maintained her grip on power. Despite this, her brothers-in-law, Prince Maurice and his younger brother Prince Thomas Francis disputed Christine's power as she was a woman. They also had little trust in her French entourage. When Francis Hyacinth, the brothers started the Piedmontese Civil War, with Spanish support. There were two parties. The ""principisti", supporters of the Princes, and the "madamisti"", the supporters of Christine. During her regency, she styled herself "Madama Reale", Italian form of the style "Madame Royale" which she was known as prior to her marriage. 
After four years of fighting, Christine was victorious thanks to French military support of her brother Louis XIII. Not only did she keep the duchy for her son, she also prevented France getting too much power within her sons dominions thus preserving power for herself. When peace was concluded in 1642, Prince Maurice married Christines eldest daughter Luisa Cristina to cement the peace. Christine stayed in control of Savoy, until her son could follow in her footsteps. Even though her formal regency ended in 1648, she remained ruler of Savoy till her death. 
Christine was notorious as much for her capricious rule as for her many lovers. She lived an uninhibited private life and had relationships with the French Ambassador, Marini, her brother-in-law, Maurice as well as Count Filippo d'Aglié, a handsome courtier who remained faithful to her all her life. It was under her influence that her son married her niece, Françoise Madeleine d'Orléans in a proxy wedding. Knowing that Françoise Madeleine was so young and timid, it allowed Christine the opportunity to maintain her power over Savoy and her son. However, she died shortly after her sons wedding at the Palazzo Madama, her residence in Turin aged 57. She was buried at the Basilica of Sant'Andrea.
Françoise Madeleine died in 1664 childless. He remarried in 1666 to Marie Jeanne of Savoy. Marie Jeanne would give birth to Victor Amadeus II of Sardinia who would later marry another French Princess Anne Marie d'Orléans. 17 years after her death, in 1680, her granddaughter Maria Anna Victoria of Bavaria married Louis XIII's grandson "Louis, Grand Dauphin" thus making Christine a direct ancestress of most royalty today. Revealed on NBC's 'Who Do You Think You Are?' that one of her descendants is model/actress Brooke Shields.
In her widowhood she lived at the "Palazzo Madama" which she had rebuilt. She was also organised the reconstruction of the Castello del Valentino as well as the additions to the Royal Palace of Turin. She would also later own "Vigno di Madama Reale", later the private residence of Anne Marie d'Orléans.

</doc>
<doc id="291846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291846" title="Victor Amadeus I, Duke of Savoy">
Victor Amadeus I, Duke of Savoy

Victor Amadeus I (8 May 1587 – 7 October 1637) was the Duke of Savoy from 1630 to 1637. He was also titular King of Cyprus and Jerusalem. He was also known as the "Lion of Susa".
He was born in Turin to Charles Emmanuel I, Duke of Savoy and Catherine Micaela of Austria. He spent much of his childhood at the Spanish court in Madrid. When his brother Filippo Emanuele, Prince of Piedmont died, he became legitimate heir to the duchy and received the loyalty swore of the court at Racconigi on 21 January 1607.
After a crisis with relationships with Spain, he was married to Henry IV of France's daughter Christine Marie in 1619.
Victor Amadeus became Duke of Savoy after his father's death in 1630. Charles Emmanuel's policies had brought a great instability in the relationships with both France and Spain, and troops were needed to defend the Duchy. As money was lacking to recruit mercenaries or train indigenous soldiers, Victor Amadeus signed a peace treaty with Spain. With the Treaty of Cherasco, Savoy was given back Pinerolo, although, according to a secret point of the agreement, that important stronghold was to remain with France in exchange for Geneve.
On 25 September of that year, Victor Amadeus fell ill after a dinner offered by the Duke of Créqui. Carried to Turin, he died here on 7 October.

</doc>
<doc id="291849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291849" title="Alex Rider">
Alex Rider

Alex Rider is a series of spy books. It is written by British author Anthony Horowitz. The series is about a teenage spy named Alex Rider. The series is aimed at young adults. There are ten books in the series, but short stories and other books have been published too. The novels are published by Walker Books in the United Kingdom. The first novel, "Stormbreaker", was published in the United Kingdom on 4 September 2000 and was adapted into a movie in 2006. Over 10 million books in the Alex Rider series have been sold worldwide.

</doc>
<doc id="291850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291850" title="UPC-Arena">
UPC-Arena

The UPC-Arena (formerly known as Arnold Schwarzenegger stadium) is a football stadium in Graz, Austria. It is the homeground of SK Sturm Graz.
The first stadium was built before the Second World War. In the 1950s it was renovated and expanded with a skating rink (now home of the ice hockey team Graz 99ers) and an indoor pool. In the 1970s it became home ground of the big football clubs of Graz, SK Sturm and Grazer AK. The stadium was originally named after the bodybuilder, actor and Governor of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger who was born near Graz. It was built from 1994 to 1997 and was opened with the derby Grazer AK versus SK Sturm Graz. When Governor Schwarzenegger did not pardon a prisoner from the death penalty a discussion started about the name. Governor Schwarzenegger took back the right to use his name. Now the name was Stadium Graz-Liebenau after the part of the town where it is. In 2006 the stadium was named UPC Arena after a sponsor of SK Sturm Graz. UPC is a big Austrian internet provider.
The stadium has a capacity of 15 400 in 27 sectors. For Champions League matches the capacity is expanded to 16 000. The field has a lawn heating. Two video walls and floodlight are also in the arena.
The stadium was host for the national team of Austria versus Faroe Islands on 5 September 2009 which ended 3–1 for the home team. Altogether 14 matches of the national team were held here (The first one was in 1970 versus Yugoslavia). Also the match England versus Japan on 30 May 2010 was held in the arena. The English team had a training Camp in Styria for the 2010 FIFA World Cup. The match ended 2–1 to England. In 2011 it will be one of the venues for the American Football world championship.

</doc>
<doc id="291858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291858" title="Jim Parsons">
Jim Parsons

James Joseph "Jim" Parsons (born March 24, 1973 in Houston, Texas) is an American actor. Parsons is best known for playing the role of Sheldon Cooper in the television series, "The Big Bang Theory". In 2010, he won an Emmy Award for "Outstanding Lead Actor In a Comedy Series" and in 2011, he won a Golden Globe Award for "Best Actor - Television Series - Musical or Comedy". Both of these awards were given to him for his role in The Big Bang Theory.
According to The New York Times, Parsons is gay.

</doc>
<doc id="291863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291863" title="Johnny Galecki">
Johnny Galecki

John Mark "Johnny" Galecki (born April 30, 1975) is an Belgian-born American actor. Galecki is best known for playing the role of David Healy on "Roseanne" and Leonard Hofstadter on "The Big Bang Theory". 
Galecki was born in Bree, Belgium to American parents. He was raised in Oak Park, Illinois.
Galecki dated Kaley Cuoco who is his co-star on "The Big Bang Theory". They dated secretly for two years before they broke up.
In February 2012, it was revealed that Galecki was dating actress Kelli Garner since 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="291869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291869" title="Mortal Kombat: Annihilation">
Mortal Kombat: Annihilation

Mortal Kombat: Annihilation is an 1997 martial arts action/adventure movie that was produced by Lawrence Kasanoff and was directed by John R. Leonetti. It is based on the video game franchise, "Mortal Kombat" and is the sequel to the 1995 movie, "Mortal Kombat". "Mortal Kombat: Annihilation" was released on November 21, 1997 in North America, February 13, 1998 in the United Kingdom and on April 9, 1998 in Australia. The movie received negative reviews with a 7% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and Metacritic gave it a 11 out of 100.

</doc>
<doc id="291871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291871" title="Litefoot">
Litefoot

Gary Paul Davis (born March 1, 1969 in Upland, California), known by his stage name Litefoot, is an American rapper and actor. He is of Cherokee and Chichimeca descent. He was the first Native American person to rap and he called his style of music, "Tribalistic Funk". 
David is also an actor and acted in the movies The Indian in the Cupboard in 1995, in 1997, Kull the Conqueror in 1997 and Adaptation in 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="291887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291887" title="Bridesmaid">
Bridesmaid

A bridesmaid is a member of the bride's group in a wedding. A bridesmaid is usually a young woman, and often a close friend or sister. She helps the bride on the day of a wedding or marriage ceremony. Traditionally, bridesmaids were chosen from unmarried young women who were old enough to be married.
The main bridesmaid may be called the chief bridesmaid or maid of honor if she is unmarried, or the matron of honor if she is married. A junior bridesmaid is a girl who is clearly too young to get married, but who is included as an honorary bridesmaid.

</doc>
<doc id="291889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291889" title="Wivenhoe">
Wivenhoe

Wivenhoe is a town near Colchester, in Essex, England. It has a local football team called Wivenhoe town F.C. 

</doc>
<doc id="291890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291890" title="Witham">
Witham

Witham is a town near the A12 road in Essex, England. In 2001 there were 22,470 people living in Witham.

</doc>
<doc id="291891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291891" title="Harwich">
Harwich

Harwich is a port town near the A120 road in Essex, England. In 2011 there were 17,684 people living in Harwich.

</doc>
<doc id="291892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291892" title="Harlow">
Harlow

Harlow is a new town and borough near junction 7 of the M11 motorway in Essex in the East of England. About 85,000 people live in Harlow. It is a satellite town of London.

</doc>
<doc id="291893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291893" title="Thaxted">
Thaxted

Thaxted is a town in Essex, England. In 2001 there were 2,576 people living in Thaxted.

</doc>
<doc id="291894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291894" title="Halstead">
Halstead

Halstead is a town and civil parish in Braintree district, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 11,053 people living in Halstead.

</doc>
<doc id="291895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291895" title="Coggeshall">
Coggeshall

Coggeshall is a town near the A120 road, in Essex, England. In 2001 there were 4,327 people living in Coggeshall.

</doc>
<doc id="291896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291896" title="Alice in Wonderland (2010 movie)">
Alice in Wonderland (2010 movie)

Alice in Wonderland is a 2010 American fantasy children's movie with Mia Wasikowska, Johnny Depp, Helena Bonham Carter, Anne Hathaway, Crispin Glover, Michael Sheen, Matt Lucas, Barbara Windsor, Christopher Lee, Alan Rickman, Michael Gough, Leo Bill and Stephen Fry.
It is based on the "Alice in Wonderland" book written by Lewis Carroll. The score is by Danny Elfman.
A sequel, "" will be released in May 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="291899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291899" title="Closing credits">
Closing credits

Closing credits (or end credits) are shown at the end of a movie or television show. They usually say who the actors were in the movie. They also include who helped make the movie, such as the director and the producer.

</doc>
<doc id="291901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291901" title="2010 Winter Olympics closing ceremony">
2010 Winter Olympics closing ceremony

The closing ceremony of the 2010 Winter Olympics took place on February 28, 2010. It was held at the BC Place Stadium in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

</doc>
<doc id="291904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291904" title="Humanitarian aid">
Humanitarian aid

Humanitarian aid is aid given with respect of human dignity with a spirit of human nature to people in war, disaster including natural disaster and to refugees according to laws of war and international human rights law. To this end International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement and Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs exist.

</doc>
<doc id="291905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291905" title="Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs">
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs

Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs is an organization of the United Nations for humanitarian aid started in 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="291906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291906" title="Three Days Grace">
Three Days Grace

Three Days Grace is a Canadian alternative rock band. They formed in 1992 in Norwood, Ontario as a post-grunge band and were originally called "Groundswell". There are four members in the band: Adam Gontier, Barry Stock, Neil Sanderson and Brad Walst. The band was named "Number One Rock Artist of the Year" by Billboard. 
Gontier resigned from the band on January 9, 2013 due to a "non-life threatening" health issue and was replaced by My Darkest Days lead singer Matt Walst.

</doc>
<doc id="291908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291908" title="Three Days Grace (album)">
Three Days Grace (album)

Three Days Grace is the first studio album by Canadian rock band, Three Days Grace. It was released on July 22, 2003. The producer of the album was Gavin Brown. The album peaked at #69 on the U.S. "Billboard" 200 and #9 on the Canadian Albums Chart.

</doc>
<doc id="291909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291909" title="One-X">
One-X

One-X is the second studio album by Canadian rock band, Three Days Grace. It was released on June 13, 2006. The producer of the album was Howard Benson. The album peaked at #5 on the U.S. "Billboard" 200 and #2 on the Canadian Albums Chart. The songs "Riot" and "Animal I Have Become" were featured in the video game, "WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2010".

</doc>
<doc id="291912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291912" title="Life Starts Now">
Life Starts Now

Life Starts Now is the third studio album by Canadian rock band, Three Days Grace. It was released on September 22, 2009. The producer of the album was Howard Benson. The album was certified Platinum in Canada and was also certified Gold in the US. The album peaked at #3 on the U.S. Billboard 200 and at #2 on the Canadian Albums Chart.

</doc>
<doc id="291916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291916" title="Category:Three Days Grace albums">
Category:Three Days Grace albums


</doc>
<doc id="291925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291925" title="Sindh Qalanders">
Sindh Qalanders

Sindh Qalanders is a field hockey team for the Sindh Province in Pakistan. They play in the Pakistan Hockey Federation.

</doc>
<doc id="291926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291926" title="Amsterdam Museum">
Amsterdam Museum

The Amsterdam Museum is a museum in Amsterdam. Before 2011 it was called the Amsterdams Historisch Museum. It is in the old orphanage between Kalverstraat and Nieuwezijds Voorburgwal.
Since 1975, the museum has been in a building that was first built in 1580 as Amsterdam's orphanage.
The museum has paintings and old photographs and a cafe.

</doc>
<doc id="291936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291936" title="Lawrence Bragg">
Lawrence Bragg

Sir William Lawrence Bragg CH OBE MC FRS (31 March 1890 – 1 July 1971) was an Australian-born British physicist and X-ray crystallographer.
Bragg was always known as Sir Lawrence Bragg, and his father was Sir William Bragg. Lawrence Bragg was educated in Adelaide, Australia and in England. He was awarded the Military Cross in World War I.
Lawrence Bragg discovered (1912) the Bragg law of X-ray diffraction, the basis of X-ray crystallography. He was joint winner (with his father, Sir William Bragg) of the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1915. 
To date, Lawrence Bragg is the youngest Nobel Laureate. He was the director of the Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge, when the discovery of the structure of DNA was made by James D. Watson and Francis Crick in February 1953.
He was elected an FRS in 1921. He was knighted by George VI in 1941, and received both the Copley Medal and the Royal Medal of the Royal Society.

</doc>
<doc id="291943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291943" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Pamm">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Pamm


</doc>
<doc id="291946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291946" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Speakonia">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Speakonia


</doc>
<doc id="291956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291956" title="Hoverfly">
Hoverfly

Hoverflies, sometimes called 'flower flies' or 'syrphid flies', are the insect family Syrphidae. 
As their common name suggests, they are often seen hovering or sucking nectar at flowers. The adults of many species feed mainly on nectar and pollen, while the larvae (maggots) eat a wide range of foods. 
In some species, the larvae are saprotrophs, eating decaying plant and animal matter in the soil or in ponds and streams. In other species, the larvae are insectivores and prey on aphids, thrips, and other plant-sucking insects.
Aphids alone cause tens of millions of dollars of damage to crops worldwide every year. Hoverflies are important natural enemies of these pests, and can be used in biological control. Some adult syrphid flies are important pollinators.
About 6,000 species in 200 genera have been described. Hoverflies are common throughout the world and can be found on most continent except Antarctica. 
Hoverflies are harmless to most other animals despite their mimicry of the black and yellow stripes of wasps. They are a classic example of Batesian mimicry. The Batesian mimic is a sheep in wolf's clothing: it looks like something dangerous or which tastes disgusting, but in reality it is good to eat. Hover flies look roughly like little wasps, and their warning colouration is well-known to birds.

</doc>
<doc id="291964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291964" title="Atomkraft">
Atomkraft

Atomkraft are an English heavy metal band who were part of the New Wave of British Heavy Metal movement. They formed in 1979 and disbanded 1988. Their "Total Metal" approach is somewhere between fellow NWOBHM bands such as Motörhead and Venom, punk rock bands such as The Dickies, and early Exodus or Slayer.

</doc>
<doc id="291966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291966" title="James Wisniewski">
James Wisniewski

James Joseph Wisniewski (born February 21, 1984 in Canton, Michigan) is an NHL ice hockey defenceman whose rights belong to the Columbus Blue Jackets. He was selected by the Chicago Blackhawks with the 156th overall pick in the 2002 NHL Draft.
Wisniewski also played for the Chicago Blackhawks for 4 seasons, the Anaheim Ducks for 2 seasons, the New York Islanders for 1 season and the Montreal Canadiens for 1 season before his rights were traded to the Columbus Blue Jackets for a conditional seventh-round draft pick in 2012 for the Canadiens. The draft pick will become a fifth-rounder if Columbus actually signs Wisniewski.

</doc>
<doc id="291967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291967" title="Tony Dolan">
Tony Dolan

Tony "Demolition" Dolan (also known as "The Demolition Man") is an English musician and actor, most known as bassist and vocalist of heavy metal bands Atomkraft and Venom.

</doc>
<doc id="291969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291969" title="Mark LaVarre">
Mark LaVarre

Mark LaVarre (born February 21, 1965 in Evanston, Illinois) is a retired American professional ice hockey right winger who played a career total of 78 games in the NHL. He played his entire NHL career with the Chicago Black Hawks. He was drafted by the Chicago Black Hawks with the 119th overall pick in the sixth round of the 1983 NHL Draft.

</doc>
<doc id="291970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291970" title="Mike Eagles">
Mike Eagles

Michael Bryant Eagles (born March 7, 1963 in Sussex, New Brunswick) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey left winger who played a career total of 853 games in the NHL. He played 4 seasons with the Quebec Nordiques, 2 seasons with the Chicago Blackhawks, 5 seasons with the Winnipeg Jets and 6 seasons with the Washington Capitals. He was drafted by the Quebec Nordiques with the 116th overall pick in the 1981 NHL Draft.

</doc>
<doc id="291972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291972" title="Superman's Dead">
Superman's Dead

"Superman's Dead'" is a 1996 alternative rock/post-grunge song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the first single from their second studio album "Clumsy", which was released in 1997. The song was written by Raine Maida and Mike Turner.
The song is about how much TV that children watch and also the content of it. The song looks at the dark expectations that are garnered from media images.
The song is one of the most popular song's from Our Lady Peace and is also a definitive example of Our Lady Peace's staple sound with the main thing being Raine Maida's voice.

</doc>
<doc id="291973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291973" title="Naveed (song)">
Naveed (song)

"Naveed'" is a 1995 alternative rock/post-grunge song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the first single from their debut studio album "Naveed", which was released in 1994. The song was written by Raine Maida.

</doc>
<doc id="291974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291974" title="Supersatellite">
Supersatellite

"Supersatellite'" is a 1995 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the fourth single from their debut studio album "Naveed", which was released in 1994. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Arnold Lanni.
The song was inspired by a book from Ken Carey.

</doc>
<doc id="291977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291977" title="Hope (Our Lady Peace song)">
Hope (Our Lady Peace song)

"Hope'" is a 1994 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the third single from their debut studio album "Naveed", which was released in 1994. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Arnold Lanni.
The meaning of the song is about a girl named Hope who going into insanity and thinks she's a sunflower so she climbs on top of a piano and reaches for the sun.

</doc>
<doc id="291978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291978" title="Starseed (song)">
Starseed (song)

"Starseed'" is a 1994 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the second single from their debut studio album "Naveed", which was released in 1994. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Arnold Lanni.

</doc>
<doc id="291979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291979" title="The Birdman">
The Birdman

"The Birdman" is a 1994 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the first single from their debut studio album "Naveed", which was released in 1994. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Arnold Lanni.

</doc>
<doc id="291980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291980" title="Life (Our Lady Peace song)">
Life (Our Lady Peace song)

"'Life'" is a 2000 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the second single from their fourth studio album "Spiritual Machines", which was released in 2000. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by both Arnold Lanni and Raine Maida. The song was nominated for "Best Single" at the 2002 Juno Awards.

</doc>
<doc id="291981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291981" title="In Repair (Our Lady Peace song)">
In Repair (Our Lady Peace song)

"In Repair" is a 2000 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the first single from their fourth studio album "Spiritual Machines", which was released in 2000. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Arnold Lanni.

</doc>
<doc id="291982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291982" title="Thief (Our Lady Peace song)">
Thief (Our Lady Peace song)

"'Thief'" is a 1999 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the third single from their third studio album "Happiness... Is Not a Fish That You Can Catch", which was released in 1999. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Arnold Lanni.
Our Lady Peace said that the song was about a young girl from Kitchener, Ontario named Mina Kim who had a cancerous tumor in her brain. The word thief in the song refers to the tumor and at the end of the song there is a sound clip of a young girl that is actually Mina Kim singing a "Little By Little" with Maida's wife Chantal Kreviazuk.

</doc>
<doc id="291983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291983" title="Is Anybody Home?">
Is Anybody Home?

"'Is Anybody Home?'" is a 2000 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the second single from their third studio album "Happiness... Is Not a Fish That You Can Catch", which was released in 1999. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Arnold Lanni.

</doc>
<doc id="291984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291984" title="One Man Army (song)">
One Man Army (song)

"'One Man Army'" is a 1999 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the first single from their third studio album "Happiness...Is Not a Fish That You Can Catch", which was released in 1999. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Arnold Lanni. The song is sometimes mistakenly called "Falling".

</doc>
<doc id="291985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291985" title="Clumsy (Our Lady Peace song)">
Clumsy (Our Lady Peace song)

"'Clumsy'" is a 1997 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the second single from their second studio album "Clumsy", which was released in 1997. The song was written by Raine Maida and Mike Turner and was produced by Arnold Lanni. The song was featured on the soundtrack to the movie, I Know What You Did Last Summer.

</doc>
<doc id="291986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291986" title="4 AM (Our Lady Peace song)">
4 AM (Our Lady Peace song)

"'4 AM'" is a 1998 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the fourth single from their second studio album "Clumsy", which was released in 1997. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Arnold Lanni. They thought of the name 4 AM because they wrote the song at 4:00 AM and Raine Maida's father, Anthony Maida has the initials "AM".

</doc>
<doc id="291990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291990" title="Right Behind You (Mafia)">
Right Behind You (Mafia)

"'Right Behind You (Mafia)'" is a 2001 alternative rock/post-grunge song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the third single from their fourth studio album "Spiritual Machines", which was released in 2000. The song was written by Raine Maida and Mike Turner and was produced by both Arnold Lanni and Raine Maida.
The song was inspired by Ray Kurzweil's book, The Age of Spiritual Machines, and was written as more of a retort to Kurzweil's predictions which Raine noticed didn't involve the human spirit as a factor.

</doc>
<doc id="291991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291991" title="Somewhere Out There (Our Lady Peace song)">
Somewhere Out There (Our Lady Peace song)

"'Somewhere Out There'" is a 2002 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the first single from their fifth studio album "Gravity", which was released in 2002. The song was written by Raine Maida. The song was the most successful song on the album and was also the most internationally successful single ever released by the band.

</doc>
<doc id="291992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291992" title="Innocent (Our Lady Peace song)">
Innocent (Our Lady Peace song)

"'Innocent'" is a 2002 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the second single from their fifth studio album "Gravity", which was released in 2002. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Bob Rock. 
The song is about people that are suffering which also includes a girl with cancer. Maida stated in 2002 that Innocent was his favorite song on the Gravity album and said that "I wrote this song over a year ago and I was originally hesitant to play it for the band, but once we got into the studio and began working with Bob we were able to make it an Our Lady Peace song.".

</doc>
<doc id="291993" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291993" title="Suspension (chemistry)">
Suspension (chemistry)

In chemistry, a suspension is a mixture of two or more components. In a suspension, very small pieces of solid are spread through a liquid but do not dissolve. If left still, the solid pieces will separate from the liquid and either fall to the bottom or rise to the top. Sand in water is an example of suspension. Suspensions may separate quickly or stay suspended for a long time, depending on what they contain.
If a liquid is suspended in another liquid, it is called an emulsion. Milk is an emulsion. If a liquid is suspended in a gas it is an aerosol. Mist is an aerosol.

</doc>
<doc id="291997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291997" title="New Wave of British Heavy Metal">
New Wave of British Heavy Metal

The New Wave of British Heavy Metal (NWOBHM) was a heavy metal movement that started in the late 1970s, in Britain. It was well known around the world by the early 1980s. The movement developed as a reaction in part to the decline of early heavy metal bands such as Deep Purple, Led Zeppelin and Black Sabbath
Some NWOBHM bands are Saxon, Motörhead, Diamond Head, and Iron Maiden

</doc>
<doc id="291999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291999" title="Blossoms in the Dust">
Blossoms in the Dust

Blossoms in the Dust is an 1941 drama movie that was produced by Irving Asher and Mervyn LeRoy and was directed by Mervyn LeRoy. Blossoms in the Dust was released on July 25, 1941 in North America. The movie won an Academy Award for "Best Art Direction-Interior Decoration, Color" and was also nominated for "Best Actress in a Leading Role", "Best Cinematography", "Color" and "Best Picture". 

</doc>
<doc id="292000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292000" title="Category:National League All-Stars">
Category:National League All-Stars

People in this category have played for the National League in the Major League Baseball All-Star Game.

</doc>
<doc id="292001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292001" title="Dreidel">
Dreidel

A Dreidel (סביבון,דרעידעל) is a four-sided top which is played in the Hanukkah season by Jewish people. It is game of luck which uses candy, coins or other betting tokens. 
The players start out with 10 or 15 tokens. Each player puts one token in the pot. The Dreidel has four sides. נ (Nun), ג (Gimel), ה (Hei), and ש (Shin). Nun means that the player does nothing. Gimel means that the player gets all the tokens from the pot. Hei means that the player gets half of the tokens from the pot. And Shin means that the player has to put one token in the pot. 
If the Pot is empty, each player puts one token in the pot. If the pot has an odd number of tokens, one player puts one token in the pot. The player is out if he/she runs out of tokens. Whoever is left standing, or has the most tokens at the end wins the game.
In 2009, Good Morning America published a report on the rising popularity of the dreidel.

</doc>
<doc id="292006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292006" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Nomi Sunrider">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Nomi Sunrider


</doc>
<doc id="292013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292013" title="Misery">
Misery

Misery is a feeling of great unhappiness, suffering and/or pain.
Misery may also refer to:
In entertainment:
Places:
In music:

</doc>
<doc id="292017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292017" title="Is Anybody Out There">
Is Anybody Out There

"Is Anybody Out There" is a song recorded by American pop group "Maroon 5". The song was recorded in Europe at Coca Cola Music Studios on March 21, 2011. The song set a world record for being the first song in music history to be written, produced, and recorded within a 24-hours.

</doc>
<doc id="292021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292021" title="Walter Horton">
Walter Horton

Walter Horton (April 6, 1917 – December 8, 1981) was an American blues harp player. He is also known as Big Walter Horton or "Shakey" Horton.
He was born in Horn Lake, Mississippi and started playing harp at the age of five. In his teens he went to Memphis and lived with little income and a lot of discrimination. In the 1930s he played with many musicians across the Mississippi delta region.
He made his first recording in Memphis with the guitarist Little Buddy Doyle. Due to poor health he worked outside the music industry in the 1940s. In the early 1950s he was one of the first musicians recording for Sam Phillips at Sun Records in Memphis, who would later record Elvis Presley. At this time he also was part of the Chicago blues scene, where he recorded amongst others with Eddie Taylor and Johnny Shines. After Junior Wells left the Muddy Waters Band he recorded one session with Waters. In the 1960s he recorded often as sideman for other musicians. He played frequently in the 1970s at blues and folk music festivals in the U.S. and Europe, often with Willie Dixon's Chicago Blues All-Stars. In 1977 he joined Johnny Winter and Muddy Waters on Winter's album I'm Ready. At that time he also recorded for Blind Pig Records. Horton appeared in the Maxwell Street scene in the 1980 film The Blues Brothers. His final recordings were made in 1980.
He got his nickname "Shakey" because while playing he moved his head. He did his own first recording not until 1964 because he was a humble and shy person who did not like to be a leader. He felt more comfortable as sideman for others. Big Walter Horton died from heart failure in Chicago in 1981 aged 64.

</doc>
<doc id="292031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292031" title="Wedding Crashers">
Wedding Crashers

Wedding Crashers is a 2005 American romantic comedy movie that was produced by Peter Abrams, Toby Kiccumshot, Robert L. Levy, Cale Boyter, Andrew Panay and Richard Brener and was directed by David Dobkin. Wedding Crashers was released on July 15, 2005 in North America. The movie received positive reviews with a 75% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 64 out of 100 from Metacritic.

</doc>
<doc id="292032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292032" title="Superbad (movie)">
Superbad (movie)

Superbad is a 2007 American teen sex comedy movie. It was produced by Judd Apatow, Evan Goldberg, Seth Rogen and Shauna Robertson and was directed by Greg Mottola. Superbad was released on August 17, 2007 in North America. The movie received positive reviews with a 87% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 76 out of 100 from Metacritic. 

</doc>
<doc id="292039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292039" title="Basseterre">
Basseterre

Basseterre (), is the capital city of the Federation of Saint Christopher and Nevis, also called St Kitts and Nevis, in the West Indies. "Basseterre" port is at , on the south western coast of Saint Kitts Island. It is one of the chief commercial depots of the Leeward Islands. The city is in the parish of Saint George Basseterre and the southern part of the parish of Saint Peter Basseterre. In 2000 about 15,500 people lived in the city.
Basseterre is one of the oldest towns in the Eastern Caribbean.
Basseterre was founded in 1627 by the French, under Pierre Belain d'Esnambuc. It was the capital of the French colony of Saint-Christophe. The colony was the most northern and most southern parts of the island of St. Kitts. The middle part was held by Britain. When Phillipe de Longviliers de Poincy was made the French governor of St. Kitts in 1639, the town turned into a large, successful port, commanding Eastern Caribbean trade and colonisation. De Poincy then quickly made Basseterre capital of the entire French West Indies colony, which included the islands of Guadeloupe and Martinique. It was the capital until his death in 1660. The city was made capital of the entire island of St. Kitts in 1727. This is when the French were pushed off the island and the British took full control.
The city of Basseterre has one of the most tragic histories of any Caribbean capital, destroyed many times by colonial wars, fire, earthquakes, floods, riots and hurricanes. Despite all of this, a large number of well-restored buildings still exist in downtown Basseterre.
The city of Basseterre is on a bay on the southwestern shore of St. Kitts, Basseterre Bay. The city is in the large Basseterre Valley, almost completely surrounded by lush green hills and mountains. It is mostly low-lying, which is one explanation for the name which the French gave it, Basseterre . However, the name Basseterre is also due to the fact that the island is on the lee of winds of the island, and is thus a safe anchorage. The name Capesterre, given to the region to the North, was dubbed so as it was facing the wind. Basseterre is surrounded by the Olivees Mountains to the north and the Conaree-Morne peaks to the east. The city is drained by the College River and the Westbourne River, which are locally known as "ghauts" and are dry most of the year. They even form streets in downtown Basseterre. This engineering folly has proven quite disastrous though, as College River has been the scene of many disastrous in Basseterre history. Port Zante, in the centre of the bay, is on of land reclaimed from the sea in 1995.
Under the Köppen climate classification, Basseterre features a tropical rainforest climate. Temperatures remain constant throughout the course of the year, 27 °C year-round. Basseterre has no dry season; all 12 months on average sees more than of precipitation. On average, of rain falls on the city annually.
Basseterre is a very small town which is laid out in a grid pattern. It has four main streets running east-west: Bay Road, Liverpool Row, Central Street and Cayon Street. The main street running north to south is Fort Street/Bank Street, which is home to the bulk of the island's main shops and banks. The city has 2 centres, at The Circus, which is geared towards tourism purposes, and the Independence Square, which contains the cathedral, courthouse and most of the older buildings.
Basseterre is the main commercial and industrial centre of St. Kitts. It is also the country's main port of entry, for both sea and air travel, as well as the road and rail transport hub. It houses the administration buildings for the federal government (those for the island of Nevis are in Charlestown). It also houses the headquarters of the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank, as well as the headquarters for many other regional financial institutions.
Despite its small size, Basseterre played host to Carifesta VII (the Caribbean Festival of Arts) in 2000, outbidding rivals many times its size. The city was able to outbid the United States of America, to host matches for the 2007 World Cricket Cup. The Warner Park Sporting Complex was the site of the allocated first round matches of the tournament. This made St. Kitts and Nevis the smallest country in the world ever to host a World Cup event.
Basseterre and its environs are home to many small, American-owned medical schools such as Windsor University, and also two prestigious medical institutions founded by Robert Ross: the Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine and the International University of Nursing. The city has four secondary schools, two of which are government owned, and two are private schools.
There are a large number of Christian churches in the city for its size. Most are Protestant, due to British colonization, but the cathedral in Basseterre is Roman Catholic. The Anglican, or "Church of England" has the most members, followed by the Methodist. Other Protestant denominations include Moravian, Church of God, Baptist, Seventh-day Adventist, Jehovah's Witness, Rivers of Living Water and Pentecostal. Afro-Christian syncretic sects are also widespread.
The city of Basseterre is a financial centre in the Eastern Caribbean. It has the headquarters of the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank, as well as the Eastern Caribbean Securities Exchange, which lists securities for companies and corporations in the region. The city is also headquarters for the St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla National Bank, the largest bank in the Eastern Caribbean, in terms of assets.
The city is also a major Eastern Caribbean industrial centre, its main exports being bass, electronics, beverages, clothing, and salt. The sugar industry closed in 2005. This was due to overwhelming debts and further predicted hardships from major price cuts planned by the EU. There are specified industrial estates which carry out sub-sonic technology, food processing, light engineering, bass (instrument) engineering and rum distilling.
Like many countries in the Eastern Caribbean St Kitts and Nevis uses the East Caribbean dollar ($EC). The exchange rate is fixed at $EC 1 = $US 2.70
Basseterre is hub for all major roads on the island of St. Kitts. Driving is done on the left. The speed limit in the city is everywhere, with special caution to be taken around school zones.
Public Buses have a green license plate starting with the letter "H"
There are 5 main bus routes on St. Kitts:
All bus fees are EC$2.50 for a trip and under, EC$3.00 for a trip 5 to , and EC$3.75 for any longer trip. (EC dollars. 1 US = 2.7 EC)
No public buses travel southwards to the main resort areas in Frigate Bay and the South East Peninsula.
Taxis have yellow license plates starting with the letter "T" or "TA". The taxi station in Basseterre is at the Circus. The taxis will take you just about anywhere for a pre-calculated price.
The Deep Water Harbour in Basseterre is capable of both hosting and berthing of cruise ships or the handling of cargo. It is to the extreme east of Basseterre Bay.
Port Zante, in the centre of the Bay, is for use of docking cruise ships only. The Port can accommodate the largest cruise ships in the world. It also has a marina facility.
The bay is also home to the busy ferry operation between Basseterre and Charlestown on Nevis Island. There are many trips daily served by as much as 6 ferries. There is also a ferry services between Basseterre and Oranjestad, Statia and St. Maarten also exists, but the trips are irregular.
The Robert L. Bradshaw International Airport serves the island, and is in the city's most north easterly area. It has direct flights to London, New York and Miami and seasonal flights to Charlotte, North Carolina, Atlanta, Georgia and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in addition to other major cities in the U.S.A. and Canada during the tourist season.
St. Kitts' of narrow (0.762m)-gauge railway centre in Basseterre, and swoop the island in a circular pattern. The railway lines, originally built to transport sugar cane to the central sugar factory in Basseterre, are now used to transport tourists via the "St. Kitts Scenic Railway Train" which currently runs from Sandy Point to Basseterre, travelling East.
Famous people born in Basseterre include:

</doc>
<doc id="292041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292041" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Chuckie Finster">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Chuckie Finster


</doc>
<doc id="292042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292042" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Phil and Lil DeVille">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Phil and Lil DeVille


</doc>
<doc id="292043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292043" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Tommy Pickles">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Tommy Pickles


</doc>
<doc id="292044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292044" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/A Rugrats Chanukah">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/A Rugrats Chanukah


</doc>
<doc id="292045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292045" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Ghost Story (Rugrats)">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Ghost Story (Rugrats)


</doc>
<doc id="292046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292046" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Reshipora, Saloora, District of Ganderbal (2nd nomination)">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Reshipora, Saloora, District of Ganderbal (2nd nomination)


</doc>
<doc id="292048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292048" title="Shenton Way">
Shenton Way

Shenton Way is a major business district in Singapore. It is part of the Central Business District(CBD) area that is found at the south of Singapore. Together with Raffles Place, it forms part of Singapore's first CBD area. This road is a one way street that starts at the junction of Cross Street, Central Boulevard and Raffles Quay and ends at Keppel Road. The road was named after Sir Shenton Thomas, the Governor of Singapore in 1934–1946, to commemorate his decision to stay in the city during the Japanese Occupation of Singapore.
This road was officially opened in 1951 and became Singapore's version of Wall Street in the 1970s when many business started building their offices there.

</doc>
<doc id="292051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292051" title="Sylvia Likens">
Sylvia Likens

Sylvia Likens (January 1, 1949 - October 26, 1965) was a 16-year-old murder victim from Indiana. She was tortured for three months by Gertrude Baniszewski (née Van Fossan), Gertrude's children, and other young people from their neighborhood, and eventually murdered on October 26, 1965. Her parents, carnival workers, had left Likens and her sister Jenny in the care of the Baniszewski family three months before her death in exchange for $20 a week. Baniszewski, two of her children, Paula and John, and two neighborhood youths, Coy Hubbard and Richard Hobbs, were charged and convicted of the crime. Her torture and murder were described by the prosecutor in Baniszewski's trial as "the most terrible crime ever committed in the state of Indiana".

</doc>
<doc id="292053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292053" title="The Tsar's Bride">
The Tsar's Bride

The Tsar's Bride ("Tsarskaya nevesta" in Russian) is an opera by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov. It was the tenth opera the composer wrote. The words (libretto) were written by Il’ya Tyumenev who based the story on a book called “The Tsar’s Bride by Lev Mey. The opera was composed in 1898. The first performance took place in 1899 at the Moscow theater of the Private Opera of S.I. Mamontov.
The story is supposed to take place in the autumn of 1572 in Moscow. At this time Russia was ruled by a very cruel tsar called Ivan the Terrible. Tsar Ivan had a group of people who guarded him. They were called oprichniki. The oprichniki were like bodyguards, but they were told to kill anybody who was not loyal to the tsar, so they behaved like terrorists, killing, raping and stealing wherever they went. In the opera there are also “Boyars”. A Boyar was a nobleman.
Griaznoy is an oprichnik. Although he already has a lover, Lubasha, he now decides he loves Marfa, the daughter of the merchant Sobakin. Marfa is already engaged to be married to Lykov, a boyar. There is much merrymaking and singing at a feast. Then Griaznoy asks to be left alone with Bomelius, the tsar’s doctor. He asks him to get him a love potion. Lubasha, who is hiding, hears what he says and realizes that he does not love her any more. When the doctor goes, Griaznoy is horrible to Lubasha and tells her to go. She now wants to talk to Bomelius.
A lot of people are coming out of church. They talk about the autumn weather, but when the oprichniki appear they are very frightened and start talking about whom the tsar is going to choose for his bride . Marfa talks to her friend Duniasha about how she has loved Lykov ever since they were children. Tsar Ivan passes by. She does not recognize him, but she is very frightened at the way the Tsar is staring at her. Sobakin comes in with Lykov and the four of them sing about looking forward to the wedding.
Lyubasha now goes to Bomelius and asks for another magic potion which she wants to give to Griaznoi to stop him loving Marfa. Bomelius says he will give her the potion if she will make love to him. Lyubasha agrees and goes inside with him.
At the wedding celebrations Sobakin tells Lykov that he will have to wait before his marriage to Marfa can be confirmed. The Tsar himself is looking for a girl to marry and has asked to see Sobakin’s daughters. Griaznoy realizes he needs to use the love potion quickly so he asks to be invited to the wedding. At the celebration he puts the potion in Marfa’s drink. A messenger comes with the news that the Tsar has chosen Marfa to be his wife. Everyone is horrified and Sobakin collapses. 
Sobakin is at the Tsar's palace. He is proud because his daughter is now the Tsarevna (the Tsar’s wife) and he himself has been made a Boyar. But he is also worried because Marfa has become very ill. Griaznoy comes in and greets Sobakin (who are now both boyars). He says that the person who poisoned Marfa has confessed. Marfa rushes in and tells Griaznoi to speak. He says that Lykov was tortured and then confessed to having poisoned Marfa. Lykov was then executed by Griaznoi himself. Marfa goes mad when she hears this. In her madness she thinks Griaznoy is Lykov. This eventually makes Griaznoy confess that he himself at put the potion into her drink. He did not realize it was poisonous. Lyubasha then confesses that she had put her potion in the place of Griaznoi’s potion. She blames Griaznoy and invites him to kill her. He kills her, then he is taken to prison to be executed. As he is taken away, Marfa, in her madness, once again mistakes Griaznoy for Lykov. She invites him to return the next day to visit her. Then she dies.

</doc>
<doc id="292062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292062" title="Bubble sort">
Bubble sort

Bubble sort is a simple sorting algorithm. It is simple to understand, so it is used as a training algorithm. It is not used in the real world, since it is not very efficient.
To sort a list of numbers, the bubble sort goes through the list and compares every number to the next one. If those two numbers are in the wrong order, it will swap them. It will repeat this process, going back to the beginning every time it finishes, until the list is fully sorted. Any list of numbers with the length "n" can be sorted in under "n"-1 rounds.
First pass:
Second pass:
Third pass:
This is pass optimized implementation of the algorithm. Obviously, there is no necessity to do passes if array was sorted or became sorted after one of the passes. So in this implementation there is a flag "swapped" which signalize whether was swapped elements in the current pass or not. If not then cycle is ended. In the best case, then array is sorted already, complexity of this implementation is O(n). In the worst case, then array sorted by descending, complexity is O(n).

</doc>
<doc id="292067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292067" title="Maundy Thursday">
Maundy Thursday

Maundy Thursday, also known as Holy Thursday, Covenant Thursday, Great & Holy Thursday, and Thursday of Mysteries, is the Christian feast or holy day falling on the Thursday before Easter that commemorates the Last Supper of Jesus Christ with the Twelve Apostles as described in the Canonical gospels. It is the fifth day of Holy Week, and is preceded by Holy Wednesday and followed by Good Friday.

</doc>
<doc id="292068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292068" title="Holy Saturday">
Holy Saturday

Holy Saturday (from the Latin: "Sabbatum Sanctum") is the day after Good Friday. It is the day before Easter and the last day of Holy week, in which Christians prepare for Easter. This day commemorates the day that Jesus Christ's body laid in the tomb.

</doc>
<doc id="292084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292084" title="Dysaethesia Aethiopica">
Dysaethesia Aethiopica

Dysaethesia Aethiopica was a term to describe a mental illness which was believed to be why Afro-American slaves were lazy.
American physician Samuel A. Cartwright described the condition in 1851. Today, dysaethesia aethiopica is considered an example of pseudoscience. Many people think it is an example of scientific racism. 
Cartwright wrote that the illness caused people to break and mishandle everything they touched. They walked about as if they were in a daze, or half asleep. They often argued with people in charge and caused disturbances. They did not feel pain, and did not react when physically punished. It affected people who did not have white (or European) people to look after them.

</doc>
<doc id="292087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292087" title="Ilya Bryzgalov">
Ilya Bryzgalov

Ilya Nikolayevich Bryzgalov (Илья Николаевич Брызгалов in Russian; born June 22, 1980 in Togliatti, Russian SFSR, URS) is a Russian professional ice hockey goaltender. He currently plays for the Minnesota Wild of the National Hockey League (NHL).
Bryzgalov has also played for the Anaheim Ducks/Mighty Ducks of Anaheim for 5 seasons, the Phoenix Coyotes for 4 seasons, the Philadelphia Flyers for 2 seasons, and the Edmonton Oilers for 20 games. He was drafted by the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim with the 44th overall pick in the 2000 NHL Draft. He won the Stanley Cup with the Anaheim Ducks on June 6, 2007.
On March 4, 2014, the Oilers traded Bryzgalov to the Minnesota Wild for a fourth-round draft pick.

</doc>
<doc id="292088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292088" title="Philip Henrik Hansteen">
Philip Henrik Hansteen

Philip Henrik Hansteen (1817 – ?) was a Norwegian judge.
Hansteen was born in Moss, and graduated there as a cand.jur. (Candidate of Law) in 1840. From 1840 to 1842 he was a deputy judge at the Moss District Court in Moss. He was a judge in what was Norway's last trail that ended in pillory, making one embarrassed in public. He later worked as a "district stipendiary magistrate" of the Sør-Østerdal District Court from 1854 to 1869. He later worked at the Solør District Court from 1869 to 1879. In 1879 he became a Supreme Court Assessor for the rest of his life.

</doc>
<doc id="292090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292090" title="Zephyr">
Zephyr

Zephyr may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="292094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292094" title="Scientific racism">
Scientific racism

Scientific racism is the idea to use science to promote racism. This is different from using the scientific method, and simply pointing out differences between races. The scientific method does not claim that one race is "better" than another, it may simply show differences between the races. 
Very often, the term is also used for different theories of anthropology and other closely-related disciplines to create evidence, which would allow to classify humans into groups. These groups are then called "races", and some think it is possible to claim that one race is superior to another. Most of these theories were common between 1880 and 1930, in a period called New Imperialism.

</doc>
<doc id="292096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292096" title="Dease Lake">
Dease Lake

Dease Lake is a small Canadian city in British Columbia, Canada. Dease Lake is in the Northern Interior of British Columbia. Dease Lake is only a few hours from the Yukon border. Near Dease Lake is the Dease Lake Indian Reserve No. 9 which is under the governance of the Tahltan First Nation band government. Dease Lake is known for being a destination for hunting and other wilderness activities.

</doc>
<doc id="292097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292097" title="Wikipedia:Editor review/SEPTActaMTA8235">
Wikipedia:Editor review/SEPTActaMTA8235

 Hi, I'm SEPTActaMTA8235. In short, I'd like to know how I'm doing and how I can improve. 20:09, 20 April 2011 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="292099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292099" title="Osoyoos, British Columbia">
Osoyoos, British Columbia

Osoyoos is a Canadian town in British Columbia, Canada. Osoyoos is in the southern part of the Okanagan Valley in British Columbia and is also near the Washington border. The population of Osoyoos was 5,203 at the 2010 consensus. Osoyoos is pronounced "OH-SOY -OOSE" and is also historically pronounced "SOY-OOSE". NHL player Chuck Kobasew was born in Osoyoos.

</doc>
<doc id="292105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292105" title="Fort Nelson, British Columbia">
Fort Nelson, British Columbia

Fort Nelson is a Canadian town in British Columbia, Canada. Fort Nelson is in the newly formed Northern Rockies Regional Municipality and is also in the northeastern corner of British Columbia. The population of Fort Nelson was 4,514 at the 2006 census. Around Fort Nelson is Fort Nelson River, Muskwa River and Prophet River. The forests in Fort Nelson are part of Canada's boreal forest.

</doc>
<doc id="292108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292108" title="Category:Suspected sockpuppets of Mr. Berty">
Category:Suspected sockpuppets of Mr. Berty


</doc>
<doc id="292109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292109" title="Total Metal">
Total Metal

Total Metal is the compilation album by heavy metal band Atomkraft. It contains songs from albums published by Neat Records.

</doc>
<doc id="292118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292118" title="Gliding">
Gliding

Gliding is when an object or animal goes through the air without active flight. All gliders use an aerofoil to slow their rate of descent. Glider planes have wings, and gliding animals have membranes which they stretch out. By using rising air they can prolong their stay in the air. The word 'soaring' describes this, and is also used for the sport of gliding. 
Air will rise if it is heated by the ground or if it is deflected by mountains. Improvements in aerodynamics, in instruments and in the understanding of the weather have allowed flights over great distances at high speeds. The world record distance is now over 3000 km.

</doc>
<doc id="292122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292122" title="Parasomnia">
Parasomnia

Parasomias are sleep disorders that interrupt sleep. They can be broadly classified:

</doc>
<doc id="292131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292131" title="Tom Glavine">
Tom Glavine

Tom Glavine (born March 25, 1966) is a former baseball player who played pitcher. He won more than 300 games in his career and has won the second-most games in National League history (behind his former teammate Greg Maddux). He won one World Series with the Atlanta Braves in 1995, and was the World Series Most Valuable Player (MVP). Most of his career was with the Braves (from 1987 to 2002 and in 2008), but he also played with the New York Mets from 2003 to 2007.
As well as being the MVP of the 1995 World Series, Glavine also won the National League (NL) Cy Young Award in 1991 and 1998.

</doc>
<doc id="292142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292142" title="Skrillex">
Skrillex

Sonny John Moore (born January 15, 1988) is an American electronic music producer, DJ and singer-songwriter. He is better known by his stage name, Skrillex.
Moore started his first band when he was 13, which was called The Riots. He also started a second band called Hazel-rah. He joined the band "From First to Last" when he was 16. Moore left From First to Last and announced that he would be starting a solo career.
He was signed by deadmau5 to his label, mau5trap recordings, where he released his second EP, Scary Monsters and Nice Sprites. His song "Kill Everybody" was featured in the trailer for . He also made a song called "Reptile Theme" for the soundtrack to Mortal Kombat.
On August 17, 2011, Skrillex announced that he was starting his label, OWSLA.
In 2011, he was nominated for five Grammy awards. He won three for "Best Dance/Electronica Album," "Best Dance Recording," and "Best Remixed Recording, Non-Classical".
His song "First of the Year (Equinox)" was featured in the first episode of the Beavis and Butt-head revival. He released his fourth EP "Bangarang" on December 23, 2011.
He made a song titled "Bug Hunt" for the 2012 animated film Wreck-It Ralph and also made a small and brief cameo as a DJ.
The song "Make it Bun Dem" with Damian Marley was used as a looped variant and plays during the single player mission 'Kick the Hornets Nest' in the 2012 video game Far Cry 3.
He released his sixth EP titled "Leaving" on January 2, 2013 for OWSLA's subscription service called The Nest.
On March 14, 2014, Skrillex released his debut studio album "Recess".

</doc>
<doc id="292155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292155" title="Chess Records">
Chess Records

Chess Records was an American record label from Chicago, Illinois. It was founded by the brothers Leonard and Phil Chess. The label was important for blues, R&B, soul, gospel music and early Rock and roll. The label soon was very successful because the recorded music the major labels did not. The label was originally at 2120 S. Michigan Avenue. The site is now home of Willie Dixons Blues Heaven Foundation.
A critic said, that without Chess Record today's music would sound different. Another calls Chess Records "America's greatest blues label".
In 1947 Leonard Chess bought a label called Aristocrat Records. In 1950 Leonard brought in his brother Phil and they renamed tha label to Chess Records. The first release was "My Foolish Heart" b/w "Bless You" by Gene Ammon, which became a hit. In 1952 they started Checker Records for radio play because the stations only played a limited number of songs from one label and in December 1955 the started Argo Records for jazz music. The first LP was produced in 1958.
In the beginning Leonard Chess was the producer, but later the business was handled by Ralph Bass for the gospel section and Willie Dixon for blues. Dixon wrote a lot of songs which became hits and also played bass on many recordings. The label was also famous for its session musicans who played on most of the company's Chicago soul recordings, such as drummer Maurice White and bassist Louis Satterfield, both later shaped the funk group Earth, Wind, & Fire, guitarists Pete Cosey, Gerald Sims and Phil Upchurch, pianist Leonard Caston, later a producer with Motown and organist Sonny Thompson. 1953 they begun to work together with Sam Phillips' Memphis Recording Service. One of the musicians from Memphis was Howlin' Wolf, who did many hits for Chess.
In 1969 the label was sold to General Recorded Tape (GRT) and 1972 the only part of the business which still existed was the recording studio, Ter-Mar Studios. In the mid-eighties the catalogue of Chess Records was sold to MCA Records. The 50th anniversary of Chess Records was celebrated by a number of Cds featuring great artist who had recorded for Chess. In the 2000s, Universal's limited-edition re-issue label, Hip-O Select began releasing a series of box-sets celebrating the work of Chess artists as Muddy Waters, Little Walter, Bo Diddley and Chuck Berry.
Chess Records was subject of the 2008 film "Cadillac Records" by Darnell Martin. Beside the portrait of Leonard Chess (Adrien Brody) it brought to the cinema the characters of Willie Dixon (Cedric the Entertainer), Muddy Waters (Jeffrey Wright), Little Walter (Columbus Short) and Etta James (Beyoncé Knowles).

</doc>
<doc id="292160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292160" title="Physiotherapy">
Physiotherapy

Physiotherapy, also called physical therapy, is used to treat pain by using pain relieving methods such as interferential therapy, ultrasonic, short wave diathermy, wax therapy, and muscle strengthening exercises. 
Physiotherapy plays an important role in the recovery of stroke patients. It also plays a major role in treating children with cerebral palsy. It also plays a vital role in cardio pulmonary rehabilitation.
Physiotherapy has three main categories which are Orthopedics, Neurophysiotherapy and Cardiorespiratory Physiotherapy.

</doc>
<doc id="292165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292165" title="List of dances">
List of dances

List of dances:

</doc>
<doc id="292167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292167" title="Kesennuma, Miyagi">
Kesennuma, Miyagi

Kesennuma is a Japanese city. It is part of Miyagi Prefecture. Kesennuma is in the northeastern part of the prefecture and faces two coasts: the Pacific coast, and Sanriku coast. Kesennuma borders the town of Minamisanriku to the south. Across the border to the north in Iwate Prefecture, it borders the cities of Ofunato and Rikuzentakata.
The city was heavily damaged on March 11, 2011 by the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami and by large fires. Between 1 March and 31 August 2011, many people left Kesennuma. The population went down by about 2,500 people, or 5%. 

</doc>
<doc id="292170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292170" title="Category:Switzerland municipality navbox templates">
Category:Switzerland municipality navbox templates


</doc>
<doc id="292176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292176" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Credit">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Credit


</doc>
<doc id="292185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292185" title="Volkswagen Transporter">
Volkswagen Transporter

The Volkswagen Transporter is a range of vans and minibuses produced by Volkswagen since 1950. Before 1990 they were air-cooled with the engine in the rear, after 1990 the engine was moved to the front and water-cooled.

</doc>
<doc id="292186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292186" title="Kett's Rebellion">
Kett's Rebellion

Kett's Rebellion was a fight in Norfolk during the reign of Edward VI of England. The rebellion was led by Robert Kett of Wymondham, Norfolk. It started in July 1549.
Kett's Rebellion started in Wymondham after a small group of peasants (poor people) got together to protest against barons, who had stolen the common land, leaving the poor people to die of hunger. The leader was Robert Kett. The peasants marched 16 kilometres into Norwich and gathered on Mousehold Heath. They attracted the support of the poorer people of Norwich.
Hundreds of peasants were killed and 300 were captured and executed in Norwich. Robert Kett was captured, held in the Tower of London and then hanged at Norwich Castle on 7 December 1549.

</doc>
<doc id="292194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292194" title="Rhythm game">
Rhythm game

Rhythm game, or rhythm action, is a type of music-themed action video game. These games mostly focus either on dancing or simulating the playing of musical instruments. Players must press buttons in time with commands from the game, which are in time with the rhythm of a song. Doing so will cause the game's protagonist or avatar to dance or play their instrument correctly, thus achieving a greater score. The game can be played with a hand-held controller, though different control devices have been made to play rhythm games, such as guitar- and drum-shaped controllers for musical instrument games, and pressure-sensitive pads (called dance mats) that the player must step on for dancing games. The Kinect for the Xbox 360 allows the player to use their whole body to control the game by tracking their movements. Some games have a multi-player mode, where players can play as members of a band or dance crew, or compete against each other.
The 1996 title "PaRappa the Rapper" was the first influential rhythm game. The basic design of the game became a pattern that later rhythm games followed. In 1997, Konami's "Beatmania" started popularity for rhythm games in Japan. The company's music division, Bemani, released many music games over the next several years. The most successful of these was dance mat game "Dance Dance Revolution", which was also the only one to achieve large-scale success outside of Japan. The game's style was imitated by many other games, until the release of Harmonix's "Guitar Hero". The game was inspired by similar, earlier Japanese games, but Harmonix added rock music aimed at a Western audience. The success of the game revived the genre and two hugely successful franchises were born in "Guitar Hero" and the later "Rock Band". The success of both expanded the console video game market and its demographics. By 2008, rhythm games were considered to be one of the most popular video game genres, behind other action games. However, because there were so many spin-offs from the core titles in 2009, there was a nearly 50% drop in sales for music games, causing them to scale-back plans for further expansion in 2010.
Rhythm game, or rhythm action, is a subgenre of action game that challenges a player's sense of rhythm, and includes dance games such as "Dance Dance Revolution" and other music-based games such as "Donkey Konga" and "Guitar Hero". These games challenge the player to press the right button at the right time: the screen shows which button the player should press next, and the game awards points for being on the beat. The genre also includes games that measure both rhythm and pitch, in order to test a player's singing ability. In addition to rhythm, some games may challenge the player to control their volume by measuring how hard they press each button. While songs can be sight read without having performed them before, players usually practice to master more difficult songs and settings. Other rhythm games offer a challenge similar to that of "Simon says", where the player must watch, remember, and repeat complex sequences of button-presses.
In some rhythm games, the screen will display an avatar who performs in response to the player's button-presses. However, they are usually in the background, and the avatar is less important to the player than it is to spectators. In single-player mode, the player's avatar will compete against a computer-controlled opponent, while multiplayer mode will allow two player-controlled avatars to compete head-to-head. The popularity of rhythm games has created a market for different controllers. These include a variety of controllers which look like musical instruments, such as guitars, drums, or maracas. A dance mat, for use in dancing games, requires the player to step on pressure-sensitive pads. Traditional control pads may also be used.
The genre has been traced back to the electronic game Simon, invented by Howard Morrison and Ralph Baer (the latter also invented the Magnavox Odyssey) in 1978. Players take turns repeating increasingly complicated sequences of button presses and the game implemented the "call and response" mechanic used by later music video games. "Dance Aerobics" was released in 1987, and allowed players to create music by stepping on Nintendo's Power Pad peripheral. It has been called the first rhythm-action game in retrospect. The later "PaRappa the Rapper" has also been credited as the first rhythm game, as well as one of the first music games in general. The game required players to press buttons corresponding to the order they appeared on-screen; this basic mechanic would form the core of future rhythm games. The success of "PaRappa the Rapper" sparked popularity of the music game genre. Unlike most other games in the genre, the game also featured a completely original soundtrack and a good plot. Konami's "Beatmania", released in Japanese arcades in 1997, was a dj-themed rhythm game which featured buttons laid out like a keyboard along with a rubber pad that looked like a record. The game was a surprise hit, inspiring Konami's Games and Music Division to change its name to Bemani in honor of the game, and to then begin experimenting with other rhythm games over the next few years. One of those successes, "GuitarFreaks", featured a guitar-shaped controller. While the franchise continues to receive new arcade versions in Japan, it was never strongly marketed outside of the country, allowing Harmonix to capitalize on the formula several years later with the Western-targeted "Guitar Hero". Similarly, "DrumMania" from 1999 used a drum kit controller and could be linked with "GuitarFreaks" for simulated jam sessions, several years before the concept appeared in "Rock Band". 1998's "Pop'n Music", a game similar to "Beatmania", featuring multiple colorful buttons was also successful.
"Dance Dance Revolution", released in 1998, was a rhythm game in which players danced on pressure sensitive pads in time with on-screen commands. The game was highly successful not only in Japan but globally, unlike games such as "GuitarFreaks", "DrumMania" and "Beatmania" (though "Beatmania" had some success in Europe). Released the same year, Enix's "Bust a Groove" revolved around similar dancing themes to "Dance Dance Revolution" but employed a more conventional input method. The game featured competitive one-on-one "battles" and also allowed the player more freedom than normally found in rhythm games.
"Vib-Ribbon" was released by NanaOn-Sha (the creator of "PaRappa the Rapper") in 1999, and also did not use instrument-shaped controllers. In this game, players had to maneuver the protagonist through an obstacle course by pressing buttons at the correct time. These courses were generated in a way that depended on the background music and players could load their own music to play along. While it was praised for its unique style and timeless artistry, its simple vector graphics proved difficult to market and the game was never released in North America. Bemani's "Samba de Amigo", released in 1999 and on Dreamcast in 2000, featured maraca-shaped, motion sensor controllers. The game made use of "social gaming", allowing two player gameplay and providing a spectacle for onlookers. In 2001, "Taiko no Tatsujin" combined traditional Japanese drums with contemporary pop music, and became highly successful in Japanese arcades. The game was later released on consoles in the West (as "Taiko Drum Master") and the franchise continues to receive new installments in Japan. "Gitaroo Man" featured a guitar-playing protagonist, 4 years before the release of "Guitar Hero", though the game employed a conventional rather than guitar-shaped controller. "Gitaroo Man"'s creator, Keiichi Yano, further created "Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan", a rhythm game for the Nintendo DS using its touchscreen features, which was a highly demanded import title and led to a sequel in Japan and a Western variation of the game in "Elite Beat Agents".
Harmonix, a company formed from a computer music group at MIT in 1995, released "Frequency" in 2001. The game allowed the player to control multiple instruments and gave a feeling of more creative control. The game was well-reviewed, but its abstract style did not allow the player to give a "performance" as in other games and thus proved difficult to market. "Frequency" was followed by a similar game, "Amplitude" in 2003. Harmonix later released more socially driven, karaoke-themed music games in "Karaoke Revolution" and "SingStar" (2003 and 2004 respectively). "Donkey Konga", developed by Namco for Nintendo and released in 2003 (2004 in North America) achieved widespread success due to its use of Nintendo's "Donkey Kong" franchise.
"Guitar Hero", developed by Harmonix, was released in 2005 by then relatively unknown publisher RedOctane. The game was inspired by "GuitarFreaks", but while that game had used Japanese pop music, "Guitar Hero" featured Western rock music. The game revived the rhythm genre which by this time had begun to get boring, flooded with "Dance Dance Revolution" sequels and imitators. The game had several sequels, with the franchise earning more than $1 billion in sales; the third game was the best-selling game in North America in 2007. Harmonix's later "Rock Band" franchise, which also earned in excess of $1 billion, used multiple instrument controllers and cooperative multiplayer, allowing players to play as a full band. The "Guitar Hero" franchise followed suit with "Guitar Hero World Tour", developed by Neversoft rather than Harmonix. "Guitar Hero" installments based on specific bands, such as Metallica and Aerosmith, were later published. Additional songs could be purchased on the internet and added to "Guitar Hero" and "Rock Band" games. Artists whose works have been featured in the games have also benefited from royalties and increased publicity, in turn generating further sales of their work. The success of the "Guitar Hero" and "Rock Band" franchises widened the console video game market and its demographics, with the popularity of the music game driving increased sales of consoles. In 2008, it was reported that the music game had become the second most popular video game genre in the U.S. (behind action, having overtaken sports), with 53% of players being female.
Analysts for the video game market considered 2009 to be critical to further success of the genre. Both the "Guitar Hero" and "Rock Band" franchises expanded in this year with new games on other gaming platforms including handheld gaming devices and mobile phones and with titles targeted towards specific genres or demographics, such as "Band Hero" for pop music and "Lego Rock Band" for younger players. Sales of music games were down in the first half of the year, though part was attributed to fewer purchases of the instrument controllers which players had already purchased and could reuse for other games. However, though analysis had expected that United States sales of "Guitar Hero 5" and "" to be high, close to or exceeding one million units each in the first month of their release, the resulting sales numbers were lower by nearly half of the projections. Though signs of the impact of the late-2000s recession on the video game markets were considered a factor in lower sales, it was also taken as a sign of the waning popularity of the titles, now considered to be saturating the market. As a result, analysts have lowered expectations for future music games; projections for sales of "DJ Hero", a spinoff of "Guitar Hero" published by Activision, have been reduced from 1.6 million units in the first quarter of sales in the United Sates to only 600,000. Further contributing to the decline is the lack of innovation in the genre, as such games have not changed their basic play model over their last several games, leading to consumers becoming less likely to buy additional titles. Total sales of rhythm games, having reached $1.4 billion in 2008, reached only $700 million in 2009, with analysts predicting the market will settle at the same "healthy" $500–600 million level seen by the "Call of Duty" series.
The weakening market for rhythm video games has created fallout effects impacting both game developers and distributors. Publishers and distributors have recognized that in 2010, most consumers likely have one or more sets of instrument controller hardware at their homes, and that further sales would be primarily driven by software sales and additional content.
Activision scaled back its 2010 "Guitar Hero" release schedule to just two full games, reducing the number of SKUs from 25 in 2009 to 10 in 2010. Activision has also closed some of its in-house developers, including RedOctane, Neversoft's "Guitar Hero" division, and Underground Development, bringing the remaining employees and assets under their own control. Viacom, which had previously paid Harmonix $150 million for their performance behind "Rock Band" in 2007, are now seeking to get a "substantial" refund on that amount due to the weak sales in 2009. Viacom is also seeking to further reduce costs by negotiating new deals with music publishers to reduce the costs associated with music licensing for the "Rock Band" series. During the third quarter of 2010, Viacom began seeking a buyer for Harmonix, recognizing they did not have the efficiency and capacity to deal with the cost of maintaining a video game developer compared with dedicated video game publishers.
The kinds of people buying games was changing and they wanted something different. Rhythm game developers tried to add new features to their games. "Rock Band 3" and "" added new stringed guitar controllers. They also added kinds of game play to help players learn how to hold their fingers as if playing a real guitar. Despite these new modes, sales of music games were still low in 2010. "Guitar Hero: Warriors of Rock" and "DJ Hero 2" sold only 86,000 and 59,000 copies in North America during their first week of sales, respectively, a sharp contrast to "Guitar Hero III" which had seen nearly 1.4 million units in its first week in 2008. Analysis of music game sales through October 2010 show net sales of around $200 million through October, one-fifth of the revenue for music games for the same period in 2008, and that the market will likely not break $400 million by the end of the year. End year sales were less than $300 million.
By the end of 2010, the rhythm market, initially propped by game bundles with instrument controllers, was considered "well past its prime" and has shifted towards downloadable content and potential integration with motion control systems. Citing the downturn in rhythm games, Activision shuttered their "Guitar Hero" division in February 2011. Viacom completed its sale of Harmonix in late 2010 to an investment-backed group to allow it to continue developing "Rock Band" and "Dance Central" on its own. Analysts suggest that the market for these types of peripheral rhythm games may be stagnant for three to five years after which they may resurge on new consoles or based on different distribution models such as a stronger focus on downloadable content.
With the introduction of motion control to both the Xbox 360 (through Kinect) and the PlayStation 3 (through PlayStation Move) in 2010 and 2011, along with existing Wii motion control, some analysts believed the rhythm market would resurges through a new wave of dance-based video games and band-based ones that use platform-agnostic controllers to replicate real-life actions. Games such as "Dance Central", "", and "Child of Eden" are all games based on the new motion sensing technology aimed to encourage more engaging dance routines. Industry pundits believe that as sales of music games requiring peripheral controllers lag, dance-based games, along with rising popularity of pop music, will continue to thrive for some time. Dancing games such as "Just Dance" and "Dance Central" boosted late-year sales; "Dance Central" was the top-selling game for the Kinect in North America in November 2010, and both games led to an 38% increase in sales compared to November 2009, according to NPD.

</doc>
<doc id="292227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292227" title="Earth Day">
Earth Day

Earth Day is a day that is intended to inspire awareness and appreciation for the Earth's natural environment. During Earth Day, the world encourages everyone to turn off all unwanted lights. Earth Day was founded by uss Gaylord Nelson as an environmental teach-in first held on April 22, 1970. U Thant, the Secretary-General of United Nations at that time, has recognized it. While the first Earth Day focused on the United States, an organization launched by Denis Hayes, who was the original national coordinator in 1970, took it international in 1990 and organized events in 141 nations. It is celebrated in more than 175 countries. Its name and concept was pioneered by John McConnell in 1969 at UNESCO conference in San Francisco.

</doc>
<doc id="292230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292230" title="Category:Knights of the Bath">
Category:Knights of the Bath


</doc>
<doc id="292237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292237" title="Parables of Jesus">
Parables of Jesus

The parables of Jesus, can be found in Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, as well as in some of the gospels not in the Bible, but are located mainly within the three synoptic gospels. They represent a key part of the teaching of Jesus, forming approximately one third of his recorded teachings. Christians place high emphasis on these parables, since they are the words of Jesus, they are believed to be what the Father has taught, indicated by and .
Jesus' parables are seemingly simple and memorable stories, often with imagery, and each conveys a message. Scholars have commented that although these parables seem simple, the messages they convey are deep, and central to the teachings of Jesus. 
Many of Jesus' parables refer to simple everyday things, such as a woman baking bread (parable of the Leaven), a man knocking on his neighbor's door at night (parable of the Friend at Night), or the aftermath of a roadside mugging (parable of the Good Samaritan); yet they deal with major religious themes, such as the growth of the Kingdom of God, the importance of prayer, and the meaning of love.
In Western civilization, these parables formed the prototype for the term "parable" and in the modern age, even among those who know little of the Bible, the parables of Jesus remain some of the best known stories in the world.
As a translation of the Hebrew word מָשָׁל "mashal" the word parable can also refer to a riddle. In all times in their history the Jews were familiar with teaching by means of parables and a number of parables also exist in the Old Testament. The use of parables by Jesus was hence a natural teaching method that fit into the tradition of his time. The parables of Jesus have been quoted, taught, and discussed since the very beginnings of Christianity.
The three synoptic gospels contain the parables of Jesus. The Gospel of John contains only the stories of the Vine and Good Shepherd, which some consider to be parables, else it includes allegories but no parables. Several authors such as Barbara Reid, Arland Hultgren or Donald Griggs comment that "parables are noticeably absent from the Gospel of John".
The Catholic Encyclopedia states: "There are no parables in St. John's Gospel. In the Synoptics ... we reckon thirty-three in all; but some have raised the number even to sixty, by including proverbial expressions." The Gospel of Luke contains both the largest total number of parables (24) and eighteen unique parables; the Gospel of Matthew contains 23 parables of which eleven are unique; and the Gospel of Mark contains eight parables of which two are unique.
In "Harmony of the Gospels", Cox and Easley provide a Gospel harmony for the parables based on the following counts: Only in Matthew: 11, only in Mark: 2, only in Luke: 18, Matthew and Luke: 4, Matthew, Mark and Luke: 6. They list no parables for the Gospel of John.
Parables attributed to Jesus are also found in other documents apart from the Bible. Some of these overlap those in the canonical gospels and some are not part of the Bible. The non-canonical Gospel of Thomas contains up to fifteen parables, eleven of which have parallels in the four canonical Gospels. The unknown author of the Gospel of Thomas did not have a special word for "parable," making it difficult to know what he considered a parable. Those unique to Thomas include the Parable of the Assassin and the Parable of the Empty Jar.
The noncanonical Apocryphon of James also contains three unique parables attributed to Jesus. They are known as "The Parable of the Ear of Grain", "The Parable of the Grain of Wheat", and "The Parable of the Date-Palm Shoot".
The hypothetical Q document is seen as a source for some of the parables in Matthew, Luke, and Thomas.
In the Gospel of Matthew (13:10-17) Jesus provides an answer when asked about his use of parables:
The disciples came to him and asked, "Why do you speak to the people in parables?" He replied,
<br><DD>"The knowledge of the secrets of the kingdom of heaven has been given to you, but not to them. Whoever has will be given more, and he will have an abundance. Whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him. This is why I speak to them in parables:
<br><DD>Though seeing, they do not see; though hearing, they do not hear or understand."
While and may suggest that Jesus would only speak to the "crowds" in parables, while in private explaining everything to his disciples, modern scholars do not support the private explanations argument and surmise that Jesus used parables as a teaching method. Dwight Pentecost suggests that given that Jesus often preached to a mixed audience of believers and non-believers, he used parables to reveal the truth to some, but hide it from others.
Christian author Ashton Axenden suggests that Jesus constructed his parables based on his divine knowledge of how man can be taught:
This was a mode of teaching, which our blessed Lord seemed to take special delight in employing. And we may be quite sure, that as "He knew what was in man" better than we know, He would not have taught by Parables, if He had not felt that this was the kind of teaching best suited to our wants.
In the 19th century, Lisco and Fairbairn stated that in the parables of Jesus, "the image borrowed from the visible world is accompanied by a truth from the invisible (spiritual) world" and that the parables of Jesus are not "mere similitudes which serve the purpose of illustration, but are internal analogies where nature becomes a witness for the spiritual world".
Similarly, in the 20th century, calling a parable "an earthly story with a heavenly meaning", William Barclay states that the parables of Jesus use familiar examples to lead men's minds towards heavenly concepts. He suggests that Jesus did not form his parables merely as analogies but based on an "inward affinity between the natural and the spiritual order."
A number of parables which are adjacent in one or more gospels have similar themes. The parable of the Leaven follows the parable of the Mustard Seed in Matthew and Luke, and shares the theme of the Kingdom of Heaven growing from small beginnings. The parable of the Hidden Treasure and parable of the Pearl form a pair illustrating the great value of the Kingdom of Heaven, and the need for action in attaining it.
The parables of the Lost Sheep, Lost Coin, and Lost (Prodigal) Son form a trio in Luke dealing with loss and redemption.
The parable of the Faithful Servant and parable of the Ten Virgins, adjacent in Matthew, involve waiting for a bridegroom, and have an eschatological theme: be prepared for the day of reckoning. The parable of the Tares the parable of the Rich Fool, the parable of the budding fig tree, and the parable of the barren fig tree also have eschatological themes.
Other parables stand alone, such as the parable of the unforgiving servant, dealing with forgiveness; the parable of the Good Samaritan, dealing with practical love; and the parable of the Friend at Night, dealing with persistence in prayer.
Of the thirty or so parables in the canonical Gospels, four were shown in medieval art almost to the exclusion of the others, but not mixed in with the narrative scenes of the "Life of Christ". These were: the Ten Virgins, the Rich man and Lazarus, the Prodigal Son and the Good Samaritan. Artists famous for depicting parables include Martin Schongauer, Pieter the Elder Bruegal and Albrecht Dürer. The Workers in the Vineyard also appears in Early Medieval works. From the Renaissance the numbers shown widened slightly, and the various scenes of the Prodigal Son became the clear favorite, with the Good Samaritan also popular. Albrecht Dürer made a famous engraving of the "Prodigal Son" amongst the pigs (1496), a popular subject in the Northern Renaissance, and Rembrandt depicted the story several times, although at least one of his works, "The Prodigal Son in the Tavern", a portrait of himself as the Son, revelling with his wife, is like many artists' depictions, a way of dignifying a genre tavern scene. His late "Return of the Prodigal Son" (Hermitage Museum, St Petersburg) is one of his most popular works.
As well as being depicted in art and discussed in prose, a number of parables form the inspiration for religious poetry and hymns. For example, the hymn "The Ninety and Nine" by Elizabeth C. Clephane (1868) is inspired by the parable of the Lost Sheep:
<poem>
There were ninety and nine that safely lay
In the shelter of the fold.
But one was out on the hills away,
Far off from the gates of gold.
Away on the mountains wild and bare.
Away from the tender Shepherd’s care.
Away from the tender Shepherd’s care.</poem>
Similarly, "My Hope Is Built" (Edward Mote, c. 1834) is inspired by the parable of the Wise and the Foolish Builders, and "How Kind the Good Samaritan" (John Newton, c. 1779) is inspired by the parable of the Good Samaritan.
A sample Gospel harmony for the parables based on the list of key episodes in the Canonical Gospels is presented in the table below. For the sake of consistency, this table is automatically sub-selected from the main harmony table in the Gospel harmony article, based on the list of key episodes in the Canonical Gospels. Usually, no parables are associated with the Gospel of John, just allegories.
A number of parables have parallels in non-canonical gospels, the Didache, and the letters of Apostolic Fathers . However, given that the non-canonical gospels generally have no time sequence, this table is not a Gospel harmony.

</doc>
<doc id="292239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292239" title="Parable of the barren fig tree">
Parable of the barren fig tree

The Parable of the Barren Fig Tree (Luke 13:6–9) written in the New Testament is a parable of Jesus. It is a parable about a fig tree which does not produce fruit, unlike the parable of the budding fig tree.
Then he told this parable:
The owner of the vineyard represents God. The fig tree is a symbol for Jerusalem (and also for Jesus's church). The vineyard where the tree was planted is the earth. The tree was meant to bear the good fruit of the Holy Spirit and the gardener (vinedresser) is Jesus. Fig trees are often planted in vineyards.
The parable indicates Jesus is giving his hearers one last chance to repent their sins. "These three years" refers to the period of his ministry on earth. The parable is connected to the miracle of cursing the fig tree. Richard Whately commented that this parable "is one which our Lord may be said to have put before his hearers twice; once in words, once in action."

</doc>
<doc id="292240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292240" title="Parable of the budding fig tree">
Parable of the budding fig tree

The Parable of the Budding Fig Tree is a parable of Jesus. It is written in the New Testament in Matthew 24:32-35, Mark 13:28-31 and Luke 21:29-33. The parable compares the Kingdom of God with a budding fig tree, the opposite of the barren fig tree.
He told them this parable:
This eschatological parable follows the Olivet discourse in Luke 21:5-28 (and Matthew 24 and Mark 13). New buds appear on the branches of trees when Winter ends. The buds open into blossoms and green leaves in Spring. Fruit starts to appear as Summer arrives. When the signs of the end of the age start to happen, it means Jesus will return soon.

</doc>
<doc id="292241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292241" title="Counting the cost">
Counting the cost

Counting the cost is the name of a pair of parables Jesus told. The two parables are written in the New Testament in Luke 14:25-33. 
Large crowds were travelling with Jesus, and turning to them he said:
The disciples of Jesus gave up everything they had for the kingdom of God, even their lives. Fidelity to "God's salvific aim" meant putting family and possessions second. Christians believe the cost of being a disciple is worth the promised rewards.

</doc>
<doc id="292242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292242" title="Category:Recursion">
Category:Recursion


</doc>
<doc id="292268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292268" title="Parable of Drawing in the Net">
Parable of Drawing in the Net

The Parable of Drawing in the Net is a parable of Jesus written in the New Testament in Matthew 13:47–52. It is a parable about the final judgment. It is the seventh and last parable in the chapter which began with the Parable of the Sower.
The parable:
It is, like The Tares and the Wheat and The Sheep and the Goats, a parable about the final judgment. Here, the edible fish must be separated from the inedible fish after they caught with a net. 
Four of his disciples were fishermen and Jesus spoke using imagery they understood. Because it is a parable about the end of the age, a modern interpretation can be considered, with the net representing the Internet. Jesus's next words about old and new treasures indicated he did have in mind a future time. At that time, "true teachers of the kingdom display the kingdom's treasure for all to see."

</doc>
<doc id="292269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292269" title="Parable of the Faithful Servant">
Parable of the Faithful Servant

The Parable of the Faithful Servant (or Parable of the Door Keeper) is a parable of Jesus written in the New Testament in Matthew 24:42-51, Mark 13:34-37, and Luke 12:35-48. 
The parable:
The parable immediately precedes the Parable of the Ten Virgins in the Matthew 25. It means "be prepared and remain alert." The exact time of Jesus' Second Coming is unknown. 
The bridegroom is Jesus Christ. The wedding banquet is his wedding banquet. The advice is for the church, his bride, while she waits for him. He has chosen her. "That privilege brings responsibility and that responsibility entails accountability." Priests will be judged more severely than pagans who never heard of Jesus.

</doc>
<doc id="292270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292270" title="Parable of the Friend at Night">
Parable of the Friend at Night

The Parable of the Friend at Night (Importunate Neighbour), is a parable of Jesus written in the New Testament in Luke 11:5-8. A man refuses to help his neighbour during an emergency at midnight. His neighbour persists in asking until he changes his mind. 
The parable:
Based on the Parable of the Ten Virgins, the unexpected arrival of the neighbour's guest at midnight could mean it is Jesus himself.
Jesus told this parable after he taught his disciples how to pray the Lord's Prayer. 
The most famous depiction of this parable is "The Importunate Neighbour" (1895) by William Holman Hunt, kept at the National Gallery of Victoria, Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="292274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292274" title="Onon River">
Onon River

The Onon gol (Mongolian: Онон гол, Russian: Онон) is a river in Mongolia and Russia. It is 818 km long. Its watershed is 94,010 km. It starts at the Khentii Mountains, on the Eastern slopes. 298 km of the river is in Mongolia. It has a confluence (the place where two rivers join together) with the Ingoda River. When they meet, it makes the Shilka River. People believe that Genghis Khan was born near the upper Onon and he grew up there. The rivers Onon—Shilka—Amur makes one of the world's ten longest rivers (their lengths, in order: 818 km, 560 km, 2,874 km).

</doc>
<doc id="292294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292294" title="Entscheidungsproblem">
Entscheidungsproblem

The Entscheidungsproblem (German, "decision problem") is a famous problem of mathematics. David Hilbert formulated the problem in 1928: Is there an algorithm that will take a formal language, and a logical statement in that language, and that will output "True" or "False", depending on the truth value of the statement? The algorithm does not tell how it reaches the answer, nor prove it, as long as the answer is always correct.
In 1936 and 1937, Alonzo Church and Alan Turing showed independently, that there can be no answer to the Entscheidungsproblem. They showed that it is impossible for an algorithm to decide whether statements in arithmetic are true or false. For this reason, there can be no solution for the Entscheidungsproblem.

</doc>
<doc id="292431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292431" title="Bessie Coleman">
Bessie Coleman

Elizabeth "Bessie" Coleman (January 26, 1892 – April 30, 1926) was the first female African American pilot ever to hold an international pilot license. She fought discrimination to follow her dream of becoming a pilot.
Coleman was born in Texas in 1892. Her mother and father were African American. She had two brothers and a young sister. Her parents were sharecroppers. When Coleman was two, her family moved to Waxahachie, Texas where Bessie went to school. She loved reading and was very good at math. Her father hoped to get a job.
Coleman’s father was disturbed by the racial barriers in Texas. He believed that the family would be treated better if they moved to Indian Territory in Oklahoma.
Unable to convince his wife to accompany him, Coleman’s father left the family when she was nine. Around that time, her older brothers grew up and moved away. Coleman’s mother worked as a maid. Coleman helped take care of her younger sisters. 
During the cotton harvest, everyone in the family worked in the fields to earn extra money. It was hot, boring work, and during the harvest, African American children could not go to school. Still, Coleman managed to finish all eight grades in the local school. Coleman decided that she wanted to go to college, so she saved her money. In about four years, she had enough money to begin college. A year later, she ran out of money.
At the age of 23, Coleman boarded a train and made the trip to Chicago. She moved in with her brothers and their wives. Coleman took class to learn to become a manicurist, and soon found a job at the White Sox Barber Shop on Chicago's Southside. But Coleman wanted to do something more with her life.
Her friend Robert Abbott told her that she could travel to France to fly. She got a new job managing a restaurant and saved her money. Robert Abbot and her friends helped her pay for the trip. In 1920, Coleman went to France on a ship. In 1921, Coleman became the first female African American pilot ever to hold an international pilot license.
In April 1926, Coleman was going to a show in Jacksonville that included a parachute jump. Coleman did not wear her seat belt because she needed to lean out of the plane to see a good place to land. The plane suddenly went into a spin. Coleman fell out of the plane and was killed. She is buried in Chicago's Lincoln Cemetery.
After her death, the U.S. Post Office issued a stamp in her honor. A Chicago street was named after her.

</doc>
<doc id="292466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292466" title="Willie Dixon">
Willie Dixon

William James "Willie" Dixon (July 1, 1915 – January 29, 1992) was an American blues musician, singer, songwriter and bass player. He was one of the founders of Chicago blues. He wrote a lot of songs which are still standards of Chicago blues. (i.e. "Little Red Rooster", "Hoochie Coochie Man", "Evil", "Spoonful", "Back Door Man", "I Just Want to Make Love to You", "I Ain't Superstitious", "My Babe", "Wang Dang Doodle", and "Bring It On Home") The songs are from the 1950s when Dixon worked as producer for Chess Records. He also played upright bass on many of the label's records.
Dixon was born in Vicksburg, Mississippi on July 1, 1915. He learned the blues during his time on prison farms in Mississippi as an early-teenager. Dixon sang bass for The Jubilee Singers, a local gospel group that was often in the program of the local radio station WQBC. He began to change poems he wrote into songs which he sold to local groups.
1936 he went to Chicago like many others from the Mississippi delta. There he begun boxing and won the Illinois State Golden Gloves Heavyweight Championship (Novice Division) in 1937. During his boxing time he met Leonard "Baby Doo" Caston, who convinced him to a musical career. Before the Second World War Dixon sang in different vocal groups. After the war he reunited with Caston and formed the "Big Three Trio".
Dixon signed with Chess Records as a recording artist but soon was involved in the record business. By 1951 he was producer, talent scout, session musician and staff songwriter. He worked with Chuck Berry, Muddy Waters, Howlin' Wolf, Otis Rush, Bo Diddley, Joe Louis Walker, Little Walter, Sonny Boy Williamson, Koko Taylor, Little Milton, Eddie Boyd, Jimmy Witherspoon, Lowell Fulson, Willie Mabon, Memphis Slim, Washboard Sam, Jimmy Rogers, and others. By his work with Chuck Berry he was a link between blues and early rock and roll.
From the late 1960s until the middle 1970s, Dixon ran his own record label, Yambo Records. He formed different all star bands which often went on tours in Europe. He also became an advocate for the blues. He founded the Blues Heaven Foundation. The Foundation preserves the blues legacy and secures copyrights and royalties for blues musicians who were often exploited in the past.
In the 1970s and 1980s his health became weaker and weaker because of his diabetes. Dixon died of heart failure in Burbank, California on January 29, 1992.

</doc>
<doc id="292467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292467" title="Category:Piedmont blues">
Category:Piedmont blues


</doc>
<doc id="292471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292471" title="Legion of Honour">
Legion of Honour

The Legion of Honour () is the highest French award.
It was established by Napoleon Bonaparte on 19 May 1802.
The Order is the highest decoration in France and is divided into five degrees: Chevalier (Knight), Officier (Officer), Commandeur (Commander), Grand Officier (Grand Officer) and Grand Croix (Grand Cross).
The order's motto is "" ('Honour and Country'), and its seat is the "Palais de la Légion d'Honneur" on the left bank of the River Seine in Paris.

</doc>
<doc id="292476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292476" title="Category:WWE Extreme Rules">
Category:WWE Extreme Rules


</doc>
<doc id="292478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292478" title="Imperial College London">
Imperial College London

Imperial College London (IC) is a large university in central London. It specialises in business, engineering, medicine and science. 
Imperial College was a constituent college of the University of London. It became fully independent in 2007, the 100th anniversary of its founding.
Imperial is among the best universities. It ranks 2nd in the 2015 QS World University Rankings and 9th in the 2015 Times Higher Education World University Rankings. Imperial ranked 22 in the 2014 Shanghai world rankings.
Imperial's faculty and alumni include 15 Nobel laureates, 2 Fields Medalists, 70 Fellows of the Royal Society, 82 Fellows of the Royal Academy of Engineering and 78 Fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences.
Imperial's main campus is in the South Kensington area of Central London. It is on the boundary between the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea and the City of Westminster. Its main entrance is on Exhibition Road. 
IC has a number of other campuses in Central London. With 525,233 square metres, it has the largest working estate of any higher education institution in the UK. 
Imperial has around 14,700 full-time students and 3,330 academic and research staff. It had a total income of £694 million in 2009/10, of which £297 million was from research grants and contracts. 
Imperial is ranked 26th in the world (and 5th in Europe) in the 2010 Academic Ranking of World Universities, 7th in the world (and 4th in Europe) in the 2010 QS World University Rankings, and 9th in the world (and 3rd in Europe) in the 2010 Times Higher Education World University Rankings. 
There are currently 14 Nobel Prize winners and two Fields Medal winners amongst Imperial's alumni and current and former faculty. 
Imperial is a member of the G5, the League of European Research Universities, Oak Ridge Associated Universities and the Russell Group. It forms part of the 'Golden Triangle' of British universities.
Imperial was formed indirectly by Prince Albert. Under his guidance, the Crown bought land in South Kensington to establish educational and cultural institutions. The area was referred to as "Albertopolis" by sceptics. The area included the Natural History Museum, the Victoria and Albert Museum, the Science Museum, the Royal Albert Hall and the Imperial Institute. The Imperial Institute was opened by Queen Victoria, who laid the first brick. 

</doc>
<doc id="292480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292480" title="University of London">
University of London

The University of London is a federal mega-university made up of 31 affiliates: 19 separate university institutions, and 12 research institutes. 
Its headquarters, Senate House, is in Malet Street in the Bloomsbury area of Camden. This is near University College London and the British Museum.
The University of London is the largest university in the UK by number of full-time students, with 135,090 campus-based students and over 45,000 in the University of London International Programmes. 
The university is not responsible for the teaching, the research or the individual students and staff of the constituent colleges. They are the responsibility of the colleges. The university is an administrative body responsible for standards, degree examinations and certification. 
The university was first established by a Royal Charter in 1836, which brought together in federation "London University" (now University College London) and "King's College" (now King's College London).
Graduates of the University of London may use the post-nominal letters 'Lond.' or 'Londin.' (both from "Londiniensis") after their degree abbreviations.
The university's biggest colleges are Birkbeck, Goldsmiths, King's College London, the London Business School, Queen Mary, Royal Holloway, SOAS, LSE and UCL.
Founded in 1836, the University at first comprised just two colleges. They were University College London (founded in 1826), which did not apply religious tests to its students, and King's College (founded in 1829), which admitted only members of the Church of England. Therefore, both University College and King's pre-date the University of London, which initially served solely as an examining body for the constituent colleges.
In 1858 the University expanded its role by offering the University of London International Programmes to candidates outside the colleges, the first of its kind in the country. A new headquarters at 6 Burlington Gardens, providing the university with exam halls and offices, was built to accommodate the new role. 
In 1878 the University became the first university in the UK to admit women on equal terms with men. Four female students obtained Bachelor of Arts degrees in 1880 and two obtained Bachelor of Science degrees in 1881, again the first in the country.

</doc>
<doc id="292483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292483" title="Friedrich III of Germany">
Friedrich III of Germany

Friedrich Wilhelm Nikolaus Karl von Hohenzollern (New Palace, Potsdam 18 October 1831 - New Palace, Potsdam 15 June 1888) was the only son of Wilhelm I.
After his father's death on 9 March 1888 Friedrich Wilhelm became King of Prussia and German Emperor as Friedrich III, but he was already suffering from throat cancer and died after just 99 days on the throne.
On 25 January 1858 he married Princess Victoria of the United Kingdom, eldest child of Queen Victoria and Albert the Prince Consort. They had seven children. The oldest, Friedrich Wilhelm, followed him as King and Emperor.
Friedrich Wilhelm III died of throat cancer in Potsdam. He is buried next to his wife in the Mausoleum of the Friedenskirche in Sanssouci Park, Potsdam.

</doc>
<doc id="292484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292484" title="King's College London">
King's College London

King's College London (King's or KCL) is a large university in London, and a college of the federal University of London. 
University College London (1826) was founded before it. However, King's (1829) was the third oldest university in England to get its royal charter. 
In 1836 King's became, with University College, one of the two founding colleges of the University of London.
King's is arranged into nine Schools of Study, spread across four Thames-side campuses in central London and one in Denmark Hill, South London. 
King's is one of the largest centres for graduate and post-graduate medical teaching and biomedical research in Europe. It is home to six Medical Research Council centres, the most of any British university. 
King's has around 18,600 full-time students and 5,030 staff and had a total income of £508 million in 2009/10, of which £144 million was from research grants and contracts.
There are 12 Nobel Prize winners amongst King's alumni and former faculty. King's is ranked 5th nationally and 19th in the world in the 2015 "QS World University Rankings," 7th nationally and 27th in the world in the 2015 "The Times Higher Education World University Rankings "and 7th nationally and 55th in the world in the 2015" "Academic Ranking of World Universities. In September 2010, "The Sunday Times" selected King's as its "University of the Year".
King's is a member of the European University Association and the Russell Group. It forms part of the 'Golden Triangle' of British universities.

</doc>
<doc id="292498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292498" title="Category:Colleges and universities in London">
Category:Colleges and universities in London


</doc>
<doc id="292505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292505" title="Ganggangsullae">
Ganggangsullae

Ganggangsullae (Hangul: 강강술래) is a 5,000-year-old traditional Korean dance. It was first used to bring a good harvest and has become a cultural symbol for Korea. The females in Jeollanam-do usually dance this the most. Chuseok, the Korean style holiday a bit like the American Thanksgiving, is often known as the special day for this dance.
The dance is thought to have come from about 5,000 years ago when the Koreans believed that the Sun, Moon, and Earth controlled the world. The people (almost always girls in hanboks) would dance under the brightest full moon of the year in order to bring a good harvest. 
In the 16th century, when the Japanese were attacking Korea, Korea's Admiral Yi Sun-sin ordered women to do this dance. He told them to do this because he wanted to trick the Japanese into overestimating them. The women were said to have worn military uniforms and danced on Mount Okmae (옥매산).
On February 15, 1966, ganggangsullae was included in the list of the "Important Cultural Properties of Korea" #8.
Traditionally, this dance performed without any instruments. Young and old women dance in a circle at night under the moonlight. They go outside in hanbok, traditional Korean clothing, hold hands, make a circle, and start rotating clockwise. The lead singer sings a line. Then, the rest of the people all sing, 'ganggangsullae'. Then the lead singer sings another line, and the rest of the people reply, 'ganggangsullae'. This is probably where the name of the song came from. As the dance continues, the tempo of the song can get faster. They sing about their personal hardships, relationships, and wants. During the dance, the women also play some games. The ganggangsullae can last until dawn.

</doc>
<doc id="292508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292508" title="Category:Easter">
Category:Easter


</doc>
<doc id="292509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292509" title="Category:Easter traditions">
Category:Easter traditions


</doc>
<doc id="292510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292510" title="Easter Bilby">
Easter Bilby

The Easter Bilby is an Australian alternative to the Easter Bunny. Bilbies are an endangered species of Australian marsupials. Bilby shaped chocolates are sold in many Australian shops to raise money to help protect the bilbies. 
Author Rose-Marie Dusting wrote a book in 1979 called "Billy, the Aussie Easter Bilby". Some of the money from each book sold goes to helping the bilbies.
The Foundation for Rabbit-Free Australia began to use the Easter Bilby concept in 1991. They wanted to show the damage that rabbits do to the Australian environment. The ideas was taken up by an Easter egg company, Darrell Lea. They give a portion of their profits to the foundation.
Australian children's book author and illustrator Irena Sibley produced three Easter Bilby books between 1994 and 2000 including the best selling "The Bilbies' First Easter".

</doc>
<doc id="292521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292521" title="Category:Articles with broken citations">
Category:Articles with broken citations

Pages are added to this category by various citation templates if they use incorrect syntax (further information at ). To fix them, view the article and search for red text, including (but not limited to) phrases such as:
(you can do this in many web browsers with CTRL+F). Then click the footnote marker ("^") to see which citation is incorrectly specified and how. If you are the editor who used one of the citation templates and ended up with a broken citation, consider reading the pertaining template documentation again.
This category should not be confused with , which is added with the template. Please do "not" add pages to this category directly.

</doc>
<doc id="292525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292525" title="John Richard Hicks">
John Richard Hicks

Sir John Richard Hicks (8 April 1904 – 20 May 1989) was a British economist. He contribted to the fields of consumer demand theory in microeconomics. In 1937, he developed the IS/LM model which summarizes a Keynesian view of macroeconomics. His book "Value and Capital" (1939) significantly extended general-equilibrium and value theory. The compensated demand function is named the Hicksian demand function in memory of him.
He was made a Knight Bachelor in 1964.
In 1972 he received the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences (jointly) for his pioneering contribution to general equilibrium theory and welfare theory.

</doc>
<doc id="292541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292541" title="Elizabeth Cotten">
Elizabeth Cotten

Elizabeth "Libba" Cotten (January 5, 1895 – June 29, 1987) was an American blues and folk musician, singer, and songwriter.
She was born as Elizabeth Nevills in Carrboro, North Carolina. She was the youngest of five children of a musical family. At the age of seven she started playing her older brothers banjo. In her early teens she bought her own guitar and started writing own songs. At the age of eleven she wrote a song called "Freight train", which was later her signature song. At the age of 15 she worked as maid along with her mother. Soon after her 15th birthday she married Frank Cotten. They had a daughter named Lillie and Libba gave up music for church and child. They went around in the USA but finally settled in the D.C. area.
After 25 years she became maid in the house of the composer Ruth Crawford Seeger and Charles Seeger. In this musical family she remembered her own guitar playing. Mike Seeger recorded her and the songs were later published as "Folksongs and Instrumentals with Guitar", which was released on Folkways Records. In the early 1960s during the folk revival she played shows with great names like Mississippi John Hurt, John Lee Hooker, and Muddy Waters at venues such as the Newport Folk Festival and the Smithsonian Festival of American Folklife.
She went on touring and recording well into her 80s. In 1984 she won the Grammy Award for "Best Ethnic or Traditional Recording" for her album on Arhoolie Records, "Elizabeth Cotten Live". Her songs were covered by Peter, Paul, and Mary, Jerry Garcia, Bob Dylan, Devendra Banhart, Laura Gibson, Laura Veirs, His Name Is Alive and Taj Mahal. 

</doc>
<doc id="292542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292542" title="Chuck E. Cheese's">
Chuck E. Cheese's

Chuck E. Cheese's is a franchise of arcades and restaurants. Their restaurants have small rides, pizza (a central focus), and arcade/skill games. It was previously called Chuck E. Cheese's Pizza Time Theatre (1977–1991).
In most of their stores, they operate animatronic robot characters which sing songs and play instruments.
Created in 1977 in San Jose, California by Atari founder Nolan Bushnell, it started out as Chuck E. Cheese's Pizza Time Theatre. In 1984, CEC got bought out by Then-competitor ShowBiz Pizza Place from Topeka, Kansas and changed their corporate name to "ShowBiz Pizza Time". In 1989, Brock Hotel Management(then owners of SPT) sold it's "Monterrey's Tex-Mex Cafe" brand to them and spun off SPT into a separate company. In 1991, all ShowBiz and Pizza Time stores re-branded as "Chuck E. Cheese's Pizza" and in 1998 SPT changed their corporate name to "CEC Entertainment". In 1999, CECE bought out their primary competitor, Discovery Zone and in 2014 they bought the "Peter Piper's Pizza" chain. In 2013, CECE got bought by Apollo Global Management as was/is put up for sale.
CECE's headquarters are in Irving, Texas and have 590 CEC store locations worldwide.

</doc>
<doc id="292550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292550" title="Rob Halford">
Rob Halford

Robert John Arthur "Rob" Halford (born 25 August 1951) is an English singer-songwriter. He was born in Sutton Coldfield and raised in Walsall. He is best known as the lead vocalist for the Grammy Award-winning heavy metal band Judas Priest. He is nicknamed "Metal God". He is also credited as being the first openly gay mainstream heavy metal star when he came out as gay in 1998.

</doc>
<doc id="292554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292554" title="Order of the Indian Empire">
Order of the Indian Empire

The Most Eminent Order of the Indian Empire is an order of chivalry founded by Queen Victoria in 1878. The Order includes members of three classes:
No appointments have been made since 1947, the year of Indian independence and the Partition of India. In 2010 the last surviving knight, The Maharaja of Dhrangadhra, died and the order became dormant .
The motto of the Order is "", (Under the auspices of the Empress), a reference to Queen Victoria, the first Empress of India. The Order is the junior British order of chivalry associated with the Empire of India; the senior one is The Most Exalted Order of the Star of India.
The British founded the Order in 1878 to reward British and "native" officials who served in India. The Order originally had only one class (Companion), but a second class, Knights Commander, was added in 1887. The British authorities intended the Order of the Indian Empire as a less exclusive version of the Order of the Star of India (founded in 1861); consequently, many more appointments were made to the former than to the latter.
On 15 February 1887, the Order of the Indian Empire formally became "The Most Eminent Order of the Indian Empire" and was divided into two classes: Knights Commander and Companions, with the following first Knights Commander:
However, on 5 January 1888, a further proclamation regarding the Order was made; the Order was expanded from two classes to three - Knight Grand Commander, Knight Commander and Companion. Seven Knights Grand Commander were created; they were:
Normally the highest grade in British orders is Knight Grand Cross, but Knight Grand Commander was chosen for the two Indian awards because of the Christian symbolism of the cross.
Appointments to both Orders stopped after 14 August 1947. The Orders have never been formally abolished, and Queen Elizabeth II remains the Sovereign of the Orders to this day. Today, there are no living members of the order.
The fictional characters Purun Dass (invented by Rudyard Kipling) and Harry Paget Flashman (invented by George MacDonald Fraser) each held a KCIE; Kipling's engineer Findlayson in "The Day's Work" (1908) wants the CIE.
The British Sovereign is the Sovereign of the Order. The Grand Master held the next-most senior rank; the position was held, "ex officio", by the Viceroy of India. Members of the first class were known as "Knights Grand Commanders" rather than "Knights Grand Cross" so as not to offend the non-Christian Indians appointed to the Order.
At the time of foundation in 1878 the order had only one class, that of Companion. There could be any number of members. In 1887, the Order was divided into the two classes of Knights Commander (50 at any given time) and Companions (no quota). The following year the class of Knight Grand Commander (25 at any given time) was added; the composition of the other two classes remained the same.
British officials and soldiers were eligible for appointment, as were rulers of Indian Princely States. Generally, the rulers of the more important states were appointed Knights Grand Commanders of the Order of the Star of India, rather than of the Order of the Indian Empire. Women, except the princely rulers, could not be members the Order. Female princely rulers were admitted as "Knights" rather than as "Dames" or "Ladies".
As well, other Asian and Middle Eastern rulers were also appointed.

</doc>
<doc id="292555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292555" title="Category:Knights Grand Commander of the Order of the Indian Empire">
Category:Knights Grand Commander of the Order of the Indian Empire


</doc>
<doc id="292556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292556" title="Category:Knights Commander of the Order of the Indian Empire">
Category:Knights Commander of the Order of the Indian Empire


</doc>
<doc id="292566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292566" title="Garden State Parkway">
Garden State Parkway

The Garden State Parkway (or Garden State Pkwy) is a toll highway (which means that people must pay to drive on it) that goes through New Jersey from the south end of the state at Cape May to the north end of the state at Montvale, New Jersey. It is 172.4 miles long, and in 2008, was reported to be the busiest toll highway in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="292567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292567" title="List of revocations of appointments to orders and awarded decorations and medals of the United Kingdom">
List of revocations of appointments to orders and awarded decorations and medals of the United Kingdom

Anyone who behaves in a way that might bring an order, decoration or medal into disrepute may have his award revoked (cancelled).
David Le Roux (appointed 1990), following his conviction under the Financial Services Act 1986.

</doc>
<doc id="292573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292573" title="Order of the Star of India">
Order of the Star of India

The Most Exalted Order of the Star of India is an order of chivalry founded by Queen Victoria in 1861. The Order includes members of three classes:
No appointments have been made since the Partition of India in 1947. The last living knight, The Maharaja of Alwar, died in 2009 and the order became.
The motto of the Order is "Heaven's light our guide". The "Star of India", the emblem of the Order, also appeared on the flag of the Viceroy of India.
The Order is the senior order of chivalry of the Empire of India; the junior order is The Most Eminent Order of the Indian Empire, and there was also, for women only the Imperial Order of the Crown of India. It is the fifth-most-senior British order of chivalry, following The Most Noble Order of the Garter, The Most Ancient and Most Noble Order of the Thistle, The Most Illustrious Order of St Patrick, and The Most Honourable Order of the Bath.
After the Indian Mutiny the British government created a new order of knighthood to honour Indian Princes and Chiefs, as well as British officers and administrators who served in India. On 25 June 1861, Queen Victoria issued a proclamation creating "The Most Exalted Order of the Star of India" to "reward conspicuous merit and loyalty"
The first appointees were:
The Order of the Indian Empire, founded in 1877, was intended to be a less exclusive version of the Order of the Star of India; consequently, many more appointments were made to the former than to the latter.
Appointments to the Orders relating to the British Empire in India ceased after 14 August 1947. The Orders have never been formally abolished and Elizabeth II succeeded her father George VI as Sovereign of the Orders when she ascended the throne in 1952. She remains Sovereign of the Order to this day. Today, there are no living members of the order:
The British Sovereign was, and still is, Sovereign of the Order. The next-most senior member was the Grand Master; the position was held, "ex officio", by the Viceroy of India. When the Order was established in 1861, there was only one class of Knights Companions, who bore the postnominals KSI. In 1866, however, it was expanded to three classes. Members of the first class were known as "Knights Grand Commanders", rather than "Knights Grand Cross", so as not to offend the non-Christian Indians appointed to the Order. All those surviving members who had already been made Knights Companions of the Order were made Knights Grand Commanders.
Former Viceroys and other high officials, as well as those who served in the Department of the Secretary of State for India for at least thirty years were eligible for appointment. Rulers of Indian Princely States were also eligible for appointment to the Order. Some states were of such importance that their rulers were almost always appointed Knights Grand Commanders; such rulers included the Nizam of Hyderabad, the Maharaja of Mysore, the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir, the Maharaja of Baroda, the Maharajas of Gwalior, the Nawab of Bhopal, the Maharaja of Indore, the Maharana of Udaipur, the Maharaja of Travancore, the Maharana of Jodhpur and the Maharao of Cutch.
Kashi Naresh Prabhu Narayan Singh of Benares was appointed Knight Commander of the Order of the Indian Empire (KCIE) in 1892, Knight Grand Commander of the Order of the Indian Empire (GCIE) in 1898, and Knight Grand Commander of the Order of the Star of India (GCSI) for his services in the First World War in the 1921 New Year Honours.
Rulers of other nations in Asia and the Middle East, including the Emir of Kuwait, the Maharajas of the Rana dynasty, the Khedive of Egypt, the King of Bhutan and the rulers of Zanzibar, Bahrain and Oman were also appointed to the Order. Like some rulers of princely states, some rulers of particular prestige, for example the Maharajas of the Rana dynasty or the Sultans of Oman, were usually appointed Knights Grand Commanders.
Women, who were not princely rulers, could not be members of the Order. They were, admitted as "Knights", rather than as "Dames" or "Ladies". The first woman to be admitted to the Order was HH Nawab Sikandar Begum Sahiba, Nawab Begum of Bhopal; she was created a Knight Companion at the Order's foundation in 1861. The Order's statutes were specially amended to permit the admission of Queen Mary as a Knight Grand Commander in 1911.

</doc>
<doc id="292576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292576" title="Category:Knights Grand Commander of the Order of the Star of India">
Category:Knights Grand Commander of the Order of the Star of India


</doc>
<doc id="292578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292578" title="Category:Knights Companion of the Order of the Star of India">
Category:Knights Companion of the Order of the Star of India


</doc>
<doc id="292579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292579" title="Josh Hamilton">
Josh Hamilton

Joshua Holt Hamilton (born May 21, 1981, in Raleigh, North Carolina) is a American professional baseball player who currently plays for the Texas Rangers of Major League Baseball (MLB). In the 2010 season he was named American League MVP. He last played for the Cincinnati Reds and Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. He chose to play for the Angels after they offered him a 5-year contract, worth $125 million. 
On April 27, 2015, the Angels traded Hamilton back to the Rangers.

</doc>
<doc id="292582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292582" title="Run batted in">
Run batted in

Runs batted in or RBI is a statistic used in baseball and softball to credit a batter when the outcome of his at bat results in a run being scored, except in certain situations such as when an error is made on the play.
The official rulebook of Major League Baseball states in Rule 10.04:

</doc>
<doc id="292584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292584" title="Base on balls">
Base on balls

A base on balls (BB) is given to a batter and against a pitcher in baseball statistics when a batter receives four pitches that the umpire calls "balls". It is also known as a walk.
Another version of base on balls is called intentional base on balls (IBB) or intentional walk. This is when the pitcher deliberately pitches the ball away from the batter in order to issue a base on balls. As with any other walk, an intentional walk entitles the batter to first base without being able to be put out, and entitles any runners to advance if forced. Intentional walks are a strategic defensive maneuver, usually done to bypass one hitter for one the defensive team believes is less likely to initiate a run-scoring play (e.g., a home run, sacrifice fly, or RBI base hit), or to set up a double play or force out situation for the next batter. They do carry an inherent risk, however, as they give the offensive team another runner on base, without any effort on their part, who could potentially score a run.

</doc>
<doc id="292590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292590" title="Martin St. Louis">
Martin St. Louis

Martin St. Louis (; born June 18, 1975) is a Canadian professional ice hockey right winger. He currently plays for the New York Rangers of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played in the NHL for the Calgary Flames and the Tampa Bay Lightning and with HC Lausanne of the National League A (NLA).
St. Louis played college hockey at the University of Vermont for the Catamounts where he also played on the same team as former Boston Bruins goaltender Tim Thomas and former NHL player Éric Perrin. He has also played 2 seasons with the Calgary Flames and 13 seasons with the Tampa Bay Lightning.
On March 5, 2014, the Lightning traded St. Louis to the New York Rangers for New York captain Ryan Callahan, a 2015 first-round draft pick, and a conditional 2014 second-round pick.
St. Louis is married to his wife Heather Coragol and they have three sons, Ryan, Lucas and Mason.

</doc>
<doc id="292593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292593" title="Campden tablets">
Campden tablets

Campden tablets are used by people making their own beer, wine, or cider. The tablets kill yeast, making better yeast to be added later for better drinks. 5 of them in 1 pint of water makes a cleaning liquid that can be used to clean the equipment. They are made from sulfur. They were invented in Gloucestershire in the 1920s, but Boots Co. made them better. They can also be used to get rid of chlorine in tap water, making it safer to drink. 

</doc>
<doc id="292594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292594" title="Category:Legion of Honour">
Category:Legion of Honour


</doc>
<doc id="292607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292607" title="Meguro, Tokyo">
Meguro, Tokyo

The municipality calls itself "Meguro City" in English.
As of December 31, 2007, the ward has an estimated population of 259,968 and a density of 17,685 persons per km². The total area is 14.70 km².
The ward was founded on March 15, 1947.
The area now known as Meguro was originally two towns. One was called Meguro, and the other was called Hibusuma. Both used to be parts of the Ebara District of Musashi Province. The two were combined to create Meguro ward for Tokyo City in 1932. The ward area has not changed since then.
The number of people living in Meguro has not changed over the last forty years. The high was almost 300,000 people in 1970, and the low was under 250,000 in 1995. See census information below.
There are four other special wards next to Meguro. They are Shibuya (to the northeast), Setagaya (to the west), Ōta (to the south) and Shinagawa (to the southeast).
There are many embassies from African nations in the ward.

</doc>
<doc id="292609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292609" title="Wilhelm scream">
Wilhelm scream

The Wilhelm scream is a movie and television sound effect first used in 1951 for the movie "Distant Drums". The effect became popular again (its use often becoming an in-joke) after it was used in "Star Wars" and many other movies as well as television shows and video games. The scream is often used when someone is shot, falls from a great height, or is thrown from an explosion.
The sound is named for Private Wilhelm, a character in "The Charge at Feather River", a 1953 western in which the character is shot with an arrow. This was believed to be the third movie to use the sound effect. It was the first use of the sound from the Warner Brothers sound library.
The sound effect comes from a series of sound effects made for the 1951 movies"Distant Drums". In a scene from the movie, soldiers are walking through a swamp in the Everglades. One of them is bitten and dragged underwater by an alligator. The scream for that scene was recorded later in one take. The sound was labeled as "man getting bit by an alligator, and he screams." 
The Wilhelm scream began to become popular when Benjamin Burtt Jr. found the original recording (which he found labeled as "Man being eaten by alligator") and put it into a scene in "". Burtt is credited with naming the scream after Private Wilhelm (after a soldier in "The Charge at Feather River" who was shot by an arrow and screamed). Over the next decade, Burtt began using the effect in other films he worked on. This included most projects with George Lucas or Steven Spielberg. It is used in all of the Indiana Jones movies. Other sound designers picked up on the effect, and use moof the sound in movies became a tradition in the community of sound designers.
Research by Burtt shows that actor and singer Sheb Wooley, best known for his song "Flying Purple People Eater" in 1958, is likely to have been the voice actor who first performed the scream. This has been supported by an interview in 2005 with Linda Dotson, Wooley's widow. Burtt discovered records at Warner Brothers from the editor of "Distant Drums". These records include a short list of names of actors scheduled to record lines of dialogue for roles in the movie. Wooley played the uncredited role of Private Jessup in "Distant Drums." He was one of the few actors used for the recording of more vocal parts for the movie. Wooley performed more sound effects, including the screams for a man being bitten by an alligator. Dotson confirmed that it was Wooley's scream that had been in so many westerns, adding, "He always used to joke about how he was so great about screaming and dying in films."
The Wilhelm scream has become a cinematic sound cliché. By 2008 it had been used in many works, including over 216 movies, television shows and video games . Some directors, most notably George Lucas, include it in almost every one of their productions. 
In 2010, a Wilhelm Scream App was released on the Apple iPhone. As of 2011, it is still free to download.
The second single by British artist James Blake was called "The Wilhelm Scream" and was released in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="292611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292611" title="Vitacura">
Vitacura

Vitacura is a commune and city of Santiago Province, Chile. According to the Chilean census on 2002, Vitacura has an area of and 81,499 inhabitants.
The name of this city is in honor to the cacique called "Vitacura" who was collaborator of the Spanish conqueror Pedro de Valdivia.

</doc>
<doc id="292612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292612" title="Verandah">
Verandah

A veranda or verandah is a porch or long, open room with a roof over it. It can be an open area with a roof that is built around a building at the center. It usually has a line of columns or pillars holding up the roof. It is often railing around the outside. Verandahs often cover the whole front and sides of a building.
The word "verandah" comes from India. Word has been modified from a Persian word 'Bar-Amada', which means a place which leads to out-side. Two words from Sanskrit were combined and changed in Bengali and then borrowed by English. "Vahir"( "বাহির" ) means "outside" and "Andar" ("অন্দর") means inside a room. It means something that is outdoors but inside a room or covered area.
According to the "Oxford English Dictionary", the word verandah came from India. It is found in several native languages there. However, it may have come from the Portuguese or older Spanish words "varanda" ("baranda" or "barandilla" in modern Spanish). But these words were also borrowed from Indian languages.
Although the form "verandah" is correct and very common, some spell the word without an "h" (the "Oxford English Dictionary" gives the "h" version as a possible spelling, and the Guardian Style Guide says
"veranda
not verandah").
The veranda has been an important part of local Australian architecture. It began to become common in colonial buildings during the 1850s.
The Creole Townhouse in New Orleans, Louisiana is also noted for its prominent use of verandas.

</doc>
<doc id="292616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292616" title="Shinagawa, Tokyo">
Shinagawa, Tokyo

As of 2008, the ward has an estimated population of 344,461 and a density of 15,740 persons per km². The total area is 22.72 km².
The ward was founded on March 15, 1947 by combining Ebara Ward with the older Shinagawa Ward. Both Ebara Ward and Shinagawa Ward had been created in 1932 when Tokyo City expanded after the Great Kantō earthquake.
Shinagawa is run by a city assembly of 40 elected members. 
Tokyo Metropolitan Government Board of Education operates two special colleges in Shinagawa:
Shinagawa has sister-city relationships with Auckland in New Zealand, Geneva in Switzerland, and Portland, Maine in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="292618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292618" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/31st century">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/31st century


</doc>
<doc id="292621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292621" title="Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Rollback/Archives/2011/April/Done">
Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Rollback/Archives/2011/April/Done

Greetings, I, as , also have rollbacker (as well as reviewer) on the en.wikipedia (verify), I would like to be able to fight vandalism here as well as I already do using Huggle and Twinkle on en.wikipedia. Thanks for your consideration, 00:38, 1 April 2011 (UTC)
Simply, I use and would like to be able to revert edits faster. Revert log is found . -- () 16:58, 3 April 2011 (UTC)
I already have rollbacker rights on the English Wikipedia. I would like to have more chances to fight vandalism. () 01:57, 4 April 2011 (UTC)
I'm autoconfirmed on Simple, got 50 edits. I've got rollback on English Wikipedia and have done a lot of vandal fighting using Twinkle and Igloo on English. Being able to fight vandalism on Simple would be useful. — () 22:27, 7 April 2011 (UTC)
My request is for 1. Rollbacker and 2. Patroller. I have Rollbacker, Reviewer and AWB user rights on English Wikipedia. I use Twinkle and Huggle. I am an active user in good standing with a unified login account. Autoconfirmed here, with more than 180 changes, and actively involved in fighting vandalism. () 17:32, 10 April 2011 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="292622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292622" title="Ass to mouth">
Ass to mouth

Ass to mouth is a common term that describes one partner removing his penis from the anus, and inserting it into his partner's or another person's mouth.

</doc>
<doc id="292627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292627" title="Amalie Arena">
Amalie Arena

The Amalie Arena is an arena in Tampa, Florida, that has been used for ice hockey, basketball, and arena football games, as well as concerts.
It is home to the Tampa Bay Lightning of the National Hockey League and the Tampa Bay Storm of the Arena Football League.
The arena, located in Downtown Tampa's Channelside District was a secondary location chosen after the failure of Tampa Coliseum Inc. to secure funding to construct an arena on Tampa Sports Authority land near Tampa Stadium. It opened in 1996 as the Ice Palace. Its first event was a performance by the Royal Hanneford Circus. The first hockey game was the Lightning hosting the New York Rangers, which the Lightning won by a score of 5–2.
The arena was built as a new home for the Lightning after the club outgrew the older, smaller Expo Hall at the Florida State Fairgrounds. Prior to the opening of the Ice Palace, the Lightning moved to the Florida Suncoast Dome, which was nicknamed the "Thunderdome," in St. Petersburg, Florida, joining the Tampa Bay Storm, in 1994. Upon the completion of the Ice Palace, both the Lightning and the Storm, moved in. The Thunderdome, now named Tropicana Field, is currently home to Major League Baseball's Tampa Bay Rays.
Control of the venue has changed hands three times since the building's opening in 1996. The lease agreement ties the arena to the ownership of the Tampa Bay Lightning.
Naming rights to the Ice Palace were sold to the "St. Petersburg Times", a daily newspaper sold throughout the Tampa Bay Area. In January 2012, the arena name changed to Tampa Bay Times Forum once the newspaper renamed itself the "Tampa Bay Times".
On September 3, 2014, Tampa Bay Lightning owner Jeff Vinik announced that the arena would be renamed Amalie Arena after they came to an agreement with Amalie Oil Company, an oil company based in Tampa. Other entertainment events occasionally held in the Arena include concerts, NBA games, USF Basketball and NCAA Tournament games, tennis, professional wrestling, boxing, figure skating, and rodeos (as well as stand-alone bull riding events; the Arena has hosted an event by the PBR's premier tour, the Bud Light Cup (renamed Built Ford Tough Series in 2003), annually since 1998.)
The building hosted the 1999 NHL All-Star Game, World Wrestling Federation "Survivor Series 2000", and games of the NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament in 2003, 2008 and 2011. The Arena hosted 4 of the 7 games during the 2004 Stanley Cup Finals, as the Lightning defeated the Calgary Flames 4 games to 3 to win their first Stanley Cup. The Arena also hosted ArenaBowl XII (1998) and ArenaBowl XVII (2003) and the 2007 ACC Men's Basketball Tournament.
The Arena hosted the 2008 NCAA Women's Division I Final Four Basketball Tournament on April 6–8. Tennessee beat Stanford, 64-48. In 2009, the Arena hosted the Southeastern Conference Men's Basketball Tournament.
In 2009, Britney Spears performed at the Arena for her "The Circus Starring Britney Spears" tour. The show is also notable for a wardrobe malfunction and the remark, "Okay, my pussy is hanging out of this fucking --", after she performed "I'm a Slave 4 U" and didn't realize that her mic was still on. The incident later received notable attention and has received thousands of views on YouTube.
In 2012, Amalie Arena hosted the NCAA Men's Hockey Frozen Four championship finals; this was the first time the "Frozen Four" was held outside the northern US since 1999, when the University of Alaska Anchorage hosted the event at the Arrowhead Pond of Anaheim, now the Honda Center, in Anaheim, California. The Frozen Four was hosted by the University of Alabama in Huntsville, the nearest NCAA hockey team to Florida.
WWE Raw and WWE SmackDown has been held at the arena numerous times. WWE held their three-hour event inside of the Arena where Raw hosted their 800th episode celebration on November 3, 2008. WWE returned to the Arena once again for the December 21st edition of Raw where former New York Yankees and current Tampa Bay Rays player Johnny Damon served as the Guest Host at the time he was a free agent. For the first time in three years, SmackDown returned to Amalie Arena for the June 8, 2010 edition.
Tampa also hosted WWE Extreme Rules on May 1, 2011; it was the arena's first WWE PPV since Survivor Series 2000 in 11 years as it was originally scheduled to take place at the Amway Center in Orlando.
Amalie Arena hosted the 2012 Republican National Convention.

</doc>
<doc id="292628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292628" title="Piedmont blues">
Piedmont blues

Piedmont blues (also called East Coast Blues) is a blues music style from the East Coast of the USA. The name came from the Piedmont, a hilly coastal area between Richmond, Virginia and Atlanta, Georgia. But the style is also played in Maryland, Delaware, West Virginia, Pennsylvania and Florida.
The main instruments are guitar, vocals, drums and bass. The Piedmont style is played on acoustic instruments. The main difference to the Delta blues is the ragtime based rhythm. The style is influenced by ragtime, country string bands, traveling medicine shows and popular song of the early 20th century. East Coast Piedmont Blues blended both black and white, rural and urban song elements in the diverse urban centers of the Southeast and mid-Atlantic region. In contrast to Delta blues, the Piedmont blues were influenced by white music.
In the early twentieth century artists such as Blind Boy Fuller, Blind Blake, Blind Willie McTell, Rev. Gary Davis and Sonny Terry made Piedmont blues popular. Women also played the Piedmont guitar style, including Etta Baker and Elizabeth Cotten, whose “Freight Train” is one of the most recognized Piedmont tunes. Before the Second World War Piedmont blues was a style that was very popular with the African-Americans of the South. The heyday was the 1920s and 1930s.

</doc>
<doc id="292631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292631" title="Sportverein Austria Salzburg">
Sportverein Austria Salzburg

The Sportverein Austria Salzburg (shortly SV Austria Salzburg) is an Austrian footballclub based in Salzburg. The club was founded in 2005 after the Red Bull takover of the old Austria Salzburg.
The club was founded in September 2005 after the Red Bull takover of the 1933 founded club SV Austria Salzburg. Due to differences about the new club supporters left the now socalled FC Red Bull Salzburg and founded SV Austria Salzburg. Role models were the fanbiased English clubs AFC Wimbledon and FC United of Manchester. The club claims to preserve the tradition of SV Austria Salzburg.
The season 2005/06 they played together with PSV Schwarz-Weiß in the Salzburger Landesliga (4th class) but at the end of the season the cooperation ended. The club has to start in the 7. class of Austrian football. The first match of the new SV Austria Salzburg was played on 29 July 2006 against "Lieferinger SV", another football club from the city of Salzburg. SV Austria Salzburg won 6–0.But the following seasons they won the classes they played in so they play the season 2010/11 in the Regionalliga West, which is the 3rd class of Austrian league system.

</doc>
<doc id="292632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292632" title="Tim Hunt">
Tim Hunt

Sir Richard Timothy Hunt FRS (born 19 February 1943 in Neston, Cheshire) is an English biochemist. He is usually known as Tim Hunt. 
Hunt shared the 2001 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his work on cell division.
At the age of eight he was accepted into the Dragon School, where he first developed an interest in biology thanks to his German teacher, Gerd Sommerhoff. 
When he was fourteen he moved to Magdalen College School, Oxford, where the science prizes now bear his name. There he became even more interested in science studying subjects such as chemistry and biology.
He is a son of Richard William Hunt.
In 1961, Hunt was accepted into Clare College, Cambridge to study natural sciences, graduating in 1964 and immediately beginning work in the university Department of Biochemistry.
He finished his PhD in 1968 and worked in New York to work on protein synthesis. Tiny amounts of glutathione inhibited protein synthesis in reticulocytes (immature red blood cells), and tiny amounts of RNA killed the synthesis altogether. After returning to Cambridge he continued work on substances which started or inhibited protein synthesis.
In 1982 at the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, Massachusetts, he used the sea urchin ("Arbacia punctulata") egg as his model organism. He discovered the cyclin molecule. Hunt found that cyclins begin to be made after the eggs are fertilized and increase in levels during interphase, until they drop very quickly in the middle of mitosis in each cell division. 
He also found that cyclins are present in vertebrate cells where they also regulate the cell cycle. His group showed that cyclins bind and activate a family of protein kinases, now called the cyclin-dependent kinases. One of these had been identified as a crucial cell cycle regulator by Paul Nurse.
In 1990, he began work at Imperial Cancer Research Fund. In 2001 he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Leland Hartwell and Paul Nurse for their work on cell division. Other honours followed, and he was knighted by the Queen in 2006.
Hunt is married to Mary Collins. The couple have two daughters.

</doc>
<doc id="292634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292634" title="Christ Church, Oxford">
Christ Church, Oxford

Christ Church is one of the largest colleges of the University of Oxford. The college was founded by Henry VIII in 1546. 
As well as being a college, Christ Church is also the cathedral church of the diocese of Oxford, namely Christ Church Cathedral, Oxford. 
Christ Church has produced thirteen British prime ministers. This is equal to the number produced by all 45 other Oxford colleges put together, and two short of the total number for the University of Cambridge (fifteen).
The college is the setting for parts of Evelyn Waugh's "Brideshead Revisited", as well as Lewis Carroll's "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland". More recently it has been used in the filming of the movies of J. K. Rowling's "Harry Potter" series and also the movie adaptation of Philip Pullman's novel "Northern Lights" (the movie bearing the title of the US edition of the book, "The Golden Compass"). 
Distinctive features of the college's architecture have been used as models by a number of other academic institutions. The University of Chicago and Cornell University both have reproductions of Christ Church's dining hall. Christ Church Cathedral, New Zealand, after which the City of Christchurch is named, is itself named after Christ Church, Oxford. Stained glass windows in the cathedral and other buildings are by the Pre-Raphaelite William Morris group with designs by Edward Burne-Jones.
The college has admitted female students since 1978.

</doc>
<doc id="292639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292639" title="Roman Wallner">
Roman Wallner

Roman Wallner (born 4 February 1982 in Graz, Styria) is an Austrian footballer. He plays for F.C. Wacker Innsbruck as striker.
He started playing football in his hometown Graz for Sturm Graz, the next year he played for SK Rapid Wien. He played for Rapid from 1999 till 2004 and shot 42 goals in 134 matches. Roman Wallner also played for Hannover 96, Admira Wacker, Austria Vienna, Falkirk, Hamilton Academical, Apollon Kalamarias and Skoda Xanthi. After his years in Greece he came back to Austria playing for LASK Linz. Because he had also personal problems during his time in foreign countries the contract with LASK was his last chance to gain success in football. He played this year very successfully and scored 19 goals for LASK and Red Bull Salzburg where he went in winter 2010. In the 2010/11 season he was the best scorer for Red Bull Salzburg with 18 goals in the league and 4 goals in international matches.
He started his career in 2001 in the World Cup qualification match versus Liechtenstein.Since then he scored 7 goals in 29 matches.
!Total||29||7

</doc>
<doc id="292642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292642" title="Radha">
Radha

Radha is the childhood friend and lover of Krishna in the Gaudiya Vaishnava sect of the Vaishnava traditions inHinduism.

</doc>
<doc id="292650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292650" title="Franz Schiemer">
Franz Schiemer

Franz "Fränky" Schiemer (born March 21, 1986, in Haag am Hausruck, Upper Austria) wasan Austrian footballer who played as a defender for FC Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga.
He started in his local club Taufkirchen as striker in the youth ranks.For SV Ried he made his professional debut in the 2003/04 season at the age of 17. With the U17 national team he was 3rd in the UEFA - European Championship 2003. 2005 he joined FK Austria Wien. With this club he reached his first Championsship. 2009 he joined FC Red Bull Salzburg, where he signed till 2012. He played all position in the defence and reached 2010 with Red Bull Salzburg his second Championship.
In 2014 he retired due to often injuries.

</doc>
<doc id="292651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292651" title="Category:Compositions by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov">
Category:Compositions by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov


</doc>
<doc id="292653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292653" title="Lake Geneva">
Lake Geneva

Lake Geneva (, , or "Genfer See") is the second largest lake in Central Europe. The lake forms the border between France and Switzerland. About three fifths are in Switzerland. In total, it is about 580 km in size. At its deepest point it is 310 m deep, which makes it France's deepest lake. The biggest contributing river is the Rhone, other important tributaries are the Dranse, the Venoge and the Aubonne. The Rhone traverses the lake, and exits at Geneva. On average, its waters take 11.4 years to traverse the lake. Other than Geneva, important Swiss cities at the lakeshore are Lausanne, Montreux and Vevey. The biggest French city at the lakeshore is Thonon-les-Bains, the best known is Évian-les-Bains.
There are six small islands in the lake:
The Pierres du Niton are two erratic stones in the lake in Geneva. They were deposited there during the last ice age.

</doc>
<doc id="292655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292655" title="Audi A6">
Audi A6

The Audi A6 is a automobile produced by Audi. It replaced the Audi 100 in 1994, and entered its fourth generation in 2011.
It is available in both sedan and station wagon bodystyles. It is also available in SUV bodystyle, called Audi A6 allroad quattro.

</doc>
<doc id="292656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292656" title="King Diamond">
King Diamond

King Diamond (born Kim Bendix Petersen, Copenhagen, Denmark, on June 14, 1956) is a Grammy Award nominated heavy metal musician. As a vocalist, he is known for his extensive vocal range, in particular his usage of falsetto. He is the lead vocalist for both bands Mercyful Fate and King Diamond.

</doc>
<doc id="292657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292657" title="Volkswagen Eos">
Volkswagen Eos

The Volkswagen Eos is a automobile produced by Volkswagen since 2006. It replaced the in 2001 discontinued Volkswagen Golf Cabriolet.

</doc>
<doc id="292658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292658" title="Jesus College, Oxford">
Jesus College, Oxford

Jesus College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. 
The college was founded by Elizabeth I on 27 June 1571 for the education of clergy, though students now study a broad range of secular subjects. 
A major driving force behind the establishment of the college was Hugh Price (or Ap Rhys), a churchman and lawyer from Brecon in Wales. The college continues to be associated informally with Wales to this day. 
The oldest buildings, in the first quadrangle, date from the 16th and early 17th centuries; a second quadrangle was added between about 1640 and about 1713, and a third quadrangle was built in about 1906. Further accommodation was built on the main site to mark the 400th anniversary of the college, in 1971, and student flats have been constructed at sites in north and east Oxford.
The life of the college was disrupted by the English Civil War. Little happened at the college during the 18th century, and the 19th century saw a decline in numbers and academic standards. 
Reforms of Oxford University after two Royal Commissions in the latter half of the 19th century led to removal of many of the restrictions placed on the college's fellowships and scholarships. This meant the college was no longer mostly Welsh students and academics. Students' academic achievements rose in the early 20th century as fellows were appointed to teach in new subjects. Women were first admitted in 1974 and now form a large part of the undergraduate population.
There are about 475 students. The Principal of the college is Lord Krebs, the son of the Nobel Prize winner Hans Krebs. Former students include Harold Wilson (twice British Prime Minister), Norman Washington Manley (Chief Minister of Jamaica) and T.E. Lawrence ("Lawrence of Arabia"). 
The university's Chair (professorship) of Celtic is attached to the college.

</doc>
<doc id="292660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292660" title="Nosferatu">
Nosferatu

Nosferatu eine Symphonie des Grauens (translated as "Nosferatu: A Symphony of Horror") is a 1922 German silent horror movie by F. W. Murnau based on the "Dracula" novel by Bram Stoker. The movie was shot in 1921 and was released in Germany in 1922 and in the US in 1929. It is about a Vampire or "Nosferatu" named Count Orlok (starring Max Schreck) who lives in a castle on top of a Hill. The movie in the public domain in America but not in Germany. 
Although the movie was a commercial failure and caused the movie Prana Film being shut down due to copyright infringement, which were 2 reasons the movie was the only movie of Prana Film, the movie has received a strong cult following. Not only this, the movie has received overwhelmingly positive reviews. On Rotten Tomatoes it received a "Certified Fresh" label and it says that 98% of critics gave the film a positive review with a "fresh" rating based on 46 reviews. 
In 2010, it was ranked twenty-first in "Empire" magazine's "The 100 Best Films of World Cinema".
A chronicler relates how in 1838 the plague arrived in the port city of Wisborg: The real estate agent gets a Knock Count Orlok in the Carpathian Mountains to the written order to search a house for him in Wisborg. The broker, apparently inspired by the request of the Count, asked his young colleague Thomas Hutter, and Orlock to travel to offer him the dilapidated house across Hutter's home. Hutter's young wife, Ellen responded with trepidation and foreboding with the travel plans of her husband. Hutter's wife in the care of his friend, the shipowner Harding, and is on its way. Before he reached the castle of the Count, he makes a stop at an inn. The locals are afraid of Orlok and warn the young man, travel further. The "Book of the Vampyre," a compendium of bloodsuckers, should serve him as a warning, but Hutter beats all caution to the wind and continued his journey. When he finally left his guides in fear and panic, he was picked up in an eerie forest of the carriage of the Count and reached Orloks gloomy castle. Count Orlok is no less sinister than his home, a gaunt, bald-headed figure. An evening meal is prepared for Hutter. When he hurt himself accidentally with a knife on his finger, wants Orlock greedily pounce on the blood. The Count asks the young man to stay. After a night in a heavy sleep Hutter wakes up two times bite on his neck. When Count Orlok happen the following evening sees the portrait of Hutter's wife Ellen in a medallion, he immediately takes Hutter to offer and sign the purchase contract at face value. Hutter suspects that he has been invited to the disaster in his home town. Orlok approaches that night the sleeping Hutter, to suck his blood, but wakes up screaming in the distance in yards Wisborg and stretches out her hands beseechingly. The count can be away from his victim.
Ellen falls into a trance-like state and begins to sleepwalk. Meanwhile, Hutter explores the castle during the day and the count is Orloks in deathlike sleep in a coffin lying. In the evening, Hutter sees how the count will load with earth-filled coffins on a cart. The last coffin is empty, the count itself as a resting place. Hutter escapes the castle, is saved and passed out by locals who care for the feverish healthy in a hospital. Orlok, meanwhile, has led to the coffins are transported to Varna with a raft and loaded onto a sailing ship. The Empusa makes with Orlok aboard on their way to Wisborg, while Hutter, recovered, rushed to the home land. On board the crew members of Empusa die, one after the other, to a mysterious illness. As investigate the sailors and open one of the coffins, he will escape a horde of rats. Finally, when only the captain and his first mate are alive, emerges from the count of his coffin at night. The last two crew members were killed and the Empusa moves, like a ghost ship, entered the port of Wisborg. The Lübeck salt storage building served as the location for Orloks in Wisborg. Knock, now because of his appetite for living flies landed in an asylum exults, the "master" is finally here. The Count, a coffin in tow, and the rats leaving the ship and walk through the city at night. The city officials see the orphaned Empusa the logbook, which tells of the deadly disease. Call a state of emergency, but it is too late: the plague is spreading in Wisborg and told countless victims. Even the "Paracelsianer" Professor Bulwer, an expert on epidemic diseases is no antidote against the plague. Knock has escaped from the asylum and is pursued by a mob, which he blames on the plague, but he manages to escape and hide from the city.
Hutter has also managed to achieve Wisborg. He brings the "Book of the Vampyre" with him when Ellen reads a woman pure of heart could be "the vampire" stay by giving him to drink their blood voluntarily, and it so "forget the rooster Schrey" makes. Meanwhile Orlok is pulled into the deserted house across Hutter. Full of longing and evocative, he looks out the window in Ellen's room. The young woman collapsed and sent away almost shutter to get a doctor. Orlok, the fulfillment of his desires close, sneaks into her room and approaches Ellen to drink her blood. As he feasts on her, he suddenly startled high: He forgot about his desire to time, the dawn is coming. With the first cock-crow, so the first rays of the sun, the vampire goes to ashes. Hutter reached by Dr. Ellen's room, and includes her in his arms, but it is too late: Ellen is dead Miraculously, however, defeated at the end of the vampire plague.
"Nosferatu" is Prana Film's only production. Prana Film was founded 1921 by Enrico Dieckmann and Albin Grau. Grau had the idea to shoot a vampire film; the inspiration arose from Grau's war experience: in the winter of 1916, a Serbian farmer told him that his father was a vampire and one of the Undead.
Diekmann and Grau gave Henrik Galeen a job to screenplay inspired from Bram Stoker's 1897 novel "Dracula", despite Prana Film not having rights to the film. Galeen was an experienced specialist in Dark romanticism; he had already worked on "Der Student von Prag" ("The Student of Prague") in 1913, and the screenplay for 1920's "Der Golem, wie er in die Welt kam" ("The Golem: How He Came into the World"). Galeen set the story in a fictional north German harbour town named Wisborg and changed the character names. He added the idea of the vampire bringing the plague to Wisborg via rats on the ship. He left out the Van Helsing vampire hunter character. Galeen's German Expressionism screenplay was poetically rhythmic, without being so dismembered as other books influenced by literary Expressionism, such as those by Carl Mayer. Lotte Eisner described Galeen's screenplay as "" ("full of poetry, full of rhythm"). 
Dieckmann and Gray won the director Friedrich Wilhelm Murnau, who made movies until 1919, but had made ​​his first seven productions a reputation as a talented filmmaker. Gray, who had studied at the Art Academy in Dresden, took over as artistic director and designed sets and costumes. For the soundtrack of the musical director of the Prana-Film Hans Erdmann was responsible. The unknown stage actor Max Schreck from Munich, was committed for the title role. Other roles took on expressionist theater of Max Reinhardt trained actors like Greta Schröder, Gustav von Wangenheim, and Alexander Granach, a former classmate at Murnau Reinhardt's acting school at the Deutsches Theater.
Filming began in July 1921. Exterior shots were filmed in Wismar. A take from Marienkirche's tower over Wismar marketplace with the Wasserkunst Wismar served as the establishing shot for the Wisborg scene. Other locations were the Wassertor, the Heiligen-Geist-Kirche yard and the harbour. In Lübeck, the abandoned Salzspeicher served as Nosferatu's new Wisborg house, the one of the churchyard from Aegidienkirche served as Hutters and down the Depenau "coffin bearers" beared coffins. Many walks of Lübeck took place in the hunt of "Knock" who ordered Hutter in the "Yard of Füchting" to meet the earl. Further exterior shots followed in Lauenburg, Rostock and on Sylt. The film team travelled to the Carpathian Mountains, where Orava Castle served as backdrop for Orlok's half-ruined castle. Nearby locations also served: Hutter's stay at Dolný Kubín; the river journey with the coffins filmed on the Váh River; and the panoramas of the High Tatras mountain range. The team filmed interior shots at the JOFA studio in Berlin's Johannisthal locality. and further exteriors in the Tegel forest. Parts of the film set in Transylvania were also shot in Slovakia.
For cost reasons, cameraman Fritz Arno Wagner only had one camera available, and therefore there was only one original negative. The director followed Galeen's screenplay carefully, following handwritten instructions on camera positioning, lighting, and related matters. Nevertheless Murnau completely rewrote 12 pages of the script, as Galeen's text was missing from the director's working script. This concerned the last scene of the film, in which Ellen sacrifices herself and the vampire dies in the first rays of the Sun. Murnau prepared carefully; there were sketches that were to correspond exactly to each filmed scene, and he used a metronome to control the pace of the acting.
Since the camera was mostly static and immobile to Nosferatu, Murnau used movement and differentiation within the rigid cadre in order to energize the scene. As Orloks ship slowly moves from right to left through the movie screen, Murnau used this so Eisner's "powerful effect[s] of the impression of transverse motion." would stress education. This served the same purpose subjectifications of the camera view, such as when the vampire filmed on the ship from the frog perspective or stand looking out of windows, parts of the frame and shoots into view . The highlight of the subjectivated gaze are the scenes in which the vampire character - directly facing the camera - turns to the audience and thus the fourth wall is broken: "The vampire seems by its immensity, the dimensions of the screen to blow up and the viewers to directly threaten "
Hans Erdmann titled his film score for Nosferatu as "Fantastic and romantic suite". The title revealed, said Berndt Heller, a "common misconception". Unlike the reason to assume as the movie subtitled "Symphony of Horror", Erdmann put less on the vampire material commonly associated elements such as horror and shock as to the intention of the director corresponding moods in which the glorification of nature and the fairy-tale folk say-like character of the film reflect. Like Murnau verdeutliche Erdmann in his music, "the involvement of the demonic legends, fairy tales and nature-like". Erdmann's score was published in editions for large orchestra and for salon orchestra from the publisher Boosey & Hawkes. The ten individual pieces show on reusability scale, typical movie title bar: an idyllic, lyrical, Spooky, Stormy Destroy, Awake, strange, grotesque, Unleashed and distraught. Since the total duration of the work is only about 40 minutes, Berndt Heller suggested that the performances were repeated for individual parts, accompanied by about the characters again and again as a leitmotif. Also, the repeated use of phrases for dramatic new situations through modification of the character pieces, such as changes in presentation made ​​in the tempos and dynamics in the Heller thinks it is possible.
Though most of the score has been lost (because of this only a reconstitution of the score as it was played in 1922 can be heard), it is why so many composers and musicians have written or improvised their own soundtrack to accompany the film. For example, James Bernard, composer of the soundtracks of many Hammer horror films in the late 50s and all the 60s decade, including the Dracula and Frankenstein series, has written a score for a reissue of Nosferatu.
Shortly before the premiere, an advertisement campaign was placed in issue 21 of the magazine "Bühne und Film", with a summary, scene and work photographs, production reports and essays including a treatment on vampirism by Albin Grau. Nosferatu's preview premiered on 4 March 1922 in the "Marmorsaal" of the Berlin Zoological Garden. This was planned as a large society evening entitled "" (Festival of Nosferatu), and guests were asked to arrive dressed in Biedermeier costume. The cinema premiere itself took place on 15 March 1922 at Berlin's .
This was Prana Film's only movie because the movie was a financial failure. The UFA refused to take the film in the program of their large movie theaters, and so Nosferatu was only shown in a few small theaters. This was also because Bram Stoker had an estate, acting for his widow, Florence Stoker, sueing for copyright infringement and winning. The court ordered all existing prints of "Nosferatu" burned, but one purported copy of the film had already been distributed around the world. These prints were duplicated over the years.
Despite it's failure and Prana Film's bankruptcy in 1922, the film received critically positive reviews. Rotten Tomatoes says that 98% of critical reviews were positive (53 out of a total 55 reviews) with an average rating of 3.9/5, stating "One of the silent era's most influential masterpieces, Nosferatu's eerie, gothic feel -- and a chilling performance from Max Shrek as the vampire -- set the template for the horror films that followed."
Roger Ebert called it "more effective for being" a "silent" film. He concluded "There is no repartee in nightmares. Human speech dissipates the shadows and makes a room seem normal. Those things that live only at night do not need to talk, for their victims are asleep, waiting."
Ulrich Gregor and Enno Patalas evaluate "Nosferatu" as a quantum leap in Murnau's cinematic work for being "visible for the first time in any setting." Thomas Elsaesser says the appeal of the film from the conflict between technical perfection and its mainly psychological acting subject: "Murnau's poetry, the result was a detached, almost clinical application of technical mastery German photography and camera work in an emotionally charged, with deep-seated fears and feelings related topics " the dream-like, the subconscious appealing presentation give the film a "shadow only decipherable, hidden logic", they keep the film "is still strong appeal character," says Thomas Koebner Also Kreimeier Klaus picks up on this film" Nosferatu" effect and certify an "authenticity of the dream - and the fictional (the means based on conventions) character of what we call reality."
William K. Everson judges, the film suffered "under the extrovert and plenty of covered play by Alexander Granach [...] and virtually all other members of the cast out fear." also, Lotte H. Eisner criticized the cumbersome play, the actors performances were "not significant", which they impute to the fact that Murnau not experienced at this time in the lead actor had been enough.
Aaron Copland's 1922 ballet "Grohg" (unpublished and unpremiered until 1992) used Nosferatu as the physical model for the lead character and roughly follows the storyline.
Hugh Cornwell of the Stranglers and Robert Williams recorded an album "Nosferatu" as a "soundtrack" to the film, dedicated to the memory of Max Schreck; it was released in 1979. The front cover was a still from the film.
Werner Herzog's 1979 homage to Nosferatu, "Nosferatu the Vampyre" starred Klaus Kinski as Count Dracula, not Orlok. A sequel to Herzog's film called "Vampire in Venice" starred Kinski, this time as Nosferatu, and Christopher Plummer as Paris Catalano. 
The 1979 television movie "Salem's Lot" modeled the appearance of Mr. Barlow on that of Count Orlok. In 1998, Wayne Keeley released "", in which the original film was remastered to a soundtrack by Type O Negative and hosted by David Carradine. 
The 2000 Hollywood movie "Shadow of the Vampire" told a secret history of the making of "Nosferatu", imagining that actor Max Schreck (played by Willem Dafoe) was actually a genuine vampire and that director F. W. Murnau (John Malkovich) was complicit in hiring the creature for the purpose of realism. 
Similarly, the short film 'La duodécima hora' by Rodrigo Plaza and film critic Juanma Ruiz, suggested a hidden plot orchestrated by Nosferatu director and producer, F. W. Murnau and Albin Grau, to hide an elixir of the eternal life. Shot as a mockumentary, the film starred horror icon Paul Naschy and Nosferatu film restorer Luciano Berriatúa.
Viper Comics's 2010 graphic novel "Nosferatu" by Christopher Howard Wolf retold the original 1922 film's storyline with a modern setting and cast.
The Cartoon Network Adult Swim series Mary Shelley's Frankenhole, a parody of classic horror movies and characters, features Nosferatu as a recurring character.

</doc>
<doc id="292663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292663" title="King Diamond (band)">
King Diamond (band)

King Diamond is a Danish heavy metal band. It was formed by King Diamond after the split up of his band Mercyful Fate.

</doc>
<doc id="292664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292664" title="Lego Duplo">
Lego Duplo

Lego Duplo (also called Lego Preschool, Explore or simply just DUPLO) is another type of Lego toys. The difference is that they are bigger than regular Lego and that they are meant for ages 1½-6, because they are easier to handle than regular Lego. Lego Duplo were launched in 1969.

</doc>
<doc id="292666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292666" title="Obi-Wan Kenobi">
Obi-Wan Kenobi

Obi-Wan Kenobi is a fictional character in the "Star Wars" universe. He is one of several primary characters in the Star Wars series. 
With Anakin Skywalker/Darth Vader, R2-D2, and C-3PO, he is one of the few major characters to appear in all of the six "Star Wars" movies. He is portrayed in the original trilogy by Alec Guinness and in the prequel trilogy by Ewan McGregor and voiced by James Arnold Taylor in "Star Wars: The Clone Wars" series and "Star Was Rebels" series. 

</doc>
<doc id="292669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292669" title="Eric Singer">
Eric Singer

Eric Doyle Mensinger (born May 12, 1958 in Cleveland, Ohio, USA), better known as Eric Singer, is a hard rock and heavy metal drummer for the rock band Kiss and formerly for singer Alice Cooper. In December 1991, Eric Singer officially became the drummer for Kiss after the death of Eric Carr.

</doc>
<doc id="292671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292671" title="Martin Erat">
Martin Erat

Martin Erat (born August 28, 1981 in Třebíč, Czechoslovakia) is a Czech ice hockey right winger. He currently plays for the Arizona Coyotes of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Nashville Predators and the Washington Capitals. Martin also has an older brother named Roman who plays in the Czech Extraliga.
Before playing in the NHL, Erat played 3 seasons in the WHL 2 for the Saskatoon Blades and 1 for the Red Deer Rebels. Erat has also played 10 seasons with the Nashville Predators and 9 games with the Washington Capitals.
On March 4th, 2014, the Capitals traded Erat along with prospect John Mitchell to the Phoenix Coyotes for a 2015 4th round draft pick, Rostislav Klesla and Chris Brown.

</doc>
<doc id="292676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292676" title="Portal 2">
Portal 2

Portal 2 is a first-person shooter puzzle video game made by Valve Corporation. It is the sequel to the video game "Portal". The gameplay is similar to the first game, but it adds new stories, puzzles, and characters. Unlike the first game, it also has a co-op campaign, where two players play as robots built by GLaDOS to solve puzzles that could never be solved by humans.
After killing GLaDOS and escaping Aperture Science Laboratories, Chell, the protagonist of "Portal", is taken back to the labs and placed in suspended animation for many years. While she sleeps, the laboratories become more and more run down, because no one is there to take care of them. Once she wakes up, a small, dim-witted robot named Wheatley tries to help her escape the building. In the process, he accidentally reactivates GLaDOS, who, still angry with Chell for killing her, forces Chell to perform tests similar to the ones she performed in "Portal".
While Chell solves the puzzles and GLaDOS repairs the building, Wheatley works behind the scenes to free Chell. Once he does, they try to sabotage GLaDOS's weapons, including her turrets and neurotoxin. In a confrontation with GLaDOS, Chell presses a button that removes GLaDOS from controlling the laboratory and puts Wheatley in her place. In anger, GLaDOS reveals that Wheatley is an intelligence-dampening sphere, created by scientists to distract GLaDOS from evil by distracting her with a constant stream of stupid ideas. Wheatley is outraged and becomes power-mad. He puts GLaDOS's AI into a potato and turns on Chell, sending them both deep underground to an abandoned part of the facility.
Underground is the first Aperture Science Laboratories, started in the 1950s. While exploring the area, recorded messages by Aperture Science founder Cave Johnson and his secretary Caroline tell the history of the company and explain the many dangerous tests performed there. As Chell moves further up in the labs, time moves forward as well, into the 1970s. Cave reveals that the company is bankrupt and must use homeless people as test subjects rather than the astronauts and Olympic athletes they had used before. Here Chell reunites with GLaDOS, whom she places on her portal gun and carries with her. 
As they move forward, GLaDOS begins to repeat things that Caroline says and becomes confused. When they move into part of the lab that was used during the 1980s, a message from Cave says he has gotten cancer from working with moon dust and he is dying. After a rant about the unfairness of life, he says that he wants Caroline to run the company after he dies. GLaDOS comes up with a plan to destroy Wheatley once they find him. 
Chell and GLaDOS make it to the modern-day lab near the surface and find Wheatley. GLaDOS attempts to short-circuit him by telling him a paradox. Unfortunately, Wheatley is not smart enough to understand it and the plan fails. Wheatley has discovered his new body gives him a feeling of euphoria when a subject solves a test. He tried to make cubes with legs to solve puzzles, but they were not good at it. Instead, he forces Chell to solve puzzles. As she solves more tests, Wheatley's feelings of euphoria become weaker, so he builds more and more complicated tests by smashing together test chambers that GLaDOS built. 
When Wheatley cannot get the result he wants from the tests, he decides to kill Chell and GLaDOS. They escape and eventually find him, leading to the final fight. GLaDOS helps Chell attach broken personality cores to Wheatley to weaken him and she tries to press the button that switched GLaDOS and Wheatley in the first place. When she is unable to, she shoots a portal on the floor below Wheatley and another on the moon, which can be seen through a hole in the roof. Wheatley is pulled from GLaDOS's body and released into space. Chell is almost pulled out too, but GLaDOS saves her and closes the portals.
After saving Chell, GLaDOS speaks kindly to her, explaining that when she was created, she was given part of Caroline's personality. She thanks Chell for helping her find where Caroline's personality is in her "brain", then deletes it. Returning to her former self, GLaDOS tells Chell that she is too difficult to kill so she will stop trying and release her instead. Chell is sent to the surface by an elevator while the turrets sing opera. Once she makes it out, the Companion Cube is thrown at her, and she is free to go. As the credits roll, GLaDOS sings the song "Want You Gone".

</doc>
<doc id="292679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292679" title="Wikipedia:Requests for bureaucratship/Kansan">
Wikipedia:Requests for bureaucratship/Kansan


</doc>
<doc id="292680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292680" title="Thriller (genre)">
Thriller (genre)

A thriller is a genre found in literature, movies and television. It uses suspense, where the audience is made to wonder what is going to happen next. Thrillers often have a horror or crime theme. Some examples of thriller movies are "Psycho", "Silence of the Lambs", "Argo" and "The Birds".

</doc>
<doc id="292684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292684" title="Over the Limit (2011)">
Over the Limit (2011)

Over the Limit (2011) is a future professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event to be made by WWE, which will happen on May 22, 2011 at the KeyArena in Seattle, Washington. It will be the second Over the Limit event.
The main event for the Raw side of the PPV was determined on the May 9 edition of Raw. The Miz, Alberto Del Rio and Rey Mysterio faced off in a triple threat match where the winner would face John Cena for the WWE Championship at Over the Limit. The Miz won the match by rolling up Mysterio. After the match was over, as had been announced, Cena come out to announce what type of match he had chosen. He tole the Miz, if he wants his title back, it's simple, you only "have to make me say two words", thus he announced the match would be an "I Quit" match.
Also on Raw, carrying over from their WrestleMania and Extreme Rules matches, Jerry Lawler challenged Michael Cole to one final match at Over the Limit, where if he lost he would personally induct Cole in to the WWE Hall of Fame and give him his Hall of Fame ring. Cole initially said no and started bragging about his Mothers Day with his mother the day before in front of Lawler, whose mother died in February. This prompted King to try and attack Cole who was in his "Cole Mine" (a Plexiglas box meant to protect Cole from Lawler). As King went to attack, he was attacked from behind by Cole's mentor Jack Swagger. A little later in the show, Lawler came back out and attacked Cole through the holes cut in the "Cole Mine" by yanking Cole's head repeatedly against the plexiglas by his tie. After he was saved, Swagger accepted the match against Lawler on behalf of Cole, much to Cole's displeasure.

</doc>
<doc id="292688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292688" title="Balkan Wars">
Balkan Wars

The Balkan Wars were a series of wars fought in the Balkan Peninsula in 1912 (First Balkan War) and 1913 (Second Balkan War). 
The First Balkan War was fought by Greece, Serbia, Montenegro and Bulgaria (the Balkan League) against the Ottoman Empire. The main objective of the Balkan League was to annex the European territories of the Ottoman Empire, because large numbers of the people of the Balkan League lived under Ottoman rule. The war was a success and the Ottoman Empire lost almost its entire European territories.
The Second Balkan War was fought by Greece, Serbia, the Ottoman Empire and Romania against Bulgaria. Because Bulgaria felt that Greece and Serbia got more lands than they deserved, Bulgaria declared war on Greece and Serbia, which repelled the attacks. The Ottoman Empire and Romania declared war on Bulgaria, because they wanted to gain Bulgarian territories, and by the end of the Second Balkan War Bulgaria had lost almost all its gains from the First Balkan War.

</doc>
<doc id="292689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292689" title="April 2011 derecho and tornado outbreak">
April 2011 derecho and tornado outbreak

The April 2011 derecho and tornado outbreak was a large scale event where tornadoes and derechoes, or widespread straight-line winds, damaged parts of 3 states resulting in 9 fatalities. The event happened from April 4 to April 5th.
On April 3, supercells formed in Illinois, and a squall line of severe thunderstorms formed in Iowa. The severe thunderstorms produced large hail, and strong wind, and potentially tornadoes. Then, heavy rain formed west of the severe thunderstorms but the line kept producing severe weather. On April 4, the supercells also turned into a squall line of severe thunderstorms. The storms produced tornadoes. Then, supercells formed in Tennessee and produced tornadoes. By the night of April 4, the 2 lines of storms collided and moved East. By April 5, the severe thunderstorms were in New Jersey, Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, and Florida and moved out to sea. The storm produced a lot of tornadoes. Plenty of severe thunderstorm and tornado watches and warningss were issued
Supercells impacted Illinois with large hail and strong winds, and possible tornadoes. Hail up to 4-5" in diameter fell and made damage as well as the winds. Tornadoes were als possible.
A squall line of severe thunderstorms impacted the area also with large hail and strong winds. Hail up to 3-4" in diameter fell there along with strong winds. Tornadoes were unlikely but possible.
supercells and squall lines impacted Indiana with numerous reports of large hail and strong winds. An EF0 tornado dropped down in Indiana along with hail up to 2-3" in diameter and damaging winds.
An EF1 tornado in a supercell dropped down in Ohio and did some damage. In that severe thunderstorm with the tornado, strong winds were a problem along with hail up to 1-2" in diameter.
An EF2 tornado in a supercell dropped down in south-central PA. The tornado did damage along with hail up to 1/2 to 1" in diameter.
An EF3 tornado destroyed much of the area where the tornado dropped down. Along with the tornado there were strong winds and 1/4 to 1/2" in diameter hail
Severe thunderstorms impacted the state. the severe thunderstorms produced 1/10 to 1/4 inch in diameter hail and strong winds. Tornadoes were unlikely but possible.
A possible tornado did some damage to an area where the tornado possibly dropped down. Otherwise hail and wind were a problem.
Snow fell acros much of New York State to even NYC and Northern New Jersey! New York City and Northern New Jersey just saw a few snowflakes and sleet flakes, while places north of NYC saw heavy sleet, and New York State saw a general 1-2" of snow. Some places saw as much as 4-5" of snow.

</doc>
<doc id="292691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292691" title="36 Crazyfists">
36 Crazyfists

36 Crazyfists is an American heavy metal band from Anchorage, Alaska. 36 Crazyfists has four members in the band; the current band members are Brock Lindow, Steve Holt, Mick Whitney, and Kyle Baltus. The name of the band comes from the Jackie Chan movie, "Jackie Chan And The 36 Crazy Fists". The band now originates in Portland, Oregon.

</doc>
<doc id="292692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292692" title="Sound effect">
Sound effect

A sound effect or audio effect is a sound used for movies, television, apps, music, or other types of media. There are lots of sound effects that we hear everyday. One of the techniques used to make a sound is banging or hitting a wall, a table, or desk.

</doc>
<doc id="292696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292696" title="WWE Over the Limit">
WWE Over the Limit

Over the Limit was a professional wrestling event that was held yearly by WWE, and aired live only on pay-per-view (PPV). The first one was held in 2010, taking the place of Judgment Day in the May slot of WWE's pay-per-view calendar. The last event took place on May 20, 2012 at the PNC Arena in Raleigh, North Carolina. It was replaced by WWE Battleground in 2013.
As is the case with most lower level PPV's made by WWE, the event was held only in arenas in the United States. Championship bouts were scheduled on every card, with the lower level title matches on the undercard and the top level featured on the main card. Under the Brand Extension, WWE assigns its performers to either Raw or SmackDown which cause matches to be set up between wrestlers on the same show.

</doc>
<doc id="292698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292698" title="Osamu Tezuka">
Osamu Tezuka

Osamu Tezuka (, Tezuka Osamu, November 3, 1928 – February 9, 1989) was a famous Japanese cartoonist, manga artist, animator, producer and Doctor of Medicine, although he never practiced medicine. He was born in Osaka Prefecture. He created "Astro Boy", "Kimba the White Lion" and "Black Jack". He is often credited as the "Godfather of Anime", and is often considered the Japanese equivalent to Walt Disney, who served as a major inspiration for Tezuka.

</doc>
<doc id="292718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292718" title="Shrek 2">
Shrek 2

Shrek 2 is a 2004 animated comedy movie and is the second movie in the "Shrek" movie series. 
It was directed by Andrew Adamson, Kelly Asbury and Conrad and stars Mike Myers as Shrek, Eddie Murphy as the donkey, Cameron Diaz as Fiona, Antonio Banderas as Puss in Boots, Julie Andrews as Fiona's mother, Rupert Everett as Prince Charming, John Cleese as Fiona's father and Jennifer Saunders as Fairy Godmother. Like the first movie, this one is a parody of fairy tales.
This movie has a sequel, "Shrek the Third".
Singer and songwriter Adam Duritz from Counting Crows said that his band's song, "Accidentally in Love", "fits into the movie because it's the story of people who fall in love who weren't supposed to fall in love." Composer James Horner operated the sound of the score on different levels which James said as "Fun". His score came out as an Eels song into a romantic scene with Shrek and Fiona, or a funny scene with Donkey. George Bruns did not compose the film score with Horner, due to a conflict.

</doc>
<doc id="292719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292719" title="Automobili Turismo e Sport">
Automobili Turismo e Sport

ATS (Automobili Turismo e Sport, which roughly translates in English to "Tourism and Sports Cars") was an Italian car maker and briefly, a constructor in Formula One. The team ran in F1 in 1963, and made cars from 1963 to 1965. The company was founded by Carlo Chiti and Giotto Bizzarrini, intended to compete directly with Ferrari. 
The two most well-known cars were the ATS 2500 GT, a sports car, and The Tipo 100, a Formula One car, which was a virtual copy of the Ferrari 156, which was a Formula One car in 1961. Unfortunately, with the cars being frequently withdrawn and technical problems through the season, the F1 team was shut down after 1963. In fact, out of the 10 entries ATS qualified for (Five races, two cars per race), only two cars were classified at the end of the race, albeit very slow, with Giancarlo Baghetti being classified at 23 laps down (23 laps behind the eventual race winner, Jim Clark). By contract, Phil Hill (with no relation to Graham Hill) finished seven laps down.

</doc>
<doc id="292729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292729" title="Alan Douglas Borges de Carvalho">
Alan Douglas Borges de Carvalho

Alan Douglas Borges de Carvalho (born 10 July 1989 in Barbosa, São Paulo, Brazil) is a Brazilian footballer who plays for the Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga. His name as a player is simply Alan. He plays as a striker.
He started his career for Guaraní FC in Campinas, his hometown. At the age of 16 he joined Londrina EC and in 2008 he went to Fluminense Rio de Janeiro. From Fluminese he went to Europe and signed with F.C. Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga.
Under coach Huub Stevens he played only a few matches. In the era of Ricardo Moniz he became a regular player of the starting team. During the match versus Rapid Vienna in September 2011 he suffered a severe injury. He healed in April 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="292732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292732" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/April 2011 derecho and tornado outbreak">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/April 2011 derecho and tornado outbreak


</doc>
<doc id="292735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292735" title="Framlingham">
Framlingham

Framlingham is a small town in the Suffolk Coastal local government district of Suffolk, England.
Framlingham Castle is a large hill-top castle found in the town. It has a population of 3,114 at the 2001 census. There used to be a railway station there but it is now closed.

</doc>
<doc id="292738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292738" title="Westerfield">
Westerfield

Westerfield is a small village near Ipswich in Suffolk. It is about two miles north of the centre of Iswich. The village is served by Westerfield railway station on the Ipswich-Lowestoft East Suffolk Line. The village is home to two pubs, as well as the church, shown adjacent. 
The area of the Village south of the railway is inside the borough of Ipswich, although the area North of the railway is inside Suffolk coastal. The railway is around 500 metres from the centre of the village The railway service provides Ipswich, Felixstowe and Woodbridge, and further afield.
The village holds a Scout fete, and a church fete, each year. These fetes include traditional games, incorporating many locals from in and around the local area.
The Village used to be home to a local primary school, as well as a small post office. Despite this the village is still home to a nice village hall, that is home to the 1st Westerfield scout group, as well as a Beaver and Cub group. 
Despite this there are speeding issues along Westerfield road, driving through the centre of the village. 

</doc>
<doc id="292749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292749" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Computer microphone">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Computer microphone


</doc>
<doc id="292750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292750" title="Cocculus carolinus">
Cocculus carolinus

Cocculus carolinus otherwise known as "Carolina Coralbead", "Redberry Moonseed" or the "Carolina snailseed". It is indigenous to several states along the South to Midwest. It gets its name from the bright red color of the marble like berry that protrudes from the leaves of the plant.
The Carolina Coralbead is a deciduous, woody vine that can twines along the trunks of several trees or along the ground. It occurs in timberline areas, rocky woods, glades, fence rows and ponds. Carolina Coralbead can grow 10–12 ft (3–3.6 m) and usually spaced within 3–4 ft (90–120 cm) of one another. If ingested in large amounts, the berry on Cocculus carolinus can be poisonous, but the overall toxicity of its berries do not prove to be fatal. In areas in Little Rock, Arkansas, the Carolina Coralbead is referred to as an invasive weed system which seedlings have been spread by birds. Once a root system has been established, it is hard to remove the plant, so planting in new areas has been a point of concern for this plant. The best ornamental features of the plant are its foliage and its attractive red berries in fall. "Cocculus carolinus" can grow in temperatures between from -3.8 °C (25 °F) to -28.8 °C (-20 °F). Its leaves are covered in short hairs and should not be confused with the species "Smilax bona-nox",which has tendrils and prickles.
The Carolina Coralbead has been reported in the following states of Alabama, Arkansas, Kansas, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Tennessee and Texas. Locations of the plant range from opening of forests, to the beginning of streams.
The flowers are small and plentiful. At a young age, Carolina Coralbead appear greenish. Bloom time for the plant is in late spring and mature by late summer. They grow in tight abundant amounts of bright red berries. By using its scarlet fruits for aesthetic effects, landscapers allow it to be grown on trellises, fences or let naturally flourish through other weeds and shrubs. The berries should not be eaten by people but are eaten by a large number of birds. Each fruit has a single seed that resembles a small snail shell which is protected by the hard endocarp, also known as the inner section of the ovary wall.

</doc>
<doc id="292757" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292757" title="Solar time">
Solar time

A solar day is a unit of time. It is a cycle of day and night.

</doc>
<doc id="292766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292766" title="Mark St. John">
Mark St. John

Mark Leslie Norton (February 7, 1956 – April 5, 2007), better known as Mark St. John, was a guitarist known for his brief work with the rock band Kiss. He was only with Kiss a short time, but he was featured on the album "Animalize", the second album of the "unmasked" period. St. John's only video appearance with Kiss is in the video for the hit single "Heaven's on Fire". After leaving Kiss, he formed a band called White Tiger. Mark St. John died on the morning of April 5, 2007, of a cerebral hemorrhage.

</doc>
<doc id="292767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292767" title="Bruce Kulick">
Bruce Kulick

Bruce Howard Kulick (born December 12, 1953 in New York) is an American musician. He is best known as lead guitarist for the rock band Kiss from September 1984 to August 1996. 

</doc>
<doc id="292771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292771" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Epic lulz">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Epic lulz


</doc>
<doc id="292773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292773" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Arusha, Tanzania bus disaster">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Arusha, Tanzania bus disaster


</doc>
<doc id="292774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292774" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Wilhelm scream">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Wilhelm scream


</doc>
<doc id="292780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292780" title="Ragdoll">
Ragdoll

The ragdoll is a cat breed that is large, with blue eyes, and a semi-longhair soft and silky coat of fur. It is usually mostly white, with light to dark marks. 
The ragdoll was first bred by an American breeder named Ann Baker from a Persian-like cat (without a pedigree) and a Birman cat with the Siamese colorpoint gene. It is similar in appearance to the Himalayan, which was bred directly from the Persian and Siamese. 
The Ragdoll is gentle, easy going, and affectionate. The breed was named "Ragdoll" because they often go limp and relax like a rag or cloth doll when it is picked up. The original mother cat that the breed was created from was involved in a car accident, but contrary to popular belief, this is not why the breed goes limp when picked up (injuries from an accident are not passed on to offspring genetically).
Ragdoll is a breed that enjoys being around humans and it may follow its owner around the house. Due to its soft nature, it is strictly recommended to be an indoor only cat. 

</doc>
<doc id="292784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292784" title="Srinivasa Ramanujan">
Srinivasa Ramanujan

Srinivasa Ramanujan Iyengar (December 22, 1887 – April 26, 1920) was an Indian mathematician. He is considered to be one of the most talented mathematicians in recent history. He had no formal training in mathematics. However, he has made a large contribution to number theory, infinite series and continued fractions. 
He was mentored by G. H. Hardy in the early 1910s. After getting his degree at Cambridge, Ramanujan did his own work. He compiled over 3500 identities and equations in his life. Some of the identities were found in his "lost notebook". When the notebook was discovered, mathematicians proved almost all of Ramanujan's work. His discoveries have led to many advancements in mathematics. His formulas are now being used in crystallography and string theory.
In 2011, Ramanujan's birthday was made an annual "National Mathematics Day" by Prime Minister Manmohan singh.

</doc>
<doc id="292795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292795" title="North South MRT Line">
North South MRT Line

The North South MRT Line was the first Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) line in Singapore. It is 44 km long and has 25 stations and it is being operated by SMRT Trains. It would usually take one hour to travel from one end of the MRT line to the other. This line is coloured red on the MRT Rail map.
This line joins the Central area of Singapore to the Northern and Southern areas of Singapore. To transfer to the East West MRT Line, a commuter can transfer at Jurong East, Raffles Place or City Hall. Transferring to the North East MRT Line is done at Dhoby Ghaut with a linkway. The Bishan MRT Station and Dhoby Ghaut MRT Station can transfer a commuter to the Circle MRT Line.

</doc>
<doc id="292796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292796" title="Shrek the Third">
Shrek the Third

Shrek the Third is a 2007 animated movie and is the third movie in the "Shrek" movie series.
It was directed by Chris Miller and Raman Hui and stars Mike Myers as Shrek, Cameron Ziaz as Fiona, Eddie Murphy as the donkey, Antonio Banderas as Puss in Boots, Julie Andrews as Fiona's mother, John Cleese as Fiona's father, Rupert Evertt as Prince Charming, Eric Idle as Merlin and Justin Timberlake as Arthur. It is about Shrek trying to get a new king for far far away because the other King died. Like the first two movies, this movie is parody of fairy tales.

</doc>
<doc id="292798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292798" title="SMRT Trains">
SMRT Trains

SMRT Trains Limited () is a rail operator in Singapore and a wholly owned subsidiary of SMRT Corporation. It was first known as Mass Rapid Transit Corporation (MRTC) when the company was founded in 6 August 1987. It was renamed Singapore MRT Limited before becoming its current name, SMRT Trains in 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="292807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292807" title="Symphony X">
Symphony X

Symphony X are an American progressive metal band from Middletown, New Jersey.
Founded in 1994 by guitarist Michael Romeo, their albums "The Divine Wings of Tragedy" and "V: The New Mythology Suite" have given the band considerable attention within the progressive metal community.

</doc>
<doc id="292810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292810" title="Major League Baseball Rookie of the Year Award">
Major League Baseball Rookie of the Year Award

In Major League Baseball, the Rookie of the Year Award is given each year to one player from each league as voted on by the Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA). The award was start in 1940 by the Chicago chapter of the BBWAA. They selected a winner every year from 1940 through 1946. The award became national in 1947; Jackie Robinson, the Brooklyn Dodgers' first baseman, won the first award. One award was presented for both leagues in 1947 and 1948; since 1949, the honor has been given to one player each in the National and American League. At first, the award was known as the J. Louis Comiskey Memorial Award, named after the Chicago White Sox owner of the 1930s. The award was renamed the Jackie Robinson Award in July 1987, 40 years after Jackie Robinson broke the baseball color line.
Of the 128 players named Rookie of the Year, 14 have been selected for the National Baseball Hall of Fame—Jackie Robinson, five American League players, and eight others from the National League. The award has been shared twice: once by Butch Metzger and Pat Zachry of the National League in 1976; and once by John Castino and Alfredo Griffin of the American League in 1979. Members of the Brooklyn and Los Angeles Dodgers have won the most awards of any team (with 16). This is twice the total of the New York Yankees (eight), who have won the most in the American League. Fred Lynn and Ichiro Suzuki are the only two players who have been named Rookie of the Year and Most Valuable Player in the same year. Fernando Valenzuela is the only player to have won Rookie of the Year and the Cy Young Award in the same year. Sam Jethroe is the oldest player to have won the award, at age 32, 33 days older than 2000 winner Kazuhiro Sasaki (also 32). Buster Posey of the San Francisco Giants and Neftali Feliz of the Texas Rangers are the 2010 winners.
From 1947 through 1956, each BBWAA voter had their own rules for decide who was a rookie. In 1957, the BBWAA first defined the term as someone with fewer than 75 at bats or 45 innings pitched in any Major League season before the current season. This guideline was later changed to 90 at bats, 45 innings pitched, or 45 days on a Major League roster before September 1 of the last year. The current rule is 130 at bats, 50 innings pitched or 45 days on the active roster of a Major League club (except for time in military service or on the disabled list) before September 1 was first used in 1971. Since 1980, each voter names three rookies: a first-place choice is given five points, a second-place choice three points, and a third-place choice one point. The award goes to the player who receives the most total points. Edinson Volquez received three second-place votes in 2008 even though he was not a rookie under the award's definition.
Some baseball writers have criticized the voting in recent years because several players who played in Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB) have won the award. These winners include Hideo Nomo in 1995, Kazuhiro Sasaki in 2000, and Ichiro Suzuki in 2001. The current definition of rookie for the award is based only on Major League playing. Some writers feel that past NPB players are not true rookies because of their past professional playing. This issue came up in 2003 when Hideki Matsui lost the AL award to Ángel Berroa in a close vote. Jim Souhan of the "Minneapolis Star Tribune" said he did not think Matsui was a rookie in 2003 because "it would be an insult to the Japanese league to pretend that experience didn't count." "The Japan Times" had a story in 2007 on calling Daisuke Matsuzaka, Kei Igawa, and Hideki Okajima as rookies, saying "[t]hese guys aren't rookies." Past winners such as Jackie Robinson, Don Newcombe, and Sam Jethroe had professional experience in the Negro Leagues.
 

</doc>
<doc id="292811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292811" title="Testament (band)">
Testament (band)

Testament is an American thrash metal band from Berkeley, California, formed in 1983. They are often credited as one of the most popular bands of the 1980s thrash metal scene. In the years since its inception, Testament has had numerous lineup changes, and guitarist Eric Peterson has been the only constant member, although the band currently features three original members.

</doc>
<doc id="292814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292814" title="Demonic (album)">
Demonic (album)

Demonic is the seventh studio album by American heavy metal band Testament. It was released in 1997. The lyrics deal with occult themes more like their 1980s efforts instead of the political topics covered on more recent releases.
Musically, Testament takes a slower, almost death metal oriented approach with grinding guitar riffs and Chuck Billy's vocal work consisting primarily of death growls.
This album also marked the first time, as Testament, that the band used the old Legacy pentagram graphic.
Bonus Track: Rapid Fire

</doc>
<doc id="292823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292823" title="Category:Holders of revoked orders, decorations, and medals of the United Kingdom">
Category:Holders of revoked orders, decorations, and medals of the United Kingdom

The main article for this category is List of revocations of appointments to orders and awarded decorations and medals of the United Kingdom

</doc>
<doc id="292825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292825" title="Rainbow (band)">
Rainbow (band)

Rainbow (also known as Ritchie Blackmore's Rainbow or Blackmore's Rainbow) were an English hard rock band, controlled by guitarist Ritchie Blackmore from 1975 to 1984 and 1994 to 1997. It was originally established with former Elf members, though over the years Rainbow went through many line-up changes with no two studio albums featuring the same line-up. In addition to lead singers Ronnie James Dio, Graham Bonnet, Joe Lynn Turner and Doogie White, the project consisted of numerous backing musicians. The band started out combining mystical lyric themes with neo-classical metal, but went in a more streamlined commercial style following Dio's departure from the group.
Rainbow was ranked #90 on VH1's "100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock".

</doc>
<doc id="292828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292828" title="New Taiwan dollar">
New Taiwan dollar

The New Taiwan dollar () (currency code TWD and common abbreviation NT$), or simply Taiwan dollar, is the official currency of Taiwan. It was used since 1949, when it replaced the Old Taiwan dollar. It was first printed by the Bank of Taiwan, it has been printed by the Central Bank of the Republic of China since 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="292846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292846" title="Euphorbia milii">
Euphorbia milii

Euphorbia milii (also called Crown-of-thorns or Christ Plant) is a woody, succulent species of "Euphorbia" native to Madagascar. The species name commemorates Baron Milius, once governor of Réunion, who introduced the species to France in 1821. It is suspected that the species was introduced to the Middle East in ancient times, and legend associates it with the crown of thorns worn by Jesus.

</doc>
<doc id="292847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292847" title="Joseph Romm">
Joseph Romm

Joseph J. Romm (born June 27, 1960) is an American physicist, writer and environmentalist. He has an interest in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and global warming. He is also interested in energy security through energy efficiency and green energy technologies. 
Romm's 2006 book was "Hell and High Water: Global Warming — the Solution and the Politics — and What We Should Do".
In December 2008, Romm was elected a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. In March 2009, "Rolling Stone" magazine named Romm as one of "100 People Who Are Changing America". In September 2009, "Time" magazine named him one of its "Heroes of the Environment". 

</doc>
<doc id="292856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292856" title="A Child of Our Time">
A Child of Our Time

A Child of Our Time is an oratorio by Michael Tippett. It was composed between 1939 and 1941.
Tippett composed this oratorio at the beginning of World War II. He had already lived through World War I and he was very upset about all the evil in this world. He wanted to write a musical work about it. He did it by taking the story of the beginning of World War II as a basis of the oratorio, but he also made the work speak in general about the evil of this world.
In 1938 a 17 year old Jewish boy Hershel Grynspan, who lived in Paris, desperately wanted to attack the Nazis because of the cruel way his parents in Germany had been treated. He therefore murdered a Nazi diplomat in France. The Nazi’s in Germany were so furious that they attacked and murdered lots of Jews in Germany. This terrible attack became known as the "Kristallnacht". This series of events can be found in the words of Tippett’s oratorio. Tippett wrote the words himself.
The title comes from Ödön von Horváth’s novel, "Ein Kind unserer Zeit" (A Child of Our Time), written in 1938 and published in English in 1939. Tippett began composing it on 5 September 1939, two days after Britain declared war against Germany.
In 1958 Tippett arranged the five negro spirituals so that they could be sung by unaccompanied chorus. They are often performed like that, separately from the oratorio.
Tippett uses a similar structure to the Passions of Bach. This meant that he used a narrator (like the evangelist in Bach’s Passions) who tells the story. Instead of Bach’s Lutheran chorales he adds five negro spirituals which add an emotional comment to the events. The music of these spirituals blend very cleverly into the style of Tippett’s music. The whole oratorio, which lasts a little over one hour, has three parts. This idea is based on the three parts of Handel's "Messiah". Tippett calls the three parts: 1) Prophecy; 2) Narrative; 3) Meditation.
Part one opens with a picture of the world in darkness. The alto solo shows what the person’s soul is feeling. The bass (narrator) tells of the purges in Russia, the lynching in the USA, the terrible poverty in Britain. The chorus tell of their despair.
The chorus describes an atmosphere of icy stillness. They talk of “The Scape-Goat, The Child of Our Time” (a “scape-goat” is someone who gets the blame for something they have not done). There is a chorus of the Persecutors and the Persecuted. The choir are split into two like the crowd scenes in Bach’s Passions. In the “Chorus of the Self-Righteous” we hear about the attitude of countries who refuse to accept more than just a few of the persecuted Jews (this includes Britain). The boy tries to save his mother. We are told of the murder of the Nazi diplomat. There is a chorus of terror. We see the boy in prison and the grieving of the mother.
This is about the descent through evil and the discovery of rebirth and liberation. The bass suggests that, if we have patience, we shall be healed. The chorus finish by singing of the universal nature of the problem.
“Tippett, the composer and his music”; Ian Kemp; ISBN 0-19-282017-6

</doc>
<doc id="292858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292858" title="Negro spiritual">
Negro spiritual

Spirituals (or Negro spirituals) are the songs which were sung by the black slaves in the United States in the 18th and 19th centuries. The words to many Negro spirituals have Christian themes. This is because Black slaves in the United States turned to religion, as a way to cope with the pain of slavery. Negro spirituals combine traditional West African musical style with the style of Christian hymns from Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="292859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292859" title="Stamford, Lincolnshire">
Stamford, Lincolnshire

Stamford is a town in the county of Lincolnshire, England. It is about to the north of London. It has a long history, and has many interesting old buildings. The old town has been classed as an outstanding area of architectural or historic interest of national importance. There are two private boarding schools, Stamford School and Stamford High School. In 2013 a group of parents worried about education in Stamford started a campaign to make a free school there. 

</doc>
<doc id="292860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292860" title="University of Concepción">
University of Concepción

The University of Concepción is a university in Concepción, Chile. It is the most oldest university in the south of Chile.
This university was founded by Enrique Molina Garmendia in 1919.

</doc>
<doc id="292862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292862" title="Jotunheimen">
Jotunheimen

Jotunheimen is a large mountain range in Norway. It is named after Jötunheimr. Its highest peak, Galdhøpiggen (2469 metres) is the highest mountain in Scandinavia.

</doc>
<doc id="292863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292863" title="Catholic University of the Most Holy Conception">
Catholic University of the Most Holy Conception

The Catholic University of the Most Holy Conception is a university located in Concepción, Chile. It is one of the universities in the south of Chile.
This university was created and founded on 1991 by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Concepción.

</doc>
<doc id="292874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292874" title="R2-D2">
R2-D2

R2-D2 (phonetically spelled Artoo-Detoo, and called "R2" for short), is a fictional character in the Star Wars universe. An astromech droid, R2-D2 is a major character throughout all seven Star Wars films. Along with his droid companion C-3PO, he joins or supports Anakin Skywalker, Luke Skywalker, and Obi-Wan Kenobi in various points in the saga. R2-D2 was played by Kenny Baker.

</doc>
<doc id="292876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292876" title="Illinois Senate">
Illinois Senate

The Illinois Senate is the upper chamber in the Illinois General Assembly, the legislative branch of the government of the state of Illinois. Created in 1818 by the constitution of the first state, the Illinois senate is comprised 59 senators elected from individual legislative districts determined by population. According to Illinois' 1970 constitution, senators are divided into three groups, each group having a two-year term at a different part of the decade between censuses, with the rest of the decade being taken up by two four-year terms. Depending on the election year, roughly one-third, two-thirds, or all Senate seats may be contested. In contrast, the Illinois House of Representatives is made up of 118 members with its entire membership elected to two-year terms. House districts are formed by dividing each Senate district in half.

</doc>
<doc id="292883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292883" title="Star anise">
Star anise

Illicium verum, or Star anise is a spice that tastes like anise. The star shaped fruits are harvested before they start getting ripe.
Star anise has been used in a tea, and the seeds are sometimes chewed after meals for digestion.
Star anise is grown in four places in China and harvested between March and May. It is also found in the south of New South Wales.
Japanese star anise ("Illicium anisatum"), a similar tree, is not edible because it is "highly toxic"; instead, it has been burned as incense in Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="292887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292887" title="Thubten Zopa Rinpoche">
Thubten Zopa Rinpoche

Thubten Zopa Rinpoche (born 1946) is a lama from Nepal. He took his monks vows at Dungkar Monastery in Tibet and has received teachings from many high lamas. Lama Zopa is the co-founder, with Lama Yeshe, of Kopan Monastery and the FPMT. Since the 1984 death of Lama Yeshe, Lama Zopa has served as the FPMT's spiritual director. Zopa's books are published by Wisdom Publications. Free books and a vast online collection of his teachings are available from the Lama Yeshe Wisdom Archive. There is an extensive biography of him in the book 'The Lawudo Lama', by Jamyang Wangmo.

</doc>
<doc id="292889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292889" title="Simon Cziommer">
Simon Cziommer

Simon Cziommer ((born 6 November 1980 in Nordhorn) is a German footballer. He plays for the Dutch club Vitesse.
He started his career in his local football club FC Schüttdorf 09. Soon he went to the Netherlands where he played for Twente Enschede, AZ Alkmaar, and FC Utrecht. 2003- 2006 he played for Schalke 04 in the German Bundesliga. Since 2009 he plays for F. C. Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga. He also played for the German U20-team.

</doc>
<doc id="292890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292890" title="Kopan Monastery">
Kopan Monastery

Kopan Monastery is a Tibetan Buddhist monastery near Boudhanath, on the outskirts of Kathmandu, Nepal. It belongs to the FPMT, an international network of Gelugpa dharma centers, and once served as its headquarters.
The monastery was established by the FPMT founders, Lamas Thubten Yeshe and Thubten Zopa Rinpoche, who bought the property from Nepal's royal astrologer in 1969. Its name comes from the name of the hill on which it was built. 
Kopan has become famous for teaching Buddhism to visiting Western foreigners. The first of what would become annual month-long (November-December) meditation courses was held in 1971. These courses generally combine traditional Lam Rim teachings with informal discussion, several periods of guided meditation, and a vegetarian diet.

</doc>
<doc id="292893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292893" title="Las Condes">
Las Condes

Las Condes is a commune and city in Santiago Metropolitan Region, Chile. At the 2002 census, 249,893 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="292898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292898" title="Volkswagen Crafter">
Volkswagen Crafter

The Volkswagen Crafter is a series of vans and buses which is a rebadged Mercedes Sprinter. It replaced the Volkswagen LT in 2006. In 2016, a new Crafter was unveiled but now it's Volkswagen's own van and no longer a rebadged Sprinter. 

</doc>
<doc id="292899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292899" title="Red Bull Brasil">
Red Bull Brasil

Red Bull Brasil is a Brazilian football club from Campinas, São Paulo. It was founded in 2007 and plays in the Campeonato Paulista Série A2. It is owned by the Red Bull Company.

</doc>
<doc id="292900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292900" title="Great American Interchange">
Great American Interchange

The Great American Interchange was an important zoogeographic event about three million years ago. Land and freshwater fauna migrated between North America and South America.
The migration happened during the Pliocene, 3.6–2.6 million years ago (mya). The volcanic Isthmus of Panama rose up from the sea floor and bridged the two continents. 
The land bridge in what is now Panama joined the Neotropic (roughly South America) and Nearctic (roughly North America) ecozones to form the Americas. 
The interchange is visible from both stratigraphy and nature. Its most dramatic effect is on the distribution of mammals, but weak-flying or flightless birds, reptiles, amphibians, arthropods and even freshwater fish also migrated.
The differences in the fauna of North and South America had been known for some time. Both Humboldt and Darwin discussed it. The interchange as a concept was first fully laid out in 1876 by the "father of biogeography", Alfred Russel Wallace. Wallace had spent 1848–1852 exploring and collecting specimens in the Amazon Basin. Others who made significant contributions to understanding the event in the century that followed include Florentino Ameghino and George Gaylord Simpson.
Similar interchanges occurred earlier in the Cainozoic, when the former Gondwana continents of India and Africa made contact with Eurasia, about 50 and 30 mya respectively.
When the global continent Pangaea broke up early in the Jurassic period, the great southern supercontinent Gondwana was formed. It separated from Laurasia 200–180 mya. 
In stages, Gondwana also broke up, eventually into half-a-dozen continents we recognise today. They were Australasia, Indian subcontinent, Africa, Madagascar, Antarctica and South America.
South America drifted west from Africa, starting about 130 mya in the Lower Cretaceous. There was open sea between them by 110 mya. The last connection of South America with any part of Gondwana was a link with West Antarctica, which broke in the Oligocene, only 30 mya.
When Gondwana was separated from Laurasia, evolution of most animals and plants went on separately in the two great supercontinents. Later, as Gondwana broke up, most of its fauna and flora also evolved separately. 
This is not obvious in Africa and India, since they moved north and joined the Eurasian continent long ago. Animals moved north and south there also, but the original pattern is now hard to see. But in Australasia and South America the pattern is clear.
The mammals are a good example. Eutherian mammals evolved in Laurasia but few got to Gondwana before it was separated. Earlier groups of mammals did get to Gondwana. They were the marsupials, the monotremes and other (now extinct) therian mammals. 
Thus, when South America was completely separated, it had only the earlier types of mammals, including some early eutherians such as the Xenarthra. The groups which evolved later, and which dominate the northern continents, only got to South America by the Great American Interchange.
After the late Mesozoic breakup of Gondwana, South America spent most of the Cainozoic era as an island continent. 
Its "splendid isolation" allowed the fauna to evolve into many forms found nowhere else on earth, most of which are now extinct. 
The endemic mammals initially consisted of metatherians (including marsupials, xenarthrans, and a diverse group of South American ungulates.
Marsupials appear to have travelled from South America through Antarctica to Australasia in the late Cretaceous or early Tertiary. 
Ratites (relatives of South American tinamous) probably migrated by this route about the same time, in the direction from South America towards Australia/New Zealand. 
Other taxa that may have dispersed by the same route (if not by flying or rafting) are parrots, chelid turtles and (extinct) meiolaniid turtles. 
One living South American marsupial, the tiny Monito del Monte, is more closely related to Australian marsupials than to other South American marsupials. Since it is the most 'basal' (= primitive) australidelphian we know, its group probably evolved in South America and then colonized Australia. 
A 61 mya old platypus-like monotreme fossil from Patagonia may be an Australian immigrant. 
Marsupials in South America included didelphimorphs (opossums), shrew opossums and several other small groups.
The borhyaenids and the sabertooth "Thylacosmilus" are no longer considered to be marsupials. They are sparassodont metatherians, the sister group of the marsupials. 
Sparassodonts were the only South American mammals to specialize as carnivores. Their relative inefficiency created openings for nonmammalian predators to play more prominent roles than usual (similar to the ). Sparassodonts shared the ecological niches for large predators with fearsome flightless "terror birds" (phorusrhacids), whose closest extant (living) relatives are the seriemas. Terrestrial ziphodont crocodilians were also present at least through the middle Miocene. 
Some of South America's aquatic crocodilians reached monstrous sizes, with lengths up to 12 m. 
Through the skies over late Miocene South America (6 Ma ago) soared the largest flying bird known, the teratorn "Argentavis", with a wing span of 6 m or more, which may have lived in part on the leftovers of "Thylacosmilus" kills.
Xenarthrans are a curious group of mammals that developed morphological adaptations for specialized diets very early in their history. 
In addition to those extant today (armadillos, anteaters and tree sloths), a great diversity of larger types were present, including pampatheres, the ankylosaur-like glyptodonts, various ground sloths, some of which reached the size of elephants (e.g. "Megatherium"), and even semiaquatic sloths.
The notoungulates and litopterns had many strange forms, some examples of convergent evolution. 
Both groups started evolving in the Lower Paleocene, possibly from condylarth stock, diversified, dwindled before the great interchange, and went extinct at the end of the Pleistocene. The pyrotheres and astrapotheres were also strange but were less diverse and disappeared earlier, well before the interchange. 
The North American fauna was typical northern eutheria (supplemented with Afrotherian proboscids).
Once the continents were joined, invasions from the north to the south were numerous and significant in their effect. Invasions from south to north were much less significant. This is most clearly seen in the mammals.
Reasons for this have been suggested. Wetland tropical species going north encountered desert or, at any rate, dry conditions in Mexico, where the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt, also known as the Sierra Nevada (Mexico) or Snowy Mountain Range, extends 900 km from west to east across central-southern Mexico.
However, by far the most common theory is that North American fauna were 'topped up' from time to time whenever Eurasian species could get over the Bering Strait. 
This applies with force to mammals, because the eutherian mammals originated in Asia, and had undergone a great deal of evolution before they got to South America. Marsupials originally in Eurasia had long before been out-competed and gone extinct. It is not surprising the eutherians did well in South America.
Marsupials in both South America and Australasia were weak in predators. The borhyaenids and "Thylacosmilus" (the 'marsupial' sabretooth) were not marsupials; they were the related group, the sparassodonts. Instead, in South America, the terror birds ("Phorusrhacos" were for a long time the top predators. 
All these native forms were wiped out as short-faced bears, wolves, nine species of small cats, cougars, jaguars, lions, sabretooths ("Smilodon" and "Homotherium") established themselves. 
The successes in the opposite direction are interesting. Opossums, as the Virginia Opossum, are well established over a wide range. They are the only surviving marsupial in North America, though there were others before mankind arrived in the Americas.
The top native South American mammal success for a long time was the superorder Xenarthra, which had two different groups with large representatives in North America. One group was the giant ground sloths, such as the megalonychid "Megalonyx". This group lived in North America for over 10 million years, well before the Great Interchange. How they got there is not known. They got as far north as Alaska and the Yukon.
The other group was the glyptodonts, such such as "Glyptotherium texanum". They were large, heavily armoured relatives of the armadillo.
The ability of South America's xenarthrans to compete effectively against the northerners represents a special case. The explanation for their success lies in part in their defence against predation. This was based on body armor and/or formidable claws. The xenarthrans did not need to be fleet-footed or quick-witted to survive. Such a strategy may have been forced on them by their low metabolic rate (the lowest among the therians). Their low metabolic rate in turn allowed them to subsist on less abundant and/or less nutritious food sources. Unfortunately, the defensive adaptations of the large xenarthrans would have been useless against humans armed with spears and other projectiles.

</doc>
<doc id="292901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292901" title="Category:Football clubs owned by Red Bull">
Category:Football clubs owned by Red Bull

Red Bull Villa
Red bull Glasgow Rangers

</doc>
<doc id="292904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292904" title="Eomaia">
Eomaia

Eomaia ('dawn mother') is an early fossil eutherian mammal. It is exceptionally well-preserved for a 125 million-year-old specimen. 
It was discovered in rocks of the Yixian Formation, Liaoning Province, China. These strata date to the Lower Cretaceous about 125 million years ago (mya). 
The fossil is in length and virtually complete. It weighed between . Although the fossil's skull is squashed flat, its teeth, tiny foot bones, cartilages and even its fur are visible.
"Eomaia" is a eutherian. The eutherians are the placental mammals plus some extinct mammals which had not developed a placenta. 
What distinguishes the Eutheria from metatherians, a group that includes modern marsupials, are various features of the feet, jaws and teeth.
However "Eomaia" is not a true placental mammal as it lacks some features that are specific to placentals.
"Eomaia" has:
Its discoverers sampled 268 characters from all major Mesozoic mammal clades and principal eutherian families of the Cretaceous period. As a result, they claimed "Eomaia" is at the root of the eutherian "family tree" with a few other fossils.
The "Eomaia" fossil shows clear traces of hair. However this is not the earliest clear evidence of hair in the mammalian lineage, as fossils of the docodont "Castorocauda", discovered in rocks dated to about 164 mya, also have traces of fur.

</doc>
<doc id="292909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292909" title="East West MRT Line">
East West MRT Line

The East West MRT Line was the 2nd Mass Rapid Transit line in Singapore. The line is currently 49.2 km long with 35 stations (4 to be built by 2016). It is the longest MRT line in Singapore and it is operated by SMRT Corporation. It takes about 1 hour to travel from end to end and this line is coloured green on MRT system maps.
The MRT line joins central Singapore to the western and eastern parts of the island, with another branch to Changi Airport from Tanah Merah. Transferring to the North South Line is done at Jurong East, City Hall and Raffles Place stations while transfer to the North East Line at Outram Park station is possible using a linkway. For Circle Line at Paya Lebar stations using an underpass and linkway. The future Downtown Line will interchange with the East West Line at the Bugis, Tampines and Expo MRT stations.

</doc>
<doc id="292915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292915" title="Red Bull Arena (Leipzig)">
Red Bull Arena (Leipzig)

The Red Bull Arena is a footballstadium in Leipzig, Germany. It is the homeground of RB Leipzig. Before the renovation it was the biggest stadium in Europe.
The Zentralstadion was built between 1954 and 1956. Till it´s renovation it was the largest stadium in Europe (100 000 visitors). It was used for the sportfestivals of the GDR, matches of the GDR- soccer team and for athletic sports. The records of visitors were during a footballmatch between SC Wismut Karl-Marx-Stadt and 1. FC Kaiserslautern (3:5) with 110 000. The matches between the GDR and CSR was also visited by this number. 
From 2000 till 2004 it was renovated. The first match in the new stadium was FC Sachsen Leipzig – Borussia Dortmund (Amateure) (0:1) in front of 28.000 visitors. Now it is only used for football matches and concerts ( f.e. Paul McCartney, Genesis, AC/DC). 
2010 Red Bull bought the right to name the stadion for 30 years. It is now called "Red Bull Arena" and became the homeground of RB Leipzig, which is owned by Red Bull.
The stadium was venue of the FIFA 2006 World Cup and the 2005 FIFA Confederations Cup.

</doc>
<doc id="292916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292916" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Floppy drive versus Zip drive">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Floppy drive versus Zip drive


</doc>
<doc id="292917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292917" title="Stolen base">
Stolen base

In baseball, a stolen base is when a baserunner advances to the next base while the pitcher is throwing the ball to home plate. In baseball statistics, stolen bases are displayed as SB. It is possible to steal second base, third base, or home plate, but not to steal first base.
If the defense does not try to put the baserunner out (for example, if the catcher does not even look his way), the play is called defensive indifference (also called fielder's indifference). No stolen base is credited to the runner in this case. Defensive indifference is usually only scored instead of a stolen base when the game is in a late inning and the team with the stealing baserunner is down by more than one run. MLB Rule 10.07(g) defines defensive indifference.
A player who is good at stealing bases needs not just running speed, but also good base-running instincts, quickness, and split-second timing. The scoring and guidelines for awarding a stolen base to a runner are covered by rule 10.07 of the Major League Baseball rule book.
If a player is good at stealing bases, his manager may let him try to steal a base whenever he thinks he can. A player who is allowed to try to steal whenever he wants is said to have the "green light". Players who do not have the green light may only be allowed to steal when a coach or manager tells him to.

</doc>
<doc id="292919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292919" title="Pasadena Star-News">
Pasadena Star-News

The Pasadena Star-News is the local daily newspaper for Pasadena, California. The "Star-News" is a member of the Los Angeles Newspaper Group, since 1996. It is also part of the San Gabriel Valley Newspaper Group, along with the "San Gabriel Valley Tribune" and the "Whittier Daily News". 
Ridder Newspapers bought the "Star-News" in 1956; Bernard J. Ridder took over as Publisher. Ridder merged with Knight to form Knight Ridder in 1974. The paper was sold in 1989 to a company owned by William Dean Singleton; the Thomson Corporation bought majority control of the paper a year later. Thomson sold the "Star-News" to Singleton's MediaNews Group in 1996.
The Pasadena Star-News was first published in 1884. The paper was in a building at the corner of Colorado Blvd. and Oakland Avenue for years. This building is now being used by Technique at Le Cordon Bleu College of Culinary Arts and 24 Hour Fitness.
The newspaper also published the "Rose Magazine".

</doc>
<doc id="292921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292921" title="4319 Jackierobinson">
4319 Jackierobinson

4319 Jackierobinson (1981 ER14) is a main-belt asteroid discovered on March 1, 1981 by Schelte J. Bus at Siding Spring Observatory. It was found during the U.K. Schmidt-Caltech Asteroid Survey. It was named after Jackie Robinson, the first African-American major league baseball player of the modern era.

</doc>
<doc id="292923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292923" title="Baseball-Reference.com">
Baseball-Reference.com

Baseball-Reference.com is a website that lists statistics for every player in Major League Baseball history. The site is often used by large media companies and baseball broadcasters as a source of information.
The website came online in April 2000. It had originally been published in February 2000 as part of the website for the "Big Bad Baseball Annual". It was first built as a web version of the Lahman Baseball Database. Now it uses variety of data sources. It has year-by-year team pages, a baseball encyclopedia (the Bullpen, powered by MediaWiki software, using the GFDL), box scores and game logs from every MLB game back to 1954 and minor league player stats back to 1900. The Oracle of Baseball can link any two players by common teammates. The Oracle of Baseball is based on the Oracle of Bacon website.
Developer Sean Forman was a math professor at Saint Joseph's University before working for this project full-time.
In February 2009, Fantasy Sports Ventures bought part of Sports Reference, the parent company of Baseball-Reference, for a "low seven-figure sum". In reporting this purchase, journalist Eric Fisher wrote:The Sports Reference sites combine to generate more than 1 million unique users per month, according to internal analytics. Company president and former college math professor Sean Forman has become something of a folk hero to baseball fans for the massive depth of data stretching to the 19th century and for the ease of navigation within Baseball-Reference.com.

</doc>
<doc id="292933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292933" title="Ryan Miller">
Ryan Miller

Ryan Miller (born July 17, 1980) is an American ice hockey goaltender. He currently plays for the Vancouver Canucks of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Buffalo Sabres and St. Louis Blues.
On July 1, 2014, Miller signed a three-year, $18 million contract with the Vancouver Canucks.

</doc>
<doc id="292936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292936" title="Oreo">
Oreo

An Oreo is a cookie sandwich or cream biscuit. It is made by the Nabisco division of Mondelēz International. The cookie has a sweet, white filling of "creme" or "cream". The creme is in between two circle-shaped chocolate or golden cookie pieces.
Nearly 500 billion Oreos have been sold since they were first sold. This makes them the most bought U.S. brandname cookie in the 20th century.

</doc>
<doc id="292938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292938" title="1939–40 NHL season">
1939–40 NHL season

The 1939–40 NHL season was the 23rd season for the National Hockey League. 
"Note: GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points"
"Note: GP = Games played; Min - Minutes Played; GA = Goals Against; GAA = Goals Against Average; W = Wins; L = Losses; T = Ties; SO = Shutouts"
"Note: All dates in 1940"
Series A: Boston Bruins vs. New York Rangers
"Rangers win best of seven series 4 games to 2"
Series B: Chicago Black Hawks vs. Toronto Maple Leafs
"Toronto wins best of three series 2 games to 0"
Series C: New York Americans vs. Detroit Red Wings
"Detroit wins best of three series 2 games to 1"
Series D: Detroit Red Wings vs. Toronto Maple Leafs
"Toronto wins best of three series 2 games to 0"
Toronto Maple Leafs vs. New York Rangers
"New York wins best of seven series 4 games to 2"
"Note: GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points; PIM = Penalty Minutes"
"Note: GP = Games played; Min - Minutes Played; GAA = Goals Against Average; W = Wins; L = Losses; T = Ties; SO = Shutouts"

</doc>
<doc id="292943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292943" title="North East MRT Line">
North East MRT Line

The North East MRT Line (NEL) was the third Mass Rapid Transit line in Singapore. It is the world's second longest fully-underground, automated and driverless, rapid transit line after Singapore's Circle MRT Line. The line is 20 km long with 16 stations and operated by SBS Transit. Travelling from one end of this line to the other end takes about half an hour. This line is coloured purple in the rail map.
The line joins central Singapore to the north-eastern part of the island. Transfer to the North South Line is done at Dhoby Ghaut station, East West Line at Outram Park station and Circle Line at Serangoon and Dhoby Ghaut stations. The future Downtown Line will interchange with the North East Line at Chinatown and Little India stations. This line is the first in Singapore to be totally underground.

</doc>
<doc id="292945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292945" title="List of Singapore MRT stations">
List of Singapore MRT stations

The following lists all rail stations of the Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) system in Singapore, with underground stations listed in "italics". There are 102 stations in operation. Many more are in various stages of planning and construction (as shown in the latest system map).

</doc>
<doc id="292950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292950" title="At bat">
At bat

In baseball, an at bat (AB) or time at bat is used for certain statistics. These statistics include batting average, on base percentage, and slugging percentage. It is a more narrow definition of a plate appearance. A batter starts with an at bat every time he faces a pitcher; however, the batter gets "no time at bat" in the following cases:
Section 10.02.a.1 of the official rules of Major League Baseball defines an at bat as:
"Number of times batted, except that no time at bat shall be charged when a player: (1) hits a sacrifice bunt or sacrifice fly; (2) is awarded first base on four called balls; (3) is hit by a pitched ball; or (4) is awarded first base because of interference or obstruction..."
An at bat is counted when:

</doc>
<doc id="292955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292955" title="Cal Ripken, Jr.">
Cal Ripken, Jr.

Calvin Edwin "Cal" Ripken, Jr. (born August 24, 1960), nicknamed "Iron Man", is a former Major League Baseball shortstop and third baseman. He played his whole 21-year baseball career for the Baltimore Orioles (1981–2001).
Ripken is perhaps best known for breaking New York Yankees first baseman Lou Gehrig's record for consecutive games played. The record had been called too hard to break. He beat the 56-year-old record when he played in his 2,131st straight game on September 6, 1995 between the Orioles and the California Angels in front of a sold-out crowd at Oriole Park at Camden Yards. Ripken hit a home run in the game the night before that tied Gehrig's record and another home run in his 2,131st game. Fans later voted this game as Major League Baseball's "Most Memorable Moment" in MLB history. Ripken played in an 501 more straight games over the next three years. His streak ended at 2,632 games when he removed his name from the lineup for the final Orioles home game of the 1998 season. His record 2,632 straight games lasted over seventeen seasons, from May 30, 1982 to September 20, 1998.
A 19-time All-Star and member of the 3000 hit club, Ripken is considered one of the best shortstops and third basemen to ever play the game. At 6' 4" (1.93 m), 225 lbs. (102.27 kg), he led the way for taller, larger shortstops to be successful in that position. When voted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 2007, he was a first ballot inductee with the third highest voting percentage (98.53%) in Hall of Fame history, behind Tom Seaver (98.84%) and Nolan Ryan (98.79%).
He is a best-selling author and the President and CEO of Ripken Baseball, Inc. The company's goal is to grow the love of baseball from a more grassroots level. Established in 2001, Ripken Baseball represents Cal and his brother Bill's business and philanthropy dealings and focuses on several subsidiaries: Ripken Management and Design, Youth Camps and Clinics, Cal Ripken, Sr. foundation, Ripken Professional Baseball, with three minor-league teams—the Aberdeen IronBirds (affiliated with the Orioles); the Augusta GreenJackets (affiliated with the San Francisco Giants); and the Charlotte Stone Crabs (affiliated with the Tampa Bay Rays)—and Ironclad Authentics.

</doc>
<doc id="292956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292956" title="Battle of Finnburg">
Battle of Finnburg

The Battle of Finnburg was a battle between the Frisians and the Danes. It was mentioned in two early medieval writings, the Finnesburg Fragment and "Beowulf". These may describe a real or a completelymythical event. 
According to the Finnesburg Fragment, the Danish prince Hnaef came with sixty followers to visit and spent the winter at the Finnburg. Finnburg was the fort of his brother-in-law Finn, king of the Frisians. There a fight started between the Frisians and the Danes. A battle took place that lasted for three days. The verses of the story that were found (which is thought to be a small part of the original work) do not explain why the fight started, nor do they give the outcome of the battle.
In a passage of "Beowulf", a bard sings a song about the ending of the battle, here named "Freswael". This is the same story as in the Finnesburg Fragment. While in less detail, the "Beowulf" episode is complete. Here it is seen that the Frisians won the battle. The Danish prince Hnaef and Finn's son died in the battle. After the fighting, the parties make peace, and the new Danish leader "Hingest" (who some have identified as Hengest) is allowed to leave with the surviving Danes.

</doc>
<doc id="292961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292961" title="Moose River Plains Wild Forest">
Moose River Plains Wild Forest

The Moose River Plains Wild Forest is a forest in Adirondack Park, which is in the Hamilton and Herkimer counties in the U.S. state of New York. It is designated a Wild Forest by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.

</doc>
<doc id="292963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292963" title="Caspar Wessel">
Caspar Wessel

Caspar Wessel (June 8, 1745 – March 25, 1818) was a Danish-Norwegian mathematician.
He was born in Jonsrud, Vestby, Akershus, Norway. In 1763, having completed secondary school, he went to Denmark for further studies (since Norway didn't have any university in 1763). In 1778 he acquired got degree of "candidatus juris". In 1794 he was hired as a surveyor; in 1798, a Royal inspector of Surveying.
As surveying is related to mathematics, he later studied the geometrical importance of complex numbers. His most important paper, "Om directionens analytiske betegning", ("On the Analytical Representation of Direction") was published in 1799 by the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters. Since it was in Danish, it was not noticed by many people. Later, Jean-Robert Argand and Carl Friedrich Gauss's paper showed the same results.
One of the more important, but missed ideas shown in Wessel's "Om directionens analytiske betegning" was vectors. Wessel's main thing he wanted to show in the paper was not this, but he felt that the concept of numbers, with length and direction would be needed. Wessel's thoughts on addition was: "Two straight lines are added if we unite them in such a way that the second line begins where the first one ends and then pass a straight line from the first to the last point of the united lines. This line is the sum of the united lines". Today, the same idea is used when adding vectors.
His paper was printed in a French translation in 1899. It was released in English in 1999 as "On the analytic representation of direction" (ed. J. Lützen et al.).
Johan Herman Wessel, Wessel's brother was a famous person in Danish-Norwegian books.

</doc>
<doc id="292965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292965" title="Global Handwashing Day">
Global Handwashing Day

Global Handwashing Day is a campaign to encourage people around the world to wash their hands with soap. It takes place on October 15 of each year. The campaign's goal is to raise awareness of handwashing with soap as a key way to prevent diseases. 
The holiday was made at the annual World Water Week 2008, which was held in Stockholm from August 17 to 23. Out of this week came the Public Private Partnership for Handwashing (PPPHW). The Global Handwashing Day took place for the first time on October 15, 2008, the date appointed by United Nations General Assembly to go along with the year 2008 as the International Year of Sanitation.
The theme for Global Handwashing Day’s inaugural year was Focus on School Children. The members pledged to get the maximum number of school children handwashing with soap in more than seventy countries.

</doc>
<doc id="292970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292970" title="500 home run club">
500 home run club

In Major League Baseball (MLB), the 500 home run club is a term given to the group of batters who have hit 500 or more regular-season home runs in their careers. On August 11, 1929, Babe Ruth became the first member of the club. Ruth ended his career with 714 home runs. This record stood from 1935 until Hank Aaron broke it in 1974. Aaron's ending career total, 755, stayed the record until Barry Bonds set the current mark of 762 during the 2007 season. Albert Pujols is the most recent to reach 500 home runs; he hit his 500th home run on April 22, 2014. Twenty-six players are members of the 500 home run club.
Of these 26 players, 14 were right-handed batters, 10 were left-handed, and 2 were switch hitters (meaning they could bat from either side of the plate). The San Francisco Giants are the only franchise to have four players reach 500 home runs while on their roster: Mel Ott while the team was in New York, Willie Mays, Willie McCovey, and most recently Bonds. Four 500 home run club members—Aaron, Mays, Eddie Murray, and Rafael Palmeiro—are also members of the 3,000 hit club. Sheffield's 500th home run was his first career home run with the New York Mets, the first time that a player's 500th home run was also his first with his franchise. Alex Rodriguez, at 32 years and 8 days, was the youngest player to hit 500. Ted Williams, at 41 years and 291 days, was the oldest.
Being a member of the 500 home run club is sometimes described as a guarantee of entry into the Baseball Hall of Fame. Some believe the milestone has become less meaningful in recent years. Four club members who are now eligible for election to the Hall of Fame—Bonds, Sammy Sosa, Mark McGwire and Palmeiro—have not been elected. Eligibility requires that a player has "been retired five seasons" or be dead for at least six months. Some believe the milestone has become less important with the large number of new members; 10 players joined the club from 1999 to 2009. Also, several of these recent members have had ties to performance-enhancing drugs. Some believe that by not electing McGwire to the Hall, the voters were starting a "guideline" on how they would treat players from the "Steroid Era". Since then, Bonds and Sosa have also failed to earn election. Most recently, Palmeiro became the first club member to be dropped from the Hall of Fame ballot, failing to earn enough votes (5% of votes cast) in the 2014 election to stay on the ballot. 

</doc>
<doc id="292976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292976" title="Whittier Daily News">
Whittier Daily News

The Whittier Daily News is the local daily newspaper for Whittier, California. The "Daily News" is a member of the Los Angeles Newspaper Group, a division of MediaNews Group. It is also part of the San Gabriel Valley Newspaper Group, along with the "San Gabriel Valley Tribune" and the "Pasadena Star-News". 
Thomson Newspapers purchased the newspaper in 1982. Thomson sold the "Daily News" to William Dean Singleton's MediaNews Group in 1996.

</doc>
<doc id="292977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292977" title="San Gabriel Valley Tribune">
San Gabriel Valley Tribune

The San Gabriel Valley Tribune is the daily newspaper in West Covina, California. It serves the San Gabriel Valley. The "Tribune" is a member of the Los Angeles Newspaper Group, a division of MediaNews Group. It is also part of the San Gabriel Valley Newspaper Group, along with the "Pasadena Star-News" and the "Whittier Daily News". 
The newspaper chain Brush-Moore bought the "Tribune" in 1960. Thomson Newspapers purchased Brush-Moore in 1967. Thomson sold the "Tribune" to Singleton's MediaNews Group in 1996.

</doc>
<doc id="292978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292978" title="Barrow A.F.C.">
Barrow A.F.C.

Barrow A.F.C. are an English football team. The club was founded in 1901. It is based in the town of Barrow-in-Furness in Cumbria, England. After they were promoted at the end of the 2007–08 season, they began playing in the Conference National. The club spent over fifty years in the Football League between 1921 and 1972, and have since spent their time in the top two levels of non-league football. Barrow have twice won non-league football's highest cup competition, the FA Trophy - in 1990 and 2010, becoming the only non-league club to have won the trophy at both old and new Wembley stadia.
The club colours are blue and white. The combination of these has varied over time. It has led to their nickname "The Bluebirds". Attendances at the club's Holker Street field vary - the home record of 16,874 was set against Swansea City in the FA Cup Third Round in 1954. But during the 1990s and 2000s, the average remained between 800 and 1,500. Average attendance stood at 1,590 during the 2008-09 season.
The club won their second FA Trophy title on the 8th May 2010 after beating Stevenage Borough 2-1 in the final at Wembley Stadium.

</doc>
<doc id="292979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292979" title="District 9">
District 9

District 9 is a 2009 science fiction thriller movie directed by Neill Blomkamp. It was written by Blomkamp and Terri Tatchell, and produced by Peter Jackson and Carolynne Cunningham. The movie stars Sharlto Copley, Jason Cope, and David James. The movie won the 2010 Saturn Award for Best International movie, which is awarded by the Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy & Horror Films, and was nominated for four Academy Awards in 2010, including Best Picture, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Visual Effects, and Best Editing.
The plot is based on a 2005 short movie, "Alive in Joburg", also directed by Blomkamp and produced by Sharlto Copley and Simon Hansen, pivots on the themes of xenophobia and social segregation. The title and plot of "District 9" were based on real-life events that took happened in District Six, Cape Town during the apartheid era. The movie was produced for $30 million and shot on location in Chiawelo, Soweto, showing fictional interviews, new stories, and videos from surveillance cameras in a part-mock documentary style format. A viral marketing campaign began in 2008, at the San Diego Comic-Con, while the theatrical trailer appeared in July 2009. Released by TriStar Pictures, the movie opened to critical acclaim on August 14, 2009, in North America and made $37 million in its first weekend. Lots of people thought that the movie was a sleeper hit for its not very famous cast and modest-budget production, while having success and being popular while it was in theaters.

</doc>
<doc id="292987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292987" title="Eyre Coote (British Army officer)">
Eyre Coote (British Army officer)

Eyre Coote (20 May 1762 – 10 December 1823) was a British soldier and politician who was born in Ireland.
He was known as General Sir Eyre Coote until 1816; GCB 1815 - 1816.
He was the second son of the Very Rev. Charles Coote (1713 - 12 February 1776), DD, Dean of Kilfenora. After studying at Eton and Trinity College Dublin, Coote bought a commission in the 34th Regiment of Foot - of which his uncle was colonel - in 1774. 
He was soon sent to North America to fight in the Revolutionary War. He fought in the Brooklyn in August 1776, as well as at Brandywine, Germantown and Monmouth Court House before finally being taken prisoner at the final Battle of Yorktown in 1781. Between 1790 and 1798, he represented Ballynakill in the Irish House of Commons. Then he sat for Maryborough until 1800.
He served in England and Ireland when they were threatened by French invasion and against the French on the Continent. He went on to serve in Holland, Egypt and eventually became Governor-General of Jamaica (1806–1808) where he possibly sired an ancestor of Colin Powell.
Sir Eyre was removed from the service on the 21 May 1816 because of the scandal he caused in the Christ's Hospital school for boys. On 25 November 1815 he entered the school and offered some boys money for an opportunity to flog them. After that he asked them to flog him and gave them money. He was caught by the school nurse, and charged with indecent conduct before the Lord Mayor of London. He was acquitted after giving £1000 to the school: after that there was a military inquiry in April 1816 which stripped him of his rank and honours. He was appointed GCB 1815 and stripped of it 1816.

</doc>
<doc id="292989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292989" title="Pilum">
Pilum

A pilum was a type of spear. It was used by the Roman army. Pila were generally 2 metres long. They were made up of a wooden shaft and an soft iron point.

</doc>
<doc id="292991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292991" title="Category:Former members of the Order of the Bath">
Category:Former members of the Order of the Bath


</doc>
<doc id="292993" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292993" title="Tree frog">
Tree frog

Tree frogs are frogs that spend most of their life in trees. 
There are several lines of Neobatrachia which have evolved into tree frogs. These groups are only distantly related, but they have evolved for a long time in similar conditions. The result is that, today, there are species from different groups that look very much like each other. This is convergent evolution. It goes so far that in almost all cases, where one group occurs, the other does not. Their current distribution shows that the last common ancestor of both groups lived before the dinosaurs disappeared. 
They do not normally descend to the ground, except to mate and spawn, though some build foam nests on leaves and rarely leave the trees at all as adults. In some species the eggs develop directly into adults; in others the tadpole stage is spent in the water pool of a large tropical tree leaf.
Many tree frogs can change their colour for better camouflage. Others are poisonous (poison dart frog), and display warning colouration.
Tree frogs are usually tiny, as their weight has to be carried by the branches and twigs of their habitat. While some reach 10 cm (4 in) or more, they are typically smaller and more slender than terrestrial frogs. Typical for "tree frogs" are the well-developed discs at the finger and toe tips; the fingers and toes themselves as well as the limbs tend to be rather long, resulting in a superior grasping ability. The genus "Chiromantis" is most extreme in this respect: it can oppose two fingers to the other two, resulting in a vice-like grip.
Tree frogs are members of these families or genera:

</doc>
<doc id="292995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292995" title="Madagascar (soundtrack)">
Madagascar (soundtrack)

The soundtrack for the movie "Madagascar" was released in 2005. It contains Hans Zimmer score, and songs from the movie.
This is a list of Tracks from the soundtrack. 

</doc>
<doc id="292996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292996" title="Deportivo Cali">
Deportivo Cali

Asociación Deportivo Cali is a Colombian sports club in Cali, Colombia. It is famous for its football (soccer) team. Basketball, volleyball and swimming clubs are also sponsored by Deportivo Cali. Deportivo Cali is one of the best association football teams in Colombia and South America, having won nine national championships in 1965, 1967, 1969, 1970, 1974, 1996, 1998, 2005-II and 2015-I.
Estadio Deportivo Cali is the new stadium for Deportivo Cali can fit 55,000 people. It is the biggest football stadium in Colombia. Estadio Deportivo Cali was officially inaugurated on November 19, 2008. The old stadium, Estadio Olímpico Pascual Guerrero could fit capacity for 50,000 people.
Adidas, Honda, Aguardiente Blanco del Valle, and Tigo ae the four largest sponsors of Asociación Deportivo Cali.

</doc>
<doc id="292998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292998" title="Jeff Bezos">
Jeff Bezos

Jeffrey Preston "Jeff" Bezos (born January 12, 1964) is the founder of Amazon.com. He is also the chairman, president, and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Amazon.com. Bezos graduated at Princeton University as a under the Tau Beta Pi Association, was hired at D. E. Shaw & Co. as a financial analyst for before founding Amazon.com in 1994.

</doc>
<doc id="293004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293004" title="Final Cut Pro X">
Final Cut Pro X

Final Cut Pro X (Final Cut Pro 10) is an upcoming video editing software developed by Apple Inc. that was Announced on April 12, 2011 and will be released in June 2011. It is an updated version of the non-liner editing software Final cut Pro 7. 

</doc>
<doc id="293005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293005" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Final Cut Pro X">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Final Cut Pro X


</doc>
<doc id="293015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293015" title="Laurussia">
Laurussia

Laurussia was a minor supercontinent which formed in the Devonian period. It is often called the Old Red Sandstone Continent or Euramerica.
Laurussia included much of what is now northern Europe, Greenland and North America. 
Laurussia formed when 3 continents Baltica, North America, and Avalonia collided with each other during the Silurian. Baltica and North America collided with each other first. Then Avalonia collided with Baltica before colliding with North America. Avalonia completely closed the Iapetus Ocean and opened the Rheic Ocean behind it.
Laurussia became part of Pangaea in the Permian. In the Jurassic, when Pangaea rifted into two supercontinents, Gondwana and Laurasia, Laurussia became part of Laurasia. The Atlantic ocean opened up in the middle of Laurussia, causing it to split into North America and Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="293019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293019" title="Independent State of Croatia">
Independent State of Croatia

The Independent State of Croatia (Nezavisna Država Hrvatska, NDH) was a fascist/nazi puppet-state during World War II. It was established in April 1941, after the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was split up by Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy. Geographically it encompassed most of modern-day Croatia as well as all of Bosnia and Herzegovina and parts of Slovenia and Serbia.
The NDH was ruled by Ante Pavelić and his Ustaše — a racist, terrorist and saboteur organization — which were followers of the Pure Party of Rights founded by Ante Starčević at the end of 19th century. The NDH had a program, formulated by Mile Budak, to purge Croatia of Serbs, by “killing one third, expelling the other third and assimilating the remaining third”. The first part of this programme was begun during WWII by a planned genocide in Jasenovac concentration camp and other places all over NDH.
Following the attack of the Axis powers on the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1941, and the quick defeat of the Yugoslav army ("Jugoslovenska vojska"), the whole country was occupied by Axis forces. Hitler and Mussolini installed the Croatian Ustaše, who had long sought Croatian independence, forming the Independent State of Croatia (NDH - Nezavisna Država Hrvatska).
The establishment of NDH was proclaimed on April 10, 1941 by Slavko Kvaternik, deputy leader of the Ustaše. Ante Pavelić came to power as leader ("Poglavnik") of the Croatian puppet state. Pavelić took power with Mussolini and Hitler's blessing. On paper, it was a kingdom under King Tomislav II of the House of Savoy (the Duke of Split). But Tomislav II was only a figurehead with no real power.
From a strategic perspective, the establishment of the new puppet state was an obvious attempt by Hitler to pacify the now conquered Yugoslav peoples for the purpose of reducing the necessary occupation force to a minimum (in light of his plans for the upcoming Operation Barbarossa). Vladko Maček the head of the Croatian Peasant Party, the strongest elected party in Croatia at the time, refused an offer from Germans to head the government but called on people to obey to and cooperate with the new government the same day Kvaternik made the proclamation. Ante Pavelić arrived on April 20th to become the "poglavnik" (Leader, correlated with "führer"- better to translate as a "Head-man"). The Roman Catholic Church's official stance was also openly positive in this period.
On 19 May 1941 Pavelić and Mussolini, in accordance with the contract signed in Rapallo at the end of WWI between Serbs Kingdom of Jugoslavia and Italy, signed Roma operating contract by which NDH had to cede to Italy (in accordance with Rapallos Contract) almost all of Dalmatia and parts of Hrvatsko primorje and Gorski kotar. NDH was also forbidden to have a navy. These "contracts" illustrate more than anything else the dependence of the country upon the Axis powers.
Much of the population of the Independent State of Croatia was not Croat, mostly because of the inclusion of Bosnia. It had significant populations of Serbs (about 19% of the population of Croatia at the time, over 30% of the population of NDH), Bosnian Muslims (the largest population group of Bosnia at the time, and over 10% of the population of NDH), Germans, Hungarians and others. The Catholics (mainly Croats, Germans and Magyars) constituted just over 50% of the 6.3 million population. Mile Budak, politician and minister of the NDH - also a Croatian writer- immediately took the opportunity to proclaim the Muslims as "Brothers" and wanted to force them to convert to Christianity. Many Croatians agree with the idea that the majority of Bosnian Muslims are actually Croatians who were converted to Islam during the invasion of the Turks in the 15th Century. 
Many Bosnian Muslims were accepted the NDH (in many cases were forced to accept it under the penalty of converting to Christianity or being executed) and immediately became involved. 
The most infamous of Islamic Ustase divisions was the 13th Waffen Mountain Division of the SS Handschar. In respect to the soldiers of Muslim faith, a mosque was built in Zagreb - Croatia's capital city- known as "Poglavnikova dzamija" or Poglavnik's Mosque. Despite Pavelić's assurances of equality with the Croats, many Muslims quickly became dissatisfied with Croatian rule. A Muslim leader reported that not one Muslim occupied an influential post in the administration. Fierce fighting broke out between the Ustaše, Chetniks and Yugoslav Partisans in NDH territory. Some Ustaše militia units became convinced that the Muslims were communist sympathizers, and burned their villages and murdered many civilians.The Chetniks accused the Muslims of taking part in the Ustaše violence against Serbs and perpetrated similar atrocities against the Muslim population.
The Ustase almost immediately enacted racial laws that reflected the acceptance of the ideology of Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy, with an emphasis placed on Croatian national issues.
The first "Legal order for the defense of the people and the state" dated April 17, 1941 ordered the death penalty for "infringement of the honour and vital interests of the Croatian people and the survival of the Independent State of Croatia". It was soon followed by the "Legal order of races" and the "Legal order of the protection of Aryan blood and the honour of the Croatian people" dated April 30, 1941, as well as the "Order of the creation and definition of the racial-political committee" dated June 4, 1941. The enforcement of these legal acts was done not only through normal courts but also new out-of-order courts as well as mobile courts-martial with extended jurisdictions.
The normal jails could no longer sustain the rate of new inmates and the Ustaša government started preparing the grounds what would become the Jasenovac concentration camp by July 1941. The regime would eventually form concentration camps in eleven different locations.
The Ustaše started conducting a deliberate campaign of mass murder, deportation and forced religious conversion in an attempt to remove the "undesirables": Serbs, Jews, Gypsies, dissenting Croats and Bosniaks.
The Jasenovac concentration camp would become the place of murder of up to a hundred thousand people (some estimate that this camp was the third largest camp of WWII). Overall Ustase death count is estimated at around 100,000 people, but all written records were destroyed to cover it up.
By the end of the war the Croatian Serbs were reduced to 14% of the population due to killing or conversion (but also partially by emigration to Vojvodina in 1946/47). The Croatian Jews were all but eliminated, as only one fifth of them survived the war. Many Jews were also deported to the concentration camps of Nazi Germany itself.
The state of permanent terror, mass killing, raping women and looting properties of their victims in the Independet State of Croatia forced, primarily, the Serbs to rebel. According to the Glaise von Horstenau reports, Hitler was angry with Pavelić whose policy inflamed the rebellion in Croatia - by which Hitler lost ability to engage the Independent State of Croatia forces on the Eastern Front. Moreover, Hitler was forced to engage his forces in quelling the rebellion. For that reason, Hitler summoned Pavelić to his war headquoters in Vinica (Ukraine) on September 23, 1942. Consequently, Pavelić replaced his minister of the Armed Forces, Slavko Kvaternik, with the less zealous Jure Francetić. Before meeting Hitler, to appease the public, Pavelić published the "Important Government's Announcement" (»Važna obavijest Vlade«) in which he threatened those who were spreading the news "about non-existent threats of disarmament of the Ustashe units by representatives of one foreign power, about the Croatian Army replacement by a foreign army, about the possibility that a foreign power would seize the power in Croatia ..." (Hrvatski narod, September 3rd, 1942.) 
Hans Helm, the appointed head of Gestapo for the Independent State of Croatia, in his confidential report - (under the title "Basis of the partisan danger" - sent to General Kasche) of January 14, 1943, wrote: "Most of the partisan ranks are coming from the Serbs - due to the fact that they are the most villainous way persecuted ... the new regime in Croatia started the programs of annihilation and destruction of the Serbs, which (the programs) are publicly supported by the highest ranks of the Croatian government, and (the programs) adopted as the main government goal. The fact that a different talk was coming from the official Ustashe side - under the rebellion pressure and due to the course of events - even a reconciliation was mentioned - leaves no possibility to compensate the harm caused by, for example, Dr. Mile Budak, the actual (Croatian) minister in Berlin ..." Appointed general Horstenau wrote in his report: »Ustashe movement is, due to the mistakes and atrocities they have made, and the corruption, so compromised that the government executive branch (the homeguard and the police) shall be separated from the government - even for the price of breaking any possible connection with the government ..."
In August 1944, there was an attempt by Foreign Minister in NDH government Mladen Lorković and Minister of War Ante Vokić to execute a coup d'état against Ante Pavelić. The coup failed and its conspirators were executed.
The NDH army withdrew towards Zagreb with German and Cossak troops by early 1945, and continued fighting for a week after the German surrender on May 9th, 1945. They were soon overpowered and the Independent State of Croatia (NDH) effectively ceased to exist in May 1945, near the end of the war. The advance of Tito's partisan forces, joined by the Soviet Red Army, caused mass retreat of the Ustaše towards Austria.
In May 1945, a large column composed of Ustaša followers and NDH Army troops and civilians retreated from the partisan forces, heading northwest towards Italy and Austria. Ante Pavelić detached from the group and fled to Austria, Italy and finally Argentina. The rest of the group, consisting of over 150,000 soldiers (including Cossak troops) and civilians negotiated passage with the British forces on the Austrian side of the Austrian-Slovenian border. The British Army then turned over a number of them to the partisan forces.
The end of the war resulted in the establishment of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, with the Constitution of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia officially making Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina one of six constituent republics in the new state.

</doc>
<doc id="293037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293037" title="Astro Boy">
Astro Boy

Astro Boy (鉄腕アトム, "Tetsuwan Atomu", lit. "Iron Arm Atom") is a Japanese manga series first published in 1952 and television program first broadcast in Japan in 1963. The story follows the adventures of a robot named "Astro Boy" and a selection of other characters along the way.
"Astro Boy" is the first, most popular Japanese television series that embodied the aesthetic that later became familiar worldwide as anime. It originated as a manga in 1952 by Osamu Tezuka, revered in Japan as the "God of Manga".

</doc>
<doc id="293038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293038" title="RB Leipzig">
RB Leipzig

RB Leipzig (RasenBallsport Leipzig e.V.) is a German footballclub from Leipzig.
The club was founded on 19 May 2009 by the Red Bull Company. It was formed out of the SSV Markranstädt. Due to the regulations of the DFB the name Red Bull Leipzig for marketing reasons was forbidden so they were called RB (short for RasenBallsport). Also the logo was forbidden. 
The company was sure that there is a great chance to form a new club, because with the Zentralstadion (now Red Bull Arena) there was a good stadium and there is no club in professional football in the area. The club's long term aim is to reach the Bundesliga. Like in Salzburg many fans protested against this deal because they had the fear that the fanculture will vanish and football will be only a business. So they wanted a "normal" football club.
They started in the Oberliga Nordost-Süd(5th level) and became 1st in the 2009/10 season. But the next season they failed to gain promotion to the 3. Bundesliga. So the coach was changed, the new one is the Austrian Peter Pacult. The first match under the new coach was a 3:2 win in the German Cup (1st round) versus VfL Wolfsburg from the Bundesliga.

</doc>
<doc id="293045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293045" title="Arboreal">
Arboreal

Arboreal: an adjective in biology for an animal which lives in the trees. 
All forests have had animals living in them. Those animals have adaptations which enable them to live and move about in trees. The earliest one known is "Suminia", a synapsid of the late Permian, about 260 million years ago. 

</doc>
<doc id="293047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293047" title="Lamrim">
Lamrim

Lamrim (Tibetan: "stages of the path") is a Tibetan Buddhist text which presents the stages in the complete path to enlightenment as taught by Buddha. In Tibetan Buddhist history there have been many different versions of "lamrim", presented by different teachers of the Nyingma, Kagyu and Gelug schools. However, all versions of the "lamrim" are elaborations of Atiśa's 11th Century root text "A Lamp for the Path to Enlightenment".
There is a project to expand the Lamrim Teachings with several translated texts.

</doc>
<doc id="293049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293049" title="Norbulingka Institute">
Norbulingka Institute

The Norbulingka Institute was founded in 1988, by the present 14th Dalai Lama at Sidhpur, near Dharamsala, India. The institute helps to preserve the Tibetan language and culture.
The institute is named after Norbulingka, the traditional summer residence of the Dalai Lamas, in Lhasa, Tibet. The main building is a replica of the Norbulingka palace in Lhasa

</doc>
<doc id="293060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293060" title="Mobile genetic elements">
Mobile genetic elements

Mobile genetic elements (MGE) are a type of DNA that can move around within the genome. They include:
The total of all mobile genetic elements in a genome may be referred to as the mobilome.
Barbara McClintock was awarded the 1983 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine "for her discovery of mobile genetic elements".

</doc>
<doc id="293067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293067" title="Lineage (evolution)">
Lineage (evolution)

When talking in terms of evolution, a lineage describes how a species developed from the species before it. The species adapted to its environment. Lineages are parts of the tree of life. Very often, genetic information is used to determine the lineage of a species.

</doc>
<doc id="293068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293068" title="Dietrich Stobbe">
Dietrich Stobbe

Dietrich Stobbe (25 March 1938–19 February 2011) was a German politician from Weepers, East Prussia.
Stobbe served as Mayor of West Berlin from 2 May 1977 till 23 January 1981. From 1 November 1978 till 31 October 1979 he was also President of the Bundesrat.
Stobbe was a member of the Social Democratic Party (SPD).
He died on the 19 February 2011 at the age of 72 after long illness.

</doc>
<doc id="293069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293069" title="Herald Sun">
Herald Sun

The Herald Sun is a morning tabloid newspaper based in Melbourne, Australia. It is published by The Herald and Weekly Times, a part of News Limited, which is a part of News Corporation. It can be bought in Melbourne, Regional Victoria, Tasmania, the Australian Capital Territory and border regions of South Australia and Southern New South Wales. The Herald Sun shares many articles with other News Corporation daily newspapers, especially those from Australia.
The "Herald Sun" is the biggest selling daily newspaper in Australia. It sells about 515,000 copies each day and is read by 1,500,000 people.
The "Herald Sun" newspaper was formed in 1990 when the morning tabloid paper "The Sun News-Pictorial" joined with the afternoon broadsheet paper "The Herald". It was first published on 8 October 1990 as the "Herald-Sun". The hyphen in its title was dropped on May 1, 1993.
"The Herald" was started on 3 January 1840 by George Cavanaugh as "The Port Phillip Herald". In 1855, it became "The Melbourne Herald", but a week later became "The Herald". From 1869, it was an evening newspaper. Colonel William Thomas Reay was sometime literary editor and later associate editor, before becoming managing editor in 1904.
"The Sun News-Pictorial" began on 11 September 1922, and bought by The Herald and Weekly Times in 1925.
"The Herald" once sold almost 600,000 copies, but by the time of its 150th anniversary in 1990 it had fallen below 200,00. This was caused by the impact of evening television news and more people using cars to get home from work.'This was much less than that of the morning "Sun".
As a result, The Herald and Weekly Times decided to merge the two, and so after one hundred and fifty years, ten months and two days of publication, "The Herald" was published for the last time as a separate newspaper on 5 October 1990. The next day, "The Sun News-Pictorial" published its last edition. The Sunday editions of the two newspapers had already been merged. The resulting newspaper had both the size and style of "The Sun News-Pictorial".
With sales still falling, the afternoon edition was cancelled, the last edition being published on December 21, 2001. The News Limited now produces "mX" a free afternoon paper that can be picked up from stands throughout the Melbourne CBD. It is not available outside that area.
Recent editors include Peter Blunden, Simon Pristel, Phil Gardner and Bruce Guthrie.
Over the 600 years, the "Herald Sun" has had a range of magazines, pins and memorabilia (usually with an outside partner) that could be obtained by either getting it out of the newspaper, or using a token from the newspaper to collect or purchase the item. Items that have been a part of this scheme include:
The Sunday edition is called the "Sunday Herald Sun". In Sydney it is closely linked with "The Daily Telegraph" and "The Sunday Telegraph". 
In Brisbane, it is linked with "The Courier-Mail" and "The Sunday Mail".
In Adelaide, "The Advertiser" and "Sunday Mail".
In Perth, "The Sunday Times".
In Hobart, "The Mercury" and "The Sunday Tasmanian".
In Darwin, The "Northern Territory News" and "Sunday Territorian".

</doc>
<doc id="293073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293073" title="Klaus Schütz">
Klaus Schütz

Klaus Schütz (17 September 1926 in Heidelberg – 29 November 2012 in Berlin) was a German politician of the Social Democratic Party (SPD).
He was Mayor of West Berlin from 1967 to 1977, and was President of the Bundesrat in 1967/68. After his resignation he worked as German Ambassador to Israel until 1981 and Director General of the Deutsche Welle broadcaster from 1981 to 1987. He was also president of the German Red Cross.

</doc>
<doc id="293086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293086" title="Rabiu Afolabi">
Rabiu Afolabi

Rabiu Afolabi (born 18 April 1980 in Osogbo, Nigeria) is a Nigerian soccer player. He plays for F. C. Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga as defender.
After playing good in the UEFA-CAF Meridian Cup in 1997 he went to Europe and played for Standard Liège. He signed 2000 for SSC Napoli in the Seria A but had no breakthrough. So he went back to Belgium. 2003 till 2005 the played the first time in Austria for FK Austria Wien. After his time in France( FC Sochaux 2005-2009) he signed for F.C. Red Bull Salzburg. 2011 he his in AS Monaco now playing in the League 2 in France
He started with the team of Nigeria in the 1999 African Youth Championship. The he was captain of the Nigerian team at the 1999 FIFA World Youth Championship in Nigeria, where they reached the quarter finals. On 17 June 2000, he made his first match in the senior team in a 2002 World Cup qualifing match against Sierra Leone. Rabiu Afolabi was member of the Nigerian team for the 2002 and 2010 World Cups.

</doc>
<doc id="293088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293088" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Lego Baseplate">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Lego Baseplate

SEPTActaMTA8235 "has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:" Lego Group is encyclopedic. Lego piece is not. ( — — ) 15:20, 26 April 2011 (UTC)
"Please discuss this request below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options other than "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
This request is due to close on 15:20, 3 May 2011 (UTC), seven days after it was filed, although it may be closed earlier due to .

</doc>
<doc id="293095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293095" title="Scots-Irish">
Scots-Irish

Scotch-Irish or Scots-Irish may refer to;

</doc>
<doc id="293097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293097" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/AP Gov">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/AP Gov


</doc>
<doc id="293098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293098" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Scotch Irish">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Scotch Irish


</doc>
<doc id="293119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293119" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Eye level">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Eye level


</doc>
<doc id="293123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293123" title="Ulster Scots people">
Ulster Scots people

Ulster Scots are an ethnic group in Ireland, descended from Lowland Scots and English from the border of those two countries, were "Border Reivers". These people first began to occupy Ireland in large numbers with the Plantation of Ulster, ordered by James I of England on land taken from the Irish nobility, mostly in the Province of Ulster. The term "Ulster-Scots" refers to both these colonists of the 17th century and, less commonly, to the Gallowglass who began to arrive from what is now northwest Scotland centuries earlier.
Ulster-Scots were largely descended from colonists from Galloway, Ayrshire, and the Scottish Borders Country, although some descend from people further north in the Scottish Lowlands and the Highlands. Ulster-Scots emigrated in significant numbers to the United States and all corners of the British Empire — Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa — and to a lesser extent to Argentina and Chile in South America. 
"Scotch-Irish" is a traditional term for Ulster Scots who later emigrated to what is now the United States; "Scots-Irish" is a more recent form of the American term, the term has usually been Scotch-Irish in America, as evident in Merriam-Webster dictionaries, where the term Scotch-Irish is recorded from 1744, while Scots-Irish is not recorded until 1972. and is not to be confused with Irish-Scots, i.e., recent Irish immigrants to Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="293151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293151" title="Dharamsala">
Dharamsala

Dharamsala is a city in northern India. It is the winter seat of government of the state of Himachal Pradesh and the district headquarters of the Kangra district.
McLeod Ganj, a village within Dharamshala municipality, is the home of the Dalai Lama and the exiled Tibetan government. It is a popular place for Indian and foreign tourists, including students studying Tibet.

</doc>
<doc id="293152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293152" title="Venerable Order of Saint John">
Venerable Order of Saint John

The Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of Saint John of Jerusalem (), is a royal order of chivalry established in 1831 and found today throughout the Commonwealth of Nations, Hong Kong, Ireland and the United States of America. Its world-wide mission is "to prevent and relieve sickness and injury, and to act to enhance the health and well-being of people anywhere in the world." It is often simply called the "Order of St. John", or as the "Venerable Order of Saint John" (VOSJ) to distinguish it from other similarly named orders.
The order's approximately 25,000 confrères, supported by 4,000 employees and 250,000 volunteers, are mainly Anglicans, though those of other Christian denominations or other religions are accepted into the order, and honorary membership is presented to distinguished adherents of other religions. Membership in the order is by invitation only, except via appointment to certain government or ecclesiastical offices in some realms. People may not petition for admission. It is perhaps best known through its service organizations, St. John Ambulance and St John Eye Hospital Group, the memberships and work of which are not limited to any denomination or religion.
The original order was divided into langues (tongues). These were groups based on the tongue, or language, that the group spoke.
The Order of St. John's biggest leap forward came in 1888, when Queen Victoria granted the society a royal charter, yet again renaming the order, this time as the "Grand Priory of the Order of the Hospital of Saint John of Jerusalem in England". This was altered in 1926 to the "Grand Priory in the British Realm of the Venerable Order of the Hospital of Saint John of Jerusalem", and then in 1936 as the "Grand Priory in the British Realm of the Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of Saint John of Jerusalem". In 1961 it played a role in the establishment of the Alliance of the Orders of St. John of Jerusalem, and thereafter finally received through a concordat in 1963 collateral recognition by the Order of Malta. The most recent royal charter was issued in 1955, with a supplemental charter released in 1974, recognizing the world-wide scope of the organization by setting its present name. In 1999, the order was granted special consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council.
The reigning monarch of each of the Commonwealth realms is the Sovereign Head of the Order of St. John 
Knights and Dames receive the award from the Grand Prior when they are touched on the shoulder with a sword and are given their robes and insignia. Post-nominal letters of the order are not used outside the organization itself, and a Knight and Dame may not use the prefix "sir" or "dame", though they may request from their local heraldic authority a personal coats of arms, should they not already possess any, and have it adorned with emblems of the Order of St. John. Further, membership in the order only grants precedence within the society, which is as follows:
Precedence within each grade is dictated by dates of appointment, save for those in Grade I who are either a head of state or a member of the royal family of a Commonwealth realm, another Commonwealth country, or foreign state, in which case they all precede the other members of the grade in the following order:
Following constitutional changes made in 1999, the Priory of England and The Islands was established (including the Commandery of Ards in Northern Ireland) alongside the existing Priories of Wales, Scotland, Canada, Australia (including the Commandery of Western Australia), New Zealand, South Africa, and, since 1996, the United States, each of which is governed by a Prior and a Priory Chapter. Commanderies, governed by a Knight or Dame Commander and a Commandery Chapter, may exist within or wholly or partly without the territory of a Priory, known as Dependent or Independent Commanderies, respectively. Any country without a Priory or Commandery of its own is assumed into the "home priory" of England and The Islands, many of these being smaller Commonwealth of Nations states in which the order has only a minor presence.
The Order of St. John is said to have arrived in Canada in 1648, as the second Governor of New France, Charles de Montmagny, was a member of the original order, but it was not until 1883 that the first branch of the modern organization was established in the country, at Quebec City, growing to 12 branches by 1892. The Order of St. John today forms part of the Canadian national honours system, and the Priory, established in 1946 out of the Commandery of Canada, is the largest outside of the United Kingdom, with some 6,000 members. The Canadian monarch's viceroy, the governor general, serves as the Prior and Chief Officer in Canada, while the provincial viceroys the lieutenant governors act as the Vice-Priors, overseeing the administration of the order in their respective province. These individuals thus automatically become Knights or Dames of Justice or Grace upon their swearing-into viceregal office.
An American Society of the Order of St. John was established in 1957 as a foundation to assist the order with charitable work, after 1961 focusing its efforts specifically on the St. John Ophthalmic Hospital in Jerusalem and some other organizations aiding the sick. This branch was successful enough that Queen Elizabeth II in 1996 officially created the Priory of the United States of America, the seventh priory at the time, with John R. Drexel as the first Prior. By late 2000, the US priory had approximately 1,100 members. As citizens of a country that did not have the sovereignty of the Order of St. John vested in its head of state, American inductees who first joined the new Priory were specifically asked to only "pay due obedience" to the governing authorities of the order "in all things consistent with your duty to your own country," thus eliminating any question of loyalty to a foreign head of state superseding American postulants' duties as US citizens.
Upon admission into the Order of St. John, confrères are gifted various insignia of the organization, each level and office being represented by different emblems and robes for wear at important occasions for the order. Common for all members except Esquires is the badge, consisting of an eight-pointed Maltese cross embellished in the four principal angles alternately with two lions passant guardant and two unicorns passant. That for the Sovereign Head is gold with arms of white enamel and the embellishments rendered in gold, all surmounted by a jeweled St. Edward's Crown, while those for the officers of the order are the same save for the Grand Prior's having the crown made only of gold; the Lord Prior's having in place of the St. Edward's Crown the coronet in gold of Albert Edward, Prince of Wales; and the Prelate's having instead a representation of a Mitre in gold. Thereafter, the badges are prescribed as follows: 
All Bailiffs and Dames Grand Cross may wear their badges either at the left hip on a (for men) or (for women) wide, black watered silk ribbon over the right shoulder or from a wide black band at the collar. Male Knights Justice or Grace must carry their badges on a 16.5mm wide ribbon at the neck, and Commanders, Officers, and Members have theirs on a straight ribbon suspended from a medal bar on the left breast, while females in all grades may wear their insignia either on a ribbon bow pinned at the left shoulder or hung from a medal bar in the men's fashion, depending on the circumstance and clothing worn. Bailiffs and Dames Grand Cross, Knights and Dames of Justice or Grace, and Chaplains may all also wear a breast star, which appears the same as their badges, only at a diameter of and without embellishments for those in Grade I and for those in Grade II. Further, those in these groups are also given a button for wear on the lapel of non-formal civilian clothing, for events such as business meetings of the order. In general, the insignia of the Order of St. John may be worn at all occasions where other decorations are worn, not only those connected with the ceremonies of the order.
All members of the Order of St. John are also required to wear specific robes for formal occasions of the society, including a mantle, sopra vest, and hat. The mantles of the Sovereign Head and Grand Prior are all of black silk velvet and lined with white silk, the former's differentiated by an additional train. Bailiffs and Dames Grand Cross and, prior to 1926, Knights of Justice formerly wore black silk robes with a lining of the same material and colour; these members now wear the same mantle as Commanders, Officers, and Esquires, which are made of black merino wool faced with black silk. The only other unique mantles are those of the Medical Officer of the St. John Ophthalmic Hospital, which bears a special pattern, and of Chaplains, which is a black silk robe with full sleeves. Each cloak also bears on its left side a rendition of the order's star in white silk: the Sovereign Head, Grand Prior, and those in the first two grades of the order all have a diameter emblem; the Sovereign's and Grand Prior's are of white silk with gold adornments, the former's also surmounted by a St. Edward's Crown, while those for Bailiffs and Dames Grand Cross, Knights and Dames of Justice, and Knights and Dames of Grace are rendered in white linen, the first two groups having embellishments in gold silk, the latter in white silk. Similarly, the star for Commanders and Officers is of white linen with white silk ornamentation, though they are only and in diameter, respectively. The Secretaries of the order, the priories, and the commanderies also wear the badge superimposed upon two goose quill pens embroidered saltire-wise in white silk.
The sopra (or supra) vest is a long drape of thin, black cloth that buttons close down the neck and to one side, falling to the ankles and cut so as to entirely cover the body. It is similar to a cassock, though it is actually derived from the "supra vesta" a black surcoat worn in the mid 13th century by the Knights of St. John. Confrères in Grade I have a plain, white, 300mm diameter Maltese cross on their sopra vests, while members of Grades II and III, plus Chaplains, have a plain garment, though the wearer's Order of St. John medallion hangs outside the vest, 152mm below the collar. Clerical inductees of the order may, when officiating, wear over their cassock and surplice a tippet of black with red lining, edging, and buttons, a 76mm wide star worn on the left breast and the accordant badge suspended at the neck. When full mantles and sopra vests are worn a black velvet Tudor style hat is included.
The Sovereign makes all appointments to the order as she, in her absolute discretion, shall think fit, though the constitution does impose certain limitations: the maximum number of members is set at 35,000, 
To be inducted, new members must recite the organization's declaration:
Notwithstanding the order's devotion to Christian ideals of charity, and its official position that the order has a "Christian character," its Grand Council has since 1999 affirmed that "profession of the Christian Faith should not be a condition of membership of the Order." The issue of the order's Christian character and the issue of "inclusive membership" was dealt with in the Grand Council's "Pro Fide Report" in 2005, wherein it was said that the order's life is shaped by Christian faith and values, but that "[r]ather than the emphasis being primarily upon 'spiritual beliefs or doctrine' it is on works of mercy rendered through St. John"; therefore, while the Great Officers are required to profess the Christian faith, the same is "not an essential condition of membership" and "[t]he onus is on the man or woman who is invited to the privilege of membership to decide whether he or she can with a good conscience promise to be faithful to the stated aims and purposes of this Christian lay order of chivalry." On the subject of inclusive membership, the report stated "Christian hospitality is a criterion which can be applied to the Order's relationships to persons of other religious faiths," and "the Order needs to be characterized by a hospitable disposition towards other faith traditions while holding fast to its own origins and foundational identity in Christian faith."
As the Order of St. John is open to the citizens of sixteen different countries, each with their own system of orders, decorations, and medals, the order's place of precedence varies from country to country. Unlike with other multi-level orders, all the Order of St. John's grades rank between the society's predecessor and successor; some examples follow:

</doc>
<doc id="293153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293153" title="Category:Order of St John">
Category:Order of St John


</doc>
<doc id="293164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293164" title="Jasenovac concentration camp">
Jasenovac concentration camp

Jasenovac concentration camp was the largest death camp and concentration camp in the Independent State of Croatia (ISC) during World War II. The camp was created by the Ustaše regime in August 1941 and destroyed in April 1945. Most of the people killed at Jasenovac were ethnic Serbs, who the ISC saw as their main racial enemy. The camp also held Jews, Roma, and a number of Croat and Bosniak Yugoslav Partisans.
Jasenovac was a complex of five sub-camps covering over on both banks of the Sava River. The largest camp was at Jasenovac, about southeast of Zagreb. The complex included large grounds at Donja Gradina directly across the Sava River; a children's concentration camp in Sisak; and a Stara Gradiška concentration camp.
The Independent State of Croatia (ISC) made three orders in 1941:
These orders were enforced through the regular court system, and through new special courts and mobile courts-martial with special powers. By July 1941, there were too many new prisoners to fit in the jails that existed. The Ustaše government began building the Jasenovac concentration camp.
The Independent State of Croatia was created and supported by Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy. Because of this, the ISC took on their ideas about race and politics. Jasenovac had a role in the Nazis' "Final Solution." However, the ISC also used the camp for the ethnic cleansing of Romani and Serbian people in Croatia.
The Nazi organizations that directed the Ustaše's death camps were:
The Nazis encouraged the Ustaše's anti-Jewish and anti-Roma actions and showed support for the anti-Serb policy. Soon, it became clear that the Nazis wanted to commit genocide. In a meeting on July 21, 1941, Hitler said to the Croatian military commander, Slavko Kvaternik:
The Jews are the bane of the human kind. If the Jews will be allowed to do as they will, like they are permitted in their Soviet heaven, than they will fulfill their most insane plans. And thus Russia became the center to the world's illness... if for any reason, one nation would endure the existence of a single Jewish family, that family would eventually become the center of a new plot. If there are no more Jews in Europe, nothing will hold the unification of the European nations... this sort of people cannot be integrated in the social order or into an organized nation. They are parasites on the body of a healthy society, that live off of expulsion of decent people. One cannot expect them to fit into a state that requires order and discipline. There is only one thing to be done with them: To exterminate them. The state holds this right since, while precious men die on the battlefront, it would be nothing less than criminal to spare these bastards. They must be expelled, or -- if they pose no threat to the public -- to be imprisoned inside concentration camps and never be released." 
The Jasenovac complex was built between August 1941 and February 1942. The first two camps, Krapje and Bročica, were closed in November 1941.
The three newer camps continued to function until the end of the war:
The camp was built, managed and supervised by Department III of the "Ustaška Narodna Služba" or "UNS" (lit. "Ustaše People's Service"), a special police force of the ISC. Vjekoslav "Maks" Luburić was head of the UNS. At different times, Miroslav Majstorović and Dinko Šakić managed the camp.
The Ustaše interned, tortured and executed men, women and children in Jasenovac. The largest number of victims were Serbs, but other victims included Jews, Bosnian Muslims, Gypsies, and Croatian resistance members opposed to the ISC regime. When they got to the camp, the prisoners were marked with colors: blue for Serbs, and red for "communists" (non-Serbian resistance members). Gypsies had no marks (this was later changed).
Most people who were sent to Jasenovac were killed at execution sites near the camp: Granik, Gradina, and other places. Prisoners who were kept alive were mostly people who had special skills (for example, doctors, pharmacists, electricians, shoemakers, and goldsmiths). They were forced to work at Jasenovac.
The living conditions in the camp were terrible, as was usual for Nazi death camps. Prisoners were fed very little, not given enough clothing or shelter to stay warm, had no health care, and were abused by the Ustaše guards. Also, as in many camps, conditions would be improved temporarily when special groups visited. For example, when members of the press visited in February 1942, and later when a Red Cross delegation visited in June 1944, the prisoners were treated better until the visitors left. Then the living conditions would go back to usual.
Like at all Nazi death camps, the food given to prisoners at Jasenovac was not enough to keep them alive. The kind of food they were given changed over time. In camp Brocice, inmates were given a "soup" made of hot water with starch for breakfast, and beans for lunch and dinner. (These "meals" were served at 6:00, 12:00 and 21:00.) Food in Camp No. III was better at first, with potatoes instead of beans. However, in January, prisoners started getting only one daily serving of thin "turnip soup". By the end of the year, the diet had been changed again, to three daily portions of thin gruel made of water and starch. More changes were made, but prisoners never got enough food to keep them from starving.
The water at Jasenovac was even worse than at most death camps. There was no clean water at the camp. Prisoners were forced to drink water from the Sava River, which was contaminated with "hren" (horseradish).
In the first camps, Brocice and Krapje, inmates slept in regular concentration-camp barracks. These were made of wood and had three tiers (levels) of bunks.
In Camp No. III, which housed about 3,000 prisoners, there was not enough shelter for everyone. At first, inmates slept in the attics of the camp's workshops, in an open depot used as a railway "tunnel", or simply outside in the open. A short time later, eight barracks were built. Inmates slept in six of these barracks. The other two were used as a "clinic" and a "hospital." These were not places where inmates could get medical treatment and get better. They were places where sick inmates were put together to die or be killed.
As in all concentration camps, prisoners at Jasenovac had to work about 11 hours a day. They did hard, forced labor, and were always watched by the Ustaše guards. These guards would execute inmates even for small reasons, and say the inmates were "sabotaging labor."
Ustasas Hinko Dominik Picilli and Tihomir Kordić controlled the labor section. Picilli would personally whip inmates to make them work harder. He divided the "Jasenovac labor force" into 16 groups, including groups of construction workers, brick-workers, metal-works, and agricultural workers. Many inmates died from the hard work. Brick-working was especially hard and dangerous. Inmates working as blacksmiths were forced to make knives and other weapons for the Ustaše. Building dikes was the most feared job of all.
Inside the camp, there was no sanitation. Prisoners had no way to keep things clean, and had to live in terrible conditions. Blood, vomit and dead bodies filled the barracks. The barracks were also full of pests like lice and rats, which spread disease. The barracks smelled terrible because inmates had to use a bucket for a toilet during the evenings. The bucket often spilled.
During breaks from work (from 5:00-6:00; 12:00-13:00, and 17:00-20:00), inmates were allowed to empty their bowels in public latrines. These were big pits that lay bare in the open field, covered with planks of wood. Inmates often fell inside and died. The Ustaše encouraged this by having prisoners separate the planks. Sometimes, the Ustaše would even drown inmates inside the pits. When it rained, these pits would overflow and drain into the lake. This meant that urine and feces would mix into the water which the prisoners had to drink.
Inmates were given rags and blankets, but they were very thin. The barracks were also not enough to keep inmates warm from the cold. Prisoners' clothes and blankets were rarely cleaned. Inmates were allowed to wash them quickly in the lake once a month, except during the winter, when the lake froze. Then, inmates were sometimes allowed to boil a few clothes, but not well enough to get them clean.
Because of these terrible living conditions, inmates suffered from illnesses that led to epidemics of typhus, typhoid, malaria, lung infections, influenza, dysentery, and diphtheria.
The Ustaše took away all of the inmates' clothes and other things. They were given only prison uniforms, made out of rags. In winter, inmates were given thin "rain-coats," and they were allowed to make light sandals. Inmates were given small a personal food bowl, to hold the 0.4 litres of "soup" they were fed. An inmate whose bowl was missing (because another inmate had stolen it to use it as a toilet) would get no food.
During delegation visits, inmates were given bowls twice as large as usual, with spoons. Also, during these visits, inmates were given colored tags.
Prisoners were affected by a constant fear of death, and terrible stress of being in a situation in which the living and dead are very close together.
When they first arrived at the camp, inmates would be shocked by the terrible conditions on the trip to the camp, and in the camp itself. The Ustaše would increase this shock by murdering a number of inmates as soon as they got to the camp, and by temporarily housing new-arrivals in warehouses, attics, in the train tunnel and outdoors.
After the inmates grew familiar with life in camp, they would have to get used to living through the hardships, abuse, torture, and deaths of other prisoners. The danger of death was greatest during "public performances for public punishment," also called selections. Inmates would be lined up in groups, and individuals would be randomly pointed out to be killed while facing the rest. The Ustaše would make this worse by making the process take a long time. They would walk around and ask questions; gaze at inmates; choose one person, then change their mind and choose another.
Inmates reacted to being in Jasenovac in two basic ways. Some became activists. They formed resistance movements (groups who tried to fight the Ustaše in different ways, like stealing food, planning escapes and revolts, and trying to get in touch with people outside the camp). But most of the inmates reacted by just trying to survive, and get through the day unharmed. This was not "going in line to slaughter," but rather another strategy to try to survive.
All inmates suffered from some kind of mental health problems. Some could not stop thinking about food; others became paranoid; some had delusions; some lost control of themselves. Others seemed to lose their sense of hope. Some inmates reacted by trying to write about what was happening to them. For example, Nikola Nikolić, Djuro Schwartz, and Ilija Ivanović all tried to memorize and even write about events, dates and details. This was very dangerous, since writing was punishable by death and tracking dates was hard.
Most of the executions of Jews at Jasenovac occurred before August 1942. After that, the ISC started to deport Jewish prisoners to the Auschwitz concentration camp. In general, Jews were first sent to Jasenovac from all parts of Croatia after being gathered in Zagreb, and from Bosnia and Herzegovina after being gathered in Sarajevo. Some, however, were sent directly to Jasenovac from other cities and smaller towns.
Many inmates sent to Jasenovac were scheduled to be murdered. Strong men who could do hard work, and were sentenced to less than 3 years in prison, were allowed to live. However, anyone who was sentenced to 3 years in prison or longer was immediately scheduled for execution.
The Ustaše used many different kinds of systematic extermination (killing many people at once, using a system). However, they liked using manual methods of killing - killing prisoners with their hands, using tools like knives, saws, and hammers.
The Ustaše cremated living inmates. Some were given drugs, but others were fully awake. They also cremated dead bodies.
When the Ustaše first started cremating people in January 1942, they used brick factory ovens. An engineer named Hinko Dominik Picilli made cremation much easier for them by creating seven better-working crematories.
Crematories were also placed in Gradina, across the Sava River. The State Commission says "there is no information that [the Gradina crematory] ever went into operation." Later testimony, however, says this crematory was used.
Some bodies were buried rather than cremated. Their bodies were dug up late in the war.
The Nazis had used poison gas to kill many prisoners in their concentration camps. Following this example, the Ustaše tried to use poison gas to kill inmates that arrived in Stara-Gradiska. At first, they tried to gas the women and children that arrived from camp Djakovo with gas-vans that Simo Klaić called "green Thomas". Later, they built gas chambers and used Zyklon-B and sulphur monoxide to kill prisoners.
Granik was a ramp used to unload goods from boats on the Sava River. In winter 1943-44, prisoners who did farming work had no jobs to do, since the ground was frozen. Meanwhile, large numbers of new prisoners arrived. By this time, the Axis powers were expected to lose World War II, and the Ustaše wanted to kill as many people as possible before that happened. They decided to execute people on the ramp, so that after they were killed, their bodies could be dumped into the river.
Every night for about 20 days, Ustaše officers brought in lists of prisoners who they planned to execute. They stripped, chained, and beat these prisoners. Then they took them to the Granik. There, weights were tied to them; their intestines and necks were cut; they were hit in the head; and then they were thrown into the river. Over time, the Ustaše changed this method, so that inmates were tied in pairs, back to back, and their bellies were cut open before they were tossed into the river alive.
Gradina and Ustice were villages around Jasenovac. The Ustaše chose some empty areas near these villages, and used wire to mark off an area for a massacre and mass graves. They gathered many prisoners there and killed them with knives or by smashing their skulls with hammers.
When Roma people (Gypsies) arrived in the camp, they did not undergo selection, because they were all scheduled to be killed. They were taken to Gradina. In between massacres, the men would be forced to work on the dike, and the women would be forced to work in the cornfields in Ustice. Eventually, they would all be killed. Thus Gradina and Ustice became Roma mass grave sites. The Ustaše killed more and more people Gradina, until it became the main killing-ground in Jasenovac. Grave-sites were also located in nearby Ustica and in Draksenic.
Mlaka and Jablanac were used as camps where women and children were held and forced to work. However, many women, children, and other people were killed at the Sava River bank between the two camps.
According to the State Commission, as many as 50,000 people were killed here in the winter of 1941 to 1942. Evidence says that more people were also killed here after that winter.
In the late summer of 1942, the ISC sent tens of thousands of Serbian villagers were to Jasenovac. The villagers had lived in the Kozara mountain area (in Bosnia), where ISC soldiers were fighting against the Yugoslav Partisans. The women villagers were sent to do forced labor in Germany. Children were taken from their mothers and either killed or sent to Catholic orphanages. However, most of the men were killed at Jasenovac.
On the night of August 29, 1942, the camp's guards made bets about who could kill the most prisoners. One of the guards, Petar Brzica, reportedly cut the throats of about 1,360 of the new prisoners, using a butcher knife that became known as "srbosjek" ("Serb-cutter"). Other guards who admitted taking part in the bet included Ante Zrinušić, who killed about 600 inmates, and Mile Friganović, who gave a detailed and consistent report of what happened. Friganović admitted to killing 1,100 inmates. He specifically talked about how he tortured an old man named Vukasin. He ordered the man to bless the Ustaše leader, Ante Pavelić. The old man refused, even though Friganović cut off his ears, nose, and tongue every time he refused. Eventually, he cut out the old man's eyes, tore out his heart, and cut his throat. Dr. Nikola Nikolić saw this happen.
In April 1945, as Yugoslav Partisan units neared the camp, the Ustaše guards tried to get rid of evidence of their crimes and the people who knew what they had done. They tried to kill as many prisoners as possible, as fast as they could. On April 22, 600 prisoners revolted; 520 were killed and 80 escaped. Not long after the prisoners revolted, the Ustaše abandoned the camp. However, first, they killed the prisoners who were still alive. They also blew up and destroyed the buildings, guardhouses, torture rooms, crematoriums, and other parts of the camp. When they entered the camp, the Partisans found only ruins, soot, smoke, and dead bodies.
By the end of 1945, the rest of Jasenovac was destroyed.
Historians have had difficulty figuring out exactly how many people died at Jasenovac. Today, the most common estimate is that tens of thousands of people died at the camp. Before the 1990s, the most common estimate was that hundreds of thousands had died.
These estimates are very different for many reasons. The Ustaše did not keep accurate records. Different people use different ways of estimating deaths. Sometimes, the people making estimates have political biases. In some cases, entire families were killed at the camp, leaving no one to submit their names to lists of the dead. On the other hand, the lists sometimes include the names of people who died in other places; people who survived; or people who are on more than one list.
The Yad Vashem center claims that over 500,000 Serbs were killed in the Independent State of Croatia. This includes Serbs who were killed at Jasenovac. The Simon Wiesenthal Center estimates the same.
According to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, Jasenovac's victims included "between 45,000 and 52,000 Serb residents of the so-called Independent State of Croatia; between 12,000 and 20,000 Jews; between 15,000 and 20,000 Roma (Gypsies); and between 5,000 and 12,000 ethnic Croats and Muslims, who were political and religious opponents of the regime."
There are many different documents from the time that Jasenovac existed, written by many different people. At the time, the Germans and Italians were fighting Yugoslav Partisans for control of Yugoslavia. People from both sides of that fight wrote about Jasenovac. The Ustaše themselves also wrote about the camp; so did the Vatican. Comparing all of these different accounts can help with estimates of how many people died at the camp.
As the war went on, German generals wrote reports on the number of Serbs, Jews, and others killed in the Independent State of Croatia. In 1943, three different generals estimated that 300,000 to 400,000 Serbs had been killed. By March 1944, Ernst Fick wrote that 600,000 to 700,000 Serbs had been killed. Hermann Neubacher wrote:
"When prominent Ustashi [Ustaše] leaders claimed that they slaughtered a million Serbs (including babies, children, women and old men), that is, in my opinion, a boastful exaggeration. On the basis of the reports submitted to me, I believe that the number of defenseless victims slaughtered to be three quarters of a million. (Neubacher, Dr. Hermann. Special Assignment in the Southeast, p. 18-30.)
Italian generals reported similar figures to their commanders. The Vatican's sources also wrote of similar figures. For example, Eugen Tisserant reported that 350,000 Serbs had been killed by the end of 1942. Godfried Danneels estimated that a total of "over 500,000 people" were killed.
The Ustaše themselves claimed that they had killed many more people. Vjekoslav "Maks" Luburić, commander-in-chief of all the Croatian camps, once bragged about Jasenovac's "efficiency." At a ceremony on October 9, 1942 - just a year after the camp was created - he said: "We have slaughtered here at Jasenovac more people than the Ottoman Empire was able to do during its occupation of Europe." The Ustaše general headquarters once published a pamphlet that said: "the concentration and labor camp in Jasenovac can receive an unlimited number of internees [prisoners]." Finally, Miroslav Filipovic-Majstorovic, once captured by Yugoslav forces, tried to minimize the crimes committed in Jasenovac by saying that during the three months that he ran the camp, 20,000 to 30,000 people died. In other sources, that three months' death toll is displayed as 40,000.
In 1945, the new Yugoslavian government, led by Tito, paid for a report by the National Committee of Croatia. The report looked into the crimes committed by the Ustaše and their allies. The report, dated November 15, 1945, stated that 500,000 to 600,000 people were killed at the Jasenovac complex. These figures were used by researcher Israel Gutman in the "Encyclopedia of the Holocaust"; by the Simon Wiesenthal Center; and by others.
Logically, the number of deaths in Jasenovac would depend on a few different things:
Also, crematories were built in Jasenovac as far back as January 1942, because the Ustaše were having trouble burying all of the camp's dead bodies. This suggests that many people were already dying at the camp. In addition, later that year, prisoners were being killed with poison gas in Stara-Gradiska, in both gas chambers and vans.
Some of the camp's officials and their post-war fates are listed below:
The Jasenovac Memorial Museum was temporarily abandoned during the Yugoslav wars. In November 1991, Simo Brdar, a former associate director of the Memorial, collected the documentation from the museum and brought it to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Brdar kept the documents until 2001, when he gave them to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, with the help of SFOR and the government of Republika Srpska.
With the help of former U.S. Congressman Anthony Weiner, the New York City Parks Department, the Holocaust Park Committee, and the Jasenovac Research Institute created a public monument to the victims of Jasenovac in April 2005 (on the sixtieth anniversary of the camp's liberation). Ten Yugoslavian Holocaust survivors were there, along with diplomats from Serbia, Bosnia, and Israel. It is the only public monument to Jasenovac victims outside of the Balkans. Ceremonies are held there every April.

</doc>
<doc id="293169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293169" title="Geshe Sonam Rinchen">
Geshe Sonam Rinchen

Geshe Sonam Rinchen was born in Kham in Eastern Tibet in 1933. In 1945, he joined Dhargyey Monastery, and entered Sera monastery in Lhasa in 1952, where he studied until he was forced to leave Tibet in 1959. 
In India he completed his studies for the degree of Geshe Lharampa which he received in 1980. He also received the degree of Acarya from the Central Institute of Higher Tibetan Studies in Sarnath. He was appointed resident teacher at the Library of Tibetan Works and Archives in Dharamsala, India in 1978, where he teaches Buddhist philosophy and practice, mainly to westerners. He has also taught in Japan, Australia, Great Britain, South Korea, Ireland, New Zealand and Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="293172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293172" title="Geshe Thubten Loden">
Geshe Thubten Loden

Geshe Thubten Loden leads the Tibetan Buddhist Society in Australia. Geshe Loden established the Peaceful Land of Joy Meditation Centre in Victoria, and has written many books. In 2011, he was named Hume Citizen of the Year.
Born in 1924, Geshe Loden became a monk at the age of seven. Completing his study of all divisions of Buddhist philosophy, he was awarded the Geshe Lharampa degree from Sera Monastery in Tibet, and an Acharya degree from Varanasi's Sanskrit university in India. He also gained a Master's qualification in Vajrayana Buddhism after six years' study at Gyudmed Tantric College. Geshe Loden originally came to Australia in 1976 as a Tibetan refugee.
Geshe Loden has written many books on Tibetan Buddhism, including:

</doc>
<doc id="293173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293173" title="Foundation for the Preservation of the Mahayana Tradition">
Foundation for the Preservation of the Mahayana Tradition

The FPMT (Foundation for the Preservation of the Mahayana Tradition) is a group of Buddhist centers focusing on the Gelugpa tradition of Tibet. Founded in 1975 by Lama Thubten Yeshe and Lama Thubten Zopa Rinpoche, who began teaching Buddhism to Western students in Nepal, the FPMT has grown to encompass 150 teaching centers, projects, and social services in 33 countries. Since the death of Lama Yeshe in 1984, the FPMT's spiritual director has been Lama Zopa Rinpoche.

</doc>
<doc id="293186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293186" title="Gerhard Tremmel">
Gerhard Tremmel

Gerhard Tremmel (born 16 November 1978 in Munich) is a German football goalkeeper. He plays for Swansea City in the Premier League.
He played in the youth teams of Bayern Munich and 1860 Munich and was transferred to SpVgg Unterhaching where he made his senior debut. He left Bavaria in 2002 and played for Hannover 96, Hertha BSC Berlin (1st and 2nd team) and for Energie Cottbus. After four seasons with Cottbus he intended to go back to Berlin, but finally he signed one year for FC Red Bull Salzburg to replace the injured goalkeeper Eddie Gustafsson. He only got 13 goals in the 2010/11 season, this made him to the best goalkeeper in the Austrian Bundesliga.
In 2011 he went to Swansea City which plays in the Premier League.

</doc>
<doc id="293187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293187" title="Category:Goalkeepers">
Category:Goalkeepers


</doc>
<doc id="293193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293193" title="Macropodiformes">
Macropodiformes

Macropodiformes is one of the three suborders of the large marsupial order Diprotodontia. Kangaroos, wallabies and allies, bettongs, potaroos and rat kangaroos are all in this suborder.

</doc>
<doc id="293195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293195" title="Category:Marsupials of Australia">
Category:Marsupials of Australia


</doc>
<doc id="293201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293201" title="Smoke (movie)">
Smoke (movie)

Smoke is an American independent movie released in 1995. It was produced by Hisami Kuroiwa, Harvey Weinstein and Bob Weinstein. It was directed by Wayne Wang and Paul Auster. Auster also wrote the screenplay.
Harvey Keitel, William Hurt, Victor Argo, Forest Whitaker, Ashley Judd, Stockard Channing and Harold Perrineau Jr. all appear in the movie.
The movie follows the lives of several characters. Their lives are connected because they are all customers at a small tobacco shop in Brooklyn, New York. The store manager is the main character, Auggie (Harvey Keitel). In the movie, the Brooklyn Cigar Co. was on the corner of 16th Street and Prospect Park West.
"Blue in the Face" was the next movie by the same directors. It follows the lives of some of the same characters and new characters join the story.
Won
Nominated

</doc>
<doc id="293205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293205" title="Yew">
Yew

A Yew is a coniferous tree. The name is most used for species of the genus Taxus, or for other members of the coniferous family Taxaceae.
All species of yew contain highly poisonous alkaloids known as taxanes. All parts of the tree except the arils (red 'fruits') contain the alkaloid. 
The arils are edible and sweet, but the seeds are dangerously poisonous. Unlike birds, the human stomach can break down the seed coat and release the taxanes into the body. This can have fatal results if yew 'berries' are eaten without removing the seeds first. 
The seeds and leaves will kill cattle and horses, but deer can break down the poisons and will eat yew foliage freely. In the wild, deer browsing of yews is often so extensive that wild yew trees are restricted to cliffs and steep slopes inaccessible to deer. The foliage is also eaten by the larvae of some Lepidopteran insects including Willow Beauty.
Yews are slow growing and can be very long-lived, and reach heights of 1-40 m, with trunk diameters of up to 4 m. They have reddish bark, spear-shaped flat, dark-green leaves 1-4 cm long and 2-3 mm broad, arranged spirally on the stem, but with the leaf bases twisted to align the leaves in two flat rows either side of the stem.
The seed cones are highly modified, each cone containing a single seed 4-7 mm long partly surrounded by a modified scale which develops into a soft, bright red berry-like structure called an aril, 8-15 mm long and wide and open at the end. 
The arils are mature 6-9 months after pollination, and are eaten by thrushes, waxwings and other birds, which disperse the hard seeds undamaged in their droppings. 
The male cones are round, 3-6 mm diameter, and shed their pollen in early spring. Yews are mostly dioecious, but occasional individuals can be variably monoecious, or change sex with time.
All of the yews are very closely related to each other, and often described together as "Taxus baccata". 

</doc>
<doc id="293211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293211" title="Category:1977 establishments">
Category:1977 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="293212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293212" title="Category:Gymnosperms">
Category:Gymnosperms


</doc>
<doc id="293213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293213" title="Wichita Falls, Texas">
Wichita Falls, Texas

Wichita Falls is a city in Wichita Couty, Texas, United States. The population of Wichita Falls was 107,000 in 2006. The mayors of Wichita Falls are Glenn Barham, Linda Ammons, Michael Smith, Dorothy Roberts Burns, Rick Hatcher, Tim Ingle and Mary Ward. Wichita Falls was founded on Sept. 27, 1872 when the Choctaw Indians settled the area in the early 18th century and then white settlers arrived in the 1860s to form cattle ranches.

</doc>
<doc id="293214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293214" title="Category:Former members of the German Bundestag">
Category:Former members of the German Bundestag


</doc>
<doc id="293217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293217" title="Diastole">
Diastole

Diastole () is the time during a heart beat when the heart fills with blood after a contraction. The contraction of the heart is called systole and is the opposite of diastole. The term "diastole" comes from the Greek word "διαστολη". This means expanding or opening.
There are two types of diastole. 
During ventricular diastole, the pressure in the (left and right) ventricles drops. When the pressure in the left ventricle becomes lower than the pressure in the left atrium, the mitral valve opens. The blood then flows from the atrium into the ventricle. The speed at which the blood flows into the ventricles can be used to diagnose diastolic dysfunction.
Because the heart relaxes during diastole, "diastolic pressure" is the lowest pressure within the arterial blood stream during each heart beat. The highest arterial pressure happens when the heart muscle contracts, and is called systolic pressure.
When blood pressure is measured for medical purposes, diastolic pressure is the second number in the "ratio" of systolic to diastolic pressure; for example: 120/80. 

</doc>
<doc id="293220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293220" title="Systole">
Systole

Systole is the last stage of a heart beat. It happens right after diastole, when the heart refills with blood. During systole, the heart's two ventricles contract (squeeze). (The ventricles are the largest parts of the heart, which pump blood to the body and lungs.) 
During systole, the heart muscle gets an automatic electrical signal that tells the heart to contract (squeeze). This makes the blood flow out of the heart. 
Above the ventricles are smaller chambers (sections) of the heart called atria. They contract (squeeze) during the last part of diastole, and send blood down to the larger, lower ventricles. The atria have valves that close after this so blood cannot flow backward into the atria. 
When the ventricles are filled and the valves to the atria are closed, the ventricles contract. So, the atria and ventricles contract in sequence. The left and right atria feed blood into the ventricles. Then, the left and right ventricles contract. 
The right ventricle pumps blood to the lungs, and the left ventricle pumps blood to the rest of the body. This is why we have a pulse.
Because the heart muscle contracts during systole, "systolic pressure" is the highest pressure in the arterial blood stream during each heart beat. (Blood causes the most pressure against the walls of the arteries when it is being pushed out during systole). The lowest arterial pressure happens when the heart muscle relaxes, and is called "diastolic pressure".
When blood pressure is measured for medical purposes, systolic pressure is the first number in the "ratio" of systolic to diastolic pressure. For example, if a person's blood pressure is 120/80, 120 is the systolic pressure, and 80 is the diastolic pressure.

</doc>
<doc id="293253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293253" title="Cassini">
Cassini

Cassini could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="293256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293256" title="Halite">
Halite

Halite is the mineral a lot of people call "rock salt". It is a different form of sodium chloride (NaCl). It looks like it is made out of cubes.

</doc>
<doc id="293283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293283" title="Psychoactive drug">
Psychoactive drug

A psychoactive drug, psychopharmaceutical, or psychotropic is a chemical substance that crosses the blood-brain barrier. Its action affects the central nervous system. It can affect the brain and change perception, mood, consciousness, cognition and behaviour. Hypnotics are often prescribed to help people sleep. Sometimes they are also used in rituals, or as illegal drugs. These drugs enable their users to change their consciousness. This can also help students when they are preparing their examinations. Certain therapies also use such substances. 
Psychoactive substances change the consciousness and mood of their user. The people using them may have pleasant feelings, such as euphoria or they may be more alert. For this reason, many psychoactive substances are abused: They are used outside the aims of the treatment. This may lead to the user developing a psychological and physical dependence ("addiction"). It will get more difficult to interrupt the cycle of abuse. 
Drug rehabilitation aims to break this cycle of dependency; this is done with psychotherapy, support groups and even other psychoactive substances: Acamprosate or naltrexone are examples of substances used to treat alcoholism, methadone or buprenorphine maintenance therapy in the case of opioid dependency. However, the reverse is also true in some cases, that is certain experiences on drugs may be so unfriendly and uncomforting that the user may never want to try the substance again. This is especially true of the deliriants (e.g. "datura") and dissociatives (e.g. "salvia divinorum").
In part because of this potential for abuse and dependency, the ethics of drug use are the subject of a continuing philosophical debate. Many governments worldwide have placed restrictions on drug production and sales in an attempt to decrease drug abuse. Ethical concerns have also been raised about over-use of these drugs clinically, and about their marketing by manufacturers.

</doc>
<doc id="293285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293285" title="Mangalore">
Mangalore

Mangalore is a city in the state of Karnataka, India. It is the capital city of Dakshina Kannada district. It is a port city. It is located on the Arabian Sea. It is the largest city in the Tulu Nadu region.
People in Mangalore speak many languages like Kannada, Tulu, Konkani and Beary.

</doc>
<doc id="293297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293297" title="West Coast of the United States">
West Coast of the United States

The West Coast of the United States is a term that generally refers to the states of California, Oregon, and Washington. It also sometimes refers to the states of Alaska and Hawaii. Almost 50 million people live in these states. The region includes the cities of Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle, Portland and San Diego.

</doc>
<doc id="293299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293299" title="Stryper">
Stryper

Stryper is a Christian glam metal band from Orange County, California. The group's lineup consists of Michael Sweet (lead vocals, guitar), Oz Fox (guitar), Tim Gaines (bass guitar), and Robert Sweet (drums). In 2004 Gaines left the band and was replaced by Tracy Ferrie (bass guitar) but rejoined in 2009.
Formed in 1983 as Roxx Regime, they would change their message and name to Stryper to go on to be the first Christian rock band to be recognized by the mainstream. In 1983 they were signed by Enigma Records and released their first album The Yellow and Black Attack. By the mid-1980s, Stryper saw their most successful period starting with the release of To Hell with the Devil which achieved Platinum sales status. Stryper would go on to release two more Gold albums before breaking up in 1992. In 2003 Stryper came out of retirement for a reunion tour and subsequently signed a multi-album contract with Big3 Records in 2005.
The name "Stryper" derives from the King James Version of the Bible. "But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities:
the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed." The reference, Isaiah 53:5, is frequently included as part of their logo. Stryper's drummer, Robert Sweet, also created a backronym for their name: "salvation through redemption, yielding peace, encouragement and righteousness".

</doc>
<doc id="293301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293301" title="Christian metal">
Christian metal

Christian metal, also known as 'white metal', is a form of heavy metal music which a Christian band makes to praise Jesus. Christian metal is typically performed by professed Christians, sometimes principally for Christians who listen to heavy metal music. It is often produced and distributed through various Christian networks.
Christian metal bands exist in all the subgenres of heavy metal music, and the only common link between most Christian metal bands are the lyrics. The Christian themes are often melded with the subjects of the genre the band is rooted in, regularly providing a Christian take on the subject matter. It has been argued that the marginal yet transnational Christian metal subculture provides its core members an alternative religious expression and Christian identity, and that the music serves the purpose of offering a positive alternative or counterbalance to secular metal music which is known for its generally dark and negative message.
Christian metal emerged in the late 1970s as a means of evangelism to the wider heavy metal music scene, and was pioneered by the American Resurrection Band and Swedish Jerusalem. Los Angeles' Stryper achieved wide success in the 1980s, otherwise the genre was mostly ignored by the mainstream. California's Tourniquet and Australia's Mortification led the movement in the 1990s. The metalcore groups Underoath, Demon Hunter, As I Lay Dying, and Norma Jean (dubbed by Revolver Magazine as "The Holy Alliance") brought some mainstream attention to the movement in the first decade of the 21st century, achieving ranks in the Billboard 200.

</doc>
<doc id="293303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293303" title="Jerusalem (rock band)">
Jerusalem (rock band)

Jerusalem is a Swedish Christian rock band, founded in 1975 by Ulf Christiansson. It was one of the first bands to combine Christian lyrics with a hard rock sound.
Jerusalem's message was primarily aimed at youth, with their lyrics describing the band's relationship to God in an ordinary, but radical way. The band's purpose was expressly evangelistic. Their concerts have been described as a series of revival meetings which often included altar calls and occasionally exorcisms.¡When the band first toured in the mid-1970s in Sweden, their combination of Christian lyrics with a hard rock sound was very controversial. The band was only permitted to perform at a few churches.
"For albums released in both Swedish and English versions, the English titles are in parentheses."

</doc>
<doc id="293307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293307" title="Neobatrachia">
Neobatrachia

Neobatrachia is a suborder of the Anura, which contains all frogs and toads. It is the most advanced (derived or apomorphic) and by far the largest of the three suborders. Its over 5,000 species make up over 96% of all living anurans. 

</doc>
<doc id="293310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293310" title="Hydrosphere">
Hydrosphere

The hydrosphere is the total mass of water on, under, and over the surface of a planet. It is part of physical geography.
The total mass of the Earth’s hydrosphere is about 1.4 × 10 grams, which is about 0.023% of the Earth’s total mass. Around 2 × 10 grams of this is the Earth’s atmosphere. In addition, 71% of the Earth’s surface, an area of 361 million square kilometers, is covered by ocean.

</doc>
<doc id="293342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293342" title="Bohuslav Martinů">
Bohuslav Martinů

Bohuslav Martinů (born Polička, Bohemia, 8 December 1890; died Liestal, Switzerland, 28 August 1959) was a Czech composer. He wrote an enormous amount of music, including six symphonies, 15 operas, 14 ballet scores and many orchestral, chamber, vocal and instrumental works. His music is often inspired by his native country.
Martinů was born in the tower of a town church and that is where he spent the first seven years of his life, away from the rest of the world. When he was old enough to go to school he had to climb the 193 steps down to the street every day. He started to have violin lessons from the local tailor. He was very shy because he was used to being all by himself with his family in the tower, but he made good progress and in 1905 gave his first violin recital.
Martinů soon started to compose music and nothing else interested him very much. He went to the Prague Conservatory to study the violin but he preferred going to the theatre and reading. In 1909 he changed to the organ school but he did no work and was expelled from school.
He managed to avoid fighting in the World War I by composing. After the war he became a member of the Czech Philharmonic Orchestra, playing second violin.
In 1923 he moved to Paris where he stayed for 17 years. He was very poor. He had some lessons with Albert Roussel and soon became known as a composer. He married in 1931 and his wife worked hard to earn money so that he could spend his time composing. He liked to use Czech folk stories and literature as inspiration for his music.
In 1940 he had to leave Paris to escape from the Nazis. He spent several months living rough, often sleeping on stationplatforms. In March 1941 he and his wife managed to get to New York.
Life in the United States was hard for him. He spoke no English and people there did not know his music. He had left all his scores behind. However, he worked hard and the famous conductor Sergei Koussevitsky asked him to write a symphony. His music still sounded very Czech. After World War II he very much wanted to go back to his own country, but the communist government made that impossible. He had a bad fall and it took him years to recover properly. He taught at Princeton University, then he retired to Nice in France. He died of cancer in Basle.
Bohuslav Martinů wrote a lot of music. He loved sitting down and writing music. Once he had finished a composition he was never very interested in hearing it performed or what happened to it. As a result some of his music is very good but some of it is less interesting. One of his last works was called "Řecké Pašije" ("The Greek Passion") which uses Greek folk melody and church chant. He was never influenced by American music, he preferred the modes, folktunes, bagpipe drones and mountain calls of his native country. His music can often be described as neoclassical in style.

</doc>
<doc id="293368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293368" title="Gallipoli Campaign">
Gallipoli Campaign

The Gallipoli Campaign was an Allied attack on the Gallipoli peninsula during World War I. The campaign took place between April 25, 1915 and January 9, 1916. The Allies, the British Empire and French forces, were fighting the Ottoman Empire and Germany.
The reason for the campaign was to break the stalemate on the Western and Eastern Front and to help the Russians.
The campaign started with a naval attack along the Dardanelles. Naval mines sank or damaged several ships and soon the Turks fought back and stopped the Allies from entering the Sea of Marmara. It was decided that if the Russians were to receive any British help, a land invasion was necesary. 
On April 25, 1915, Allied forces landed at various locations along the Gallipoli peninsula. Many British soldiers were landed in the wrong places resulting in heavy casualties. The British landed at Cape Helles and the ANZACs landed at a place later known as Anzac Cove. However, the Allies did not push on. Instead, they were told to dig trenches and wait for a Turkish attack. There was trench warfare until an evacuation of all Allied troops was finally ordered. The campaign is widely viewed as an Allied failure. 
The British historian A.J.P. Taylor wrote this of the Gallipoli campaign: "The Gallipoli expedition was a terrible example of an ingenious strategical idea carried through after inadequate preparation and with inadequate drive."
Mustafa Kemal Atatürk led the Turkish defenders, and became a hero to the Turks. Years after the war ended, he became their first president. He paid tribute to the ANZAC soldiers who died there.
 

</doc>
<doc id="293374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293374" title="Sparassodont">
Sparassodont

The Sparassodonts were an order of carnivorous Metatherian mammals. They are all now extinct.
The Sparassodonta is native to South America. They were once considered to be true marsupials, but are now thought to be a sister taxon to them. 
A number of these mammalian predators closely resemble placental predators that evolved separately in Eurasia. They were first described by Florentino Ameghino, from fossils found in the Santa Cruz beds of Patagonia.
Members of the order Sparassodonta showed many similarities with placental carnivora, but they were not closely related. They are a very good example of convergent evolution. 
For example, sparassodont molars were similar to the meat slicing teeth of modern cats. The canines were also lengthened, and in some cases, such as "Thylacosmilus", resemble those of saber-toothed cats like "Smilodon". Their body size varied, ranging from 80 cm (2 ft 8 in) long to the size of today's modern big cats.
Another family of large predators wrere the borhyaenids, which were more like wolves or dogs.
†Hathliacynidae
†Borhyaenidae
†Proborhyaenidae
†Thylacosmilidae

</doc>
<doc id="293376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293376" title="Rudi Hiden">
Rudi Hiden

Rudi Hiden (Josef Rudolf Hiden, born 9 March 1909 in Graz, Styria, Austria – died 11 September 1973 in Vienna) was an Austrian–French footballer. He was goalkeeper. After his career as player he became football coach.
He started playin football with Grazer A.K., where he played from 1925 - 1927. Then he went to Vienna, where he played for WAC(1927-1933). 1933 he planed to went to Arsenal London, but the Players Union did not allow this, so he went on to RC Paris together with Auguste Jordan, another Austrian footballer. 1937 he took the French nationality and played once for the French team in a 1940 match versus Portugal.
He started at the age of 19 in a match versus Yugoslavia(3:0). His second match he played two years later, he was very good so he became No.1 goalkeeper of the Austrian team. He was the goalkeeper in the golden age of the Austrian team, the so called Wunderteam (Wonderteam). In the early 1930 the team played 15 matches and won 12 and lost only one game (in Wembley versus England 3:4)
After his footballer career he became coach of different teams in Italys Seria B.

</doc>
<doc id="293377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293377" title="Brahmavar">
Brahmavar

Brahmavar is a town in India. It is in Udupi district of Karnataka State. It is near to the capital of the Tulu Nadu kingdom. It is on National Highway 17.

</doc>
<doc id="293391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293391" title="AB III">
AB III

AB III is the third studio album by American rock band Alter Bridge. It was released on October 8, 2010 in Germany and Australia, since then released worldwide through late 2010 and early 2011. It received critical acclaim, and debuted at #17 in the "Billboard" 200 with more than 28,000 copies sold.
It contains one of Alter Bridge most successful songs, "Isolation" which peaked at #1 at the Hot Mainstream Rock Tracks chart.

</doc>
<doc id="293393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293393" title="Category:Knights of the Order of St John">
Category:Knights of the Order of St John

Knights and Dames of Justice or Knights and Dames of Grace of the Order of St John

</doc>
<doc id="293394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293394" title="Macaw">
Macaw

A macaw is a New World parrot. Some of the species are large birds, the largest of the parrots. Macaws are native to Mexico, Central America, South America, and formerly the Caribbean.
Macaws, like all parrots, are unusually intelligent birds. The usual thing for parrots is to pair for life. They stay together even out of the mating season. They often fly in formation, one above the other.
Macaws eat a variety of foods including seeds, nuts, fruits, palm fruits, leaves, flowers, and stems. Wild species may forage widely, over for some of the larger species such as "Ara araurana" (blue & yellow macaw) and "Ara ambigua" (great green macaw), in search of seasonally available foods. 
In the western Amazon, hundreds of macaws and other parrots descend to exposed river banks to lick clay almost daily, except on rainy days. 
It was suggested that parrots and macaws in the Amazon basin eat clay from exposed river banks to neutralize toxins. 
The clay eating behavior of parrots was studied at clay licks in Peru. Apparently, macaws and other birds and animals prefer clays with higher levels of salt. Sodium is a vital element which is scarce in environments over 100 kilometers from the ocean. 

</doc>
<doc id="293396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293396" title="Harrison Bergeron">
Harrison Bergeron

"Harrison Bergeron" is a science fiction short story by Kurt Vonnegut. It was first published in 1961. The story is set in a future where the United States government thinks everyone should be equal, so the government gives people "handicaps". People who are strong must carry heavy weights, and people who are smart must wear a radio that sends out signals that distract them.
Harrison Bergeron is a boy who is very talented. He gets rid of his handicaps and dances with a ballerina on national television. The government kills him for doing this. His parents are watching, but are too distracted by their handicaps to understand what is going on.
Some conservatives have thought the story has a conservative point of view, although Vonnegut was not a conservative.

</doc>
<doc id="293397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293397" title="Category:Bailiffs Grand Cross of the Order of St John">
Category:Bailiffs Grand Cross of the Order of St John

Bailiffs and Dames Grand Cross of the Order of St John

</doc>
