<doc id="128090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128090" title="Hoatzin">
Hoatzin

The hoatzin ("Opisthocomus hoazin") is a tropical bird found in swamps, river forests, and mangroves of the Amazon and the Orinoco delta in South America. 
They are the only bird which eats leaves as a main part of their diet. Their gut has special adaptations which help their digestion. 
The hoatzin is also notable for having young with claws on two of their wing digits. They are the only living member of the family Opisthocomidae. Its close relatives probably died out long ago. There has been much debate about the hoatzin's relationships with other birds.
Hoatzin chicks are born with hooks on their wings. They use the hooks to climb around in the trees before they are large enough to fly. Hoatzins can fly only short distances even when they are fully grown, so they usually climb. 
They build their nests over water. If danger threatens, the birds dive into the water. They climb back up the tree after the danger has passed.
Hoatzins communicate through unusual sounds that resemble wheezing, grunting, growls, and hisses.
The hoatzin is the only bird that digests leaves. Their odor has been compared to fresh cow dung. The odor is caused by their digestive system.
The hoatzin eats the leaves and some fruits and flowers of plants which grow in the wet habitats where it lives. It clambers around clumsily among the branches. Once it was thought that the species only could eat the leaves of arums and mangroves, but the species does eat the leaves of more than fifty species. One study undertaken in Venezuela found that the hoatzin diet was 82% leaves, 10% flowers, and 8% fruit.
One of this species' many peculiarities is that it has a digestive system unique amongst birds. Hoatzins use bacterial fermentation in the front part of the gut to break down the vegetable material, much as cattle and other ruminants do. Unlike ruminants, however, which have the rumen (a specialized stomach for bacterial fermentation), the hoatzin has an unusually large crop, folded in two chambers, and a large, multi-chambered lower oesophagus. Its stomach chamber and gizzard are much smaller than in other birds. 
The crop of the hoatzin is so large that it displace the flight muscles and keel of the sternum. This is why they fly so poorly. Because of aromatic compounds in the leaves they eat, and the bacterial fermentation, the bird has a disagreeable, manure-like odor. It is only hunted by humans for food in times of great need. If the bird feeds on insects or other animal matter, that is purely accidental.
So far (2015) very few birds have had their total genome analysed. More recently, a start was made to sequence the entire genome of the hoatzin. As of 2011, it was reported that more than 1.4 billion base pairs of hoatzin DNA had been sequenced, roughly equal to its entire haploid genome, but that only about 2.4% of its genome had yet been assembled. Of birds, the genomes of only four species have been sequenced. Much might be learned by coordinating these efforts with analysing the hoatzin foregut ruminant bacterial microflora. At present, the nearest relatives of the hoatzin are not known. There is a fossil record which suggests its lineage is fairly ancient.

</doc>
<doc id="128102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128102" title="Tasman Peninsula">
Tasman Peninsula

Tasman Peninsula is 75 km by road south-east of Hobart, at the south east corner of Tasmania, Australia.
Tasman Peninsula is south and west of Forestier Peninsula. It is connected by a very narrow piece of land (isthmus) called Eaglehawk Neck. The Forestier Peninsula is joined to the rest of Tasmania by an isthmus called East Bay Neck, near the town of Dunalley about 60 km from Hobart.
There are a lot of things for visitors to see including the Conservation Park, on the main highway at Taranna, the Port Arthur Historic Site and a number of beaches.
The first people to live here were the Australian aborigines. They were part of a group known as the Ostyer Bay tribe. This large group lived on the east coast of Tasmania. The Tasman Peninsula is named after Dutch explorer Abel Tasman. 
The first European settlement of the Peninsula was Port Arthur in the 1830s. It was selected as a penal colony because it was isolated from the rest of Tasmania. It could be easily got to by sea. The other prison colony at Macquarie Harbour on the west coast was too difficult to get to by sea. The prisoners there were moved to a new prison at Port Arthur. The peninsula also had a lot of trees that could be used for ship building and building houses. It had a deep sheltered harbour where visiting British warships could be repaired. Eaglehawk Neck was lined with guards and guard dogs, to prevent the escape of any convicts. Some did escape, including the bushranger Martin Cash.
The Saltwater River, Tasmania historic site (entry free) is near the north west tip of the peninsula. It was originally the site of a coal mine. Prisoners dug for coal during the day and lived in underground cells at night.
The prison at Port Arthur is now a tourist attraction. Tourism is a major business in most of Tasmania. Bushwalking is also popular in the remote parts of the peninsula. Popular places to walk to include Cape Raoul and Cape Pillar at the south west and south east ends of the Peninsula, on either side of the entrance to Port Arthur.
It is now the main area in the battle to save the Tasmanian Devil from extinction. The devils have been getting a new type of cancer called Devil Facial Tumour Disease (DFTD). It has spread quickly through the devil population. The disease has already killed more than half of the Tasmanian devils.
The peninsula's isolation from the Tasmanian mainland is ideal for keeping a healthy wild Tasmanian devil population. This project involves the local Tasmanian Devil Conservation Park at Taranna and government and university scientists.
The rocky coastline has been the site of a number of shipwrecks. Two large steam ships have sunk after hitting the Hyppolyte Rocks off the east coast - the "Tasman" in 1883 and the "Nord" in 1915. Munroe Bight to the north of Cape Pillar is named after the American ship "James Munroe" wrecked there in 1850.
In the years between convict settlement and the start of the modern tourist industry the area most people worked in the timber industry and fishing. The area was not suitable for big farms. There are some fruit orchards and some small mixed farms. The area was isolated until a regular river steamer began sailing from Port Arthur to Hobart in the 1880s. From 1900 to the 1930s the main shipping company was the Huon, Channel & Peninsula Steamship Company. They owned several ships including the M.V. "Cartela".
Many smaller towns are also on the Tasman Peninsula. The largest are Nubeena and Koonya. Smaller villages are Premaydena, Highcroft and Stormlea.
The local government area is the Tasman Council. The major road to Hobart is called the Arthur Highway. The current population is around 2000. In summer the area gets many visitors and the population rises to around 6000.
The Tasman Peninsula is well known for its rocky eastern coastline. Much of it is now in the Tasman National Park. At Eaglehawk Neck the rocks have made many strange shapes and patterns. These include Remarkable Caves, Tasman's Arch and the Tessellated Pavement. On the south of the peninsula are the highest sea cliffs in the southern hemisphere, rising 300 m above the Tasman Sea at Cape Hauy. The peninsula is claimed as one of Australias best surfing spots at Cape Roaul and Roaring Beach.

</doc>
<doc id="128107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128107" title="Non-player character">
Non-player character

A non-player character (or an NPC) is a character played by a computer in a video game. NPCs are in many video games and help the player learn how to play the game or guide the player through the game.

</doc>
<doc id="128111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128111" title="Breaking Dawn">
Breaking Dawn

Breaking Dawn is the fourth and last novel in the "Twilight" series by Stephenie Meyer. The novel is divided into three sections called 'books'. The story in Book One and Book Three is told from the perspective of Bella Swan. Book Two is from the perspective of Jacob Black, Bella's werewolf friend. "Breaking Dawn" was released on August 2, 2008 with a special midnight release in many bookstores. 
As the book opens, Bella is driving a Mercedes Guardian that Edward has bought to protect her from getting into trouble. After informing Bella's parents of their engagement, Bella and Edward marry in a traditional wedding ceremony. The wedding has a minor disturbance during a confrontation between Jacob, Bella and Edward. Not wanting to spoil her wedding day, Bella puts aside her disappointment in Jacob's unpleasantness. Edward and Bella soon depart for their honeymoon off the coast of Brazil. Edward then fulfills Bella's wish and makes love to her. The next day they argue because Edward's passionate lovemaking leaves dark bruises all over Bella's body. He then refuses to make love to her while she is still human. Meanwhile, she has a recurrent dream of a small, green-eyed boy that she feels compelled to protect she also has dreams of her and Edward making love. Bella also finds herself constantly hungry and sick. But soon after Bella awakes in the middle of a dream crying; Edward asks whats wrong and instead of telling him she decices to show him and kisses him very passionately and Edward gives in. They have made love more than twice and upon seeing a box of unused tampons in her suitcase, she realizes that her period is late and she is pregnant. Though Bella has not longed for a child, she becomes immediately attached to her baby when she becomes aware of its existence. Edward, however, is only concerned for her health, and after hearing stories from a local woman (who suspects that Edward is a vampire) of similar situations that resulted in the mothers' deaths, Edward wants to get rid of the baby. Book one ends as Edward prepares to bring Bella home where he says that Carlisle will "take care of it," and as Bella secretly calls Rosalie for help.
The book is told from Jacob's perspective. He receives news of Edward and Bella's return, and that Carlisle has told Charlie that Bella is quarantined because she has contracted a rare disease in South America. Jacob assumes that Bella has been bitten and transformed. He is upset when Sam Uley, acting Alpha of the pack, declares that the pack will not retaliate. Jacob, full of anger, decides that if the pack will not retaliate collectively, he will act alone. Formulating strategies of attack, he runs to the Cullen house. When he arrives, however, he discovers that things aren't as he expected. Bella, as opposed to being a newborn vampire, is already heavily pregnant with Edward's and her child. It is clear that the child's rapid growth is starving and hurting Bella.
When Jacob returns to his wolf state, his thoughts inadvertently inform the pack of Bella's state. This causes fear and anger among the werewolves; they don't know how the child might act since the child is an offspring of a vampire. Sam commands the pack in the double-timbre of the Alpha, to obey his decision to destroy Bella and her unborn child. Jacob, who still loves Bella, disagrees, revolts, assumes his inherited Alpha position and leaves Sam's pack. Seth, then Leah Clearwater, soon join Jacob and the threesome form a pack with Jacob as Alpha. Jacob, Leah and Seth patrol the Cullen territory to forewarn the family of any impending werewolf attack. 
As the fetus continues to develop at an alarmingly accelerated rate, Bella's health worsens. During Bella's pregnancy, Edward realizes he can read the child's mind, and is astonished to discover that the baby already loves Bella. As he hears his child's thoughts, Edward begins to love the baby as well. This leaves Jacob feeling betrayed, as he was counting on Edward to hate the baby more than he.
Bella goes into labor approximately a month after the honeymoon. The hard placenta that surrounds the child cracks; Bella begins vomiting blood. The child breaks free and Bella is very near death. Edward delivers the baby, a girl, and begins CPR, then transforms Bella into a vampire. He injects his venom into her heart and bites her in several places. Believing that Bella is dead and that there is no hope she will be resuscitated, Jacob leaves the room and goes to kill the baby whom he holds responsible. He finds her in Rosalie's arms and looks into the baby's eyes. They are exactly the same shade of brown as Bella's. Jacob imprints on her.
The book returns to Bella's perspective. She has just given birth to her daughter, and is now experiencing the painful transformation from human to vampire. After two days, she opens her eyes. The Cullens are wary of Bella as newborn-vampires are volatile. Yet, Bella manages to exhibit some self-control unseen in normal newborns. She wishes to see her daughter, Renesmee, but since Renesmee is part-human, the family believes Bella will be unable to control her newborn thirst if she sees the child so soon without first hunting.
Edward takes Bella on her first hunt to ease her thirst. Before they leave, Alice shows Bella her reflection. She has transformed into a stunningly beautiful woman with flawless skin and newborn-vampire red eyes. Bella does not recognize her reflection at first due to her volatile-looking red eyes. 
Upon returning, Bella is allowed to see her daughter because of her demonstration of self-control in the woods when she smelled humans approaching. Because Renesmee is growing at an astonishing rate, she looks older than her calendar age. Bella learns of Renesmee's gift - the ability to communicate by sending images to people's minds through touch. Bella is infuriated when she learns that Jacob has imprinted on Renesmee, and says it is his fault that he has imprinted on her child. She loses her self-control and she tries to attack Jacob. She breaks Seth's collarbone and shoulder when he steps between the two. She then manages to calm down. Renesmee leads to a truce between the Quilleutes and the Cullens because of Jacob's imprinting. Differences between Sam and Jacob's packs are soon settled as well and they become co-existent Alphas.
Unfortunately for the Cullen family, Irina, a vampire from the Denali clan, sees Renesmee and mistakenly informs the Volturi that Renesmee is a forbidden immortal child. The Cullen family understands that Irina is mistaken and decides the only way to enlighten the Volturi and prevent an attack is to present Renesmee with a large group of credible witnesses.
After leaving a note with Sam Uley from the copyright page of Shakespeare's "The Merchant of Venice", Alice and Jasper suddenly leave the Cullens. Since the couple does not provide a warning or reason, the Cullen family does not know why the couple has fled, and assumes that Alice has foreseen there is no hope for the situation. Since it was her copy of the book, Bella perceives this as a sign from Alice. She returns to the cottage and she finds that Alice has written a name and address on another page of the book. When Bella goes to the address, she finds that it leads to the office of a lawyer who can forge documents. Bella requests documents for Jacob and Renesmee, should they need to escape if a fight ensues with the Volturi. Meanwhile, nomadic, vegetarian, and clans of vampires arrive at the Cullen estate after the family begins to seek their friends' assistance with the Volturi. Most of them are enthralled by Renesemee, and almost all agree to bear witness to the Volturi that she is not an immortal child. 
Bella also discovers that her power of mind-privacy has a shielding effect and she wonders if she can extend this protection to others. During the month of preparation for the Volturi, several of the vampires with quantifiable supernatural talents teach Bella how to expand the barrier. When the Volturi and Irina finally arrive, all of the vampires and the werewolves meet in a clearing in the forest. The Volturi discover that they have been misinformed and immediately execute Irina for her mistake. However, the Volturi are not satisfied to leave because the Volturi leaders want the exceptionally gifted vampires to join them. Those on Bella's side are protected when Bella's shield disables the Volturi's offensive fighters, Alec and Jane. Aro, Caius and Marcus decide to vote on whether or not Renesmee will be a danger to the vampire world when she attains maturity. Just before Aro can cast his deciding vote, Alice and Jasper return with another half-human, half-vampire from South America who is about one hundred fifty years-old. He and his three half-sisters (who are also half-vampire, half-human) are the children of a vampire who is creating a "super race." They have never caused any danger to the vampire world. Facing no other choice, Aro chooses to give up the fight, and the Volturi flee. 
After leaving the Cullen estate for their cottage, Bella and Edward tuck Renesmee into her bed and proceed to their bedroom arm-in-arm. Bella tells Edward she wants to try something with him. She has been secretly practicing for this moment. Bella places her hands on his cheeks and tries to push away her shield. She conjures her special memories that she wants to share with Edward. He is finally able to see for the first time just how deeply she has always loved him. She wants to remove the barrier for Edward so he can access her mind. She says that they have only forever for her to perfect it. The "Twilight" series closes with "And then we continued blissfully into this small but perfect piece of our forever."
The cover of "Breaking Dawn" is a metaphor for Bella's changes during the entire story. She began as the weakest (at least physically, when compared to vampires and werewolves) player on the board: the pawn. She ended as the strongest: the queen. 
The title "Breaking Dawn" is a reference to the beginning of Bella's vampire life.
"Entertainment Weekly" magazine printed a small part of "Breaking Dawn" on Friday, May 30, 2008. Stephenie Meyer also gave a 'Quote of the Day' from "Breaking Dawn" for about 3 weeks before the book was released on August 2, 2008. The first quote was on Meyer's website on July 12, 2008.
The first part of "Breaking Dawn", "Engaged", was released in the special edition of "Eclipse". 
Some readers liked "Breaking Dawn" but others did not.
In an article on "The Daily News Tribute" Margaret Smith says of "Breaking Dawn" "You too might fall in love with its suspense and moving sensitivity -- and with the unlikely couple struggling to find light within their world’s heart of darkness."
In an interview on EW.com, Meyer talked about the fans' reaction to the book. She said the "wild reaction" fans had the "Rob Effect". She said the fans need time to accept the ending of "Breaking Dawn", just as they needed time to accept Robert Pattinson playing the role of Edward Cullen in the "Twilight" movie.
An article about "Breaking Dawn" on "nymag.com" asked: "Did 'Breaking Dawn' Ruin the Twilight Series?".
The article said: "The "L.A. Times' " Denise Martin didn't like it and says that unlike J.K. Rowling in her series finale, 'Meyer's bunted.'"
"The Washington Post" also did not like the book. It used comments such as, "...Meyer has put a stake through the heart of her own beloved creation," and, ""Breaking Dawn" has a childbirth sequence that may promote lifelong abstinence in sensitive types."

</doc>
<doc id="128118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128118" title="Shayne Ward">
Shayne Ward

Shayne Ward (16 October 1984) is an English singer. He was born in Clayton, Greater Manchester. He won the 2005 UK series of television programme "The X Factor". He has released three studio albums.

</doc>
<doc id="128127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128127" title="The X Factor (UK)">
The X Factor (UK)

The X Factor is a British television programme, in which ordinary people who want to be singers compete for a recording contract and a cash prize. It is shown from August-December each year on Saturdays and Sundays on the channel ITV.
The show started being presented by Kate Thornton, but she left in Series 3 (2006.) Ben Shephard was hoping to present, but w
his offer was turned down. Instead, Dermot O'Leary took over in Series 4 (2007) and presented for 8 series, until his departure from the show in Series 10. Olly Murs and Caroline Flack became the first duo to host the show, but only lasted one series, mainly because they were very unpopular with the public. Surprisingly, Dermot O'Leary is returning to present the X Factor for its 13th series.
There have been either three (series 1-3) or four (4-present) judges on the X Factor UK. The show was created by Simon Cowell, who, along with Sharon Osbourne and Louis Walsh, were judges in the first three series. In 2007, Dannii Minogue joined the panel, to 'bring some youth to the panel.' However, Sharon Osbourne announced her leave at the end of the series. She was replaced by Cheryl Cole in Series 5. In 2010, Dannii and Cheryl both quit, although Cheryl later became a judge on the X Factor USA. Simon Cowell also left in order to focus on the X Factor USA. Gary Barlow replaced Simon and became head judge. Kelly Rowland and Tulisa Contostavlos (better known as just Tulisa) also joined Louis and Gary. Kelly only stayed for a year, and was replaced by Nicole Scherzinger in Series 8. Tulisa was fired at the end of Series 8, being replaced by Sharon Osbourne, who made a return for one series only. She, Gary and Nicole all announced their leave at the end of the series. Following the axing of X Factor USA, Simon Cowell returned to the show for Series 11. Cheryl Cole also returned, and Mel B joined the show as a replacement for Nicole. Mel and Louis both quit at the end of the series, and were replaced by Rita Ora and Nick Grimshaw. As far as series 13 goes, only Simon Cowell is returning to the show, as Cheryl, Rita and Nick have all left the show.
The Xtra Factor is the spin-off show of the X Factor UK. It is broadcast on British Television channel ITV2. The hosts of the spin-off are well known for hosting for short periods of time. The first Xtra Factor host was Ben Shephard, and he quit in Series 3, because his offer of being the main presenter (after Kate Thornton's departure) was turned down by the show's producers. Fearne Cotton then hosted for the fourth series. Holly Willoughby, Cotton's close friend, replaced her during the following two series, but was replaced by Blue Peter former presenter, Konnie Huq in 2010, however, Konnie lasted only one series. Olly Murs and Caroline Flack became the first duo to host the Xtra Factor in Series 8, and they presented together for two seasons. Olly then left in order to focus on his music career. He was replaced by Matt Richardson, but then Caroline and Matt announced their leave. Sarah-Jane Crawford hosted for only the 11th season. The Saturdays singer Rochelle Humes teamed up with Melvin Odoom to present the Xtra Factor's twelfth season. It is yet unknown as to if they will return for 2016. 

</doc>
<doc id="128128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128128" title="Cheryl Cole">
Cheryl Cole

Cheryl Cole is an English pop singer, dancer and television personality. She was born in Newcastle upon Tyne. She used to be a judge on the television programme "The X Factor". 
In 2002, Cole auditioned for music reality show . She and four other girls, Sarah Harding, Nicola Roberts, Kimberley Walsh, and Nadine Coyle won the competition. They formed a group called Girls Aloud on 30 November 2002, which has since been very successful. They have had 20 top ten singles in the United Kingdom, and have been nominated for four BRIT Awards, winning best single for 'The Promise."
Cole was asked to become a judge on The X Factor in 2008. She won it in her first year with Alexandra Burke. Burke has had a number one single and a number one album in 2009. Cole won it again in 2009, mentoring the eventual winner Joe McElderry.
Cole released her first solo single, Fight for This Love, in October 2009 from her solo album "3 Words". It went straight to number one in the charts, becoming the best-selling song of 2009. Her new album 'Messy Little Raindrops' went straight to number one in the album charts, 'Promise This' is a hit single from the album. She has a new song called "Call My Name", which was released on 10 June 2012. Her autobiography was published in 2012.
In January 2003, Cole punched a toilet attendant in a nightclub in Guildford, Surrey. In October that year, she was convicted of assault occasioning actual bodily harm. She was sentenced to 120 hours of community service.
Cole married Chelsea and England football player Ashley Cole in July 2006. In February 2010, they announced their separation after several newspapers claimed he had been unfaithful with other women. She divorced him in September 2010. She married Jean-Bernard Fernandez-Versini on 7 July 2014. The couple separated in 2015. She is now dating one directions Liam Payne, the couple were first seen together late last year and are already living together. She is now pregnant with Payne's baby. 

</doc>
<doc id="128131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128131" title="Dannii Minogue">
Dannii Minogue

Dannii Minogue is an Australian pop singer, actress, presenter and model. She is a judge on the British television programme "The X Factor". She was born Danielle Jane Minogue in Melbourne on 20 October 1971 to a Welsh immigrant mother and Irish-Australian father. Her sister is Kylie Minogue. Her biggest hit was "Who Do You Love Now".

</doc>
<doc id="128136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128136" title="Side project">
Side project

In music, a side project is a musical project by one or more people who are already famous for their work in another band. The term "side project" can also be used when a musician changes their style. Side projects usually happen so that a musician can do music that they would not normally do as part of the band.

</doc>
<doc id="128137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128137" title="Martin Cash">
Martin Cash

Martin Cash (1808–1877) was a famous Australian bushranger. He was one of the few people who escaped from the prison at Port Arthur, Tasmania. In 1870 he wrote a book (autobiography) about his life.
Cash was born at Enniscorthy, County Wexford, Ireland. As a boy he worked on a farm at Wexford. In March 1827, he was convicted of stealing from houses. In his book, Cash says he shot a man in the bottom (buttocks). The man had been kissing Cash's mistress. He was sentenced to seven years transportation to Australia.
Cash was sent as a convict to Sydney, sailing in the "Marquis of Huntley". He was sent to work for George Bowman in the Hunter River area. After being set free he continued to work for Bowman. He was suspected of stealing cattle so he left New South Wales and went to Van Diemen's Land with Bessie Clifford and arrived in February 1837. In 1839 he was again convicted of stealing and sent to prison for seven years. During the next three years he escaped three times. He nearly escaped from Port Arthur by swimming. He was given an extra four years in prison at Port Arthur.
On Boxing Day 1842 Martin Cash, with George Jones and Lawrence Kavenagh escaped from a work party. They hid in the thick bush and walked to Eaglehawk Neck. They swam across with their clothes tied up above their heads. They all lost their clothes and had to steal some. For nearly two years they robbed mail coaches, houses and hotels. They almost never used violence and became known as 'gentlemen bushrangers'. They were called "Cash and Company". On July 14, 1843, the government offered a reward of 100 sovereigns or 100 acres of land for help in capturing Cash.
Cash thought that Bessie Clifford was with another man. He went to Hobart in August 1843, but was captured. During his capture he shot and killed a policeman. Cash was sentenced to death by hanging. At the last minute the lieutenant-governor changed the punishment to prison for life. Cash was sent to Norfolk Island for ten years. He became a well behaved prisoner and given some important jobs, such as looking after the young boys.
In March 1854, he was able to marry Mary Bennett (1824–1914), a convict from County Clare. He was let out of prison and went back to Tasmania. He worked for in the gardens in the government Domain, Hobart. In May 1856, he went to New Zealand, but came back to Tasmania four years later. He bought a hop farm at Glenorchy. Cash told the story of his life to James Lester Burke, an Irish ex convict. Burke wrote down the story which was published in Hobart in 1870. It has been reprinted many times. Martin Cash died on August 27, 1877.

</doc>
<doc id="128139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128139" title="Saga Prefecture">
Saga Prefecture

The area of Nagasaki Prefecture and Saga Prefecture was formerly called Hizen Province. The current name dates from the Meiji Restoration. 
In the Edo period this area was called the .
"The Seven Wise Men of Saga" is the name for seven men from Saga. Each of them was important to the development of modern of Japan. They began changing the country around the end of the Tokugawa Shogunate. They continued modernizing Japan during the Meiji Restoration. 
Saga is the smallest prefecture on Kyūshū. It is bordered by the Genkai Sea and the Tsushima Strait to the north and the Ariake Sea to the south. Nagasaki Prefecture is on its western border. Fukuoka Prefecture and Kumamoto Prefecture are east of Saga.
National Parks are established in about 11% of the total land area of the prefecture. 
"Yodohime jinja" and "Chiriku Hachiman-gū" are the chief Shinto shrines ("ichinomiya") in the prefecture.

</doc>
<doc id="128140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128140" title="What Is This?">
What Is This?

What Is This? was a rock band from Los Angeles, California. They started around the same time as Red Hot Chili Peppers. Before 1980, their name was Anthym. Hillel Slovak, Flea, and Jack Irons were members of both bands, but Slovak and Irons left after Red Hot Chili Peppers' first album. After Natasha Shneider joined the band, they changed their name to Walk The Moon and then to Eleven.

</doc>
<doc id="128146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128146" title="Shanghai World Financial Center">
Shanghai World Financial Center

The Shanghai World Financial Center is a high skyscraper in Shanghai, China. It has 101 storeys and is currently the third tallest building in the world, because Burj Khalifa is the tallest. Inside the building, there are offices, hotels and shopping malls.
This building's roof is actually higher than Taipei 101's roof, but Taipei 101 has a spire on top, making Taipei 101 taller than Shanghai World Financial Center.

</doc>
<doc id="128147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128147" title="Black mamba">
Black mamba

The black mamba ("Dendroaspis polylepis") belongs to the Elapidae family of snakes. It is the second largest venomous snake in the world. An adult black mamba can grow up to in length. The black mamba's skin is not actually black, it gets its name from the colour of the roof of its mouth. 
The black mamba lives in the south and the east of Africa. They can be found as far north as Eritrea, and as far west as Namibia, and all throughout South Africa. It is known around the world for its dangerous venom. It is very fast (it reaches speeds of 12 miles per hour) and can also climb very fast. The black mamba lives 10-11 years.
Black mambas enjoy rock-covered hills, forested savannah, and woods with rocks and fallen trees to shelter them. They also can be found in hollow trees and in termite mounds. If the black mamba is not disturbed, it will come back to a certain home all its life. They are typically found in subsaharan places in parts of south and east Africa. They can be found as far north as Eritrea, and as far west as Namibia, and in South Africa.
Black mambas eat small mammals like rodents and squirrels. Sometimes they eat birds. They bite once or twice and then wait for their prey to become paralyzed and die. Then they eat them. Acids in their stomach digest the prey within 8-10 hours. Black mambas are important to our ecosystems because they keep the rodent populations in check.
There is not much information on the predators of the black mamba, but snakes have many predators. Some predators are birds of prey, crocodiles, big frogs, mongooses, monitor lizards, foxes, jackals, and even humans. We kill them because we are afraid of their dangerous venom. Also, snake eggs are sometimes eaten by scavengers.
The black mamba is a shy animal. They like to avoid other animals, but if another animal confronts them, they become aggressive. When the black mamba is threatened, it will raise its head, open its mouth, expand its hood, and flick its tongue. It will also hiss. Its bites are fast and it bites many times. Its venom can be fatal to us. The black mamba likes to bask in the sun, and it remembers the spot it basks at. They are fast and can climb trees quickly. 
They communicate in the same ways that most snakes do. They use their eyes to detect motion, and if it is sudden they will attack. They 'see' with their tongue by collecting air particles and then putting them on an organ in their mouth. The organ senses what is around them with the air particles. They do not have ears on the outside of their body, but they can sense vibrations in the ground. Like many other snakes, if they are threatened, they will show aggression and signals that warn the attacker.
A black mamba's bite is easily enough to kill an adult man. The deadly poison takes between 30 minutes to 3 hours to kill, in most cases. Unlike most snakes it has enough venom to bite many times in a short period. A black mamba usually attacks the head of its prey if possible. For this reason a black mamba can raise itself to a height of almost four feet.
When the males and females are done mating, they go back to their homes. In two to three months the females will lay 6-17 eggs, which will hatch in 2-3 months. Black mambas do not interact with each other besides mating. They do not try to raise their young. When the female lays her eggs, she will put them in a safe place and leave them. The babies have to defend themselves from birth. Young black mambas stay in the egg for 2-3 months, and then they break through the shell with an 'egg tooth.' They are almost fully developed when they hatch, and they already have venom glands and can defend themselves mere minutes after their birth.
Black mambas mate in the early springtime. The male snakes will find a female by following their scent. When the male black mamba finds the female, he will inspect her with his tongue. Male snakes will fight a lot during the mating season. They intertwine their bodies and raise their heads up to one meter off the ground. It looks like dancing.And they like having sex
The black mamba is related to all members of the elapidae family

</doc>
<doc id="128149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128149" title="Cucumber">
Cucumber

The cucumber ("Cucumis sativus") is a widely grown plant in the family Cucurbitaceae. This family also includes squash. A cucumber looks similar to a zucchini (British English: courgette). 
To a botanist, cucumbers are fruits: that is their biological function. To people they are vegetables: that is their value as a food. They can be cooked, eaten raw, or pickled.

</doc>
<doc id="128150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128150" title="Category:Cucurbitaceae">
Category:Cucurbitaceae

This category is for plants in the family "Cucurbitaceae".

</doc>
<doc id="128151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128151" title="Anne Wood">
Anne Wood

Anne Wood CBE born December 1937) is a British children's television producer. Her independent production company, "Ragdoll Productions", was founded in 1984 and specialises in making original programming for children 10 and under. Ragdoll is based in Stratford-upon-Avon, UK and has produced "Pob", "Brum", "Rosie and Jim", "Tots TV", "Teletubbies", "Boohbah" and most recently "In the Night Garden".
She has won a BAFTA. 

</doc>
<doc id="128153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128153" title="List of Teletubbies episodes">
List of Teletubbies episodes

This is a list of episodes of the children's television series "Teletubbies". The programme was originally broadcast on BBC. There are 4 series in total. The first episode, "Ned's Bicycle", was shown on 31 March 1997. The last episode was shown on 4 May 2001.

</doc>
<doc id="128154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128154" title="Tim Whitnall">
Tim Whitnall

Tim Whitnall (born 27 June 1961) is an English actor, musician, and writer who played Angelo in the long-running hit CITV series "Mike and Angelo". He was born on Canvey Island, Essex. Tim has starred in many West End musicals including "Elvis", "Grease", "The Rocky Horror Show" and "Good Rockin' Tonight" and most recently appeared in Jim Cartwright's "Eight Miles High" at the Royal Court Theatre, Liverpool. He has worked extensively in movie, TV and radio and presented (and wrote for) the BBC School's series, "Time and Tune", "Music Workshop" and "Let's Sing". He has provided many voice-overs and vocals for TV commercials, animations and jingles but his voice is perhaps best known as narrator of top children's BBC programme "Teletubbies". Tim's critically acclaimed 2005 theatre play "The Sociable Plover" has recently been made into a feature movie by Poisson Rouge Pictures and Solution Films(re-titled as "The Hide") for release later in 2008. He lives in Richmond, London with his partner, Anna Murphy with whom he has a production company Feather Productions Ltd.

</doc>
<doc id="128174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128174" title="The College Dropout">
The College Dropout

The College Dropout is the debut album by rapper and producer Kanye West, released February 10, 2004. It was nominated for Grammy Award for Album of the Year and won Best Rap Album and Best Rap Song for "Jesus Walks" in 2005. The album has received great acclaim from critics and mainstream fans alike, for its balance of mainstream commercial appeal and its innovative subject matter. It has been called one of the greatest albums of all time by "Time" and "Rolling Stone".
Kanye West had gotten attention for his production but was not well-known for his rapping. He was turned down by record labels because he didn't have the gangsta image that was popular at that time. He eventually signed with Roc-A-Fella Records. In 2002, West was in a bad car accident which gave him a shattered jaw, so his jaw had to be wired shut. He recorded a song called "Through the Wire" with his jaw still wired shut. This song helped him get a starting point for the album. 
The album was recorded at The Record Plant in California. The beats used mainly had pitch shifted samples from gospel and soul records. Some of the beats used were gathered over a long period of time. When the album was finished, it was leaked. West used this as an opportunity to re-assess the album and improve it. He added strings and gospel choirs into his songs. 
The album was different from the gangsta rap that was popular at that time. The lyrics were on subjects that affected West's life such as family, religion, racism, materialism and more. 
"The College Dropout" reached #1 on Billboard's Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums Chart, and reached #2 on the "Billboard" 200. In the UK, it peaked at #12 on the album chart and spent several months in the top 20. The album went triple platinum in the United States.
The first single from the album, "Through the Wire", was recorded while West's mouth was wired shut after a near-fatal car accident in October 2002. It features a Chaka Khan sample, peaked at #15 on the Billboard Hot 100 Singles chart while its successor "All Falls Down", which features R&B singer Syleena Johnson, peaked at #7. The third single, "Jesus Walks", peaked at #11 while a fourth extract, "The New Workout Plan", made a minor impression on the R&B/Hip-Hop charts (see list of US Billboard chart positions below). In the UK, "Through The Wire" peaked at #9 on the singles sales chart, "All Falls Down" peaked at #10, and "Jesus Walks" peaked at #11.
Information taken from "The College Dropout" liner notes.

</doc>
<doc id="128175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128175" title="Category:Australian television networks">
Category:Australian television networks

This is for Australian television networks.

</doc>
<doc id="128195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128195" title="73 (number)">
73 (number)

Seventy-three is a number. It comes after seventy-two, but before seventy-four.

</doc>
<doc id="128200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128200" title="Fowler Ridge Wind Farm">
Fowler Ridge Wind Farm

The Fowler Ridge Wind Farm is a wind farm in Benton County, Indiana, near the city of Fowler, IN about northwest of Indianapolis. Fowler Ridge was constructed in two phases and has a generating capacity of 600 MW. 

</doc>
<doc id="128201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128201" title="Shepherds Flat Wind Farm">
Shepherds Flat Wind Farm

Approval has been given for the 303 turbine Shepherds Flat Wind Farm near Arlington, Oregon. The wind farm will be able to generate 909 megawatts (MW) at its peak, which is enough electricity to power some 225,000 homes. The wind farm should employ up to 300 people during construction and about 25 when operational.
When completed, this will be the world's largest wind farm. Currently, the largest operating wind farm in the U.S. is the 736 MW Horse Hollow Wind Energy Center in Texas. Billionaire oilman T. Boone Pickens plans to build a 4,000 MW Pampa Wind Project by 2014, also in Texas.

</doc>
<doc id="128204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128204" title="Pampa Wind Project">
Pampa Wind Project

T. Boone Pickens, a former Texas oilman, is planning to build the world's largest wind farm, called the Pampa Wind Project, as part of the Pickens Plan. It will be developed by Pickens' company, Mesa Power. The proposed 4,000 MW facility will be located near Pampa, Texas, which is on the Texas Panhandle, and will stretch to the east, spanning 400,000 acres in five counties. This will provide enough power for 1.5 million average homes.
When it was planned, it would have been the largest wind farm in the United States. As of May 2008, the largest U.S. wind plant is the Horse Hollow Wind Energy Center with a capacity of 736 MW.
Electric transmission lines must connect wind farms to the places where the electricity is used. People fought over whether wind farm owners or electricity users should pay to build these lines. On July 17, 2008, the Texas Public Utilities Commission ruled that ratepayers should pay $4.93 billion to build the lines to connect wind farms in the Texas Panhandle to the Texas electric grid. This implements a 2005 Texas law designed to promote new wind energy projects.
On March 2, 2009, Mesa Power announced that it was working on the first phase of the project. But had put off work on the later phases. It canceled 120 of 197 wind leases. 
In July 2009, Mesa Power delayed (but did not cancel) the project. Mesa Power said the project must wait because it did not have transmission capacity to the site and poor credit market. Mesa Power will restart the Pampa Wind Farm project in 2013, when transmission lines are due to be completed in the area. In the meantime, Mesa Power will use the 667 turbines it purchased to build several smaller wind farms.

</doc>
<doc id="128209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128209" title="Cluster headache">
Cluster headache

Cluster headaches are a type of headache. They are the least common type of headache. 
Cluster headaches are very painful. They usually cause very strong pain on one side of the head, behind the eye and temple. The headaches can last anywhere from 15–180 minutes. People with severe cases may have cluster headaches many times a day. 
Cluster headaches may also cause other symptoms. Most people get restless or agitated during an attack. Some people get a runny or stuffy nose. The eye on the side of the head that hurts can also get red or start tearing up. 
They are called "cluster headaches" because they usually come and go. For a while, person may have many attacks of cluster headaches. Sometimes, they may then have no cluster headaches for a while. If a person has no cluster headaches for a while, this is called a remission period. No one knows why remission periods happen. Some people with cluster headaches never have a remission period. 
Cluster headaches can be genetic (passed down through families). However, when they are, a person may never have a cluster headache unless they have a bad head injury. 
In people who do not carry a gene for cluster headaches, nobody knows what causes them. 

</doc>
<doc id="128211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128211" title="Ultimate (sport)">
Ultimate (sport)

Ultimate (often called Ultimate Frisbee in reference to the trademarked brand name) is a team sport played with a 175 gram flying disc. Opposing teams of 7 players try to move the disc into the opponent's end zone by throwing the disc to each other. The governing body controls the rules of play such as fouls, infractions, and time constraints for play. The sport is played at all levels from pickup games and middle schools to the elite teams that compete at the national and international levels. Some useful player abilities include speed, leaping ability, good throwing and catching skills, and good defensive play. There is no official officiating for frisbee. Players are set to make their own calls and partake in conflict resolution.

</doc>
<doc id="128212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128212" title="Sweetwater Wind Farm">
Sweetwater Wind Farm

Sweetwater Wind Farm is the second largest wind farm in Texas. Construction of the 585 MW wind farm has proceeded in five stages, and some generating capacity is still being built.

</doc>
<doc id="128213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128213" title="New Line Cinema">
New Line Cinema

New Line Film Productions Inc., often called New Line Cinema, is an American movie studio. It was founded in 1967 by Robert Shaye and Michael Lynne. It became a subsidiary of Time Warner in 1996. It was merged into the bigger studio Warner Bros. in 2008.
Unlike other independent studios such as Orion Pictures, Carolco Pictures, or Cannon Films, New Line Cinema has grown and prospered to become one of Hollywood's major movie studios, culminating in the hit "Lord of the Rings" movie trilogy that brought prestige to the studio.

</doc>
<doc id="128214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128214" title="List of movies released by New Line Cinema">
List of movies released by New Line Cinema

The following is a list of movies produced, co-produced, and/or distributed by New Line Cinema

</doc>
<doc id="128217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128217" title="Iranian coup d'etat (1953)">
Iranian coup d'etat (1953)

In 1953, there was an Iranian coup d'état to remove the Prime Minister of Iran, Mohammad Mossadeq, from power. The coup d'état was nicknamed Operation Ajax. The coup was planned by the CIA and Britain's MI6 in August 1953.
In 1951, Mossaddeq was the of Iran's Oil Committee. He was highly supported by the people of Iran. At that time, Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi was in power. The Majlis (Iranian Parliament) voted for a law to "" (take the company away from the people who owned it and make it owned by the government) the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, an oil company in Iran.
Mossaddeq was elected Prime Minister of Iran in April 1951. His first action as Prime Minister was to put the oil nationalization in place.
The British government had a plan for a coup d'etat to remove Mossadeq from power. They managed to get the United States CIA to help with the coup. The was planned by Monty Woodhouse. It was carried out by MI6 and the CIA, and led by General Fazlollah Zahedi, who later went in to .
Mossaddeq was replaced by Fazlollah Zahedi, but Mossaddeq refused to step down. A military dictatorship was put in place. Shah Pahlavi, known for treating the people of Iran badly, was put back in power. (Pahlavi was in power before this, but he was forced to put Mossadeq back in power at the time.) This made the people angry. They would later start the Iranian Revolution in 1979. The revolution put the Ayatollah Khomeini in power.

</doc>
<doc id="128220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128220" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Template:Spampage">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Template:Spampage

"    has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"
"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Sunday, 14 September 2008 at 4:08 am, although it may be closed quicker due to .<br><br>

</doc>
<doc id="128229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128229" title="Van Diemen's Land">
Van Diemen's Land

Van Diemen's Land was the name used by Europeans for the island of Tasmania. Tasmania is now a state of Australia. The Dutch explorer Abel Tasman was the first European to explore Tasmania. He named the island Anthoonij van Diemenslandt after Anthony van Diemen, the Governor-General of the Dutch East Indies. Van Diemen had sent Tasman to explore the area in 1642.
In 1803, the island was settled by the British as a penal colony. It was called Van Diemen's Land, and became part of the British colony of New South Wales. In 1824, Van Diemen's Land became an independent colony with George Arthur as the first Governor. 
In 1856 Britain gave the colony the right to govern itself. It had its own parliament. The name of the island was changed to Tasmania.
From the 1830s to 1853, Van Diemen's Land was the main penal colony in Australia. When Britain stopped sending prisoners to New South Wales, all convicts were sent to Van Diemen's Land. About 75,000 convicts were sent to Van Diemen's Land. This is about 40% of all convicts sent to Australia.
Male convicts worked as servants or farm workers to free settlers, or in work groups on public works. Only the most difficult convicts were sent to the Tasman Peninsula prison known as Port Arthur. Convicts who did more crimes were also sent there. Female convicts worked as servants in free settler's houses or were sent to a female factory (women's workhouse prison). There were 5 female factories in Van Diemen's Land.
Convicts who had finished their time in prison or had been well behaved and given a ticket-of-leave often left Van Diemen's Land. Many went to the new free colony of Victoria. The free settlers in towns such as Melbourne did not like the ex-convicts coming to their town. During the Victorian gold rush a lot of settlers from Van Diemen's Land (called Vandemonians) went to the Victorian gold fields, such as Ballarat, or Bendigo.
Britain stopped sending convicts to Tasmania in 1853.
Anthony Trollope used the word "Vandemonian": -
Because the name Van Diemen's Land was seen to be tied up with convicts and it sounded like the word "demon", Van Diemen's Land was renamed in 1856. It was called Tasmania after Abel Tasman. The last penal settlement in Tasmania at Port Arthur finally closed in 1877.

</doc>
<doc id="128231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128231" title="July Ultimatum">
July Ultimatum

The July Ultimatum was a Demarche issued by Austria-Hungary to Serbia at 6 pm on 23 July 1914. Serbia refused to accept one of the ten items of the ultimatum, and so Austria-Hungary mobilised their army. This, along with a chain of Alliances in Europe (Triple Entente and Central Powers) helped cause World War I.

</doc>
<doc id="128232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128232" title="List of tallest structures in Australia">
List of tallest structures in Australia

This is a list of the 22 tallest structures in Australia. This list has guyed masts, towers, skyscrapers and chimneys. The tallest structure in Australia is the Omega Navigational Mast Woodside in Woodside, Victoria.
This is a list of the tallest under construction buildings and structures in Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="128236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128236" title="List of tallest buildings in Australia">
List of tallest buildings in Australia

When you measure buildings in Australia to the top of their spires, Q1 Tower in Gold Coast, Queensland is the tallest. When you measure to the top of their roofs, Eureka Tower in Melbourne, Victoria is the tallest.
This is a list of the 25 tallest buildings in Australia. Observation towers, radio masts, chimneys and other structures are not included. Heights are measured to the "structural height", which means to the top of spires, but not including communications spires or radio antennas.
This list contains the tallest buildings currently under construction in Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="128237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128237" title="Glenrowan, Victoria">
Glenrowan, Victoria

Glenrowan is a small town in the northeast of Victoria, Australia. It is 184km northeast of Melbourne and 14km from Wangaratta. It is near the Warby Ranges and Mt. Glenrowan. At the 2006 census, Glenrowan had a population of 952. It used to be on the main road between Melbourne and Sydney, the Hume Highway. The new Hume Freeway now goes around the town.
The first people to live in the area were the Australian Aboriginal tribal group called the Pallanganmiddang. Glenrowan was named after farmers James Hutton Rowan and George Christian Rowan who had large farms in the area between 1846 and 1858. The township was laid out and land sold in 1857. In 1862 Cobb and Co had a stopping place for changing horses on their stagecoaches. The Post Office was opened on February 22, 1870. The small town had a police station, hotels and a boot maker.
In 1873 railroad was built, and the town moved about a mile to be closer to the station. In 1876 the first school was built and Thomas Curnow was the teacher. He would become famous as the Hero of Glenrowan, the man who stopped the train.
It is famous for the bushranger Ned Kelly, who was captured there in 1880 after a siege and shootout with police. The Kelly Gang had captured many of the people living in the town and held them hostage in a hotel. The hotel was called the Glenrowan Inn and was owned by Mrs.Ann Jones. They had pulled up the railway track hoping that the train carrying extra policemen would crash. The school teacher Thomas Curnow got out of the hotel and was able to stop the train. The police surrounded the hotel and began shooting at the bushrangers. It is estimated that 15,000 bullets were fired during the shooting. The Kelly Gang had made suits of armour to stop the bullets from hurting them. The police set fire to the hotel. Eventually Ned Kelly was shot and captured. The rest of the gang, Dan Kelly, Steve Hart and Joe Byrne were killed.
Mrs. Jones took the government to court. She wanted to be paid £1050 for the destruction of her hotel during the siege.
In May 2008, archaeologists dug up the ruins of the Glenrowan Inn to learn more about the siege and shoot out.
Glenrowan is a popular rest point for those travelling on the Hume Freeway. In the township of Glenrowan, off the highway, tourists can rest, walk and examine the famous Kelly siege sites.
Google Street View- Ned Kelly animated theatre

</doc>
<doc id="128240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128240" title="List of tallest buildings in Perth">
List of tallest buildings in Perth

This is a list of the tallest buildings in Perth, Western Australia taller than 100 metres.
This is a list of the tallest buildings under construction, approved or proposed that are planned to be taller than 100 metres.

</doc>
<doc id="128242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128242" title="List of tallest buildings in Adelaide">
List of tallest buildings in Adelaide

This is a list of the tallest buildings in Adelaide, the capital city of South Australia. Heights are measured to the structural height, which includes spires, but not communications spires or antennas. Structures that are not buildings are not included in this list.
Height: R = Roof, P = Pinnacle (top of spire or antenna)
This is a list of the tallest buildings being built, approved to be built or planned that will be taller than 70 metres high.

</doc>
<doc id="128248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128248" title="List of tallest buildings in Sydney">
List of tallest buildings in Sydney

This is a list of the tallest buildings in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. Spires on top of buildings count onto its height, but antennas do not.

</doc>
<doc id="128249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128249" title="Dromore, County Down">
Dromore, County Down

Dromore is a small town in Northern Ireland. There are around 5000 people living in the town. It is in County Down and in the Banbridge District. Dromore is 20 miles to the south of Belfast and 86 miles north ofDublin. Some towns near Dromore are Banbridge, Lurgan and Lisburn.

</doc>
<doc id="128250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128250" title="List of tallest buildings in Melbourne">
List of tallest buildings in Melbourne

This is a list of the tallest skyscrapers and other tall buildings (also the ones being built) in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Height: R = Roof, P = Pinnacle (top of spire or antenna)

</doc>
<doc id="128251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128251" title="Q1 (building)">
Q1 (building)

Q1 (which means Queensland number 1) is a skyscraper on the Gold Coast. It is Australia's tallest skyscraper. It is also the world's tallest residential tower (including the spire). The building is 322.5 meters high (1,058 feet) including the spire. However without the spire, it's only 275 meters (902 feet). Only the Eureka Tower in Melbourne is taller without the spire with 300 meters.

</doc>
<doc id="128252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128252" title="Inspiration">
Inspiration

Inspiration may mean:
In business:
In music:
In film:
Inspiration comes from life experiences, feelings, dreams, and thoughts. Inspiration is what makes great things happen.

</doc>
<doc id="128256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128256" title="National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum">
National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum

The Baseball Hall of Fame is a museum in Cooperstown, New York that shows the history of baseball and some of the most famous baseball players and other people, especially in North America. 
The Hall of Fame opened in 1939. It was started by the Clark Foundation. The Hall of Fame was started to help bring visitors to Cooperstown which had been poor for a long time. Some people tell a story that Abner Doubleday invented baseball in Cooperstown, but the story is not true. But the baseball leagues and teams decided that it did not matter, and helped make the Hall of Fame popular.
The museum has a lot of information on the history of baseball, and a lot of old baseball things, like bats, balls, and uniforms of famous baseball players or important baseball games. It also has a baseball art collection and a library. 
Next to the museum is Doubleday Field, where a baseball game is played every year as part of a party about adding new people to the museum's stories.
When someone is "in the Hall of Fame," it means they have a story of their life in baseball shown in the museum. Every year new people are chosen to be added to the Hall of Fame. These people can be baseball players, baseball team managers, and other people who work with the game of baseball. Awards are also given for baseball sports reporters. As of 2012, there are a total of 297 people in the Hall of Fame. 
Two groups pick people to add to the Hall of Fame. One group is the Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA). This group can pick players who have been retired from Major League Baseball for five years, and played in MLB for at least 10 years. Each member of the group writes down their 10 top choices, and anyone who is on at least three-fourths of the members' lists is added to the Hall of Fame.
The other group that chooses people to add to the Hall of Fame is called the Veterans Committee, which since 2011 has been split into three separate groups (or subcommittees). The Veterans Committee votes on people who are not eligible for the BBWAA ballot—players who have been retired for 20 or more years, managers, team and league executives, and umpires. Each of the three groups is made up of Hall of Famers, baseball executives, media members, and baseball historians, and votes on people who made their greatest contributions in a different era of baseball:
Each of these three groups votes once every three years, and they rotate in the order listed above. The Expansion Era Committee chooses from among 12 people, while the other committees choose from among 10. Each committee member can vote for four people, and anyone who gets at least three-fourths of the votes is also added to the Hall of Fame.
Some people did not like how the Veterans Committee picked people for the Hall of Fame. For a while, it seemed like the Committee liked to only pick people who they had worked with before. This meant some people who might have been good enough for the Hall of Fame were missed, because they never worked with the people on the Committee. The Committee was changed in 2001, but in the three times it voted, it did not choose anyone for the Hall. It was changed again for the 2008 elections; in three election cycles, it voted in two managers and three executives, but only one player. The Committee was changed yet again for the 2011 elections; so far, the new Committee has elected one executive and one player.
In 1982, some of the museum's collection of baseball items were loaned to the head of the American baseball leagues, and one of his workers sold them for money. Even though the money was paid back, it made the Hall of Fame look bad.
There are some players who are not allowed to work in baseball anymore because they broke some very important rules, but were still very good players. The Hall of Fame does not allow people who were kicked out of baseball to be in its museum, but some people do not agree with keeping some of these people out.

</doc>
<doc id="128257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128257" title="Cooperstown, New York">
Cooperstown, New York

Cooperstown is a village in Otsego County, New York. It is located in the Town of Otsego. The population was estimated to be 1,852 at the 2010 census. The Village of Cooperstown is the county seat of Otsego County. Most of the village lies inside the Town of Otsego, but part lies in the Town of Middlefield. The National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum, The Farmers' Museum, The Fenimore Art Museum, Glimmerglass Opera, and the New York State Historical Association are in Cooperstown.
The Village of Cooperstown was established in 1786. It was laid out by surveyor William Ellison. The village was established while still part of Montgomery County. It was incorporated (as the "Village of Otsego") on April 3, 1807. The name was legally changed to "Village of Cooperstown" in 1812. Samuel F.B. Morse, Thurlow Weed, John A. Dix, Abner Doubleday, and Samuel Nelson had summer homes in Cooperstown. Author James Fenimore Cooper grew up in Cooperstown. He returned there in his later years to live in his ancestral home Otsego Hall.

</doc>
<doc id="128258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128258" title="Cooperstown (disambiguation)">
Cooperstown (disambiguation)

Cooperstown is a village in Otsego County, New York, United States.
Cooperstown may also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="128260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128260" title="George Clinton (musician)">
George Clinton (musician)

George Clinton (born July 22, 1941) is an American musician. He was involved in funk music and created a genre called P-Funk. He also worked as a record producer for bands including Red Hot Chili Peppers. He was also part of the bands Parliament and Funkadelic during the 1970s and early 1980s. From 1981, he performed by himself as a solo artist. He has been called one of the most important innovators of funk music, next to James Brown and Sly Stone. Clinton is a member of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, inducted in 1997 with fifteen other members of Parliament-Funkadelic.

</doc>
<doc id="128262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128262" title="Rick Rubin">
Rick Rubin

Frederick Jay "Rick" Rubin (born March 10 1963 in Long Island, New York) is an American record producer. He is currently in charge of Columbia Records. He helped merge the rap and heavy metal genres. MTV called him "the most important producer of the last 20 years." Rubin won five Grammy Awards in 2006 including "Producer Of The Year, Non-Classical". In 2007, Rubin was listed among "Time Magazine"'s 100 Most Influential People in The World. Rubin is the owner of a mansion in Los Angeles called The Mansion. Many albums he produces are recorded there.

</doc>
<doc id="128266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128266" title="John Carew">
John Carew

John Carew (born 5 September 1979 in Lørenskog) is a Norwegian football player. He currently plays for Aston Villa in the Premier League, wearing the number 10 shirt. Drogba is the current Norwegian Footballer of the Year. In season 2007/08, he was the top scorer of the Aston Villa with 13 goals. Drogba played for Valencia at Adeccoligaen and Tippeligaen. He moved to Rosenborg in 1999 and scored 29 goals in the next season. He played also with Valencia, Roma, Beşiktaş, Olympique Lyonnais.
51||37
84||20
20||6
24||13
35||10
70||27
284||113
!Total||82||22

</doc>
<doc id="128268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128268" title="Dromore">
Dromore

Dromore is the name of several villages:

</doc>
<doc id="128269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128269" title="Dromore West">
Dromore West

Dromore West () is a village in County Sligo, Republic of Ireland. About 300 people live there. It is on the N59 road about halfway between Sligo and Ballina.
Dromore West is on the Dunneil River. It is between the Ox Mountains and the Atlantic coast. There are four public houses. There are also two shops, a chemist, a Chinese take away, a butchers, a post office and florist.

</doc>
<doc id="128271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128271" title="Dromore, County Tyrone">
Dromore, County Tyrone

Dromore ("Droim Mór", meaning "Big Ridge", in Irish) is a village in County Tyrone, Northern Ireland. It is nine miles (15 km) southwest of Omagh on the A32 road and sixteen miles (26 km) from Enniskillen. The village had a population of 1,101 in 2001. Agriculture and the building trades are the primary sources of employment in the town. It is in the Omagh District Council area.

</doc>
<doc id="128273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128273" title="Ernest Lawrence">
Ernest Lawrence

Ernest Orlando Lawrence (October 8, 1901–1958) was an American physicist. he was born in South Dakota. He helped invent the nuclear bomb during World War II. Lawrence won the Nobel prize for physics in 1939. His work was important in the science of nuclear physics. He worked out a way of measuring the mass of an electron, part of an atom.

</doc>
<doc id="128282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128282" title="Melodic death metal">
Melodic death metal

Melodic death metal is a form of death metal music, which is itself a style of heavy metal. Melodic death metal is a lot like death metal but, as the name suggests, it is more melodic. Melodic death metal bands may use normal singing some times, where death metal bands nearly always use growling. Melodic death metal lyrics are also different to death metal lyrics. Death metal lyrics focus on death, war, murder and gore where melodic death metal focuses more on philosophy, religion and other less violent topics. Starting in the town of Gothenburg in Sweden it is sometimes referred to as the "Gothenburg Sound" 
Melodic death metal started in Scandinavia, in countries such as Sweden and Norway. Many early melodic death metal bands wanted to mix the fast, brutal songs of death metal with the dual guitar harmonies and melodies of heavy metal bands such as Iron Maiden and Saxon.
Famous melodic death metal bands include In Flames, a Swedish band formed by Jesper Strombald, and Dark Tranquillity, one of the oldest and highly listened to bands in the genre.

</doc>
<doc id="128291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128291" title="Rihanna">
Rihanna

Robyn Rihanna Fenty (born February 20, 1988), known by her stage name Rihanna, is a Barbadian singer and songwriter. She started her music career in 2005. She has released eight studio albums and three DVDs.
Rihanna has won many awards. These include five American Music Awards, eighteen Billboard Music Awards, two BRIT Awards and seven Grammy Awards. She has had fourteen number-one singles on the "Billboard" Hot 100 chart. In 2012, the American magazine "Time" named Rihanna one of the most influential people in the world. Rihanna was also ranked the fourth most powerful celebrity in 2012. She earned $53 million between May 2011 and May 2012, according to Forbes. In 2013, Rihanna was given the first ever Icon Award at the American Music Awards. Rihanna's album "Unapologetic" (2012) became her first number-one album in the United States. It won Best Urban Contemporary Album at the 2014 Grammy Awards. In 2015, a movie called "Home" was released. Rihanna voices one of the main characters in it and was also the executive producer of the movie's soundtrack.
Her eighth studio album, "Anti", was released to the streaming service Tidal and entered the "Billboard" 200 album chart at number 27. It was a limited-time free download sponsored by Samsung. It was certified Platinum in the U.S. only two days after it was released. The next week, after the album was released to other marketplaces, it reached number one on the "Billboard" 200. "Anti" features the "Billboard" Hot 100 number-one single "Work" (featuring Drake) and the top-ten hit "Needed Me". She also recorded a song, "This Is What You Came For", with Scottish DJ Calvin Harris. It reached the top ten on charts around the world.
Rihanna was born in Saint Michael, Barbados to Monica (of Guyanese ancestry) and Ronald Fenty (of Irish and West Indian ancestry). She has two younger brothers, Rorrey and Rajad Fenty. She grew up in Bridgetown.
On February 8, 2009, Rihanna was assaulted by her then-boyfriend Chris Brown after Brown was sending messages to a girl. Rihanna got angry and Brown beat her up. The LAPD leaked a photograph to TMZ which showed Rihanna with cuts and bruises on her face. On June 24, 2009, Brown pled guilty to the felony assault. He was ordered to five years probation and to stay fifty yards way from Rihanna, unless it is at a public event, at which it was ten yards. In February 2011, the restraining order was changed to allow both singers to appear at awards shows together in the future.

</doc>
<doc id="128293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128293" title="Adam Levine">
Adam Levine

Adam Noah Levine (born March 18, 1979) is the lead singer of American pop-rock band Maroon 5. He is also a songwriter, guitarist, and a coach on the NBC show "The Voice".
Levine has a tenor/countertenor vocal range. He has also been noted for his falsettos.
In 2013, Levine was chosen by "People" magazine as the Sexiest Man Alive.
Levine has attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder.
He married Victoria's Secret model Behati Prinsloo on July 19, 2014, in Mexico.
Albums
Singles

</doc>
<doc id="128295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128295" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Ultimate Frisbee">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Ultimate Frisbee

"   has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"
"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Sunday, 14 September 2008 at 7:04 pm, although it may be closed quicker due to .<br><br>
--    08:15, 9 September 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="128303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128303" title="Tjako van Schie">
Tjako van Schie

Tjako van Schie (Coevorden, 17 April 1961) is a pianist and composer from the Netherlands. At the Amsterdam Conservatory he is professor. Even in China, Van Schie has played piano but he teaches in Holland and Portugal. Van Schie was educated in Zwolle by pianist Ben Smits and a student of New York pianist Jacob Lateiner. He now lives in the Dutch province Overijssel.

</doc>
<doc id="128322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128322" title="Slipknot (album)">
Slipknot (album)

Slipknot is the first album by nu metal band Slipknot. The album was released in the year 2000 . The album is one hour and twenty nine seconds long. Singles include "Wait and Bleed" and "Spit It Out". 

</doc>
<doc id="128323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128323" title="Iowa (Slipknot album)">
Iowa (Slipknot album)

Iowa is the second studio album by American heavy metal band Slipknot. It was released on August 28, 2001. The producers were Ross Robinson and the band itself. The album's title came from the band's home state Iowa. Singles include "Left Behind" and "My Plague". 

</doc>
<doc id="128324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128324" title="Gwynt y Môr Wind Farm">
Gwynt y Môr Wind Farm

Gwynt y Môr is a 576 MW offshore wind farm off the coast of North Wales. Permission for the project was given in 2008, and building began in 2013. The wind farm will begin working in 2014. It will be Wales' largest wind farm.
The wind farm is near the existing North Hoyle offshore wind farm and the Rhyl Flats offshore wind farm. All of these projects are owned by RWE npower.

</doc>
<doc id="128325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128325" title="Clyde Wind Farm">
Clyde Wind Farm

The Clyde Wind Farm is a proposed 548 megawatt (MW) wind farm in South Lanarkshire, Scotland. When completed, it will be Europe's largest onshore wind farm. The 152-turbine project by Scottish and Southern Energy, which was approved by the Scottish Parliament in July 2008, capable of powering 320,000 homes, and will be larger than the 322 MW Whitelee Wind Farm near Glasgow. Turbines will be built either side of the M74 motorway.
Construction of the wind farm, which will cost £600 million, is expected to finish in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="128326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128326" title="All Hope Is Gone">
All Hope Is Gone

All Hope Is Gone is the fourth studio album by American metal band Slipknot. "All Hope Is Gone" was released on August 20, 2008. The album was released through Roadrunner Records. The album featured the singles "Psychosocial" and "All Hope Is Gone".

</doc>
<doc id="128331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128331" title="Tomis Team Dobrogea Wind Farm">
Tomis Team Dobrogea Wind Farm

The Tomis Team Dobrogea Wind Farm is a wind farm under construction in the Dobrogea region of Romania. It will consist of an individual wind farm with 300 individual wind turbines with a nominal output of around 2 MW which will deliver up to 600 MW of power, enough to power over 393,000 homes, with a capital investment required of approximately US$ 750 million.

</doc>
<doc id="128336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128336" title="Markbygden Wind Farm">
Markbygden Wind Farm

Markbygden Wind Farm will be a series of interconnected wind farms in the Markbygden area of northern Sweden, covering some 450 square kilometres. The project will be built between now and 2020, and will have a capacity of up to 4 GW. Enercon has a share in the project and will build a wind tower production plant in the region, as well as a local office for service and maintenance.

</doc>
<doc id="128346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128346" title="Sirius Black">
Sirius Black

Sirius Black is a fictional character in J. K. Rowling's "Harry Potter" series, played by Gary Oldman. Black, also known as Padfoot or Snuffles (in his Animagus form) was a pure-blood wizard, the older son of Orion and Walburga Black, and the brother of Regulus Black. He is Harry Potter's godfather. He was the best friend of Harry's father, James Potter, along with Remus Lupin and Peter Pettigrew. These four were known as the marauders in their school days, and were attributed with creating the Marauder's Map. 
He, along with his three friends, belonged to Gryffindor house when at Hogwarts, unlike the rest of his family, who had belonged to the house of Slytherin. He disliked his family very much, and ran away from home to James' house when he was sixteen. His prized possession in his youth was a flying motorbike.
Sirius was an animagus and was able to transform into a big black dog at will. This is how he escaped from the wizard prison, Azkaban after being detained there twelve years for a crime that he did not commit (the murder of Peter Pettigrew and thirteen muggles). Harry found out, after a year of believing otherwise, that Sirius was an innocent man, and helped him evade capture from the wizarding government. Sirius went on the run before returning to his (empty) childhood home and offered it up as headquarters for the Order of the Pheonix upon Voldemort's return. He was killed in a battle at the Ministry of Magic by his cousin, a Death Eater, Bellatrix Lestrange in Harry's 5th year at Hogwarts. 

</doc>
<doc id="128359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128359" title="Music festival">
Music festival

A music festival is a festival where music is played. Music festivals are usually outside, and often have other attractions such as food, games, and other forms of entertainment. They sometimes have a theme such as genre or nationality. Many festivals happen every year, or at some other common interval. However, some only happen once. A music festival can be held for profit or for charity.

</doc>
<doc id="128360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128360" title="Billboard Hot 100">
Billboard Hot 100

The "Billboard" Hot 100 is a list of the top, current most well-liked music made by "Billboard" magazine. Chart rankings are based on radio play and sales; the tracking-week for sales begins on Monday and ends on Sunday, while the radio play tracking-week runs from Wednesday to Tuesday. A new chart is compiled and officially released to the public by "Billboard" on Thursday. Each chart is dated with the "week-ending" date of the Saturday two weeks after. Example:
The first number one song of the Hot 100 was "Poor Little Fool" by Ricky Nelson on August 4, 1958. As of the issue for the week ending March 3, 2012, the Hot 100 has had 1,013 different number-one hits. Its current number-one is "Part of Me" by Katy Perry.
What has always been known as the Hot 100 had existed for nearly fifteen years as numerous charts, tracking and ranking the most popular singles of the day in several areas.
During the 1940s and 1950s, popular singles were ranked in three significant charts:
Although officially all three charts had equal "weight" in terms of their importance, many chart historians refer to the "Best Sellers In Stores" chart when referencing a song’s performance prior to the creation of the Hot 100. "Billboard" eventually created a fourth singles popularity chart that combined all aspects of a single’s performance (sales, airplay and jukebox activity), based on a point system that typically gave sales (purchases) more weight than radio airplay. On the week ending November 12, 1955, "Billboard" published The Top 100 for the first time. The "Best Sellers In Stores", "Most Played By Jockeys" and "Most Played In Jukeboxes" charts continued to be published concurrently with the new "Top 100" chart.
On June 17, 1957, "Billboard" discontinued the "Most Played In Jukeboxes" chart, as the popularity of jukeboxes waned and radio stations incorporated more and more rock-oriented music into their playlists. The week ending July 28, 1958 was the final publication of the "Most Played By Jockeys" and "Top 100" charts, both of which had Perez Prado's instrumental version of "Patricia" ascending to the top.
On August 4, 1958, "Billboard" premiered one main all-genre singles chart: the Hot 100. Although similar to the "Top 100", the first Hot 100 chart reset all songs’ "weeks on chart" status to "1". The Hot 100 quickly became the industry standard and "Billboard" discontinued the "Best Sellers In Stores" chart on October 13, 1958.
The "Billboard" Hot 100 is still the standard by which a song’s popularity is measured in the United States. The Hot 100 is ranked by radio airplay audience impressions as measured by Nielsen BDS, sales data compiled by Nielsen Soundscan (both at retail and digitally) and streaming activity provided by online music sources.
There are several component charts that contribute to the overall calculation of the Hot 100. The most significant ones are shown below.
The methods and policies by which this data is obtained and compiled have changed many times throughout the chart’s history.
As the advent of a singles music chart spawned chart historians and chart-watchers and greatly affected pop culture and produced countless bits of trivia, the main purpose of the Hot 100 is to aid those "within the music industry" – to reflect the popularity of the "product" (the singles, the albums, etc.) and to track the trends of the buying public. "Billboard" has (many times) changed its methodology and policies to give the most precise and accurate reflection of what is popular. A very basic example of this would be the ratio given to sales and airplay. During the Hot 100’s early history, singles were the leading way by which people bought music. At times when singles sales were robust, more weight was given to a song’s retail points than to its radio airplay.
As the decades passed, the recording industry concentrated more on album sales than singles sales. Musicians eventually expressed their creative output in the form of full-length albums rather than singles, and by the 1990s many record companies stopped releasing singles altogether (see "Album Cuts", below). Eventually a song’s airplay points were weighted more so than its sales. "Billboard" has adjusted the sales/airplay ratio many times to more accurately reflect the true popularity of songs.
"Billboard" has also changed its Hot 100 policy regarding “two-sided singles” several times. The pre-Hot 100 chart "Best Sellers in Stores" listed popular A- and-B-sides together, with the side that was played most often (based on its other charts) listed first. One of the most notable of these, but far from the only one, was Elvis Presley’s "Don’t Be Cruel" / "Hound Dog." During the Presley single’s chart run, top billing was switched back and forth between the two sides several times. But on the concurrent "Most Played in Juke Boxes," "Most Played by Jockeys" and the "Top 100," the two songs were listed separately, as was true of all songs. With the initiation of the Hot 100 in 1958, A- and-B-sides charted separately, as they had on the former Top 100.
Starting with the Hot 100 chart for the week ending November 29, 1969, this rule was altered; if both sides received significant airplay, they were listed together. This started to become a moot point by 1972, as most major record labels solidified a trend they had started in the 1960s by putting the same song on both sides of the singles it serviced to radio.
More complex issues began to arise as the typical A-and-B-side format of singles gave way to 12 inch singles and maxi-singles, many of which contained more than one B-side. Further problems arose when, in several cases, a B-side would eventually overtake the A-side in popularity, thus prompting record labels to release a new single, featuring the former B-side as the A-side, along with a "new" B-side.
The inclusion of album cuts on the Hot 100 put the double-sided hit issues to rest permanently.
As many Hot 100 chart policies have been modified over the years, one rule always remained constant: songs were not eligible to enter the Hot 100 unless they were available to purchase as a single.
However, on December 5, 1998 the Hot 100 changed from being a "singles" chart to a "songs" chart. During the 1990s, a growing trend in the music industry was to promote songs to radio without ever releasing them as singles. It was claimed by major record labels that singles were cannibalizing album sales, so they were slowly phased out. During this period, accusations began to fly of chart manipulation as labels would hold off on releasing a single until airplay was at its absolute peak, thus prompting a top ten or, in some cases, a number one debut. In many cases, a label would delete a single from its catalog after only one week, thus allowing the song to enter the Hot 100, make a high debut and then slowly decline in position as the one-time production of the retail single sold out.
It was during this period that several popular mainstream hits never charted on the Hot 100, or charted well after their airplay had declined. During the period that they were not released as singles the songs were not eligible to chart. Many of these songs dominated the "Hot 100 Airplay" chart for extended periods of time:
As debate and conflicts occurred more and more often, "Billboard" finally answered the requests of music industry artists and insiders by including airplay-only singles (or "album cuts") in the Hot 100.
Extended play (EP) releases were listed by "Billboard" on the Hot 100 and in pre-Hot 100 charts ("Top 100") until the mid-to-late 1960s. With the growing popularity of albums, it was decided to move EPs (which typically contain four to six tracks) from the Hot 100 to the Billboard 200, where they are included to this day.
Since February 12, 2005, the "Billboard" Hot 100 tracks paid digital downloads from such internet services as iTunes, Napster, Musicmatch, and Rhapsody. With paid digital downloads added to the airplay/sales formula of the Hot 100, many songs benefited on the charts from the change. "Billboard" initially started tracking downloads in 2003 with the "Hot Digital Tracks" chart. However, these downloads did not count towards the Hot 100 and that chart (as opposed to "Hot Digital Songs") counted each version of a song separately (the chart still exists today along with "Hot Digital Songs"). This is the first major overhaul of the Hot 100's chart formula since December 1998.
The change in formula has shaken up the chart considerably, with some songs debuting on the chart strictly with robust online sales and others making drastic leaps. In recent years, several songs have been able to achieve 80-to-90 position jumps in a single week as their digital components were made available at online music stores. Since 2006, the all-time record for the biggest single-week upward movement was broken nine times.
In the issue dated August 11, 2007, "Billboard" began incorporating weekly data from Streaming media and On-demand services into the Hot 100. The first two major companies to provide their statistics to Nielsen BDS on a weekly basis are AOL Music and Yahoo! Music, with more to follow in the future.
A growing trend in the early first decade of the 21st century was to issue a song as a "remix" that was so drastically different in structure and lyrical content from its original version that it was essentially a whole new song. Under normal circumstances, airplay points from a song’s album version, "radio" mix and/or dance music remix, etc. were all combined and factored into the song’s performance on the Hot 100, as the structure, lyrics and melody remained intact. Criticisms began when songs were being completely re-recorded to the point that they no longer resembled the original recording. The first such example of this scenario is Jennifer Lopez’ "I'm Real". Originally entering the Hot 100 in its album version, a "remix" was issued in the midst of its chart run that featured rapper Ja Rule. This new version proved to be far more popular than
the album version and the track was propelled to number one.
To address this issue, "Billboard" now separates airplay points from a song’s original version and its remix, if the remix is determined to be a "new song". Since administering this new chart rule, several songs have charted twice, normally credited as "Part 1" and "Part 2". The remix rule is still in place.
"Billboard", in an effort to allow the chart to remain as current as possible and to give proper representation to new and developing artists and tracks, has (since 1991) removed titles that have reached certain criteria regarding its current rank and number of weeks on the chart. Recurrent criteria have been modified several times and currently (as of 2010), a song is permanently moved to "recurrent status" if it has spent 20 weeks on the Hot 100 and fallen below position number 50. Exceptions are made to re-releases and sudden resurgence in popularity of tracks that have taken a very long time to gain mainstream success. These rare cases are handled on a case-by-case basis and ultimately determined by "Billboard"’s chart managers and staff.
The most notable exception to the recurrent entry policy applies to holiday-themed releases, which are commonly reissued year after year in anticipation of Christmas purchasing. After its initial chart run, a holiday entry cannot re-enter the Hot 100 in subsequent years.
"Billboard"'s "chart year" runs from the first week of December to the final week in November. This altered calendar allows for "Billboard" to calculate year-end charts and release them in time for its final print issue on the last week of December. Prior to Nielsen SoundScan, year-end singles charts were calculated by an inverse-point system based solely on a song’s performance on the Hot 100 (for example, a song would be given one point for a week spent at position 100, two points for a week spent at position ninety-nine and so forth, up to 100 points for each week spent at number one). Other factors including the total weeks a song spent on the chart and at its peak position were calculated into its year-end total.
After "Billboard" began obtaining sales and airplay information from Nielsen SoundScan, the year-end charts are now calculated by a very straightforward cumulative total of yearlong sales and airplay points. This gives a more accurate picture of any given year’s most popular tracks, as a song that hypothetically spent nine weeks at number one in March could possibly have earned fewer cumulative points than a song that spent six weeks at number three in January. Songs at the peak of their popularity at the time of the November/December chart-year cutoff many times end up ranked on the following year's chart as well, as their cumulative points are split between the two chart-years, but often are ranked lower than they would have been had the peak occurred in a single year.
The limitations of the Hot 100 have become more pronounced over time. Since the Hot 100 was based on singles sales, as singles have themselves become a less common form of song release, the Hot 100's data represented a narrowing segment of sales until the December 1998 change in the ranking formula.
Few music historians believe that the Hot 100 has been a perfectly accurate gauge of the most popular songs for each week or year. For example, during the 1950s and 1960s, payola and other problems skewed the numbers in largely undetectable ways.
Further, the history of popular music shows nearly as many remarkable failures to chart as it does impressive charting histories. Certain artists (such as Pink Floyd and Led Zeppelin) had tremendous album sales while being oblivious to the weekly singles charts. Business changes in the industry also affect artists' statistical "records." Single releases were more frequent and steady, and were expected to have much shorter shelf lives in earlier decades, making direct historical comparisons somewhat specious. Of the sixteen singles to top the Billboard chart for more than ten weeks since 1955, just one was released before 1992. During the first forty years of the rock era, no song had ever debuted at number one; since a 1995 change in methodology, nineteen songs have.
Strategizing also plays a role. Numerous artists have taken deliberate steps to maximize their chart positions by such tactics as timing a single's debut to face the weakest possible competition, or massively discounting the price of singles to the point where each individual sale represented a financial loss. Meanwhile, other artists would deliberately withhold even their most marketable songs in order to boost album sales. Particularly in the 1990s, many of the most heavily played MTV and radio hits were unavailable for separate purchase. Because of such countervailing strategies, it cannot be said that a Hot 100 chart necessarily lists the country's 100 most popular or successful songs. Strategies like these were the main reason behind the December 1998 change in the charts.
Some critics have argued that an overemphasis on a limited number of singles has distorted record industry development efforts, and there are nearly as many critics of the Hot 100 as there are supporters. Certain of these criticisms, however, are becoming less and less germane as digital downloads have revitalized the concept of “singles sales.”
The "Billboard" charts have endured as the only widely circulated published report on songs that have been popular across the United States over the last half-century. Competing publications such as "Cash Box", "Record World", "Radio & Records" and most recently "Mediabase" have offered alternate charts, which sometimes differed widely.
The Hot 100 served for many years as the data source for the weekly radio countdown show "American Top 40". This relationship ended on November 30, 1991, as "American Top 40" started using the airplay-only side of the Hot 100 (then called Top 40 Radio Monitor). The ongoing splintering of Top 40 radio in the early 1990s led stations to lean into specific formats, meaning that practically no station would play the wide array of genres that typically composed each weekly Hot 100 chart.
A new chart, the Pop 100, was created by "Billboard" in February 2005 to answer criticism that the Hot 100 was biased in favor of rhythmic songs, as throughout most of its existence, the Hot 100 was seen predominantly as a pop chart. It was discontinued in June 2009 due to the charts becoming increasingly similar.
The Canadian Hot 100 was launched June 16, 2007. Like the Hot 100 chart, it uses sales and airplay tracking compiled by Nielsen SoundScan and BDS.
The Japan Hot 100 was launched in the issue dated May 31, 2008, using the same methodologies as the Hot 100 charts for the U.S. and Canada, utilizing sales and airplay data from SoundScan Japan and radio tracking service Plantech.

</doc>
<doc id="128361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128361" title="Last.fm">
Last.fm

Last.fm is a music website from the UK. It started in 2002. It provides Internet radio, and a community for music discussion. It has more than 19 million users.

</doc>
<doc id="128364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128364" title="List of tallest buildings in Brisbane">
List of tallest buildings in Brisbane

This is a list of the tallest buildings in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
Brisbane has more than 50 skyscrapers more than 100 metres tall, the third most of any city in Oceania (after Sydney and Melbourne). At 243 metres tall, Soleil is the tallest building in Brisbane, but in 2012 the 249 metre Infinity, which is now being built will become taller.
This is a list of Brisbane's tallest completed and topped out buildings in 2011. Structures are not included. Official heights are ranked by the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat, and include spires but exclude communications masts and spires.
This is a list of buildings currently under construction or proposed that are planned to reach 100 metres in height.

</doc>
<doc id="128368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128368" title="Worcestershire sauce">
Worcestershire sauce

Worcestershire sauce (spoken likeˈwʊstəˌʃɪə or WOOS-ter-sheer) is a much used fermented sauce. It was first made at 68 Broad Street, Worcester, by the company Lea & Perrins in the 1830s. It was made for selling to people in 1837, and is still the only Worcestershire sauce still to be made in the UK. In 1930 the company was sold to HP Foods and was later sold to the H.J. Heinz Company from Groupe Danone in 2005.
The sauce is made ready to sell in the Midlands Road factory in Worcester, which is the home of Lea & Perrins since 16 October 1897.
The H. J. Heinz Company, which now makes "The Original Lea & Perrins Worcestershire Sauce", with the name Lea & Perrins, Inc., lists these ingredients on the bottle made in the United States: vinegar, molasses, high fructose corn syrup, anchovies, water, onions, salt, garlic, tamarind concentrate, cloves, natural flavorings and chili pepper extract.
The ingredients of a bottle of Worcestershire sauce from England sold under the name "The Original & Genuine Lea & Perrins Worcestershire Sauce" by Lea & Perrins, Limited, lists the following ingredients: malt vinegar (from barley), spirit vinegar, molasses, sugar, salt, anchovies, tamarind extract, onions, garlic, spice and flavouring.
The sauce is used to make many dishes, both cooked and uncooked, and often with beef; drinks such as the Bloody Mary also use it. Lea & Perrins also makes it in concentrated form that is made ready to sell in other countries.
Worcestershire sauce is called Worcester sauce in South Africa and some parts of the US as; (), or spoken like Woo-ster sauce.
The "Worcestershire sauce" is one of many food products that were made because of Britain ruling India. 

</doc>
<doc id="128384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128384" title="Indian massacre of 1622">
Indian massacre of 1622

The Indian massacre of 1622 (also known as the Jamestown Massacre) was an event where around 347 people were killed in the Virginia Colony of North America on Good Friday, March 22, 1622. The number killed, 347, was almost one-third of the English population of Jamestown. They were killed by a number of surprise attacks by the Powhatan Confederacy (a Native American tribe), who were ruled by Chief Opechancanough.

</doc>
<doc id="128385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128385" title="Fluxbox">
Fluxbox

In Unix computing, Fluxbox is an X window manager based on Blackbox 0.61.1. It tries to be lightweight and customizable, and has very little support for graphical icons. Its user interface has only a taskbar and a menu that can be used by right-clicking on the desktop. All basic settings are controlled by text files. 
Fluxbox can show some eye candy such as: colors, gradients, borders, and several other basic appearance settings can be changed. Effects managers such as Xcompmgr and transset-df can add true transparency to desktop elements and windows. Enhancements can also be provided by using iDesk or fbdesk, or the ROX Desktop.
Fluxbox also has several features Blackbox does not have, including tabbed windows and a configurable titlebar. 
Because of its small memory use and quick loading time, Fluxbox is popular in many Live CDs such as Knoppix STD and GParted. It was the default window manager of Damn Small Linux, but was replaced with JWM after the release of Damn Small Linux 4.0. It is currently the default window manager of antiX, a linux distribution based on MEPIS and designed for old computers, PCFluxboxOS, a remaster of PCLinuxOS, and LinguasOS, a Live CD distribution for professional translators. Fluxbuntu, Ubuntu with Fluxbox and lightweight applications, was released in October 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="128397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128397" title="Damn Small Linux">
Damn Small Linux

Damn Small Linux or DSL is a free operating system for the x86 family of personal computers. It was designed to run graphical applications on older PC hardware—for example, machines with 486/early Pentium processors and very little memory. DSL is a Live CD with a size of 50 MB. What originally started as an experiment to see how much software could fit in 50 MB eventually became a full-fledged Linux distribution. It can be installed on storage media with small capacities, like bootable business cards, USB flash drives, various memory cards, and Zip drives.
DSL was originally conceived and maintained by John Andrews. The community now includes Robert Shingledecker, who created the MyDSL system, DSL Control Panel, and other features.
DSL was originally based on Model-K, a 22 MB stripped-down version of Knoppix, but soon after was based on Knoppix proper, allowing much easier remastering and improvements.
DSL supports only x86 PCs. The minimum system requirements are a 486 processor and 8 MB of RAM. DSL has been demonstrated browsing the web with Dillo, running simple games and playing music on systems with a 486 processor and 16 MB of RAM. The system requirements are higher for running Mozilla Firefox and optional add-ons such as the OpenOffice.org office suite.
The current version of DSL is 4.4.5, released September 3, 2008. DSL currently includes the following software:
DSL has built-in scripts to download and install Advanced Packaging Tool (APT). Once APT is enabled, the user can install packages from Debian's 'Woody' repository. Additionally, DSL hosts software ranging from large applications like OpenOffice.org and GCC, to smaller ones such as aMSN, by means of the "MyDSL" system, which allows convenient one-click download and installation of software. Files hosted on MyDSL are called "extensions". As of June 2008, the MyDSL servers were hosting over 900 applications, plugins, and other extensions.
MyDSL is handled and maintained mostly by Robert Shingledecker and hosted by many organizations, such as ibiblio and Belgium's BELNET. There are 2 areas of MyDSL - regular and "testing". The regular area contains extensions that have been proven stable enough for everyday use and is broken down into different areas such as "apps", "net", "system", and "uci" ("Universal Compressed ISO" - Extensions in .uci format are mounted as a separate filesystem to minimize RAM usage). The "testing" area is for newly submitted extensions that theoretically work 'as advertised', but may have any number of bugs.
The standard flavour of DSL is the Live CD. There are also other versions available.
A Live USB of Damn Small Linux can be created manually or with UNetbootin.

</doc>
<doc id="128404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128404" title="Swamp blues">
Swamp blues

Swamp blues is a type of blues music. It is based on the Louisiana blues, but has a more laid back and relaxed feel.
Swamp blues is often linked to J. D. "Jay" Miller's, recording studio in Crowley, Louisiana. Miller released lots of swamp blues recordings on his own labels, as well as on more well known labels. Showing the impact of Swamp Blues on other music, the Rolling Stones played a version of Slim Harpo's "I'm a King Bee," and Neil Young recorded Slim Harpo's "Rainin' In My Heart."

</doc>
<doc id="128405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128405" title="Book of Odes (Bible)">
Book of Odes (Bible)

Odes () is a book of the Bible that is only found in Eastern Orthodox Bibles. The chapters are prayers and songs from the Old and New Testaments. 
Chapters of this book as presented by Rahlfs are:

</doc>
<doc id="128406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128406" title="1975-76 NHL season">
1975-76 NHL season

The 1975–76 NHL season was the 59th season of the National Hockey League. Eighteen teams each played 80 games. The Montreal Canadiens set records in wins with 58 and points with 127, beginning a four-year stretch where they would dominate the league in the regular season and win four straight Stanley Cup titles.
"Note: GP = Games played, W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties, Pts = Points, GF = Goals for, GA = Goals against, PIM = Penalties in minutes"
<br>
"Note: Teams that qualified for the playoffs are highlighted in bold"
"Note: GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points"
The two-time defending Stanley Cup Champions, the Philadelphia Flyers, once again made it to the finals, but lost in four games to the Montreal Canadiens.
Montreal Canadiens vs. Philadelphia Flyers

</doc>
<doc id="128408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128408" title="Category:1976 in ice hockey">
Category:1976 in ice hockey


</doc>
<doc id="128410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128410" title="Category:1977 in sports">
Category:1977 in sports


</doc>
<doc id="128411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128411" title="Category:1976 in sports">
Category:1976 in sports


</doc>
<doc id="128415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128415" title="Category:1975 in ice hockey">
Category:1975 in ice hockey


</doc>
<doc id="128416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128416" title="Category:1975 in sports">
Category:1975 in sports


</doc>
<doc id="128418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128418" title="Communes of the Mayenne department">
Communes of the Mayenne department

There are 261 communes in the Mayenne department in France, all included in the following list:

</doc>
<doc id="128420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128420" title="Ahuillé">
Ahuillé

Ahuillé is a commune of 1662 people (2006). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128421" title="Alexain">
Alexain

Alexain is a commune of 402 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128422" title="Ambrières-les-Vallées">
Ambrières-les-Vallées

Ambrières-les-Vallées is a commune of 2,903 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128423" title="Ampoigné">
Ampoigné

Ampoigné is a commune of 421 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128424" title="Andouillé">
Andouillé

Andouillé is a commune of 2,310 people (2006). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France. It is twinned with the village of Farnsfield, Nottinghamshire.

</doc>
<doc id="128425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128425" title="Argenton-Notre-Dame">
Argenton-Notre-Dame

Argenton-Notre-Dame is a commune of 181 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128426" title="Argentré">
Argentré

Argentré is a commune of 2487 people (2007). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128427" title="Aron, Mayenne">
Aron, Mayenne

Aron is a commune of 1550 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128428" title="Arquenay">
Arquenay

Arquenay is a commune of 508 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128429" title="Assé-le-Bérenger">
Assé-le-Bérenger

Assé-le-Bérenger is a commune of 329 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128430" title="Astillé">
Astillé

Astillé is a commune of 547 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128431" title="Athée, Mayenne">
Athée, Mayenne

Athée is a commune of 488 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128432" title="Averton">
Averton

Averton is a commune of 601 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128433" title="Azé, Mayenne">
Azé, Mayenne

Azé is a commune of 2,999 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128434" title="La Baconnière">
La Baconnière

La Baconnière is a commune of 1,194 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128435" title="Bais, Mayenne">
Bais, Mayenne

Bais is a commune of 1487 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128436" title="Ballée">
Ballée

Ballée is a commune of 719 people (2004). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128437" title="Ballots, Mayenne">
Ballots, Mayenne

Ballots is a commune of 1036 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128438" title="Bannes, Mayenne">
Bannes, Mayenne

Bannes is a commune of 118 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128439" title="La Bazoge-Montpinçon">
La Bazoge-Montpinçon

La Bazoge-Montpinçon is a commune of 525 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128440" title="La Bazouge-de-Chemeré">
La Bazouge-de-Chemeré

La Bazouge-de-Chemeré is a commune of 504 people (2006). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128441" title="La Bazouge-des-Alleux">
La Bazouge-des-Alleux

La Bazouge-des-Alleux is a commune of 262 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128442" title="Bazougers">
Bazougers

Bazougers is a commune of 933 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128443" title="Beaulieu-sur-Oudon">
Beaulieu-sur-Oudon

Beaulieu-sur-Oudon is a commune of 401 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128444" title="Beaumont-Pied-de-Bœuf, Mayenne">
Beaumont-Pied-de-Bœuf, Mayenne

Beaumont-Pied-de-Bœuf is a commune of 198 people (2004). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128445" title="Belgeard">
Belgeard

Belgeard is a commune of 335 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128448" title="Bierné">
Bierné

Bierné is a commune of 665 people (2005). It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128451" title="Le Bignon-du-Maine">
Le Bignon-du-Maine

Le Bignon-du-Maine is a commune of 304 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128452" title="La Bigottière">
La Bigottière

La Bigottière is a commune of 331 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128454" title="Blandouet">
Blandouet

Blandouet is a commune of 157 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128456" title="La Boissière, Mayenne">
La Boissière, Mayenne

La Boissière is a commune of 111 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128458" title="Bonchamp-lès-Laval">
Bonchamp-lès-Laval

Bonchamp-lès-Laval is a commune of 5232 people (2007). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128460" title="Bouchamps-lès-Craon">
Bouchamps-lès-Craon

Bouchamps-lès-Craon is a commune of 514 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128461" title="Bouère">
Bouère

Bouère is a commune of 321 people (2004). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128463" title="Bouessay">
Bouessay

Bouessay is a commune of 563 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128465" title="Boulay-les-Ifs">
Boulay-les-Ifs

Boulay-les-Ifs is a commune of 168 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128467" title="Le Bourgneuf-la-Forêt">
Le Bourgneuf-la-Forêt

Le Bourgneuf-la-Forêt is a commune of 1537 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128468" title="Bourgon">
Bourgon

Bourgon is a commune of 587 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128470" title="Brains-sur-les-Marches">
Brains-sur-les-Marches

Brains-sur-les-Marches is a commune of 229 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128472" title="Brecé">
Brecé

Brecé is a commune of 830 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128474" title="Tinker Bell (movie)">
Tinker Bell (movie)

Tinker Bell is a Disney movie based on the character from "Peter Pan". It was released on DVD and Blu-ray Disc on October 28, 2008. Unlike the other two Disney movies of Peter Pan, this movie was animated completely using computer animation. This was also the first time that the Disney version of Tinker Bell talked.
The original name of the movie was "Tinker Bell and the Ring of Belief".
The movie was directed by Bradley Raymond.
The movie's soundtrack was released on October 14, 2008, a week before the DVD release and contains songs from and inspired by the movie.
Disney Fairies: Tinker Bell is an adventure game loosely based on the movie.
In April 2008, Disney announced that the movie will be released on DVD and Blu-ray Disc on October 28, 2008. Contrary to the previous announcement of the suspension of direct-to-video sequels, they also announced three direct-to-DVD sequels to follow this movie, also digitally animated:
The movie saw an exclusive theatrical release at the El Capitan Theatre between September 19 and October 2nd. It will also premiere on Disney Channel in November as part of "New in November."

</doc>
<doc id="128479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128479" title="Woolfardisworthy, Torridge">
Woolfardisworthy, Torridge

Woolfardisworthy is a village in the Torridge district in the English county of Devon.
The name of the village is a local curiosity, as its pronunciation (and occasional spelling) differs to how one may try to pronounce it. On local signs, the village is sometimes marked as Woolsery alongside the original name. This is due to the pronunciation of the village's name being /ˈwʊlzərɨ/ ("Woolz'ry").
There is another (smaller) village of the same name in the Mid Devon district.

</doc>
<doc id="128515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128515" title="Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Giggy">
Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Giggy

Hello everyone. I've been editing actively here for around two and a half months and have increasingly found that I'd have a good use for the tools. I was recently told I passed 1000 edits (true!), of which the majority have been to the mainspace. I've written one VGA; Powderfinger, with another (Red Hot Chili Peppers) currently up for PVGA. I've also contributed to a lot of other articles about music, generally cleaning stuff up and creating stubs to compliment the articles I've worked on directly.
As well as this, I check new changes regularly, and have done a fair bit of vandal reverting. Despite this, vandal fighting is not my strength, so I don't have a great number of VIP requests, though I think my reverting and occasional reports there will demonstrate that I have an idea of what I'm doing. I don't see myself doing a lot of blocking, but I do see myself doing a fair bit of deletion. I'm active in QD tagging, and as I write this, contains nine items (it had seven when I started writing; two more have since been added!), so I imagine having another admin from a different time zone (I don't think there are any active Australian admins?) would help. I've also kept an eye on requests for deletion and could help out there. Furthermore, I keep an eye on the admin noticeboard and see myself helping out with general stuff there on request. Especially, I could help out with image stuff as I'm an admin (and 'crat) on , the image host for this wiki. I've been doing admin stuff there since November 2007, which will hopefully resolve any concerns about experience.
So in conclusion; I'm been around here for a while, I have a pretty good idea of how things work here, I've improved articles, reverted vandals, tagged stuff for deletion, and commented in discussions. I'm also a Commons admin, and I could help out likewise here. Thanks for reading and considering. Cheers, () 01:50, 9 September 2008 (UTC)
It says something about people when they nominate themselves on every project that they edit on, not even waiting for someone to nominate them (I know that somebody said they wanted to nominate you, but you presumptively self-nommed). —  · 03:21, 9 September 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="128517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128517" title="Guadalcanal Campaign">
Guadalcanal Campaign

The Guadalcanal Campaign was fought between August 7, 1942, and February 9, 1943, in the Pacific theatre of World War II. This campaign, which was a decisive and strategically important campaign of World War II, was fought on the ground, at sea, and in the air between Allied forces against Imperial Japanese forces. The fighting took place on and around the island of Guadalcanal in the southern Solomon Islands, and was the first major offensive launched by Allied forces against the Empire of Japan.
On August 7, 1942, Allied forces, mainly from the United States, started landings on the islands of Guadalcanal, Tulagi, and Florida in the southern Solomons with the aim to make supply routes between the U.S., Australia, and New Zealand safer.
The Battle of Guadalcanal was one of the first long campaigns in the Pacific.
On 7 December 1941, Japanese forces attacked the United States Pacific Fleet at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. The attack damage much of the U.S. battleship fleet and started a war between the two nations. The initial goals of Japanese leaders were to destroy the US Navy, seize lands rich in natural resources, and establish strategic military bases to defend Japan's empire in the Pacific Ocean and Asia. To do this, Japanese forces captured the Philippines, Thailand, Malaya, Singapore, Burma, the Dutch East Indies, Wake Island, Gilbert Islands, New Britain and Guam. Joining the U.S. in the war against Japan were the rest of the Allied powers, several of whom, including the United Kingdom, Australia and the Netherlands had also been attacked by Japan.
Two attempts by the Japanese to take islands in the south and central Pacific so they could threaten Australia and Hawaii or the US West Coast were stopped at the naval battles of Coral Sea and Midway. Coral Sea caused losses for both sides, but in some ways it was an Allied victory. Midway gave the Allies' their first clear major victory against the Japanese. It also reduced Japan's carrier forces. But did not change their plans for continuing attacks for several months. The Japanese made mistakes making risky attacks, like the attempt to assault Port Moresby over the Kokoda Trail. Up to this point, the Allies had been having to defend themselves in the Pacific. These victories started the Allies to be moving towards winning in the Pacific.
The Allies chose the southern Solomon Islands of Guadalcanal, Tulagi and Florida Island, as the first target. The Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) had occupied Tulagi in May 1942 and had constructed a seaplane base nearby. Allied concern grew when, in early July 1942, the IJN began constructing a large airfield at Lunga Point on Guadalcanal. From such a base Japanese long range bombers would threaten the West Coast of the Americas and the East Coast of Australia. By August 1942, the Japanese had about 900 naval troops on Tulagi and nearby islands and 2,800 people on Guadalcanal. These bases would protect Japan's major base at Rabaul, threaten Allied supply and communication lines and establish base for attacks against Fiji, New Caledonia and Samoa ("Operation FS"). 
The Japanese planned to send 45 fighters and 60 bombers to Guadalcanal. In 1942 these aircraft could provide air cover for Japanese naval forces advancing into the South Pacific.
The Allied plan to invade the southern Solomons was thought of by U.S. Admiral Ernest King, Commander in Chief, United States Fleet. He wanted to take the islands away from the Japanese. With Roosevelt's agreement, King also wanted to invade Guadalcanal. Because the United States supported Great Britain's idea of defeating Germany before Japan, the Pacific war had to compete for troops and resources with the European war. 
Therefore US Army General George C. Marshall was against King's proposed attacks and asked who would command the operation. King replied that the Navy and Marines would do it themselves and instructed Admiral Chester Nimitz to plan the attacks. King won the argument with Marshall and the invasion went ahead.
The Guadalcanal attack would be carried out in at the same time as an Allied offensive in New Guinea under Douglas MacArthur. The goal was to capture the Admiralty Islands and the Bismarck Archipelago, including the major Japanese base at Rabaul. The goal was the American capture of the Philippines. The U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff put Vice Admiral Robert L. Ghormley in command on 19 June 1942, to direct the attack in the Solomons. 
Admiral Chester Nimitz, based at Pearl Harbor, was the overall Allied commander in chief for Pacific forces.
In preparation for the attack in the Pacific in May 1942, the U.S. 1st Marine Division moved from the United States to New Zealand. Other Allied land, naval and air force units were sent to other Pacific islands. The attack was codenamed "Operation Watchtower", with the date set for 7 August 1942.
At first, the attacks were planned just for Tulagi and the Santa Cruz Islands, and not Guadalcanal. When the Allies discovered the Japanese airfield on Guadalcanal, its capture was added to the plan and the Santa Cruz operation was dropped. The Japanese knew Allied forces were moving but thought they were going to Australia and perhaps Port Moresby in New Guinea.
The "Watchtower" force, numbering 75 warships and transports (of vessels from the U.S. and Australia), assembled near Fiji on 26 July 1942. They did one rehearsal landing prior to leaving for Guadalcanal on 31 July. The commander of the Allied force was U.S. Vice Admiral Frank Fletcher (flag in aircraft carrier ). Commanding the sea and land forces was U.S. Rear Admiral Richmond K. Turner. Vandegrift led the 16,000 Allied (primarily U.S. Marine) infantry for the landings.
The troops sent to Guadalcanal were fresh from military training and armed with M1903 Springfield rifles and a 10-day supply of ammunition. To get them into battle quickly, the operation planners had reduced their supplies to only 60 days. The troops of the 1st Marine Division began referring to the coming battle as "Operation Shoestring".
Bad weather allowed the Allied force to arrive near Guadalcanal unseen by the Japanese on the night of 6 August and the morning of 7 August and take the defenders by surprise. This has sometimes been called the Midnight Raid on Guadalcanal. The landing force split into two groups, with one group attacking Guadalcanal, and the other Tulagi, Florida, and nearby islands. 
Allied warships bombed the invasion beaches while U.S. carrier aircraft bombed Japanese forces on the target islands and destroyed 15 Japanese seaplanes at their base near Tulagi.
Tulagi and two nearby small islands, Gavutu and Tanambogo, were attacked by 3,000 U.S. Marines. The 886 IJN forces violently resisted the Marine attacks. With some difficulty, the Marines captured all three islands; Tulagi on 8 August, and Gavutu and Tanambogo by 9 August. 
The Japanese defenders were almost all killed while the Marines had 122 killed.
The landings on Guadalcanal had much less resistance. On 7 August, 11,000 U.S. Marines came ashore on Guadalcanal and met no resistance. They stopped for the night about from the Lunga Point airfield. The next day, against little resistance, the Marines advanced to Lunga River and captured the airfield by 16:00 on 8 August. 
The Japanese naval construction staff and combat troops had abandoned the airfield area and fled about west to the Matanikau River and Point Cruz area. They left behind food, supplies, construction equipment and vehicles, and 13 dead.
During the landing operations on 7 and 8 August, Japanese naval aircraft based at Rabaul, under the command of Sadayoshi Yamada, attacked the Allied forces several times, setting afire the transport USS "George F. Elliot" (which sank two days later) and heavily damaging the destroyer . In the air attacks over the two days, the Japanese lost 36 aircraft, while the U.S. lost 19, both in combat and to accident, including 14 carrier fighters.
After these fights, Fletcher was concerned about the losses to his carrier fighter aircraft. He was also anxious about the threat to his carriers from Japanese air attacks, and worried about his ships' fuel levels. Fletcher pulled back from the Solomon Islands area with his carrier task forces the evening of 8 August. As a result of the loss of carrier-based air cover, Turner pulled back his ships from Guadalcanal, even though less than half of the supplies and heavy equipment needed by the troops ashore had been unloaded. Turner planned, however, to unload as many supplies as possible on Guadalcanal and Tulagi throughout the night of 8 August and then depart with his ships early on 9 August.
That night, as the transports unloaded, two groups of Allied cruisers and destroyers, under the command of British Rear Admiral Victor Crutchley VC, were defeated by a Japanese force of seven cruisers and one destroyer from the 8th Fleet based at Rabaul and Kavieng and commanded by Japanese Vice Admiral Gunichi Mikawa. 
In the Battle of Savo Island one Australian and three American cruisers were sunk and one American cruiser and two destroyers were damaged. The Japanese had moderate damage to one cruiser. Mikawa, who was unaware Fletcher was preparing to pull back with the U.S. carriers, immediately went back to Rabaul without attempting to attack the transports. Mikawa was concerned about daylight U.S. carrier air attacks if he remained in the area. Without carrier air cover, Turner decided to pull back his remaining naval forces by the evening of 9 August. This left the Marines ashore without much of the heavy equipment, supplies and troops still aboard the transports. Mikawa's decision not to attempt to destroy the Allied transport ships was a big mistake.
The 11,000 Marines on Guadalcanal at first set up a guard around Lunga Point and the airfield. They also moved the landed supplies ashore and finished the airfield. By 18 August the airfield was ready for operation. Five days worth of food had been landed from the transports, which, along with captured Japanese food, gave the Marines a total of 14 days worth of food. To conserve supplies, the troops were limited to two meals per day.
Allied troops got sick with dysentery soon after the landings, with one in five Marines sick by mid-August. Tropical diseases affected both sides' troops. Although some of the Korean construction workers surrendered to the Marines, most of the Japanese and Korean gathered to the west and ate coconuts. A Japanese naval outpost was also located at Taivu Point, about 35 kilometres (22 mi) east of the Lunga perimeter. On 8 August, a Japanese destroyer from Rabaul delivered 113 troops to the Matanikau position.
On the evening of 12 August, a 25-man U.S. Marine patrol landed by boat to try and find a group of Japanese troops that U.S. forces thought might be willing to surrender. Soon after the patrol landed, a nearby platoon of Japanese naval troops attacked and almost completely killed the Marine patrol.
On 19 August, Vandegrift sent three companies of the U.S. 5th Marine Regiment to attack the Japanese troops west of the Matanikau. One company attacked at the mouth of the Matanikau river while another crossed the river inland and attacked the Japanese forces in Matanikau village. The third landed by boat further west and attacked Kokumbuna village. After briefly occupying the two villages, the three Marine companies returned to the Lunga perimeter, having killed about 65 Japanese soldiers while losing four. 
This was the first of several major actions around the Matanikau River during the battle.
On 20 August, the escort carrier delivered two squadrons of Marine aircraft to Henderson Field, one a squadron of 19 F4F Wildcats and the other a squadron of 12 SBD Dauntlesses. The aircraft at Henderson became known as the "Cactus Air Force" (CAF) after the Allied codename for Guadalcanal. 
The Marine fighters were used the next day. There were Japanese bomber air raids almost every day. On 22 August five U.S. Army P-400 Airacobras and their pilots arrived at Henderson Field.
In response to the Allied landings on Guadalcanal, the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters assigned the Imperial Japanese Army's (IJA) 17th Army at Rabaul and under the command of Lieutenant General Harukichi Hyakutake, was ordered to retake Guadalcanal. The army was to be supported by Japanese naval units, including the Combined Fleet under the command of Isoroku Yamamoto, which was headquartered at Truk. The 17th Army, at that time involved in the Japanese campaign in New Guinea, had only a few units available. The 35th Infantry Brigade under Major General Kiyotake Kawaguchi was at Palau. The 4th (Aoba) Infantry Regiment was in the Philippines and the 28th (Ichiki) Infantry Regiment, under the command of Colonel Kiyonao Ichiki, was on transport ships near Guam. 
The different units began to move towards Guadalcanal. Ichiki's unit, consisting of about 917 soldiers, landed from destroyers at Taivu Pointbafter midnight on 19 August, then made a night march west toward the Marines. The Ichiki regiment was named after its commanding officer.
Ichiki thought that there were not that many Allied soldiers on Guadalcanal. Ichiki's soldiers attacked Marine positions at Alligator Creek in the early morning hours of 21 August. Ichiki's attack was defeated with heavy Japanese losses in what became known as the Battle of the Tenaru. In the day, the Marines attacked Ichiki's surviving troops, killing many more of them. 
The dead included Ichiki, though it has been claimed that he committed suicide after realizing his defeat, rather than dying in combat. In total, all but 128 of the original 917 members of the Ichiki Regiment's force were killed in the battle. The survivors returned to Taivu Point, notified 17th Army headquarters of their defeat and waited for new soldiers and orders from Rabaul.
As the Tenaru battle was ending, more Japanese troops were already on their way. Three slow transports departed from Truk on 16 August carrying the remaining 1,400 soldiers from Ichiki's (28th) Infantry Regiment plus 500 naval marines from the 5th Yokosuka Special Naval Landing Force. 
The transports were guarded by 13 warships commanded by Japanese Rear Admiral Raizo Tanaka. He planned to land the troops on Guadalcanal on 24 August. To cover the landings and retake Henderson Field from Allied forces, Yamamoto directed Chuichi Nagumo to meet with a carrier force from Truk on 21 August and head towards the southern Solomon Islands. Nagumo's force included three carriers and 30 other warships.
Three U.S. carrier task forces under Fletcher approached Guadalcanal to attack the Japanese. On 24 and 25 August, the two carrier forces fought the Battle of the Eastern Solomons, which resulted in both fleets pulling back from the area after taking some damage. Japan lost one light aircraft carrier. Tanaka's convoy, after getting heavy damage during the battle from an air attack by aircraft from Henderson Field, including the sinking of one of the transports, changed direction to the Shortland Islands in the northern Solomons. This was done to transfer the troops to destroyers for delivery to Guadalcanal.
Throughout August, small numbers of U.S. aircraft and their crews continued to arrive at Guadalcanal. By the end of August, 64 aircraft of various types were stationed at Henderson Field. On 3 September, the commander of 1st Marine Aircraft Wing, U.S. Marine Brigadier General Roy S. Geiger, arrived and took command of all air operations at Henderson Field. Air battles between the Allied aircraft at Henderson and Japanese bombers and fighters from Rabaul continued almost daily. Between 26 August and 5 September, the U.S. lost about 15 aircraft while the Japanese lost approximately 19 aircraft. More than half of the downed U.S. aircrews were rescued while most of the Japanese aircrews were never recovered. The eight-hour round trip flight from Rabaul to Guadalcanal, about total, made it hard for the Japanese to attack Henderson Field. 
Australians on Bougainville and New Georgia islands were often able to warn of Japanese air strikes, allowing the U.S. fighters time to take off and attack the Japanese bombers and fighters as they approached the island.
Vandegrift continued to strengthen and improve the defenses of the Lunga perimeter. Between 21 August and 3 September, he sent three Marine battalions, including the 1st Raider Battalion, under Merritt A. Edson (Edson's Raiders), and the 1st Parachute Battalion from Tulagi and Gavutu to Guadalcanal. These units added about 1,500 troops to Vandegrift's original 11,000 men defending Henderson Field. The 1st Parachute Battalion, which had many dead and wounded in the Battle of Tulagi and Gavutu-Tanambogo in August, was placed under Edson's command.
The other relocated battalion, the 1st Battalion, 5th Marine Regiment (1/5), was landed west of the Matanikau near Kokumbuna village on 27 August. They had the mission of attacking Japanese units in the area. They faced hot sun, and strong Japanese defenses. The next morning, the Marines found that the Japanese defenders had departed during the night, so the Marines returned to the Lunga perimeter by boat. Losses in this action were 20 Japanese and 3 Marines killed.
Small Allied naval convoys arrived at Guadalcanal on 23 August 29 August, 1 September, and 8 September. They provided the Marines at Lunga with more food, ammunition, aircraft fuel, and aircraft technicians. The 1 September convoy also brought 392 construction engineers to work on Henderson Field.
By 23 August, Kawaguchi's 35th Infantry Brigade reached Truk and was loaded onto slow transport ships for the rest of the trip to Guadalcanal. The damage done to Tanaka's convoy during the Battle of the Eastern Solomons made the Japanese decide not to deliver more troops to Guadalcanal by slow transport. Instead, ships carrying Kawaguchi's soldiers were sent to Rabaul. 
From there, the Japanese planned to deliver Kawaguchi's men to Guadalcanal by destroyers. The Japanese destroyers were usually able to make round trips down (New Georgia Sound) to Guadalcanal and back in a single night throughout the campaign, minimizing their risk of Allied air attack. 
The runs became known as the "Tokyo Express" to Allied Forces by the Japanese. 
Delivering the troops like this made it hard to bring heavy equipment and supplies, such as heavy artillery, vehicles, and much food and ammunition to Guadalcanal. In addition, this activity used destroyers the IJN needed for commerce defense. The Allied naval commanders did not fight Japanese naval forces at night. However, any Japanese ship remaining within range of the aircraft at Henderson Field during the daylight hours, about , was in great danger from air attack. Thissituation existed for the next several months of the battle.
Between 29 August and 4 September, Japanese light cruisers, destroyers, and patrol boats were able to land almost 5,000 troops at Taivu Point, including most of the 35th Infantry Brigade, much of the Aoba (4th) Regiment, and the rest of Ichiki's regiment. General Kawaguchi, who landed at Taivu Point on 31 August Express run, was placed in command of all Japanese forces on Guadalcanal. A barge convoy took another 1,000 soldiers of Kawaguchi's brigade, under the command of Colonel Akinosuke Oka, to Kamimbo, west of the Lunga perimeter.
On 7 September, Kawaguchi issued his attack plan to destroy enemy in the Guadalcanal Island airfield. Kawaguchi's attack plan called for his forces to do a surprise night attack. Oka's forces would attack from the west while Ichiki's Second Echelon would attack from the east. The main attack would be by Kawaguchi's group of 3,000 men in three battalions, from the south. By 7 September, most of Kawaguchi's troops began marching towards Lunga Point along the coastline. About 250 Japanese troops remained behind to guard the brigade's supply base at Taivu.
Meanwhile, scouts brought reports to the U.S. Marines of Japanese troops at Taivu near the village of Tasimboko. Edson planned a raid on the Japanese troops at Taivu. On 8 September, after being dropped-off near Taivu by boat, Edson's men captured Tasimboko as the Japanese retreated into the jungle. 
In Tasimboko, Edson's troops discovered Kawaguchi's main supply depot, including large stockpiles of food, ammunition, medical supplies, and a powerful shortwave radio. After destroying everything, except some papers, the Marines returned to the Lunga perimeter. The captured documents informed the Marines that at least 3,000 Japanese troops were on the island and planning an attack.
Edson, along with Colonel Gerald C. Thomas, Vandegrift's operations officer, thought that the Japanese attack would come at a narrow, grassy, -long, coral ridge south of Henderson Field. The ridge, called Lunga Ridge, had a good approach to the airfield and it was undefended. On 11 September, the 840 men of Edson's battalion were sent onto and around the ridge.
On the night of 12 September, Kawaguchi's 1st Battalion attacked the Raiders between the Lunga River and ridge. One Marine company had to fall back to the ridge before the Japanese stopped their attack for the night. The next night Kawaguchi had to battle Edson's 830 Raiders with 3,000 troops of his brigade and artillery. The Japanese attack began just after nightfall with Kawaguchi's 1st battalion attacking Edson's right side to the west of the ridge. After breaking through the Marine defences, the attack was eventually stopped by Marine units guarding the northern part of the ridge.
Two companies from Kawaguchi's 2nd Battalion moved up the southern edge of the ridge and pushed Edson's troops back to Hill 123 on the center part of the ridge. Throughout the night the Marines fought against Japanese attacks, some of which resulted in hand-to-hand fighting. The Marines also had artillery. Japanese groups that got past the ridge to the edge of the airfield were also sent back. 
Attacks by the Kuma battalion and Oka's unit at other places were also stopped. On 14 September Kawaguchi led the survivors on a five-day march west to the Matanikau Valley to join with Oka's unit. In total Kawaguchi's forces lost about 850 killed and the Marines 104.
On 15 September Hyakutake at Rabaul learned of Kawaguchi's loss and sent the news to Imperial General Headquarters in Japan. In an emergency meeting, the top Japanese IJA and IJN command staffs decided that, Guadalcanal might develop into the most important battle of the war. The loss affected Japanese operations in other areas of the Pacific. Hyakutake realized that to send sufficient troops and supplies to defeat the Allied forces on Guadalcanal he could not support the major ongoing Japanese attacks on the Kokoda Track in New Guinea. 
Hyakutake, with the agreement of General Headquarters, ordered his troops on New Guinea who were within of their goal of Port Moresby to pull back until the Guadalcanal battle was finished. Hyakutake sent more troops to Guadalcanal for another attempt to recapture Henderson Field.
As the Japanese troops gathered west of the Matanikau, the U.S. forces strengthened their Lunga defenses. On 14 September Vandegrift moved another battalion, the 3rd Battalion, 2nd Marine Regiment (3/2), from Tulagi to Guadalcanal. On 18 September an Allied naval convoy delivered 4,157 men from the 3rd Provisional Marine Brigade (the 7th Marine Regiment plus a battalion from the 11th Marine Regiment and some additional support units). 
The convoy also delivered 137 vehicles, tents, aviation fuel, ammunition, rations and engineering equipment to Guadalcanal. These new soldiers enabled Vandegrift, beginning on 19 September, to establish an unbroken defence around the Lunga perimeter. While protecting this convoy the aircraft carrier was sunk by the Japanese submarine southeast of Guadalcanal. For a while, this left only one Allied aircraft carrier () in the South Pacific area. 
Vandegrift also removed several officers who did not meet his standards and promoted junior officers who had done well in the battles. Colonel Merritt Edson who was given command of the 5th Marine Regiment.
The air war over Guadalcanal stopped for a while. There were no Japanese air raids between 14 and 27 September due to bad weather. Both sides reinforced their air units during this time. The Japanese delivered 85 fighters and bombers to their air units at Rabaul while the U.S. brought 23 fighters and attack aircraft to Henderson Field. On 20 September the Japanese had 117 aircraft at Rabaul while the Allies had 71 aircraft at Henderson Field. 
The air war got started again with a Japanese air raid on Guadalcanal on 27 September. U.S. Navy and Marine fighters from Henderson Field flew up to try to stop the air raid.
The Japanese began to prepare for their next attempt to recapture Henderson Field. The 3rd Battalion, 4th (Aoba) Infantry Regiment had landed at Kamimbo Bay on the western end of Guadalcanal on 11 September. The battalion had joined Oka's forces near the Matanikau. Deliveries by destroyers on 14, 20, 21 and 24 September brought food and ammunition as well as 280 men from the 1st Battalion, Aoba Regiment, to Kamimbo on Guadalcanal. 
The Japanese 2nd and 38th Infantry Divisions were transported from the Dutch East Indies to Rabaul beginning on 13 September. The Japanese planned to transport 17,500 troops from these two divisions to Guadalcanal for the next major attack on the Lunga Perimeter set for 20 October 1942.
Vandegrift was aware that Kawaguchi's troops had retreated to the area west of the Matanikau and that numerous groups of Japanese troops were in the area between the Lunga Perimeter and the Matanikau River. Vandegrift decided to attack the scattered groups of Japanese troops east of the Matanikau. 
He also wanted to prevent the main group of Japanese soldiers from strengthening their positions so close to the main Marine defenses at Lunga Point.
The first U.S. Marine attack between 23 and 27 September used soldiers from three U.S. Marine battalions. The attack on Japanese forces west of the Matanikau, was defeated by Kawaguchi's troops under Akinosuke Oka's command. During the fight, three Marine companies were surrounded by Japanese forces and they had many dead and wounded. They escaped with help from the destroyer and landing craft piloted by U.S. Coast Guard personnel.
In the second attack between 6 and 9 October a larger force of Marines crossed the Matanikau River, attacked newly landed Japanese forces from the 2nd Infantry Division under the command of generals Masao Maruyama and Yumio Nasu. The Marines inflicted caused a lot of deaths and wounding for the Japanese 4th Infantry Regiment. 
The second attack forced the Japanese to retreat from their positions east of the Matanikau. This caused problems with Japanese plans to do a major attack on the U.S. Lunga defenses.
Between 9 and 11 October the U.S. 1st Battalion 2nd Marines attacked two small Japanese outposts about east of the Lunga perimeter at Gurabusu and Koilotumaria near Aola Bay. The attacks killed 35 Japanese at a cost of 17 Marines and three U.S. Navy personnel.
Throughout the last week of September and the first week of October, Japanese destroyers delivered troops from the Japanese 2nd Infantry Division to Guadalcanal. The Japanese Navy promised to support the Army's attack by delivering troops, equipment, and supplies to the island and doing more air attacks on Henderson Field and sending warships to bomb the airfield.
Millard F. Harmon, commander of United States Army forces in the South Pacific, thought that U.S. Marine forces on Guadalcanal needed new soldiers if the Allies were to defend the island from the next Japanese attack. On 8 October, the 2,837 men of the 164th Infantry Regiment from the U.S. Army's Americal Division boarded ships to Guadalcanal. To protect the transports carrying the 164th to Guadalcanal, Task Force 64 was told to go with the transports. This task force consisted of four cruisers and five destroyers under U.S. Rear Admiral Norman Scott. 
They were told to attack any Japanese ships that approached Guadalcanal.
Mikawa's 8th Fleet staff scheduled a large and important destroyer delivery for the night of 11 October. Two seaplane tenders and six destroyers were to deliver 728 soldiers plus artillery and ammunition to Guadalcanal. At the same time, three heavy cruisers and two destroyers under the command of Rear Admiral Aritomo Gotō were to bomb Henderson Field to destroy the CAF and the airfield. 
Because U.S. Navy warships had never tried to stop any Tokyo Express missions to Guadalcanal, the Japanese were not expecting any opposition from Allied naval ships that night.
Just before midnight, Scott's warships detected Gotō's force on radar near Guadalcanal. Scott's force was in a position to fire on Gotō's ships. Opening fire, Scott's warships sank one of Gotō's cruisers and one of his destroyers, heavily damaged another cruiser, seriously wounded Gotō, and forced the rest of Gotō's warships to abandon the bombing mission and retreat. 
One of Scott's destroyers was sunk and one cruiser and another destroyer were heavily damaged. The Japanese supply convoy unloaded at Guadalcanal and began its return journey without being discovered by Scott's force. Later on the morning of 12 October, four Japanese destroyers from the supply convoy turned back to help Gotō's damaged warships. 
Air attacks by CAF aircraft from Henderson Field sank two of these destroyers later that day. The convoy of U.S. Army troops reached Guadalcanal as scheduled the next day and delivered its cargo and passengers to the island.
Even after the U.S. victory off Cape Esperance, the Japanese continued with plans for a large attack later in October. The Japanese decided to risk not using fast warships to deliver their men and supplies to the island. 
On 13 October, a convoy of six cargo ships with eight destroyers left the Shortland Islands for Guadalcanal. The convoy carried 4,500 troops from the 16th and 230th Infantry Regiments, some naval marines, two batteries of heavy artillery, and one company of tanks.
To protect the approaching convoy from attack by CAF aircraft, Yamamoto sent two battleships from Truk to bombard Henderson Field. At 01:33 on 14 October, and , protected by one light cruiser and nine destroyers, reached Guadalcanal and fired at Henderson Field from a distance of . Over the next one hour and 23 minutes, the two battleships fired 973 shells into the Lunga perimeter, most of them falling in the area of the airfield. Many of the shells were fragmentation shells, designed to destroy land targets. The bombing heavily damaged both runways, burned almost all of the available airplane fuel, destroyed 48 of the CAF's 90 aircraft, and killed 41 men, including six CAF pilots. The battleship force then returned to Truk.
In spite of the heavy damage, Henderson soldiers were able to fix one of the runways within a few hours. Seventeen SBDs and 20 Wildcats at Espiritu Santo were flown to Henderson and U.S. Army and Marine transport aircraft began to transport airplane gasoline to Guadalcanal. 
Now that the US was aware of the approach of the large Japanese convoy, the US tried to think of a way to attack the convoy before it could reach Guadalcanal. Using fuel drained from destroyed aircraft and from a hidden fuel tank in the jungle, the CAF attacked the convoy twice on the 14th, but caused no damage.
The Japanese convoy reached Guadalcanal at midnight on 14 October and began unloading. Throughout the day of 15 October, CAF aircraft from Henderson bombed and machine-gunned the unloading convoy, destroying three of the cargo ships. The remainder of the convoy departed that night, having unloaded all of the troops and about two-thirds of the supplies and equipment. 
Several Japanese heavy cruisers also bombed Henderson on the nights of 14 and 15 October, destroying a few additional CAF aircraft, but not damaging the airfield.
Between 1 and 17 October, the Japanese delivered 15,000 troops to Guadalcanal, giving Hyakutake 20,000 troops for his planned attack. Because they had lost their positions on the east side of the Matanikau, the Japanese decided that an attack on the U.S. defenses along the coast would be too hard. Hyakutake decided to attack from south of Henderson Field. 
His 2nd Division (with troops from the 38th Division), under Lieutenant General Masao Maruyama and 7,000 soldiers in three infantry regiments was ordered to attack the American defences from the south near the east bank of the Lunga River. 
The date of the attack was set for 22 October, then changed to 23 October. To try and trick the Americans from knowing about the planned attack from the south, Hyakutake's heavy artillery plus five battalions of infantry (about 2,900 men) under Major General Tadashi Sumiyoshi attacked the American defenses from the west. 
The Japanese thought that there were 10,000 American troops on the island, when in there were really 23,000.
On 12 October, a group of Japanese engineers began to cut a trail, called the "Maruyama Road", from the Matanikau towards the southern portion of the U.S. Lunga perimeter. The long trail went across rivers and streams, deep ravines, steep ridges, and thick jungle. 
Between 16 and 18 October, the 2nd Division began their march along the Maruyama Road.
By 23 October, Maruyama's forces were finding it hard to get through the jungle to reach the American forces. Hyakutake delayed the attack to 19:00 on 24 October. The Americans did not know that Maruyama's forces were on their way.
Sumiyoshi was told by Hyakutake's staff of the delay of the attack to 24 October. However, he was unable to contact his troops to tell them of the delay. Thus, at dusk on 23 October, two battalions of the 4th Infantry Regiment and the nine tanks of the 1st Independent Tank Company attacked on the U.S. Marine defenses at the mouth of the Matanikau. 
U.S. Marine artillery, cannon, and rifle fire defeated the attacks, destroying all the tanks and killing many of the Japanese soldiers. Only a small number of Marines were killed or wounded.
Finally, late on 24 October Maruyama's forces reached the U.S. Lunga perimeter. Over two nights Maruyama's troops attacked positions defended by troops of the 1st Battalion, 7th Marines under Lieutenant Colonel Chesty Puller and the U.S. Army's 3rd Battalion, 164th Infantry Regiment, commanded by Lieutenant Colonel Robert Hall. 
U.S. Marine and Army units armed with rifles, machine guns, mortars, and fire from 37 mm anti-tank guns did terrible damage to the Japanese. A few small groups of Japanese that broke through the American defenses, were all killed over the next several days. 
More than 1,500 of Maruyama's troops were killed in the attacks while the Americans lost about 60 killed. Over the same two days American aircraft from Henderson Field destroying 14 Japanese aircraft and sunk a light cruiser.
Further Japanese attacks near the Matanikau on 26 October were also defeated with heavy losses for the Japanese. As a result, by 08:00 on 26 October, Hyakutake stopped the attacks and ordered his forces to retreat. About half of Maruyama's survivors were ordered to retreat back to the Matanikau Valley. The 230th Infantry Regiment under Colonel Toshinari Shōji was told to go to Koli Point, east of the Lunga perimeter. 
Soldiers from the 2nd Division reached the 17th Army headquarters area at Kokumbona, west of the Matanikau on 4 November. Shoji's unit reached Koli Point and made a camp. The 2nd Division had many battle deaths, combat injuries, malnutrition, and tropical diseases. It was too weak to do any more attacks. It fought as a defensive force along the coast for the rest of the battle. 
The Japanese lost 2,200 – 3,000 troops in the battle while the Americans lost around 80 killed.
At the same time that Hyakutake's troops were attacking the Lunga perimeter, Japanese aircraft carriers and other large warships led by Isoroku Yamamoto moved near the southern Solomon Islands. From this location, the Japanese naval forces hoped to defeat any Allied (primarily U.S.) naval forces, especially carrier forces. Allied naval carrier forces in the area, now under the command of William Halsey, Jr., also hoped to meet the Japanese naval forces in battle. 
Nimitz had replaced Ghormley with Halsey on 18 October after deciding that Ghormley had become too negative to lead Allied forces in the South Pacific area.
The two opposing carrier forces battled each other on the morning of 26 October, in what became known as the Battle of the Santa Cruz Islands. Each side sent carrier air attacks. Allied ships had to retreat from the battle after one carrier was sunk () and another () heavily damaged. The Japanese carrier forces, however, also pulled back because of high aircraft and aircrew losses and major damage to two carriers. 
The Japanese were the winners in terms of ships sunk and damaged. However, the loss by the Japanese of many experienced aircrews helped the Allies, who did not lose many aircrew. The Japanese carriers did not have any more important roles in the battle.
To strengthen his victory in the Battle for Henderson Field, Vandegrift sent six Marine battalions, later joined by one U.S. Army battalion, on an attack west of the Matanikau. The attack was commanded by Merritt Edson and its goal was to capture Kokumbona, headquarters of the 17th Army, west of Point Cruz. 
Defending the Point Cruz area were Japanese army troops from the 4th Infantry Regiment commanded by Nomasu Nakaguma. The 4th Infantry was in poor condition because of battle deaths and injuries, tropical disease, and malnutrition.
The American attack began on 1 November. It destroyed Japanese forces defending the Point Cruz area by 3 November. The Americans seemed to be close to capturing Kokumbona. Then American forces found newly landed Japanese troops near Koli Point on the eastern side of the Lunga perimeter. 
To deal with these newly landed Japanese troops, Vandegrift stopped the Matanikau attack on 4 November. The Americans had 71 deaths and the Japanese around 400 killed.
At Koli Point early in the morning 3 November, five Japanese destroyers delivered 300 army troops. They were sent to help Shōji and his troops who were going to Koli Point after the Battle for Henderson Field. 
When Vandegrift found out about the Japanese landing, he sent a battalion of Marines under Herman H. Hanneken to attack the Japanese at Koli. Soon after landing, the Japanese soldiers pushed Hanneken's battalion back towards the Lunga perimeter. 
In response, Vandegrift ordered Puller's Marine battalion plus two of the 164th infantry battalions, along with Hanneken's battalion, to attack the Japanese forces there.
As the American troops began to move, Shōji and his soldiers began to arrive at Koli Point. Beginning on 8 November, the American troops tried to surround Shōji's forces at Gavaga Creek near Koli Point. 
Hyakutake ordered Shōji to leave his positions at Koli and rejoin Japanese forces at Kokumbona in the Matanikau area. Between 9 and 11 November, Shōji and between 2,000 and 3,000 of his men escaped into the jungle to the south. On 12 November, the Americans killed all the remaining Japanese soldiers. The Americans counted the bodies of 450–475 Japanese dead in the Koli Point area and captured most of Shōji's heavy weapons and supplies. The American forces had 40 killed and 120 wounded in the attack.
On 4 November, two companies from the 2nd Marine Raider Battalion, commanded by Lieutenant Colonel Evans Carlson landed by boat at Aola Bay, east of Lunga Point. Carlson's raiders, along with troops from the U.S. Army's 147th Infantry Regiment, were told to protect 500 Seabees as they constructed an airfield at that location. Halsey had agreed with the plan to build an airfield at Aola Bay. 
The Aola airfield construction was stopped at the end of November because the land was not good for building an airfield.
On 5 November, Vandegrift ordered Carlson to attack any of Shōji's forces that had escaped from Koli Point. Carlson and his troops did a 29-day patrol from Aola to the Lunga perimeter. During the patrol, Carlson's soldierz fought several battles with Shōji's retreating forces, killing almost 500 of them, while having 16 killed themselves. 
In addition to the deaths from attacks by Carlson's raiders, tropical diseases and a lack of food caused more of Shōji's men to die. By the time Shōji's forces reached the Lunga River in mid-November, about halfway to the Matanikau, only 1,300 men remained. When Shōji reached the 17th Army positions west of the Matanikau, only 700 to 800 survivors were still with him. Most of the survivors from Shōji's force joined other Japanese units defending the Mount Austen and upper Matanikau River area.
Japanese destroyer trips on 5, 7 and 9 November, delivered additional troops from the Japanese 38th Infantry Division, including most of the 228th Infantry Regiment to Guadalcanal. These fresh troops were put in the Point Cruz and Matanikau area, and they stopped attacks by American forces on 10 and 18 November. The Americans and Japanese remained facing each other along a line west of Point Cruz for the next six weeks.
After the defeat in the Battle for Henderson Field, the IJA planned to try again to capture the airfield in November 1942. They needed new soldiers before the attack could start. The IJA requested help from Yamamoto to deliver the new troops to the island and to support the next attack. 
Yamamoto provided 11 large transport ships to carry the remaining 7,000 troops from the 38th Infantry Division, their ammunition, food, and heavy equipment from Rabaul to Guadalcanal. He also provided a warship force that included two battleships. The two battleships, and , with special fragmentation shells, were to bomb Henderson Field on the night of 12–13 November and destroy it and the aircraft stationed there. This would allow the slow, heavy transports to reach Guadalcanal and unload safely the next day. The warship force was commanded from "Hiei" by recently promoted Vice Admiral Hiroaki Abe.
In early November, Allied forces learned that the Japanese were preparing again to try to capture Henderson Field. Therefore, the U.S. sent Task Force 67, a convoy carrying Marines, two U.S. Army infantry battalions, and ammunition and food to Guadalcanal on 11 November. The supply ships were protected by two task groups, commanded by Rear Admirals Daniel J. Callaghan and Norman Scott, and aircraft from Henderson Field. The ships were attacked several times on 11 and 12 November by Japanese aircraft but most were unloaded without serious damage.
U.S. aircraft spotted the approach of Abe's bombing force and warned the Allied command. Turner sent all usable combat ships under Callaghan to protect the troops ashore from the expected Japanese naval attack and troop landing. He also ordered the supply ships at Guadalcanal to leave by early evening 12 November. Callaghan's force comprised two heavy cruisers, three light cruisers, and eight destroyers.
Around 01:30 on 13 November, Callaghan's force met Abe's bombing group between Guadalcanal and Savo Island. In addition to the two battleships, Abe's force included one light cruiser and 11 destroyers. In darkness, the two warship forces opened fire. Abe's warships sank or severely damaged all but one cruiser and one destroyer in Callaghan's force and both Callaghan and Scott were killed. 
Two Japanese destroyers were sunk and another destroyer and "Hiei" was heavily damaged. In spite of his defeat of Callaghan's force, Abe ordered his warships to pull back without bombing Henderson Field. "Hiei" sank later that day after air attacks by CAF aircraft and aircraft from the U.S. carrier . Because of Abe's failure to destroyHenderson Field, Yamamoto ordered the troop transport convoy to wait an additional day before heading towards Guadalcanal. 
Yamamoto ordered Nobutake Kondō to assemble another bombing force using warships from Truk and Abe's force to attack Henderson Field on 15 November.
At 02:00 on 14 November, a cruiser and destroyer force under Gunichi Mikawa bombed Henderson Field. The bombing caused some damage but failed to destroy airfield or most of its aircraft. As Mikawa's force went back to Rabaul, Tanaka's transport convoy, thinking that Henderson Field was now destroyed began its trip towards Guadalcanal. 
Throughout 14 November, aircraft from Henderson Field and "Enterprise" attacked Mikawa's and Tanaka's ships, sinking one heavy cruiser and seven of the transports. Most of the troops were rescued from the transports by Tanaka's escorting destroyers and returned to the Shortlands. After dark, Tanaka and the remaining four transports continued towards Guadalcanal as Kondo's force approached to bomb Henderson Field.
In order to attack Kondo's force, Halsey, who was low on undamaged ships, sent two battleships, and , and four destroyers from the "Enterprise" task force. The U.S. force, under the command of Willis A. Lee aboard "Washington", reached Guadalcanal and Savo Island just before midnight on 14 November, shortly before Kondo's bombing force arrived. 
Kondo's force consisted of "Kirishima" plus two heavy cruisers, two light cruisers, and nine destroyers. After the two forces met, Kondo's force quickly sank three of the U.S. destroyers and heavily damaged the fourth. The Japanese warships then damaged "South Dakota". As Kondo's warships concentrated on "South Dakota", "Washington" approached the Japanese ships and opened fire on "Kirishima", hitting the Japanese battleship and causing serious damage. After chasing "Washington" towards the Russell Islands, Kondo ordered his warships to pull back without bombing Henderson Field. One of Kondo's destroyers was also sunk during the battle.
As Kondo's ships pulled back, the four Japanese transports landed near Tassafaronga on Guadalcanal at 04:00 and began unloading. At 05:55, U.S. aircraft and artillery began attacking the transports, destroying all four transports along with most of the supplies that they carried. 
Only 2,000–3,000 of the army troops made it ashore. Because of the failure to deliver most of the troops and supplies, the Japanese were forced to cancel their planned November attack on Henderson Field.
On 26 November, Japanese Lieutenant General Hitoshi Imamura took command of the newly formed Eighth Area Army at Rabaul. The new command included both Hyakutake's 17th Army and the 18th Army in New Guinea. 
One of Imamura's first goals was to retake Henderson Field and Guadalcanal. The Allied offensive at Buna in New Guinea, however, changed Imamura's goals. 
Because the Allied attempt to take Buna was considered a more severe threat to Rabaul, Imamura delayed sending new troops to Guadalcanal to concentrate on the situation in New Guinea.
The Japanese continued to have problems in delivering enough supplies to their troops on Guadalcanal. Attempts to use only submarines the last two weeks in November did not provide enough food for Hyakutake's forces. 
A separate attempt to establish bases in the central Solomons to use to send barge convoys to Guadalcanal also failed because of Allied air attacks. On 26 November, the 17th Army told Imamura that it lacked food. Some front-line units had not been supplied for six days . This forced the Japanese to return to using destroyers to deliver the necessary supplies.
Eighth Fleet sailors thought of a plan to help reduce the time that destroyers delivering supplies to Guadalcanal were exposed to Allied attack. Large oil or gas drums filled with medical supplies and food and strung together with rope. When the destroyers arrived at Guadalcanal they would cut loose the drums and a boat from shore could pick up the rope.
The Eighth Fleet's Guadalcanal Reinforcement Unit (the Tokyo Express) was told to make five deliveries to Tassafaronga on Guadalcanal using the drum method on the night of 30 November. Tanaka's unit had eight destroyers, with six destroyers carrying 200 to 240 drums of supplies each. 
When Halsey learned about the Japanese supply attempt, he ordered the newly formed Task Force 67, which had four cruisers and four destroyers under the command of U.S. Rear Admiral Carleton H. Wright, to attack Tanaka's force off Guadalcanal. Two additional destroyers joined Wright's force during the day of 30 November.
At 22:40 on 30 November, Tanaka's force arrived off Guadalcanal and prepared to unload the supply barrels. Meanwhile, Wright's warships were approaching from the opposite direction. Wright's destroyers detected Tanaka's force on radar and the commander requested permission to attack with torpedoes. Wright waited four minutes before giving permission. 
This allowed Tanaka's force to escape from being torpedoed. All of the American torpedoes missed their targets. At the same time, Wright's cruisers opened fire, hitting and destroying one of the Japanese destroyers. The rest of Tanaka's warships abandoned the supply mission, turned, and launched 44 torpedoes in the direction of Wright's cruisers.
The Japanese torpedoes hit and sank the U.S. cruiser and heavily damaged the cruisers , , and . The rest of Tanaka's destroyers escaped without damage, but failed to deliver any of the supplies to Guadalcanal.
By 7 December 1942, Hyakutake's forces were losing about 50 men each day from malnutrition, disease, and Allied ground or air attacks. Further attempts by Tanaka's destroyer forces to deliver supplies on 3 December 7 December, and 11 December, did not solve the supply problem. One of Tanaka's destroyers was sunk by a U.S. PT boat torpedo.
On 12 December, the Japanese Navy thought about abandoning Guadalcanal. At the same time, several army staff officers at the Imperial General Headquarters (IGH) said retaking Guadalcanal would be impossible. A group led by IJA Colonel Joichiro Sanada, chief of the IGH's operations section, visited Rabaul on 19 December and talked to Imamura and his staff.
When this group returned to Tokyo, Sanada recommended that Guadalcanal be abandoned. The IGH's top leaders agreed with Sanada's recommendation on 26 December. They ordered their staff to plan for a withdrawal from Guadalcanal. A new defense line would be set up in the central Solomons, and soldiers and weapons could be sent to the campaign in New Guinea.
On 28 December, General Hajime Sugiyama and Admiral Osami Nagano told Emperor Hirohito of the decision to withdraw from Guadalcanal. On 31 December, the Emperor agreed with the decision. The Japanese secretly began to prepare for the evacuation, called Operation Ke, scheduled to begin during January 1943.
By December, the tired 1st Marine Division was brought back for a rest, and over the next month the U.S. XIV Corps took over operations on the island. This corps consisted of the 2nd Marine Division and the U.S. Army's 25th Infantry and Americal Divisions. U.S. Army Major General Alexander Patch replaced Vandegrift as commander of Allied forces on Guadalcanal. By January this was over 50,000 men.
On 18 December, Allied (mainly U.S. Army) forces began attacking Japanese soldiers on Mount Austen. A strong Japanese fort, called the Gifu, made the attacks hard and the Americans had to stop their attacks on 4 January.
The Allies attacking the Japanese on 10 January on Mount Austen. They also attacked two nearby ridges called the Seahorse and the Galloping Horse. The Allies captured all three by 23 January. At the same time, U.S. Marines advanced along the north coast of the island. The Americans lost about 250 killed in the operation while the Japanese suffered around 3,000 killed–about 12 to 1 in the Americans' favor.
On 14 January, destroyers delivered troops to guard the "Ke" evacuation. Japanese warships and aircraft moved around the Rabaul and Bougainville areas in preparation to withdraw their troops. Allied forces detected the Japanese movements, but thought they were another attempt to retake Henderson Field and Guadalcanal.
Patch, afraid of another Japanese attack, sent only a small portion of his troops to continue an attack against Hyakutake's forces. On 29 January, Halsey sent a resupply convoy to Guadalcanal protected by a cruiser task force. Sighting the cruiser task force, Japanese naval torpedo bombers attacked the task force and heavily damaged the U.S. cruiser . The next day, more torpedo aircraft attacked and sank "Chicago". 
Halsey ordered the remainder of the task force to return to base and directed the rest of his naval forces to take station in the Coral Sea, south of Guadalcanal, to be ready to respond to a Japanese attack.
The Japanese 17th Army withdrew to the west coast of Guadalcanal while rear guard groups stopped the American attacks. On the night of February 1, 20 destroyers from Mikawa's 8th Fleet under Shintaro Hashimoto removed 4,935 soldiers, mainly from the 38th Division, from the island. The Japanese and the Americans each lost a destroyer from air and naval attacks.
On the nights of 4 and 7 February, Hashimoto and his destroyers completed the removal of most of the remaining Japanese forces from Guadalcanal. Apart from some air attacks, Allied forces did not try to stop Hashimoto's efforts to withdraw his troops. In total, the Japanese removed 10,652 men from Guadalcanal. On 9 February, Patch realized that the Japanese were gone and declared Guadalcanal secure for Allied forces, ending the battle.
After the Japanese withdrawal, Guadalcanal and Tulagi were developed into major bases. These bases supported the Allied advance further up the Solomon Islands chain. In addition to Henderson Field, two additional fighter runways were constructed at Lunga Point and a bomber airfield was built at Koli Point. 
Naval ports were built at Guadalcanal, Tulagi, and Florida. The anchorage around Tulagi became an important base for Allied warships and transport ships supporting the Solomon Islands campaign. Major ground units stayed in camps on Guadalcanal before being sent further up the Solomons.
After Guadalcanal the Japanese were having to defend themselves in the Pacific. The efforts to send new troops to Guadalcanal had weakened Japanese efforts in other areas. This helped the Australian and American attack in New Guinea to be successful. This led to the capture of the bases of Buna and Gona in early 1943. 
In June, the Allies launched Operation Cartwheel, which aimed to cut off Rabaul and the forces centered there. This helped the South West Pacific campaign under General Douglas MacArthur. It also helped the Central Pacific island hopping campaign under Admiral Chester Nimitz. Both efforts got the Allies closer to Japan. The remaining Japanese defenses in the South Pacific area were destroyed or bypassed by Allied forces.
The Battle of Guadalcanal was one of the first long battles in the Pacific, alongside the Solomon Islands campaign. Both battles were very hard to organize for both of the nations involved. For the U.S., it had to learn how to do combat air transport. A failure to achieve air superiority forced Japan to get new troops in by barges, destroyers, and submarines, which did not work that well. 
Early in the battle, the Americans lacked resources, as they lost cruisers and carriers. It took months for replacement ships to be finished.
The U.S. Navy suffered such high losses during the campaign that it refused to release total casualty figures for years. However, as the campaign continued, and the American public became more and more aware of the heroism of the American forces on Guadalcanal, more forces were sent to the area. 
This was a problem for Japan as its military-industrial complex was unable to produce as much as the Americans. Thus, as the battles continued, the Japanese were losing equipment they could not replace while the Americans were replacing and even adding to their forces.
The Guadalcanal battles made Japan lose a lot of equipment and soldiers. About 25,000 experienced troops were killed during the battles. These losses meant that Japan could not achieve its goals in the New Guinea campaign. Japan also lost control of the southern Solomons and the ability to stop Allied shipping to Australia. 
Japan's major base at Rabaul was threatened by Allied air power. Japanese land, air, and naval forces had been lost. The Japanese could not replace the aircraft and ships destroyed and sunk in these battles. Nor could they replace their highly trained and veteran crews, especially the naval aircrews, nearly as quickly as the Allies.
After the victory at the Battle of Midway America was able to have naval strength in the Pacific equal to Japan's. It was only after the Allied victories in Guadalcanal and New Guinea that the Japanese attacks ended. The Guadalcanal Campaign ended all Japanese expansion attempts and placed the Allies in a position of power. This Allied victory was the first step in a winning other battles that eventually led to the surrender of Japan and the occupation of the Japanese home islands.
The "Europe first" policy of the United States had at first meant they only defended against Japanese expansion, to focus resources on defeating Germany. However, Admiral King's argument for the Guadalcanal invasion, convinced President Franklin D. Roosevelt that the Pacific War could be won as well. By the end of 1942, it was clear that Japan had lost the Guadalcanal campaign. This was very bad for Japan's plans for defending their empire.
The military victory for the Allies was important. The psychological victory was also important. The Allies had beaten Japan's best land, air, and warship forces. After Guadalcanal, Allied personnel regarded the Japanese military with much less fear than previously. In addition, the Allies began to think they could win the Pacific War.
Beyond Kawaguchi, several Japanese 
political and military leaders, including Naoki Hoshino, Osami Nagano, and Torashirō Kawabe, stated after the war that Guadalcanal was the turning point in the conflict.

</doc>
<doc id="128522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128522" title="Desmond Tutu">
Desmond Tutu

Archbishop Desmond Tutu (born 7 October 1932) is a South African social rights activist. He won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1983 for his work fighting apartheid in South Africa. He was the first Anglican bishop in Cape Town.
Tutu was born in Klerksdorp, Transvaal. When Tutu was twelve he moved with his family to Johannesburg. Tutu wanted to become a doctor. His family could not afford to send him to medical school, so Tutu studied at the Pretoria Bantu Normal College to become a teacher. He taught at Johannesburg Bantu High School and at Munsienville High School in Mogale City.
Tutu married Nomalizo Lea Shenxane on 2 July 1955. In 1975 he moved into what is now known as Tutu House in Soweto.

</doc>
<doc id="128529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128529" title="Happy Tree Friends">
Happy Tree Friends

Happy Tree Friends is a show created by Rhode Montijo, Kenn Navarro, Warren Graff, and Aubrey Ankrum. It is a flash cartoon, a cartoon made using Adobe Flash. Since it first came out the show has become a popular internet phenomenon and has many fans (though the show is not as popular as it was a few years ago).
Despite the child-like form of the series and having cute characters, the show is violent and not for small children and is only for adults.
While the violence and deaths are comparable to that of "The Itchy & Scratchy Show" (the short cartoon featured on The Simpsons), the comic book series Squeak the Mouse, the 1978 film Watership Down and the 1994 film "Felidae", the portrayal of death in "Happy Tree Friends" is usually more graphic and anatomically correct, showing bloodshed and dismemberment in more vivid and often exaggerated detail.
The show is nearly free of speech; however, when the characters do speak, their words are severely garbled. Though it is easy to tell what each character's reaction is, their words can hardly be understood at all. According to the website, the idea for "Happy Tree Friends" was created by Rhode Montijo when he drew a yellow rabbit, slightly resembling the character Cuddles, on a piece of paper and wrote "Resistance Is Futile" underneath it.
A "Happy Tree Friends" spin-off called "Ka-Pow!" premiered on September 2, 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="128564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128564" title="Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 41">
Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 41

So, in order to remove "white space", which was really more appropriate called "blue space" for this design, I asked Krimpet to tweak the code. In Monobook, it looks great. However, in all other skins, it removes the white background, putting all text for the intro and TFA on blue. Personally, I think it looks fine, but other opinions are requested. 
The issue in greater detail, for any who may not know what I'm talking about, is that the section on the left that tells about Simple English Wikipedia is a certain height. The TFA section (on the right) varies in height depending on the article being featured. That difference in height causes the shorter one to have blank space under it. In my original code, that space was blue. In the current code, on Monobook (the default skin) the space is now white, which looks very good. In all other skins, however, the entire box is now blue, and I'm not sure if others agree that it looks fine. 04:25, 19 August 2008 (UTC)
Why has been blocked indefinetly when they have only made three edits? As far as I can tell none of them were vandalism, so an indefinite ban seems a bit harsh. Is there another reason? 19:07, 20 August 2008 (UTC)
Thanks. I just wondered... can you get blocked for having two accounts or does one have to be misused first? 19:16, 20 August 2008 (UTC)
It's starting to irritate me slightly that when I view recent changes, I have to scroll down the page to actually see it. The box at the top is too big in my opinion and need slimming down somewhat I think. 01:05, 21 August 2008 (UTC)
Just to let everyone know the so called 'disney vandal' who has been annoying everyone for a while with disney and gumby related articles may have autism/and or be a young child. I say this because of this account which has a very similar edit pattern to bambifan 01 and various other accounts. I just though admins should take this into account before giving long bans to ips or accounts of this user. 13:13, 21 August 2008 (UTC)
I've renamed " to "" to comply with article naming policies, and have revised it. For some reason it isn't marked as a guideline yet. If everyone is happy with it, I will add a tag to it. — Cheers, 16:07, 21 August 2008 (UTC)
Since there don't appear to be any objections, I'm going ahead to do it. — Cheers, 13:21, 28 August 2008 (UTC)
I've noticed that you guys have taken out the total number of articles from the recent changes box. That was one of the things on the recent changes box that I liked seeing the most when I got on here. Do you think that there could be any way for you guys to re-insert just that information back into the recent changes box, please? Cheers, 18:28, 21 August 2008 (UTC)
Hello all. Since I have been the recent magnet for drama, I need to take a long Wikibreak to clear my head out and make me be able to better edit this site. I should be back on the 5th of September. Until then, ciao, and I will miss you during this break. Cheers, 00:03, 22 August 2008 (UTC)
Hello everyone. The PVGA for Powderfinger closes in two days, and two more voters are needed. "Please" compare the article to the and vote accordingly. Thanks! — 00:47, 22 August 2008 (UTC)
Why do users create bots, for example, "Eptabot", and "Beefbot"? What are they for? Can't we just use the regular user accounts? or 11:54, 22 August 2008 (UTC)
I wish to propose a new policy, . This is to try and reduce the amount of times people get ignored / opposed, because of their actions on ENWP, or other wikis. -- 21:16, 22 August 2008 (UTC)
Really? Perhaps like an editor with 16,000 edits to English Wikipedia having his votes struck on Simple Wikipedia's RFA because of "not enough edits". If you're (this is a collective you) going to claim that English Wikipedia is relevant, you (again, collective you) don't get to cherry pick which parts are ok and which parts are not. 10:46, 24 August 2008 (UTC)
I believe that just because a user is banned over at some place like ENwiki, doesn't mean we should ban them here. We should judge by their behavior here and only by their behavior her. is a banned user's sockpuppet on the English Wikipedia, and links to an interwiki as User:Yegoyan here, who is an admin. So please don't be judgmental with an ENwiki user banned with a sensitive or dubious matter. Vandals like Grawp should be blocked wiki-wide, however this is not always the case with all banned users on other wikis. 
As for Da Punk's proposal itself, I agree completely. We should assume good faith and not act like enforcers for the English Wikipedia. This is not English Wikipedia. —  · 00:23, 25 August 2008 (UTC)
Hi there. I would just like to ask that some editors review me at . Also, I think it would be good if editors reviewed some other users, not just me, as it would be good for more users to gain feedback on their edits. Editor review is pretty quiet these days, and a few reviews would be great for others who are currently up for review. Thanks! -- () 06:40, 23 August 2008 (UTC)
I would like to apologize for the damage I have caused Wikipedia today. I acted very immaturely and I was wrong. I know that just because some pages contain nonfactual information I am not entitled to vandalize the site. I am not asking to be unblocked because I know I don't deserve it. I just hope you can forgive me for causing so much trouble. Again, I am sorry. -- ()
Can someone tell me whats the policy on nonsense at talk pages the article in question is . I replied to them as I wasn't sure what to do. What I wanted to know is in these situations do you delete the nonsense manually, leave it or tag the talk page for QD as there was no other content? Cheers. 
I've created an article on this year's hurricane season. I'd appreciate any help updating the article when needed. Some information that will need to be updated are the formation of storms, strength of active storms, dissipation of storms, ACE, etc.). Thanks,--≈ 18:34, 26 August 2008 (UTC)
See here. 19:49, 26 August 2008 (UTC)
Hi - there is no guidance at as to whether dates should be linked. I think linking creates unnecessary blue links and does not usefully take the reader to a linked article. However is it within the manual of style to link or not to link? Thanks -- () 01:59, 27 August 2008 (UTC)
I just wondered, can we QD user pages if they are blatant advertising like ? 20:38, 27 August 2008 (UTC)
Should we have subpages for the bot flag request archives? There are currently 70 archived requests in total, and things can look messy when the page is very long.     14:04, 28 August 2008 (UTC)
This template's instructions states that the color must correspond to the Kingdom the organism is placed in. But not all biology articles follow that rule. Do we have to undergo a huge editing of the Taxobox colors? Moreover, EN Wikipedia follows this rule, such that the color cannot be changed and is fixed, but here we can change the color. or 10:40, 29 August 2008 (UTC)
Almost all the articles are very short? Maybe baceuse that people can't write in Simple English? () 15:46, 29 August 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="128570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128570" title="Brée">
Brée

Brée is a commune of 459 people (as of 1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128572" title="La Brûlatte">
La Brûlatte

La Brûlatte is a commune of 607 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128573" title="Le Buret">
Le Buret

Le Buret is a commune of 255 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128574" title="Carelles">
Carelles

Carelles is a commune of 324 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.
At the time of writing, it has a church, a school,a bar/ restaurant and a village shop. 
The band (amalgamated with those of Levare and Montaidin) is a strong presence in the village and there is a local drama group which plays to villages round about during the early part of the year. The annual Fete is held on the first Sunday in July and Is not to be missed.
There is a thriving and well integrated English community established over twenty years.

</doc>
<doc id="128578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128578" title="Chailland">
Chailland

Chailland is a commune of 1136 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.
Chailland is also a very common last name of a family living in the Unithed States mostly located in southeast Missouri and Southern FL.

</doc>
<doc id="128580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128580" title="Châlons-du-Maine">
Châlons-du-Maine

Châlons-du-Maine is a commune of 572 people (). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128581" title="Chammes">
Chammes

Chammes is a commune of 328 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128582" title="Champéon">
Champéon

Champéon is a commune of 512 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128585" title="Champfrémont">
Champfrémont

Champfrémont is a commune of 248 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128586" title="Champgenéteux">
Champgenéteux

Champgenéteux is a commune of 554 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128587" title="Changé, Mayenne">
Changé, Mayenne

Changé is a commune of 5261 people (2007). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128589" title="Chantrigné">
Chantrigné

Chantrigné is a commune of 588 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128590" title="La Chapelle-Anthenaise">
La Chapelle-Anthenaise

La Chapelle-Anthenaise is a commune of 865 people (2007). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128592" title="Latency">
Latency

In engineering, latency is the name for the time period that needs to be waited to see a result.

</doc>
<doc id="128593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128593" title="La Chapelle-au-Riboul">
La Chapelle-au-Riboul

La Chapelle-au-Riboul is a commune of 448 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128595" title="Galois field">
Galois field

In abstract algebra, a finite field or Galois field is a field that contains only finitely many elements. Finite fields are important in number theory, algebraic geometry, Galois theory, cryptography, and coding theory. The finite fields are completely known. Finite fields were named Galois Fields to honor Évariste Galois.

</doc>
<doc id="128598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128598" title="Appliance">
Appliance

An appliance is a machine that only has limited functionaliy. Usually appliances need electricity to work.

</doc>
<doc id="128601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128601" title="Mayenne">
Mayenne

La Mayenne is a department the northwest of France. It was named after the river "la Mayenne" and its number is 53. It is in the region Pays de la Loire. Its population is 285 338 (1999) and its land area is 5175 km². The population density is 55/km². It has 261 communes, its prefecture is Laval ans its subprefectures are Mayenne and Château-Gontier. The inhabitants are called the "Mayennais".

</doc>
<doc id="128603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128603" title="Forward error correction">
Forward error correction

In telecommunications Forward error correction (FEC) is a special code. The sender adds parts of the data again. This is called redundancy. The receiver is then able to detect certain errors that came from the sending the data. In certain cases, the receiver can correct the error, without the need for a retransmission.
FEC adds redundancy to the transmitted information with a known algorithm. Each redundant bit is a function of many original information bits. The original information may or may not appear in the encoded output; codes that include the unmodified input in the output are systematic, while those that do not are nonsystematic.
An extremely simple example would be an analog to digital converter that samples three bits of signal strength data for every bit of transmitted data. If the three samples are mostly all zero, the transmitted bit was probably a zero, and if three samples are mostly all one, the transmitted bit was probably a one. The simplest example of error correction is for the receiver to assume the correct output is given by the most frequently occurring value in each group of three.
This allows an error in any one of the three samples to be corrected by "democratic voting", but is a very inefficient FEC. But in practice would not work very well, but it does illustrate the principle. In practice, FEC codes typically examine the last several dozen, or even the last several hundred, previously received bits to determine how to decode the current small handful of bits (typically in groups of 2 to 8 bits).
Such triple modular redundancy, the simplest form of forward error correction, is widely used.

</doc>
<doc id="128604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128604" title="Mayenne (river)">
Mayenne (river)

"For other uses, see" Mayenne (disambiguation)
La Mayenne is a river in the northwest of France. Its source in the Orne, about 15 km west of Alençon. It joins the Sarthe and Loire River north of Angers to form the Maine.
It is 200 km long and its surface area is about 5 820 km². It has an average discharge of 50 m³/s.

</doc>
<doc id="128605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128605" title="Mayenne (disambiguation)">
Mayenne (disambiguation)

Mayenne can refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="128606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128606" title="Error detection and correction">
Error detection and correction

Error detection and correction is about methods to make sure that information or data is not corrupted, and still makes sense. The techniques help reliable delivery of digital data over unreliable communication channels. 
There are different ways to make sure an error can be detected. This is done by adding more data or information to the data transmitted. Adding more data than needed is called redundancy.
There are two main ways to correct an error:

</doc>
<doc id="128607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128607" title="Mayenne (town)">
Mayenne (town)

"For other uses, see" Mayenne (disambiguation)
Mayenne is a commune of 13 724 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France. It is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="128615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128615" title="Antecedent">
Antecedent

In grammar, an antecedent is a segment of text represented by or repeated by another segment of text. An antecedent is of particular importance in connection with relative pronouns. The pronoun usually opens the relative clause but the antecedent is in the main clause. 
"I want a book that I can read".
In the example, the relative pronoun 'that' refers back to the antecedent, the word 'book'. , the main clause is "I want a book" and the relative clause is "that I can read". 
Some further examples: 
The relative pronouns are: , , , , .

</doc>
<doc id="128626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128626" title="Ark-La-Tex">
Ark-La-Tex

The Ark-La-Tex, Arklatex, or ArkLaTex is a U.S. socio-economic region where Arkansas, Louisiana, Texas, and Oklahoma intersect.
cities it reach 2,500 people:

</doc>
<doc id="128629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128629" title="Central Oklahoma">
Central Oklahoma

Central Oklahoma is the geographical name for the central region of the U.S. state of Oklahoma. It is also known by the Oklahoma Department of Tourism designation, Frontier Country.

</doc>
<doc id="128630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128630" title="Cherokee Outlet">
Cherokee Outlet

The Cherokee Outlet, more often referred to as the Cherokee Strip, was located in what is now the state of Oklahoma, in the United States. It was a sixty-mile (97 km) wide strip of land south of the Oklahoma-Kansas border between the 96th and 100th meridians.

</doc>
<doc id="128632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128632" title="Cross Timbers">
Cross Timbers

The Cross Timbers is a semi-savanna on the southern Great Plains running from southeastern Kansas, across central Oklahoma, into central Texas. 

</doc>
<doc id="128633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128633" title="Four State Area">
Four State Area

The Four State Area is a term used to describe the four corner region of Arkansas, Kansas, Missouri and Oklahoma with the Joplin, Missouri and Fayetteville-Springdale-Rogers, Arkansas metropolitan areas included within.

</doc>
<doc id="128635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128635" title="Flint Hills">
Flint Hills

The Flint Hills, historically known as Bluestem Pastures, are a band of hills in eastern Kansas stretching into north-central Oklahoma. 

</doc>
<doc id="128636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128636" title="Green Country (Oklahoma)">
Green Country (Oklahoma)

Green Country is a heavily-wooded area in northeast Oklahoma. It has many rolling hills and mountains and a lot of plants. This is different from western and central Oklahoma, which are more like the rest of the Great Plains region of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="128637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128637" title="Category:Regions of Oklahoma">
Category:Regions of Oklahoma

Regions of Oklahoma.

</doc>
<doc id="128638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128638" title="Kiamichi Country">
Kiamichi Country

Southeastern Oklahoma, also known by its official tourism name, Kiamichi Country, covers the southeastern quarter of the state of Oklahoma.

</doc>
<doc id="128639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128639" title="Northwestern Oklahoma">
Northwestern Oklahoma

Northwestern Oklahoma is the geographical region of the state of Oklahoma which includes the Oklahoma Panhandle, stretching to an eastern extent along Interstate 35, and its southern extent along the Canadian River to Noble County.

</doc>
<doc id="128640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128640" title="The Ozarks">
The Ozarks

The Ozarks (also referred to as, the Ozark Mountains or the Ozark Plateau) are a physiographic, geologic, and cultural highland region of the central United States. It covers much of the south half of Missouri and an large portion of northwest and North central Arkansas. The region also goes westward into northeast Oklahoma and extreme southeast Kansas. The name Ozarks comes from the French "Aux Arcs". The name means "with bows" and was given by an early French explorer to the Bow Indians (Quapaw). They were native to the area that later became Arkansas.

</doc>
<doc id="128641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128641" title="Oklahoma Panhandle">
Oklahoma Panhandle

The Oklahoma Panhandle is the extreme western region of the state of Oklahoma, comprising Cimarron County, Texas County, and Beaver County. Its name comes from the similarity of shape to the handle of a cooking pan.

</doc>
<doc id="128642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128642" title="South Central Oklahoma">
South Central Oklahoma

South Central Oklahoma, or Arbuckle Country, as officially defined by the Oklahoma Department of Tourism, is an 10-county region in the state of Oklahoma. It is centered around the Arbuckle Mountains.

</doc>
<doc id="128643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128643" title="Southwestern Oklahoma">
Southwestern Oklahoma

Southwest Oklahoma is a geographical name for the southwest portion of the state of Oklahoma, largely flat and dry, southwest Oklahoma is typical of the Great Plains region of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="128644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128644" title="Oklahoma! (musical)">
Oklahoma! (musical)

Oklahoma! is a musical. The music was composed by Richard Rodgers. The lyrics were written by Oscar Hammerstein. It world-premiered on Broadway on 31 March 1943. The musical was based on "Green Grow the Lilacs", a 1931 play by Lynn Riggs.
The story is set in Oklahoma Territory outside the town of Claremore in 1906. The cowboy Curly McLain is in love with farm girl Laurey Williams. Jud Fry, a farm hand, is also in love with Laurey. The play also includes the story of another cowboy, Will, and his girlfriend, Ado Annie.
"Oklahoma!" was made into a movie in 1955.
A special Pulitzer Prize award was given to Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II for "Oklahoma!" in the category of "Special Awards And Citations - Letters"

</doc>
<doc id="128645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128645" title="Stillwater, Oklahoma">
Stillwater, Oklahoma

Stillwater is the county seat of Payne County, Oklahoma, United States. The population was 39,065 at the 2000 census.
Stillwater is also the home of Oklahoma State University.

</doc>
<doc id="128646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128646" title="Enid, Oklahoma">
Enid, Oklahoma

Enid is the county seat of Garfield County, Oklahoma, United States. The population was 47,045 at the 2000 census.

</doc>
<doc id="128647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128647" title="Carlos Valderrama">
Carlos Valderrama

Carlos Valderrama (born 2 September 1961) is a former Colombian football player. He played for Colombia national team.
77||4
17||1
82||5
175||16
351||26
!Total||111||11

</doc>
<doc id="128648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128648" title="List of cities in Oklahoma">
List of cities in Oklahoma

List of cities in Oklahoma, arranged in alphabetical order. Cities, in Oklahoma, are all those incorporated communities which have 1000 or more in population and are incorporated as a city.

</doc>
<doc id="128651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128651" title="Dino Zoff">
Dino Zoff

Dino Zoff (born 28 February 1942) is a former Italian football player. He has played for Italy national team.
570||0
570||0
!Total||112||0

</doc>
<doc id="128660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128660" title="List of Governors of Oklahoma">
List of Governors of Oklahoma

This is a list of the governors of Oklahoma. Oklahoma is a state in the United States. The Oklahoma Territory and Indian Territory joined the United States Union as the State of Oklahoma on November 16, 1907.
The table below shows who the state governors have been.

</doc>
<doc id="128661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128661" title="List of notable people from Oklahoma">
List of notable people from Oklahoma

The following are people who were either born/raised or have lived for a significant period of time in Oklahoma.

</doc>
<doc id="128663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128663" title="Clovis culture">
Clovis culture

The Clovis culture was the first widely spread Native culture in the Americas. The Clovis people lived in the Americas about 13,000 years ago. They lived there for between 200 and 800 years. Different sources list different lengths of time in that range.
They had a special way of making tools like spear tips and knives from stones. The flint tips are called Clovis points. Artifacts that they made in this way can be found in many places in North America. The Clovis way of making tools only lasted between 500 and 1000 years. After that, other similar ways became more popular. 
They are called "Clovis culture" because archaeologists first found their artifacts at Clovis, New Mexico.

</doc>
<doc id="128664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128664" title="Mound builders">
Mound builders

Mound Builder is a general term referring to the American Indians who constructed various styles of earthen mounds for burial, residential and ceremonial purposes.

</doc>
<doc id="128665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128665" title="Francisco Vázquez de Coronado">
Francisco Vázquez de Coronado

Francisco Vázquez de Coronado y Luján (ca. 1510 – September 22, 1554) was a Spanish conquistador, who visited New Mexico and other parts of what are now the southwestern United States between 1540 and 1542. He died in 1554.

</doc>
<doc id="128666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128666" title="Seven Cities of Gold">
Seven Cities of Gold

The Seven Cities of Gold is a legend from the Spanish conquest of South America. It led to several expeditions by adventurers and conquistador during the 16th century. The legend originated in New Spain, about the lost cities of Quivira and Cíbola.

</doc>
<doc id="128672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128672" title="Fort Gibson, Oklahoma">
Fort Gibson, Oklahoma

Fort Gibson is a town in Cherokee and Muskogee counties in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. The population was 4,054 at the 2000 census. It is the oldest town in Oklahoma, it was established in 1824. It is the location of Fort Gibson National Cemetery. It is near to the end of the Cherokees' Trail of Tears at Tahlequah.

</doc>
<doc id="128673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128673" title="Government of Oklahoma">
Government of Oklahoma

The government of the US State of Oklahoma, established by the Oklahoma Constitution, is a republican democracy modelled after the Federal government of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="128676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128676" title="List of counties in Oklahoma">
List of counties in Oklahoma

This is a list of the seventy-seven counties in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. Oklahoma is ranked 20th size and 17th in the number of counties.

</doc>
<doc id="128678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128678" title="List of regions of the United States">
List of regions of the United States

This is a list of regions of the United States.
Regional divisions used by the United States Census Bureau

</doc>
<doc id="128681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128681" title="Adair County, Oklahoma">
Adair County, Oklahoma

Adair County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 21,038 people lived there. Its county seat is Stilwell.

</doc>
<doc id="128682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128682" title="Alfalfa County, Oklahoma">
Alfalfa County, Oklahoma

Alfalfa County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 6,105 people lived there. Its county seat is Cherokee.

</doc>
<doc id="128683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128683" title="Atoka County, Oklahoma">
Atoka County, Oklahoma

Atoka County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma, and was formed in 1907 from Choctaw Lands. As of 2000, 13,879 people lived there. Its county seat is Atoka.

</doc>
<doc id="128684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128684" title="Beaver County, Oklahoma">
Beaver County, Oklahoma

Beaver County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 5,857 people lived there. Its county seat is Beaver.

</doc>
<doc id="128685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128685" title="Beckham County, Oklahoma">
Beckham County, Oklahoma

Beckham County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 19,799 people lived there. Its county seat is Sayre.

</doc>
<doc id="128687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128687" title="Blaine County, Oklahoma">
Blaine County, Oklahoma

Blaine County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 11,976 people lived there. Its county seat is Watonga.

</doc>
<doc id="128688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128688" title="Bryan County, Oklahoma">
Bryan County, Oklahoma

Bryan County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. In 2007, about 39,563 people lived there. Its county seat is Durant.

</doc>
<doc id="128689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128689" title="Caddo County, Oklahoma">
Caddo County, Oklahoma

Caddo County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 30,150 people lived there. Its county seat is Anadarko.

</doc>
<doc id="128690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128690" title="Canadian County, Oklahoma">
Canadian County, Oklahoma

Canadian County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. In 2000, 87,697 people lived there. Its county seat is El Reno.

</doc>
<doc id="128691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128691" title="Carter County, Oklahoma">
Carter County, Oklahoma

Carter County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 45,621 people lived there. Its county seat is Ardmore.

</doc>
<doc id="128692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128692" title="Choctaw County, Oklahoma">
Choctaw County, Oklahoma

Choctaw County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 15,342 people lived there. Its county seat is Hugo.

</doc>
<doc id="128693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128693" title="Cleveland County, Oklahoma">
Cleveland County, Oklahoma

Cleveland County is a county in the central part of the U.S. state of Oklahoma. At the 2000 census, 208,016 people lived there. Its county seat is Norman.

</doc>
<doc id="128694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128694" title="Coal County, Oklahoma">
Coal County, Oklahoma

Coal County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 6,031 people lived there. Its county seat is Coalgate.

</doc>
<doc id="128695" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128695" title="Comanche County, Oklahoma">
Comanche County, Oklahoma

Comanche County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 114,996 people lived there. Its county seat is Lawton.

</doc>
<doc id="128704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128704" title="The Football League">
The Football League

The English Football League is a football league in England and Wales. It was officially known as the Football League from its creation in 1888 until 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="128724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128724" title="Alexandra (Lykrophon)">
Alexandra (Lykrophon)

Alexandra is a work by the Greek poet Lykophron, who is only known through this work. It was written between 196 and 190 BC. The work has 1474 lines, which are done in jambic trimeters. This is what most Greek tragedies were written in. 
Paris left for Sparta, to abduct Helena, the wife of Menelaos. This was going to cause the Trojan War. Kassandra is left in the temple, guarded by someone instructed by Priamos, her father. The text is the report this guard gives to Priamos, about what Kassandra had said. 
Kassandra (named ALexandra) first recalls how Herakles destroyed Troy. She then tells about the Trojan War. A large central part is devoted to how the Greek heroes return home. She tells about Odysseus, his travels, and how he went home to his wife Penelope. Penelope later kills him. Kassandra also tells how Aeneas successfully settled in Rome, and how Rome became a big empire. The final part of the poem is devoted to the "eternal war" between Europe and Asia, about the Persian Wars and Alexander the Great. Kassandra says that six generations after him, a relative will win over the Macendonians, which will end the warring. Kassandra's speech ends with resignation, as she cannot stop the events. The guard ends his speech with a blessing for the Trojans.
The dark language of the poem comes from its vocabulary, its use of special, and old forms of words. Of about 3000 words of the poem, 518 words are only known from this poem, 117 occur in this poem for the first time. The main problems with this poem are that the persons are usually not named. Rather they are described with what they did. Geographical places are similarly unnamed, and only described using places in them. Many scholars have tried to identify places and people, in some cases this is no longer possible though. 

</doc>
<doc id="128729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128729" title="Burmese boxing">
Burmese boxing

The famous Burmese Boxing is called lethwei or "Myanma yuya louvi" (Myanmar "traditional boxing" in English). Its sport version also is called from the years 1960: bando kickboxing. 
This famous method of fighting with the uncovered hands and with the uncovered feet came in the 3rd century when the monks had wanted to be trained and to defended themselves. It is a boxing "called martial" that borrows from the Burmese warriors all their array of particular plans for gaining success in the combat. It had come popular beginning of the 11th century under the king Anawratha, with combats among tribes with no rules and with a violence without common measure. The way of facing is special very much, much often taking a certain animal behaviour and is alike only of much distant to other Eastern methods. 
In the way received from ancestors, the combat is judged by two referees and is done in a circle where every form of the blow and of the throw is permitted. The present time brought the rules as if the Eastern boxing, especially the gloves, the things that keep safe, the rounds and the ring. The technical part of the person who fights is much wide and the behaviours are produced by other methods of the combat de Burma. Many unusually interesting actions are happened, especially the flying techniques (jumping kick, knee strike and with elbow in flying), and techniques in walking of stairs (kicks and knee strike). In the past, a traditional Burmese Boxing was quite different from Thaing, for its brutal and rough side. Today, is not so, because is having good organization under the modern conditions, can be agradable see. 
Nine traditional techniques are the parts of the method of the Burmese boxing. The technical description of the lethwei include three main parts, the weapons which are used, the goals which are aims and the distances of the combat. We meet: 
From a point of view of particular plan for gaining succes in the combat, and in order to learn and remember, a part of laws is established. For example, we meet the following laws: 
According to a customary way, the combat is performed in a circle. In the Burmese villages, still in 21st century, this fight has kept in existence its character received from ancestors. Only the appearance of an Eastern ring and of the divisions seems to be mark of the present times. 
The match is judged by two referees, in order to can better separate the men who take part in it, and six referees give a points to these men. All the techniques are permitted, a man can be hit in the ground. The boxers fight during the rounds much long. The rounds are changed by complete half-times during the other matches are performed. 
The set of needed things is poor, the competitor uses certain pants of boxing, wrapped hands, coconut as a something that keeps the genitals safe, leather strap among the teeth. Till the present times, many Burmese boxers have the tattooed trunk and the leg. In a certain, you can see his victories, in other - the representations of animals (eagle, serpent, leopard, tiger, etc..) suggesting force and being brave.
Warrior dance performed in the beginning of the combat, in order to show ability and being brave. In the end of the dance, the crossed arms are hit each one of its shoulders with the opposite hand in order to announce that the boxer is hostile. A dance of victory is performed also after the decision of the referees.
Act of providing to see de the weapons used during the combat de lethwei, by the boxer himself. He hits the opposite arm with his open hand. The act of providing to see is performed from the top towards down, at the beginning with the fists and the elbows, then with the knee and in the end with the feet. 

</doc>
<doc id="128730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128730" title="American kickboxing">
American kickboxing

The word kickboxing represents a sport of combat of striking which is practised on ring. In the years 1960, in the United States, the sharp interest for the karate and for the other martial arts (kempo, kung-fu, taekwondo, bando, etc.) and the desire of several mass media does developping the things. 
Various styles of martial practices developped with the various forms of contact. Many champions wanting to know the special end easy recognized qualities of their techniques, helped in causing their gradual change. Competitions were arranged in lot of different styles of combat; like Jhoon Rhee's United States National Karate Championship, the Ed Parker's Battle of Atlanta, and from the 1963 they opens on ring of Bando kickboxing (form come to have of the ancient Burmese boxing brought in from another country by the person with special skill Maung Gyi). Other important competitions like Mas Oyama's All Worth America Championship (Karate Kyokushinkai to the K.O.) has changed the traditional competitions of karate from yet arranged without contact. 
Also, the Bruce Lee's (famous cinema actor, in the middle of the years 1970) and Jhoon Rhee's (Alan Steen's, Jeff Smith's and Gordon Franks's teacher) idea of fighting with protections and gloves, has opened a new way for all the persons who like "real combat". At the beginning, American kickboxing is rules of competition. Such rules allow the competitors of the various martial practices to compete in a certain kind of fighting (at the beginning that ones of the WKA - World Karate Association). If is so much the main opinion that is become one of the forms of sport of combat produced by the martial arts more practised in the world.
Among the most known world systems, loaded with the management of the professional and amateur designations as champions in the "boxes pieds-poings" we have: the WKA (World Kickboxing Association) that had been founded in the USA in the 1976, the WAKO (World Association of KickBoxing Organizations) that had been founded in Germany in the 1978 (WAKO has its origins in the organization of amateur gatherings), the ISKA (that had been founded in 1986) that came from the PKA that did the development of the full contact at the beginning and the WKN (that had been founded in the 1997).
International federations:

</doc>
<doc id="128731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128731" title="Franco Baresi">
Franco Baresi

Franco Baresi (born 8 May 1960) is a former Italian football player. He has played for Italy national team.
531||16||97||15||69||0||697||31
531||16||97||15||69||0||697||31
!Total||81||1

</doc>
<doc id="128732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128732" title="Archerfish">
Archerfish

Archerfish (or archer fish) are small fish. Some live in fresh water. Others live in salt water. They live from India to the Philippines, Australia, and Polynesia.
Archerfish eat insects and other small animals. The archerfish looks for an insect hanging over the water. The archerfish shoots drops of water out of its mouth at the insect. When the drops hit the insect, it falls into the water. Then the archerfish catches (gets) the insect and eats it.
Archerfish can hit insects up to two meters (six feet) away. Adult archerfish almost always hit the insect the first time, but young archerfish must do it many times in order to learn how.

</doc>
<doc id="128734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128734" title="John Peisley">
John Peisley

John (Jack) Peisley (1835 – 1862) Australian bushranger was born in Bathurst New South Wales in 1835. He is believed to be the first bushranger born in Australia. His name is often found spelled as "Piesley".
John Peisley lived in the Abercrombie District with his well-known settler parents Thomas and Elizabeth. Their house was reputed a den of thieves. John Peisley was arrested in his teens for stealing. About 1840, the extended family of ticket of leave convicts Thomas Weavers and wife Sarah, previously Smith née Lake crossed the Blue Mountains to Bathurst and took up farming in the Mount Macquarie area where unofficial settlement started in 1821.  The first land grant was to Thomas Icely for "Coombing Park" in 1829.  Nearby land was taken up on Coombing and Fell Tree Creeks, and at Number One Swamp that developed into the village of Mount Macquarie, the latter renamed Neville in 1888. Thomas Weavers and stepson William Smith took up land together. On 12 May 1851, two horses missing from Thomas Weavers’ Mount Macquarie property were seen in the possession of seventeen-year-old John Peisley driving them and five more to the Abercrombie. He was arrested on warrant and indicted for stealing. The jury could not agree the identity of horses were sufficiently established and acquitted the accused, but he was remanded in custody, as he faced another charge of horse stealing.   
Not all Australian convicts and ticket of leave holders arrived in Australia on convict transports. Bathurst-born Colonial lad John Peisley was eventually convicted of stealing cattle and sentenced to serve time on Cockatoo Island near Sydney, now called Biloela. A prisoner who served time there was labelled a "Cockatoo Hand". There he met "Darkie" Frank Clark, who as Frank Christie, escapee from Melbourne’s Pentridge gaol in 1850 after serving five weeks of a five year sentence. In New South Wales, Clark turned to horse and cattle stealing in company with William Fogg. Convicted, he got seven years for attempting to sell stolen horses and forging horse ownership papers at Yass.
Clark, having served less than six years of his sentence, was given his ticket of leave on 
31 December 1859, conditional he stayed in the Carcoar District. At Carcoar, he worked for a butcher. Two months later, he absconded to new gold diggings at Kiandra and calling himself Frank Gardiner opened a butcher’s shop selling carcasses of stolen cattle. His true identity was soon realized and warrants issued. He was arrested in May 1861, but skipped bail at Lambing Flat (now Young). He teamed up with Canadian immigrant John Gilbert and reverted to full-time crime. 
In December 1860, convict Peisley gained his Ticket of Leave at Scone, conditional upon him remaining in the Hunter River Valley. On 23 March 1861, fifty miles north-east of Bathurst, between Louisa Creek and Tambaroora, with fellow Cockatoo Hand named McKenzie, he robbed travelling bank officer Richard Cox Shaw carrying £565 in notes, also some gold and silver coins. Earlier bushrangers were mostly transported convicts; colony-born Peisley became the first true "Wild Colonial Boy". The robbers split and Peisley absconded to the Abercrombie Ranges he knew well. In May, at Fish River in Fogg’s ironbark slab humpy, six miles from Bigga, Peisley and Frank Clark reunited and teamed with John Gilbert as highway robbers, ‘sticking up’ travellers in the area between Bathurst, Lambing Flat, Gundagai and Yass. On 16 July morning, Sergeant John Middleton and Trooper William Hosie stationed at Tuena, descended upon Fogg’s humpy occupied by Fogg, his wife and children, Frank Clark armed with a six-shot revolver handgun, and Jim Barney, an old man. Unknown to the troopers, Peisley and Gilbert were camped one mile away. Called to surrender, Clark shot Middleton three times, in the hand, mouth and hip, and Trooper William Hosie received a glancing ball to his forehead. Clark was also wounded. They wrestled before Clark gave up and was manacled. Barney took off to warn Peisley and Gilbert. Middleton left for Bigga to get help and reinforcements. Circumstances of Hosie leaving for Bigga were disputed. Fogg claimed Hosie accepted fifty sovereigns to release Clark and to say he escaped. Hosie averred at Fogg’s trial for obstructing police, while he and Fogg escorted the prisoner along the road to Bigga, Clark escaped when bushrangers Peisley and another (Gilbert) waylaid them. Trooper Hosie reached Bigga alone mid-afternoon. Weak and delirious from loss of blood, Sergeant Middleton arrived at nightfall. Both would later recover. Reports of Crime issued July and August 1861 declared £120 rewards, £20 for Clark’s apprehension, and £50 for Peisley’s, and further sum of £50 by Government for such information as shall lead to the conviction of those concerned in the outrage of attacking and wounding the Patrol with Firearms in the Bathurst District. The report disclosed:
"On the 16th July, Sergeant Middleton and Trooper Hosie, of the Western Patrol, were attacked and severely wounded at the Fish River, by Francis Clarke, alias Jones, alias Christie, a Ticket of Leave holder, illegally at large from his district; a native of Goulbourn, New South Wales, 31 years ... wounded in the affray on left temple by a pistol-ball or whip. He was captured and afterwards released by two armed men: John Peisley, a Ticket of Leave holder, illegally at large from his district; a native of Bathurst, New South Wales, about 26, 5 feet 8 ½ inches high, ruddy complexion, flaxen hair, bluish-grey eyes, long featured, pock-marked nose, several scars, arms and legs hairy, left eye spasmodic winking action… The other man is about 26 years" 
The report also included weapons carried and comprehensive physical descriptions, normal clothing and by Clark (Gardiner) and Gilbert (not named). 
Displeased with ill-fame attributed him, Peisley wrote the editor of the Bathurst Free Press and Mining Journal by letter dated “Fish River, 4th September, 1861.” It stated, in part:
"You will no doubt be surprised to receive a note from the (now by all account) noted Piesley; but, Sir, through your valuable paper I must make it known that, if it be my lot to be taken, whether dead or alive, I will never be tried for the rescue of Gardiner, in the light in which it is presented; nor did I ever fire at Trooper Hosie. … I must be the Invisible Prince to commit one-tenth of what is laid to my charge. I trust I may never have to allude to this again. I love my native hills, I love freedom and detest cruelty to man or beast. Trusting you will publish this, my bold letter no doubt, but you can be assured it comes from the real John Piesley, and not any of his many representatives. I am, Mr. Editor, your much harassed writer, JOHN PIESLEY"
In the next months Clark, then more often called Gardiner, Peisley and Gilbert bushranged and retreated to the Weddin Mountains near Forbes and Cowra. Peisley separated from the gang and single-handed held up the Lambing Flat coach after it left Cowra. He then returned to Abercrombie District.
On 27 December 1861, Peisley went to Tom McGuinness’s inn at Bigga and left the next day with fellow drinker James Wilson, stocked with wine and brandy. They rode to a nearby farm owned by William and Stephen Benyon and continued drinking and arguing with the two brothers. He accused, 17 years earlier, when he was a kid, William had swapped a horse with him, which was no good. A fight erupted and Wilson took Peisley’s revolvers, which William’s wife Martha hid in the garden. At her husband’s insistence, she returned the revolvers. Peisley pursued Stephen Benyon to the barn followed by William Benyon. Both brothers were shot by Peisley; Stephen in the arm and William in the throat; witnessed by Martha Benyon, Wilson, farmhand George Harmer, servant girl Mary Samson and Thomas Weavers. 
Doctor Henry Kowland attended William Benyon the following day, and found a bullet had passed through his windpipe and lodged in the spine, paralyzing him from the neck down. He could not remove the bullet and considered the case hopeless from the start. He attended him again on 31 December, three days before he died. 
A warrant issued for Peisley’s arrest for the murder of Benyon and reward for information as would lead to his apprehension and conviction. An announcement in the Government Gazette of January 1862, after the murder of Benyon, based on Report of Crime dated 29 July 1861, described Peisley:
"About 28 years of age, about 5 ft 10 in. high, stout, well made, fresh complexion, very small light whiskers, quite bald on top of head and forehead, several recent marks on face, and a mark from a blow of a spade on top of head; puffed and dissipated-looking from hard drinking, invariable wears fashionable Napoleon boots, dark cloth breeches, dark vest buttoned up the front, large albert gold guard, cabbage-tree hat and duck coat. Sometimes wears a dark wig and always carries a brace of revolvers."
On 15 January, Constables Morris, Murphy and Simpson were searching the Abercrombie area for bushrangers and spoke with Peisley near Bigga. Police gave chase but Peisley’s superior horse enabled him to escape easily. He was identified and challenged by Corporal Carroll at Tarcutta on 29 January, and again escaped on his well-bred mount. One week later, after a struggle, Peisley was captured and secured near Bootes’s hotel, Mundarlo by Mr Mackenzie and Mr Beveridge of Wantabadgerie, who delivered him to Gundagai. At his committal before the Carcoar bench, Peisley called Thomas Weavers, but he corroborated the prosecution witnesses. Committed for trail, Peisley handcuffed and chained, was taken from Carcoar to Bathurst by a large posse of armed police.
He was tried and convicted in the Bathurst Court on 14 March 1862, for the murder of William Benyon and sentenced to death. He was hanged on 25 April 1862, in the Bathurst Gaol before about fifty people. Aboriginal Jackey Bullfrog was hanged at the same time for murdering William Clarke. At the gallows, Peisley pleaded he had a drunken fight, and death was Benyon’s fault as much as his. He averred he had he had nothing to do with Gardiner’s rescue, was nowhere near Fogg’s when he got away, and nothing to do with any attempt bribe Hosie. His last words were “Goodbye gentlemen, and God bless you.” Clark using the name Christie was captured at Appis Creek, Queensland in March 1864. He served ten years of a cumulative 32-year sentence for twice wounding Trooper Hosie, with intent to kill and intent to cause harm and two counts of armed robbery. 
Before and after Piesley’s hanging, John Gilbert teamed up with Ben Hall. Bushranging robberies by the end of 1864 were so troublesome that the Parliament of New South Wales rushed through a Bill, "An Act to facilitate the taking or apprehending of persons charged with certain felonies and the punishment of those by whom they are harboured." Within one month of the Act’s passing on 8 April 1865, Police shot them dead, Hall near Forbes on 6 May and Gilbert at Binalong one week later. Mourners gave them hero status. 

</doc>
<doc id="128741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128741" title="La Chapelle-Craonnaise">
La Chapelle-Craonnaise

La Chapelle-Craonnaise is a commune of 266 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128742" title="La Chapelle-Rainsouin">
La Chapelle-Rainsouin

La Chapelle-Rainsouin is a commune of 234 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128743" title="Charchigné">
Charchigné

Charchigné is a commune of 396 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128744" title="Karl Lagerfeld">
Karl Lagerfeld

Karl Lagerfeld (born Karl Otto Lagerfeldt on 10 September 1933 in Hamburg, Germany) is a fashion designer. Many people see him as one of the most influential persons of the late 20th century. He has made fashion for many different labels, for example Chanel, Chloé and Fendi. He also owns several labels, which he started in the early 1980s. He also owns labels making perfumes. He has designed clothes for many leading artists. 
Lagerfeld is openly gay. He lives with his cat Choupette in Paris.

</doc>
<doc id="128745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128745" title="Château-Gontier">
Château-Gontier

Château-Gontier is a commune of 11 131 people (as of 1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128746" title="Châtelain, Mayenne">
Châtelain, Mayenne

Châtelain is a commune of 404 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128748" title="Forbes, New South Wales">
Forbes, New South Wales

Forbes is a town in the Central West of New South Wales, Australia. It is on the Newell Highway between Parkes and West Wyalong. There were about 7000 living in the town in 2001.
Forbes is on the banks of the Lachlan River. It is 245m above sea-level. It is about 380km west of Sydney. The farms in the area mainly grow wheat. Nearby towns and villages include: Parkes, Bedgerebong, Bundbarrah, Corradgery, Daroobalgie, Eugowra, Ooma North and Paytens Bridge. It is home to the Ben Hall a notorius Australian bushranger.
The first people to live in the Forbes area were the Australian aborigines, the Wiradjuri people. The first European was the explorer John Oxley in 1817. He called the area "Camp Hill". He did not think very much of the clay soil, poor timber and swamps. He wrote: "...it is impossible to imagine a worse country". The first settlers moved into the district in 1834 and started a station (farm) called "Bogabigal". Forbes is built on what was Arthur Rankin's farm called "Cunumbla" Station.
Gold was found at Forbes by Harry Stephens, also known as "German Harry", in June 1861. About 30,000 people moved to the goldfields, but by 1863 this had dropped to about 3,500 because mining the gold was too hard. The diggings were wet with water coming from the Lachlan River. About two thirds of the buildings were empty.
The goldfields were first called "Black Ridge". The town was named "Forbes" after Sir Francis Forbes. It is possible that the name was a mistake. The name Forbes should have been given to Hill End, New South Wales near Mudgee. Gold was found there at the same time. Gold at Forbes was first found in the area known as Halpin's Flat. The Albion Hotel, once a Cobb and Co. stage coach rest stop, has tunnels underneath it. These were used to take gold and money to and from the banks and stop it from being stolen. Farming became important after the gold mining ended. Forbes became an important stopping place on the main track for moving cattle from Queensland to Victoria.
One of Australia's most famous bushrangers, Ben Hall, was shot dead by police about 20km northwest of town on May 5, 1865. Hall and his gang were famous for stealing 77kg of gold and £3,700 from a stage coach near the town of Eugowra in 1862. He is buried in the Forbes Cemetery.
Kate Kelly, the sister of bushranger Ned Kelly, lived in Forbes. She was drowned in the Lachlan River in 1898. She is buried in Forbes Cemetery.
The railway reached Forbes in 1893. Passenger trains stopped going to Forbes in 1983.
Forbes Shire has 4 government primary schools: Forbes Primary School, Forbes North Primary School, Corinella Public School and Bedgerebong Public School. There is one private primary school, St Laurences Primary School. Forbes High School, north of Forbes, is a government school and in 2005 had about 550 students. Red Bend Catholic College at Forbes is a high school for boys and girls. It is on the site of the old Marist Brothers' College, on the banks of the Lachlan River. Red Bend has around 550 students attending in 2008.
There is also the Forbes College of Technical and Further Education (TAFE) and the Forbes Conservatorium (music).
</div>

</doc>
<doc id="128749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128749" title="Châtillon-sur-Colmont">
Châtillon-sur-Colmont

Châtillon-sur-Colmont is a commune of 942 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128750" title="Châtres-la-Forêt">
Châtres-la-Forêt

Châtres-la-Forêt is a commune of 641 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128752" title="Chemazé">
Chemazé

Chemazé is a commune of 1019 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128753" title="Chémeré-le-Roi">
Chémeré-le-Roi

Chémeré-le-Roi is a commune of 383 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128754" title="Category:Towns in New South Wales">
Category:Towns in New South Wales

This page is for the towns of New South Wales. Towns are smaller than cities. Towns have less than 10,000 people living in them

</doc>
<doc id="128755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128755" title="Chérancé, Mayenne">
Chérancé, Mayenne

Chérancé is a commune of 166 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128756" title="Chevaigné-du-Maine">
Chevaigné-du-Maine

Chevaigné-du-Maine is a commune of 206 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128757" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128757" title="Colombiers-du-Plessis">
Colombiers-du-Plessis

Colombiers-du-Plessis is a commune of 514 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128759" title="Commer, Mayenne">
Commer, Mayenne

Commer is a commune of 1091 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128761" title="Congrier">
Congrier

Congrier is a commune of 1036 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128762" title="Contest, Mayenne">
Contest, Mayenne

Contest is a commune of 765 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128763" title="Cosmes">
Cosmes

Cosmes is a commune of 273 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128764" title="Cossé-en-Champagne">
Cossé-en-Champagne

Cossé-en-Champagne is a commune. It is in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France. About 300 people live there (as of 1999). This town has had a church since the 11th century. It is known for its frescoes.

</doc>
<doc id="128766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128766" title="Cossé-le-Vivien">
Cossé-le-Vivien

Cossé-le-Vivien is a commune of 2706 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128767" title="Coudray, Mayenne">
Coudray, Mayenne

Coudray is a commune of 839 people (2007). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128768" title="Couesmes-Vaucé">
Couesmes-Vaucé

Couesmes-Vaucé is a commune of 383 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128769" title="Couptrain">
Couptrain

Couptrain is a commune of 160 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128770" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128770" title="Courbeveille">
Courbeveille

Courbeveille is a commune of 488 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128771" title="Courcité">
Courcité

Courcité is a commune of 992 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128772" title="Craon, Mayenne">
Craon, Mayenne

Craon is a commune of 4659 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128773" title="Crennes-sur-Fraubée">
Crennes-sur-Fraubée

Crennes-sur-Fraubée is a commune of 178 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128775" title="La Croixille">
La Croixille

La Croixille is a commune of 547 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128776" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128776" title="La Cropte">
La Cropte

La Cropte is a commune of 239 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128777" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128777" title="Cuillé">
Cuillé

’’’Cuillé’’’ is a commune of 849 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128778" title="Daon">
Daon

Daon is a commune of 440 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128779" title="Denazé">
Denazé

Denazé is a commune of 148 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128780" title="Désertines, Mayenne">
Désertines, Mayenne

Désertines is a commune of 539 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128781" title="Deux-Évailles">
Deux-Évailles

Deux-Évailles is a commune of 152 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128782" title="La Dorée">
La Dorée

La Dorée is a commune of 396 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128783" title="Entrammes">
Entrammes

Entrammes is a commune of 2 108 people (2007). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128784" title="Épineux-le-Seguin">
Épineux-le-Seguin

Épineux-le-Seguin is a commune of 172 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128786" title="Ernée">
Ernée

Ernée is a commune of 5 793 people (2006). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128787" title="Évron">
Évron

Évron is a commune of 7 575 people (2006). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128788" title="Fontaine-Couverte">
Fontaine-Couverte

Fontaine-Couverte is a commune of 388 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128789" title="Forcé">
Forcé

Forcé is a commune of 1017 people (2007). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128791" title="Fougerolles-du-Plessis">
Fougerolles-du-Plessis

Fougerolles-du-Plessis is a commune of 1566 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128792" title="Fromentières, Mayenne">
Fromentières, Mayenne

Fromentières is a commune of 674 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128793" title="Gastines">
Gastines

Gastines is a commune of 162 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128794" title="Le Genest-Saint-Isle">
Le Genest-Saint-Isle

Le Genest-Saint-Isle is a commune of 2075 people (2007). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128795" title="Gennes-sur-Glaize">
Gennes-sur-Glaize

Gennes-sur-Glaize is a commune of 790 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128796" title="Gesnes">
Gesnes

Gesnes is a commune of 174 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128797" title="Gesvres">
Gesvres

Gesvres is a commune of 543 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128798" title="Gorron">
Gorron

Gorron is a commune of 2894 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="128800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128800" title="Louis Althusser">
Louis Althusser

Louis Pierre Althusser (Pronunciation: altuˡseʁ) (October 16, 1918 – October 22, 1990) was a Marxist philosopher. He was born in Algeria and studied at the École Normale Supérieure in Paris. Eventually, he became Professor of Philosophy there. He also was a teacher of Michel Foucault and Jacques Derrida.
Althusser was a lifelong member of the French Communist Party. Sometimes he criticised the party strongly. His arguments and theses were set against the threats that he saw attacking the theoretical foundations of Marxism. These included both the influence of empiricism on Marxist theory, and humanist and reformist socialist orientations which could be seen as divisions in the European Communist Parties, as well as the problem of the 'cult of personality' and of ideology itself. 
Althusser is commonly referred to as a Structural Marxist, although his relationship to other schools of French structuralism is not a simple affiliation and he is critical of many aspects of structuralism.

</doc>
<doc id="128806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128806" title="Gareth Owen">
Gareth Owen

Gareth Owen is a footballer for Stockport County.
127||1||6||0||5||0||140||1
127||1||6||0||5||0||140||1

</doc>
<doc id="128808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128808" title="Gheorghe Hagi">
Gheorghe Hagi

Gheorghe Hagi (born 5 February 1965) is a former Romanian football player. He has played for the Romanian national team.
223||141
99||22
61||14
132||55
515||232
!Total||125||35

</doc>
<doc id="128809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128809" title="Gordon Banks">
Gordon Banks

Gordon Banks (born 30 December 1937) is a former English footballer. He has played for England national team.
510||0
37||0
1||0
548||0
!Total||73||0

</doc>
<doc id="128818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128818" title="Carlos Sastre">
Carlos Sastre

Carlos Sastre Candil (born 22 April 1975 in Leganés, Madrid) is a Spanish cyclist. He is retired and he won the Tour de France in 2008. He is a climbing specialist and has been very consistent, finishing consistently in the top 10 of the Vuelta and the Tour de France. A film made about his team showed that he is a man who loves his family. The title of the film is 'Overcoming'.
In 2009, his contract expired with CSC. He found work in two other teams before retiring at the end of 2011. Sastre is the only winner of the Tour de France from 2000 to 2010 who has not been involved in doping cases.

</doc>
<doc id="128820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128820" title="Ally McBeal">
Ally McBeal

Ally McBeal is an American TV show that was on air from September 8, 1997 to May 20, 2002 by the Fox Channel. It is set in a law firm in Boston, Massachusetts. "Ally McBeal" is also the name of the main character played by Calista Flockhart.

</doc>
<doc id="128823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128823" title="Last of the Summer Wine">
Last of the Summer Wine

Last of the Summer Wine is a British sitcom that ran longer than any other comedy show in the world. It airs on the television channel BBC One. Roy Clarke writes the show and Alan J. W. Bell produces and directs it. It started as an episode of the television show "Comedy Playhouse" and originally aired on 4 January 1973. The first series of episodes started airing on 12 November 1973. The show just finished showing its 29th series and a 30th series is in production.
"Last of the Summer Wine" was filmed in and around Holmfirth, West Yorkshire, England. It features three older men who never get old and act like they are children. The three originally were Norman Clegg (Peter Sallis), Cyril Blamire (Michael Bates), and Compo Simmonite (Bill Owen). After two years, Blamire left the show. In his place, Brian Wilde joined as Foggy Dewhurst. The current cast is Russ Abbot as Hobbo Hobdyke, Burt Kwouk as Entwistle, and Brian Murphy as Alvin Smedley.
Some think the show is not as good as it used to be. Many people continue watching it, though, and praise it for portraying older people well and for its family-friendly humour. Members of the British Royal Family enjoy the show. The show has been nominated for some awards and won the National Television Award for Most Popular Comedy Programme in 1999. There have been many holiday specials, two television movies, and a documentary movie about the series. "Last of the Summer Wine" has inspired other adaptations, including a television prequel, several novelisations, and a stage adaptation.

</doc>
<doc id="128838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128838" title="Category:GNOME">
Category:GNOME

This contains articles about GNOME, the computer desktop environment for UNIX and UNIX-like operating systems.

</doc>
<doc id="128840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128840" title="Category:GNU project">
Category:GNU project


</doc>
<doc id="128841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128841" title="Free Software Foundation">
Free Software Foundation

The Free Software Foundation (FSF) is a non-profit corporation founded by Richard Stallman on 4 October 1985 to support the free software movement, a movement which tries to promote the universal freedom to distribute and modify computer software without restriction. The FSF was started in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, United States of America.
From its founding (when it started) until the 1990s, FSF's funds were mostly used to employ software developers to write free software for the GNU Project. Since the mid-1990s, the FSF's employees and volunteers have mostly worked on legal and structural issues for the free software movement and the free software community.
The FSF holds the copyrights on many important pieces of the GNU system, such as the GCC. As a copyright holder, it has the power to enforce the GNU General Public License (GPL) when copyright infringement occurs on that software. While other copyright holders of other software systems used the GPL as their license, FSF was the only organization to regularly assert its copyright interests on software licensed under the GPL until Harald Welte created gpl-violations.org in 2004.
In late 2001, Bradley M. Kuhn (then Executive Director), with the help of Moglen, David Turner, and Peter T. Brown, turned these efforts into FSF's GPL Compliance Labs. From 2002-2004, high profile GPL enforcement cases, such as those against Linksys and OpenTV, became frequent. GPL enforcement and educational campaigns on GPL compliance was a major focus of the FSF's efforts during this period.
In March 2003, SCO filed suit against IBM alleging(saying) that
IBM's contributions to some free software, including FSF's GNU,
violated SCO's rights. While FSF was never a party to the lawsuit, FSF
was subpoenaed on November 5, 2003. During 2003 and 2004, FSF put a lot of advocacy effort into
responding to the lawsuit and removing its negative impact on the adoption and promotion of free software.
The FSF maintains a list of "high priority projects" where the Foundation says that ""there is a vital need to draw the free software community's attention". The FSF says these projects are"important because computer users are continually being seduced into using non-free software, because there is no adequate free replacement.""

</doc>
<doc id="128851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128851" title="ITS 90">
ITS 90

The ITS 90 is the international temperature scale, published in the year 1990. It mainly is a set of fixed temperatures and instructions how to realise a practical temperature scale, being as close to the thermodynamical temperature scale as current knowledge allows.
The first international temperature scale was established in 1927. An improved version came in 1948. In 1968 the IPTS 68 was issued. Note the letter P, which stands for practical. In 1975 the very low side of the scale (below 1 Kelvin) was added. Since 1990 the ITS 90 is in use.
A list of fixed temperatures is given. This list has been produced by national laboratories from all over the world. It has been approved by the B.I.P.M. (Bureau Internationale des Poids et Mesure) in Paris. Temperatures between the fixed points can be measured, using a platinum resistance thermometer (up to 660 °C). This thermometer, however, has to be calibrated first. This is being done at a number of fixed temperatures, covering the desired range. Procedures and formulae for defining an interpolating thermometer are given as well.
Say we need a calibrated thermometer in the range from room temperature to 400 °C. A triple point of water is to be realised for 0.01 °C. For 231.928 °C there is the freezing point of tin. At 419.527 °C it is the freezing point of zinc, which serves the goal.
After having measured the electrical resistance of this thermometer at the given temperatures, the data is being fed into a prescribed formula, giving the deviation coefficients for the range from 0 to 420 °C. So, from now on we have a thermometer with which we can perform accurate measurements according to the ITS 90.
This type of calibration is called primary calibration. With the thermometer we just calibrated we can perform a secondary calibration. Then another thermometer is to be calibrated against ours. This derived calibration, of course, is a little less accurate, but can take place at any suitable temperature within the range, since our thermometer interpolates between the fixed temperatures.
For more information see the official site of BIPM

</doc>
<doc id="128858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128858" title="Nude photography">
Nude photography

Nude photography is a style of photography which shows the naked human body as a form of art. This is different form erotic photography, and pornography which focus on sexual arousal. 
For many photographers, nude photography is a study of the human body, much like some paintings did. Photographing a named person is called portraiture. Nude photography focuses on showing the human body, and often the face is not visible. 
In general, nude photography is a "planned image", not a snapshot. Nude photography wants to show a stylised depiction of the human body. Photographers sometimes use extremes of light and shadow, oiled skin, and shadows falling across the body to show the texture and structure of the body. 
Early photographers often showed the nudity of women like the one we see here by Félix-Jacques Moulin. Many, like Edward Weston, Jean-Christophe Destailleur, Augustao de Luca, Ruth Bernhard and Jerry Avenaim, preferred to show the lines of a body as a piece of art. They used the terms "art nude" and "figurenude" from painting to avoid suggestions that their works were meant to be erotica or pornography.

</doc>
<doc id="128859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128859" title="Laval (Mayenne)">
Laval (Mayenne)

Laval is a commune and the prefecture of the French department of Mayenne. The people that live there are called "Lavallois".
Laval is a medieval city and was first mentionned during the 11th century.
Laval is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="128866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128866" title="Erotic photography">
Erotic photography

Erotic photography is a style of photography, between nude photography and pornography. Erotic photography wants to show the more or less naked human body in a sexual context. It can be difficult to make a difference between erotic photography and pornography - in general erotic photography wants to arouse or stimulate the viewer.
This stimulation is generally not done by explicitly showing people having sex. Instead, the models in the photographs will try to create a sexual impression. For example, female models may try to appear alluring. Male models will try to convey sexual arousal, though not through a full erection. In general, erotic photography only suggests, and has a higher artistic value than pornography.

</doc>
<doc id="128885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128885" title="Cotton County, Oklahoma">
Cotton County, Oklahoma

Cotton County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 6,614 people lived there. Its county seat is Walters.

</doc>
<doc id="128887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128887" title="Craig County, Oklahoma">
Craig County, Oklahoma

Craig County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 14,950 people lived there. Its county seat is Vinita. 

</doc>
<doc id="128888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128888" title="Creek County, Oklahoma">
Creek County, Oklahoma

Creek County is a county that can be found in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, about 67,367 people lived in Creek County. The county seat of Creek County is Sapulpa.

</doc>
<doc id="128890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128890" title="EasyBCD">
EasyBCD

EasyBCD is a free program developed by the non-profit NeoSmart Technologies used to configure and tweak the new Windows Vista Bootloader. EasyBCD can be used to set up dual-boots between Windows Vista and previous versions of Windows, along with Linux, BSD, and Mac OS X.

</doc>
<doc id="128891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128891" title="Custer County, Oklahoma">
Custer County, Oklahoma

Custer County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. It was named in honor of General George Armstrong Custer. As of 2000, 26,142 people lived there. Its county seat is Arapaho.

</doc>
<doc id="128892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128892" title="Delaware County, Oklahoma">
Delaware County, Oklahoma

Delaware County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 37,077 people lived there. Its county seat is Jay.

</doc>
<doc id="128893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128893" title="Loire-Atlantique">
Loire-Atlantique

Loire-Atlantique is a department in France in the region Pays de la Loire. Its capital is Nantes which is also the region's capital. The department gets its name from the river which gos through it ("la Loire)", and because it borders the Atlantic Ocean. 
Loire Atlantique is one of the 83 first departments of France created in 1790. It used to be called "Loire-Inférieure" and got its new name in 1957.
The department used to be part of Britanny until 1941 when the Vichy Governement sparated it. Many people still think it as Britanny's capital and some want to join it back to Britanny again.
Loire-Atlantique borders 4 departements:
West of it is the Atlantic Ocean.

</doc>
<doc id="128895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128895" title="Interference">
Interference

In physics, interference is the effect of wave functions. A single wave can interfere with itself, but this is still an addition of two waves (see Young's slits experiment). Two waves always interfere, even if the result of the addition is complicated or not remarkable.
Something that happens when two or more waves are in the same space. Sometimes the peak of one wave joins with the peak of another wave, so the resulting peak is twice as high. Sometimes the peak of one wave falls into the trough of another wave, and the surface is then flat. When waves add their effects, it is called positive interference, or constructive interference. When one wave subtracts from the effects of the other, it is called negative interference, or destructive interference.
If two people pushed on a car in the same direction, they would move the car better than either one alone. That would be positive interference. If two people of equal strength pushed the car from opposite directions, then it would not be moved by either of them. That would be negative interference.
Constructive interference happens when two or more waves are in the same space and in phase. When this happens, the waves' amplitudes add together and the total is greater than the amplitude of any of the waves by themselves. This causes the waves to appear more intense.
At time = 0, one wave top is moving from the left and another wave is moving from the right. <br>
At time = 1, the two wave tops meet in the middle.<br>
At time = 2, the two waves have each continued moving forward and reappear again at their original heights.
Destructive interference happens when two or more waves are in the same place and out of phase. When this happens, the waves' amplitudes add together and the total is less than the amplitude of any of the waves by themselves. This causes the waves to appear less intense.
At time = 0, a wave top is moving in from the left and a wave trough is moving in from the right.<br>
At time = 1, the two waves have met in the middle. The crest (top) fills in the trough.<br>
At time = 2, the two waves have moved along in their original direct and each reappears.
After a rain, one can often see patterns when a little oil floats on top of puddles. The colors will be in the order: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and violet. Each of these colors of light has its own wavelength, and different parts of the oil have different thicknesses. Part of the light from the sun bounces off the top surface, in other words it bounces off the oil. Part of the sunlight bounces off the top of the water. The light waves from the oil surface and the light from the water surface meet back in the air, and they interfere. For any thickness of the oil layer, some of the light waves will add and some will subtract, so the result is that one color of light will be strongest there.
When two highly polished sheets of glass are pressed together, sometimes the distance between the two pieces will change from place to place. When that happens, the pattern that shows up is called "Newton's rings." When slide photographs are put between two thin sheets of glass for showing in a slide projector, this kind of pattern is a big problem. The same problem can show up when two microscope slides are put together.
Noise-canceling headphones use destructive interference to cut out noise from the outside.
Here is a diagram of the kind of thing that produces some kinds of light interference. The distance between the top piece of glass and the bottom piece gets larger near the outside edges.
A simpler setup would be to have two flat pieces of glass in contact along one edge and a narrow angle between their two faces. If the separation between the top surface of the first piece of glass and the top surface of the second piece of glass is, at some point, such that light beams reflected from each are synchronized or in phase, then the reflected light will be bright, but if the two beams are half a cycle out of phase, then at that point the two beams will cancel each other and what reflected light there is will not be bright.

</doc>
<doc id="128899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128899" title="Meadow">
Meadow

A meadow is a field vegetated primarily by grass and other non-woody plants. It may be cut for hay or grazed by livestock such as cattle, sheep or goats.

</doc>
<doc id="128902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128902" title="Dewey County, Oklahoma">
Dewey County, Oklahoma

Dewey County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 4,743 people lived there. Its county seat is Taloga.

</doc>
<doc id="128904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128904" title="Ellis County, Oklahoma">
Ellis County, Oklahoma

Ellis County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 4,075 people lived there. Its county seat is Arnett.

</doc>
<doc id="128907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128907" title="Garfield County, Oklahoma">
Garfield County, Oklahoma

Garfield County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 57,813 people lived there. Its county seat is Enid.

</doc>
<doc id="128908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128908" title="Garvin County, Oklahoma">
Garvin County, Oklahoma

Garvin County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 27,210 people lived there. Its county seat is Pauls Valley.

</doc>
<doc id="128909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128909" title="Grady County, Oklahoma">
Grady County, Oklahoma

Grady County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2006, 50,490 people lived there. Its county seat is Chickasha.

</doc>
<doc id="128915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128915" title="Battle of Honey Springs">
Battle of Honey Springs

The Battle of Honey Springs was an American Civil War battle and fought on July 17, 1863. It was an important victory for Union forces in their efforts to gain control of the Indian Territory. The battle was also unique in the fact that white soldiers were the minority in both forces.
The Confederate commander in the Indian Territory at this time was Douglas H. Cooper. He wanted to capture Fort Gibson, the main Union fort in the territory. If the Confederates captured the fort, they could control the territory. Cooper had to wait along the Elk Creek, near Honey Springs. Cooper had several regiments from Texas in his army. There were several Indian regiments with the Confederates. Cooper needed reinforcements from Arkansas before he attacked the fort.
The Union commander in the terriroty was James G. Blunt. He found out about the Confederates's plans. He decided to attack first. His army had regiments from Kansas, Wisconsin, and Colorado. There were also regiments of Indians in the Union army.
The battle started near dawn on July 17. The two armies started fighting north of Elk Creek. The Confederates slowly retreated back to the creek. The Union and Confederate soldiers fought along the creek for several hours. The Confederates started retreating when the center of their line was attacked by the 1st Kansas Colored Infantry.
Cooper had to burn many of his supplies at Honey Springs to prevent Blunt from capturing them. The Confederates lost 627 casualties. The Union army lost 75 casualties.

</doc>
<doc id="128916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128916" title="Bureau of Indian Affairs">
Bureau of Indian Affairs

The Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) was formed in 1824 to deal with Native Americans inside the United States. The BIA manages land and natural resources for Native Americans. It is responsible for the U.S. government's relationship with Native American tribes. Sometimes, it helps with infrastructure and law enforcement.
In the past, the BIA operated schools on Indian reservations. Now, the Bureau of Indian Education (BIE) provides money for schools. Some of the schools are operated by the BIE and others are operated by the tribes themselves.

</doc>
<doc id="128920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128920" title="As Cruel as School Children">
As Cruel as School Children

As Cruel as School Children is the 3rd studio album by rap group Gym Class Heroes. It was released in July of 2006. The album contains some songs from their previous album "The Papercut Chronicles". 

</doc>
<doc id="128921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128921" title="Cattle drives in the United States">
Cattle drives in the United States

A cattle drive is the process of moving a herd of cattle from one place to another, usually moved and herded by cowboys on horses.

</doc>
<doc id="128924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128924" title="Oklahoma Senate">
Oklahoma Senate

The Oklahoma Senate is the upper house of the two houses of the Legislature of Oklahoma, the lower house being the Oklahoma House of Representatives. The total number of Senators is set at 48 by the Oklahoma Constitution.

</doc>
<doc id="128927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128927" title="Oklahoma House of Representatives">
Oklahoma House of Representatives

The Oklahoma House of Representatives is the lower house and larger body of the two houses of the Oklahoma Legislature, the other being the Oklahoma Senate.

</doc>
<doc id="128928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128928" title="Grant County, Oklahoma">
Grant County, Oklahoma

Grant County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 5,144 people lived there. Its county seat is Medford.

</doc>
<doc id="128929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128929" title="Greer County, Oklahoma">
Greer County, Oklahoma

Greer County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 6,061 people lived there. Its county seat is Mangum.

</doc>
<doc id="128930" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128930" title="Harmon County, Oklahoma">
Harmon County, Oklahoma

Harmon County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 3,283 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="128931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128931" title="Harper County, Oklahoma">
Harper County, Oklahoma

Harper County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 3,562 people lived there. Its county seat is Buffalo.

</doc>
<doc id="128933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128933" title="Haskell County, Oklahoma">
Haskell County, Oklahoma

Haskell County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 11,792 people lived there. Its county seat is Stigler.

</doc>
<doc id="128934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128934" title="Hughes County, Oklahoma">
Hughes County, Oklahoma

Hughes County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 14,154 people lived there. Its county seat is Holdenville.

</doc>
<doc id="128935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128935" title="Jackson County, Oklahoma">
Jackson County, Oklahoma

Jackson County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 28,439 people lived there. Its county seat is Altus.

</doc>
<doc id="128936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128936" title="Jefferson County, Oklahoma">
Jefferson County, Oklahoma

Jefferson County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 6,818 people lived there. Its county seat is Waurika.

</doc>
<doc id="128938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128938" title="Johnston County, Oklahoma">
Johnston County, Oklahoma

Johnston County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 10,513 people lived there. Its county seat is Tishomingo.

</doc>
<doc id="128939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128939" title="Kay County, Oklahoma">
Kay County, Oklahoma

Kay County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 48,080 people lived there. Its county seat is Newkirk.

</doc>
<doc id="128940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128940" title="Kingfisher County, Oklahoma">
Kingfisher County, Oklahoma

Kingfisher County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 13,926 people lived there. Its county seat is Kingfisher.

</doc>
<doc id="128942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128942" title="Kiowa County, Oklahoma">
Kiowa County, Oklahoma

Kiowa County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 10,227 people lived there. Its county seat is Hobart.

</doc>
<doc id="128944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128944" title="Latimer County, Oklahoma">
Latimer County, Oklahoma

Latimer County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 10,692 people lived there. Its county seat is Wilburton.

</doc>
<doc id="128946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128946" title="Le Flore County, Oklahoma">
Le Flore County, Oklahoma

Le Flore County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 48,109 people lived there. Its county seat is Poteau.

</doc>
<doc id="128947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128947" title="Lincoln County, Oklahoma">
Lincoln County, Oklahoma

Lincoln County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. 32,080 people lived there at the 2000 census. Its county seat is Chandler.

</doc>
<doc id="128948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128948" title="Logan County, Oklahoma">
Logan County, Oklahoma

Logan County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. At the 2000 census, 33,924 people lived there. Its county seat is Guthrie.

</doc>
<doc id="128950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128950" title="Love County, Oklahoma">
Love County, Oklahoma

Love County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 8,831 people lived there. Its county seat is Marietta.

</doc>
<doc id="128952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128952" title="Major County, Oklahoma">
Major County, Oklahoma

Major County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 7,545 people lived there. Its county seat is Fairview.

</doc>
<doc id="128953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128953" title="Flobots">
Flobots

Flobots are an alternative rock/alternative hip hop band from Denver, Colorado. They are famous for their hit single "Handlebars". They have released three albums.

</doc>
<doc id="128955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128955" title="Gdebi">
Gdebi

GDebi is a computer program that can install .deb packages. It is available with a graphical interface, but also has a command line option.
GDebi can install local .deb packages with automatic dependency resolution (it automatically downloads and installs the required packages with apt).

</doc>
<doc id="128960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128960" title="Marshall County, Oklahoma">
Marshall County, Oklahoma

Marshall County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 13,184 people lived there. Its county seat is Madill.

</doc>
<doc id="128961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128961" title="McClain County, Oklahoma">
McClain County, Oklahoma

McClain County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. At the 2000 census, 27,740 people lived there. Its county seat is Purcell.

</doc>
<doc id="128962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128962" title="McCurtain County, Oklahoma">
McCurtain County, Oklahoma

McCurtain County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 34,402 people lived there. Its county seat is Idabel.

</doc>
<doc id="128963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128963" title="McIntosh County, Oklahoma">
McIntosh County, Oklahoma

McIntosh County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 19,456 people lived there. Its county seat is Eufaula.

</doc>
<doc id="128964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128964" title="Murray County, Oklahoma">
Murray County, Oklahoma

Murray County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 12,623 people lived there. Its county seat is Sulphur.

</doc>
<doc id="128965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128965" title="Noble County, Oklahoma">
Noble County, Oklahoma

Noble County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 11,411 people lived there. Its county seat is Perry.

</doc>
<doc id="128967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128967" title="Nowata County, Oklahoma">
Nowata County, Oklahoma

Nowata County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 10,569 people lived there. Its county seat is Nowata.

</doc>
<doc id="128968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128968" title="Okfuskee County, Oklahoma">
Okfuskee County, Oklahoma

Okfuskee County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 11,814 people lived there. Its county seat is Okemah.

</doc>
<doc id="128969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128969" title="Oklahoma County, Oklahoma">
Oklahoma County, Oklahoma

Oklahoma County is a county in the central part of the U.S. state of Oklahoma. At the 2000 census, 660,448 people lived there. Its county seat is Oklahoma City.

</doc>
<doc id="128970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128970" title="Okmulgee County, Oklahoma">
Okmulgee County, Oklahoma

Okmulgee County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 39,685 people lived there. Its county seat is Okmulgee.

</doc>
<doc id="128971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128971" title="Osage County, Oklahoma">
Osage County, Oklahoma

Osage County is the largest county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 44,437 people lived there. Its county seat is Pawhuska.

</doc>
<doc id="128972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128972" title="Ottawa County, Oklahoma">
Ottawa County, Oklahoma

Ottawa County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 33,194 people lived there. Its county seat is Miami.

</doc>
<doc id="128973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128973" title="Pawnee County, Oklahoma">
Pawnee County, Oklahoma

Pawnee County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 16,612 people lived there. Its county seat is Pawnee.

</doc>
<doc id="128974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128974" title="Payne County, Oklahoma">
Payne County, Oklahoma

Payne County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. At the 2000 census, 68,190 people lived there. Its county seat is Stillwater.

</doc>
<doc id="128975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128975" title="Pittsburg County, Oklahoma">
Pittsburg County, Oklahoma

Pittsburg County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 43,953 people lived there. Its county seat is McAlester.
Its The hometown to the Pittsburgh players who won 6 times in the superbowl 

</doc>
<doc id="128976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128976" title="Pontotoc County, Oklahoma">
Pontotoc County, Oklahoma

Pontotoc County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 35,143 people lived there. Its county seat is Ada.

</doc>
<doc id="128977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128977" title="Pottawatomie County, Oklahoma">
Pottawatomie County, Oklahoma

Pottawatomie County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. 65,521 people lived there at the 2000 census. Its county seat is Shawnee. 

</doc>
<doc id="128978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128978" title="Pushmataha County, Oklahoma">
Pushmataha County, Oklahoma

Pushmataha County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 11,667 people lived there. Its county seat is Antlers.

</doc>
<doc id="128979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128979" title="Roger Mills County, Oklahoma">
Roger Mills County, Oklahoma

Roger Mills County is a county found in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, the population is 3,436. The county seat of Roger Mills County is Cheyenne.

</doc>
<doc id="128980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128980" title="Seminole County, Oklahoma">
Seminole County, Oklahoma

Seminole County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. 24,894 people lived there at the 2000 census. Its county seat is Wewoka.

</doc>
<doc id="128982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128982" title="Sequoyah County, Oklahoma">
Sequoyah County, Oklahoma

Sequoyah County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 38,972 people lived there. Its county seat is Sallisaw.

</doc>
<doc id="128984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128984" title="Stephens County, Oklahoma">
Stephens County, Oklahoma

Stephens County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 43,182 people lived there. Its county seat is Duncan.

</doc>
<doc id="128985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128985" title="Texas County, Oklahoma">
Texas County, Oklahoma

Texas County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 20,107 people lived there. Its county seat is Guymon.

</doc>
<doc id="128986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128986" title="Tillman County, Oklahoma">
Tillman County, Oklahoma

Tillman County is a county that can be found in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, the population is 9,287. The county seat is Frederick.

</doc>
<doc id="128988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128988" title="Washington County, Oklahoma">
Washington County, Oklahoma

Washington County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. It is, in area, the third smallest county in Oklahoma. As of 2000, 48,996 people lived there. Its county seat is Bartlesville.

</doc>
<doc id="128989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128989" title="Washita County, Oklahoma">
Washita County, Oklahoma

Washita County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 11,508 people lived there. Its county seat is New Cordell. It was formerly in Cloud Chief, Oklahoma.

</doc>
<doc id="128991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128991" title="Woods County, Oklahoma">
Woods County, Oklahoma

Woods County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 9,089 people lived there. Its county seat is Alva.

</doc>
<doc id="128992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128992" title="Woodward County, Oklahoma">
Woodward County, Oklahoma

Woodward County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, 18,486 people lived there. Its county seat is Woodward.

</doc>
<doc id="129007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129007" title="Johnny Haynes">
Johnny Haynes

Johnny Haynes (17 October 1934 – 18 October 2005) is a former English football player. He was captain of Fulham, played for England national team and captained it. He was a forward, playing on the left wing as an outside left or inside left. Today he would be called an attacking midfield player. His job was to provide balls to the strikers. He played three times for England in the FIFA World Cup.
His statue outside the club ground at Craven Cottage shows what they thought of him.
594||147
594||147
!Total||56||18

</doc>
<doc id="129010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129010" title="Johan Cruyff">
Johan Cruyff

Johan Cruyff (25 April 1947 - 24 March 2016) was a Dutch football player and manager. He played for Netherlands national team.
Cruyff died of lung cancer. His son is football manager Jordi Cruyff. 
308||215||48||40||54||25||410||280
153||50||7||1||34||12||184||63
59||28||colspan="2"|-||colspan="2"|-||59||28
520||293||55||41||88||37||663||371
!Total||48||33

</doc>
<doc id="129012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129012" title="Om Shanti Om">
Om Shanti Om

Om Shanti Om is a 2007 Bollywood movie directed and choreographed by Farah Khan. It stars Shah Rukh Khan and Deepika Padukone in the lead roles as the protagonists while Shreyas Talpade, Arjun Rampal, and Kirron Kher feature in supporting roles. Arjun Rampal is the antagonist in the movie. More than forty two well-known Bollywood stars from yesteryear and today appear in the course of the movie, including thirty-one of them (not including the stars of the movie) in one song alone.
Om Prakash (Shah Rukh Khan) is a junior artist in the 1970s movie industry. He and his friend Pappu (Shreyas Talpade) are trying to succeed in the movie industry. Om's mother, Bela Makhija (Kirron Kher), inspires and encourages her son to become a success. He dreams of becoming a 'hero' one day on the big screen. He is in love with the country's heart throb and movie actress, Shanti (Deepika Padukone), who is very successful and famous. Om goes to the premiere of her upcoming movie "Dreamy Girl" starring Shanti, and sneaks in claiming he is the actor Manoj Kumar. On another occasion, during a shooting of a movie, where Om is acting as a junior artist, he notices Shanti is caught in the middle of a fire scene which goes out of control. Om jumps in and saves her, as no one else does. Shanti is very grateful and they become good friends. Om asks her if she will meet him for one evening and she agrees. Om is ecstatic and plans a wonderful evening for her - using props and a movie set and several backgrounds in a studio to woo her. He tells her that she deserves all the happiness in the world; all she has to do is ask. She tells him that she will and abruptly goes away, leaving Om confused. 
The following day, Om tries to talk to Shanti on the sets of a movie but she looks very preoccupied. He follows her into a make up room to talk to her, but ends up listening to her having an argument with top producer Mukesh (Arjun Rampal) about a recent promise of Mukesh's to marry a businessman's daughter in return for funding of a movie. Om is shocked to hear that Shanti is actually secretly married to Mukesh, and both Om and Mukesh are surprised to learn that Shanti is pregnant with Mukesh's child. Mukesh is adamant that his relationship with Shanti be kept a secret, because if the industry finds out she is married, not only will her career be finished, but also his upcoming movie "Om Shanti Om", starring Shanti, that had just been promised to be financed by the businessman mentioned. If it is found out she is married, he is afraid she will become very unpopular and the funding will be cut. Shanti does not care and demands that they get married in public and make their relationship official. Mukesh finally relents and promises her they will make it public soon. Om is heartbroken at this situation and goes back home with a heavy heart. One night, Om notices Mukesh escorting Shanti to the set of "Om Shanti Om". He curiously waits inside, eavesdropping on the couple's conversation. Mukesh tells Shanti that for her happiness, he is going to cancel the movie, reveal their marriage to the public, and have a grand wedding here in this spectacular set under the chandelier and then destroy the set after they have the marriage ceremony in it. Shanti bursts out with disbelief and happiness and Om goes out unnoticed. Then, Mukesh shows his true colors. He displays his anger and frustration at Shanti's constant demands to make their relationship public. He holds her responsible for his financial loss, and cancellation of this movie that could have made him a very rich man. Then, Mukesh Mehra pushes Shantipriya and he sets fire to the set of the movie and walks out, leaving Shanti trapped inside. She begs and pleads to him to let him out but he walks away from the burning set. Om witnesses this and hurries to Shanti's aid, but before he could do anything, Mukesh's bodyguards come and beat him up to a point where he cannot even get up. After they leave, though, Om is able to break into the set, but is unable to reach Shanti, but a gas explosion blows him out of the set, after which the set explodes with Shanti in it. Om, beaten, burned, and half dead, is hit by a car owned by Rajesh Kapoor (Javed Sheikh), a well-known actor who is rushing his pregnant wife (Asawari Joshi) to a hospital. Rajesh takes Om to the hospital as well, but he dies on the operating table. Moments later, Rajesh Kapoor's son is born, and unknowing of who the man he hit with his car was, Kapoor names his son Om. The rest of the movie is accelled 30 years, to the life of Om Kapoor who is the reincarnation of Om Prakash.Om Kapoor is a popular movie star and lives an extravagant life. He suffers from intense pyrophobia, a remnant of his past life as Om Prakash, which is revealed when he is shooting for a song (Dard-e-Disco) in his movie. During a location hunt for Om's next movie, Om and his crew choose the remains of the burnt "Om Shanti Om" set. As soon as he sees the set, Om begins to remember bits of his past life, and sees a vision of Shanti confessing her pregnancy to Mukesh which Om himself overheard in his last birth. At an award ceremony, he delivers Om Prakash's speech, and Pappu, now an old man, watches the award show on TV and is reminded of Om Prakash. In a party organised by Rajesh to celebrate Om's accolades, he meets Mukesh, who has been a top Hollywood producer for the past 30 years. Om remembers his past life in full and has emotional reunions with Bela and Pappu. To avenge Shanti's death, Om hatches a plan with Pappu and several others, deciding to remake the movie "Om Shanti Om" with Mukesh (whom he convinces to produce the movie). During the audition for Shanti's role, the crew meets Sandhya (nicknamed Sandy), a big fan of Om's who is a Shantipriya look-alike. Om and the crew train Sandy to play Shanti and then launch their plan: Om plays mind games with Mukesh by taking him to the restored set of "Om Shanti Om" and then having Sandy act like Shanti to make Mukesh think that Shanti has returned as a ghost. However, their plan backfires when Mukesh sees Sandy running away from the set and chases her. While running, Sandy cuts her arm on a lamp, revealing to Mukesh that Shanti has not returned and that Om was deceiving him. Having discovered Om's plan, Mukesh confronts him and they begin to fight. Suddenly, Sandy appears and tells the story of that night she died : After the fire extinguished, Mukesh came back for her body, but she was alive and breathing so he buried her alive under the ground below the chandelier. Mukesh tries to shoot Sandy, Om hits and disarms Mukesh and a fight ensues between them because of which the set catches fire again. When Mukesh tries to kill Sandy, Om takes Mukesh's gun and shoots him in the leg. Mukesh lands right under the chandelier under which he and Shanti were to be married; Om raises his hand to shoot Mukesh once and for all, but Sandy stops him, and then motions upward, where the hanging chandelier is. As they look up, the chandelier falls on Mukesh, killing him. After this, a confused Om looks at Sandy, who has a satisfied smile on her face. Om is shocked to see another Sandy emerge with Pappu and Anwar; it is then that he realizes that the "Sandy" that he and Mukesh saw was actually the ghost of Shantipriya. Everything falls into place, and Om understands all previous unexplained incidents. Om looks back to where the ghost was and catches one more glimpse of her tearfully saying a last goodbye before she disappears up the staircase. The movie ends with all the stars of the movie come out of a limo as if they are going to a movie premiere. The last person to come is director Farah Khan. When she comes out, nobody is there and people are cleaning up.
The film grossed more than 1 billion in India and $287 million in overseas and become All time blockbuster movie in 2007 for one year. Now this film is not in the list of highest grossing films

</doc>
<doc id="129013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129013" title="Javier Saviola">
Javier Saviola

Javier Saviola (born 11 December 1981) is an Argentine football player. He plays for Benfica.
86||44||colspan="2"|-||||||86||44
163||61||20||8||51||20||234||89
29||7||0||0||7||4||36||11
0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0
278||112||20||8||58||24||356||144
!Total||39||11

</doc>
<doc id="129014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129014" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/National Capital Region">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/National Capital Region

" () has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"
"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Thursday, 18 September 2008 at 6:29 am, although it may be closed quicker due to .<br><br>

</doc>
<doc id="129019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129019" title="Chemoautotroph">
Chemoautotroph

A chemoautotroph is an organism that uses inorganic energy sources for food. Then it puts together its own organic compounds using ATP. Chemoautotrophs are mostly bacteria or archaea that live in hostile environments such as deep sea vents. They are the primary producers in such ecosystems.

</doc>
<doc id="129021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129021" title="Wayne's World">
Wayne's World

Wayne's World is a 1992 American comedy movie from Paramount Pictures, starring Mike Myers and Dana Carvey. It is based on a segment of the same name from television's "Saturday Night Live". It made more money than any other movie based on a SNL segment.

</doc>
<doc id="129026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129026" title="Kenny Dalglish">
Kenny Dalglish

Kenny Dalglish (born 4 March 1951) is a former Scottish football player. He has played for Scotland national team.
204||112||30||11||60||35||28||9||322||167
355||118||36||13||59||27||51||11||501||169
559||230||66||24||119||62||79||20||823||336
!Total||102||30

</doc>
<doc id="129027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129027" title="Luis Oliveira">
Luis Oliveira

Luis Oliveira is a football player. He has played for Belgium national team.
95||36
452||141
547||177
!Total||31||7

</doc>
<doc id="129028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129028" title="Lachlan River">
Lachlan River

The Lachlan River is an important river in central New South Wales, Australia.
The river starts in the central mountains of New South Wales, near Gunning. Other rivers that join the Lachlan River are the Carcoar River, the Belubula River and the Abercrombie River. They join the Lachlan near the town of Cowra. 
Wyangala Dam was built near Cowra to control the amount of water in the river. The Lachlan does not get its water from melting snow like the Murrumbidgee River or the Murray River. It does not have a regular amount of water flowing down it. In 1944 the flow was less than 1,000 megalitres (810 acre-feet). Six years later (1950) there was a flow of 10,900,000 megalitres (8.8 million acre feet). In dry years, for example April 1944 to April 1945, the Lachlan may have no water flowing in it at all. The Lachlan has flooded every 7 years since 1887 at Forbes.
The Lachlan River flows west and then south, finishes in the Great Cumbung swamp. This swamp is near Oxley between Hay and Balranald. Water from this big (500 km²) swamp finally goes into the Murrumbidgee River. Water from the Lachlan is used for farming.
The Lachlan river is in the area where the aboriginal people called the Wiradjuri lived. The Wiradjuri land has been called "the land of the three rivers, the Wambool (Macquarie), the Kalare (Lachlan) and the Murrumbidjeri (Murrumbidgee) . The Murray River was the south side of Wiradjuri land. The change from forest to open grassland was the east side."
The European who found the Lachlan River in 1815 was Acting-Surveyor George William Evans. He named the river after Lachlan Macquarie, the Governor of New South Wales. The Lachlan River was explored by John Oxley in 1817.
In the early days of New South Wales, the south part of the Lachlan was known as "Fish River". With more exploration it was realized that two rivers were the same river and the name Fish River was dropped.
In 1870 the river flooded. The top of the flood water was measured at 15.9 metres at Cowra. Since 1887, the highest flood level at Forbes was in June 1952. The river got to 10.8m (35 feet 3 inches) at the Forbes Iron Bridge. More than 900 families had to move away. Many were saved from roof-tops by boat and helicopter. During the flood in August 1990, 132 houses in Forbes were flooded. The water covered their floors. Floods in 1992 were smaller than 1990, but Lachlan Valley farmers lost about 30 percent of their lucerne crops just before harvest. At least 500 sheep were drowned on farms in the Eugowra/Trundle area. Most of Eugowra's 400 residents were moved for safety. Other big floods were in: 1891, 1916, 1951, 1956, 1961, 1974, 1976, 1993, 1998.
More than 100,000 people live in the Lachlan area. 14% of NSW farm goods come from the area which is about 10% of NSW. 24 local governments look after the Lachlan area.
Major rivers that flow into the Lachlan
Towns along the Lachlan

</doc>
<doc id="129030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129030" title="Roberto Baggio">
Roberto Baggio

Roberto Baggio (born 18 February 1967) is an Italian former football player. He played for Italy national team.
488||218||88||38||61||31||637||292
488||218||88||38||61||31||637||292
!Total||56||27

</doc>
<doc id="129031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129031" title="Walter Winterbottom">
Walter Winterbottom

Walter Winterbottom (born 31 January 1913 - 16 February 2002) was an English footballer. He played for Manchester United for 2 years.
Winterbottom died after an operation to remove cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="129040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129040" title="Boxing Day">
Boxing Day

Boxing Day is a public holiday in the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand and Australia. It is also a holiday in many other countries in the Commonwealth of Nations. It is based on a long custom of giving gifts to poor people. It is usually celebrated on 26 December, the day after Christmas Day; In some countries the public holiday is moved to the next weekday if 26 December is a Saturday or Sunday.
In some countries, stores have sales on Boxing Day, similar to Black Friday sales in the United States. In the United Kingdom, many association football and rugby league games are played on Boxing Day. The King George VI Chase horse race in Surrey is also ran on this day. The IIHF World U20 Championship usually starts on this day.
Boxing Day is an old custom going back to the Middle Ages. The main feature is the giving of gifts to workers or to poor people. The name has many different histories. The term might have started in England. There, servants would get money or gifts on the day after Christmas. These gifts were called "Christmas boxes".

</doc>
<doc id="129044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129044" title="Dennis Bergkamp">
Dennis Bergkamp

Dennis Bergkamp (born 10 May 1969) is a Dutch former football player. He has played for Ajax, Internazionale Milano, Arsenal and the Netherlands national team. Now he is coaching strikers at Ajax and the Netherlands national team.
185||103||23||13||colspan="2"|-||208||116
52||11||16||10||colspan="2"|-||68||21
316||87||47||22||48||11||411||120
553||201||86||45||48||11||687||257
!Total||79||37

</doc>
<doc id="129045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129045" title="Fabien Barthez">
Fabien Barthez

Fabien Barthez (born 28 June 1971) is a French retired football player. He has played for France national team, and has won the World Cup and the European Championship.
363||0||66||0||colspan="2"|-||20||0||449||0
92||0||4||0||4||0||37||0||137||0
455||0||70||0||4||0||57||0||586||0
!Total||87||0

</doc>
<doc id="129046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129046" title="Civil Disobedience (Thoreau)">
Civil Disobedience (Thoreau)

Civil Disobedience ("Resistance to Civil Government") is a text by Henry David Thoreau. It was first printed in 1849. It says that people should not allow a government to order them to do wrong things.
In 1848, Thoreau lectured at the Concord Lyceum (a place for people to meet and learn in the town of Concord, Massachusetts). The words of the lecture were later printed with the name "Resistance to Civil Government" in 1849. Now many people call it "Civil Disobedience" which means: "not doing what the government orders you to do."
In the early 1840s Thoreau stopped paying his "poll tax" (a tax that is the same amount for everybody). He was angry that the government used tax money to make people slaves and to war with Mexico. Thoreau did not want to help them do these things. In 1846 the tax agent put Thoreau in prison for one night. Thoreau wrote "Civil Disobedience" to say why he would not pay.
Thoreau says governments are more bad than good, and society without government would be more good. Letting people vote does not make government good, because people may vote for bad things. One person with their conscience (their feeling of right and wrong) may make decisions that are more good than decisions made by governments or by most of the people who vote.
Thoreau says the United States government, because it makes people slaves, cannot be his government. People should end such a government. To end a government is difficult, but because the government is so bad, we must end it anyway.
Most of the people Thoreau was talking to also did not like slavery or the war with Mexico. But Thoreau said they must do more than to dislike these things, or to vote against these things, or to hope these things will end. They must also stop supporting these things by paying taxes. If the government puts you in prison because you do not pay taxes, then it is good to be in prison because, if the government is bad, prison is the right place for good people. If the government attempted to put all good people in prison, the government would end first, and this would be a revolution of peace.
It is easier to be brave if you have less that the government can take from you. So Thoreau suggests that people own less, and that they value what is good and not value property only.
Indian leader Mohandas Gandhi (or Mahatma Gandhi) liked what Thoreau wrote. In 1907, when Gandhi was starting his first "satyagraha" fight in South Africa, he printed a short outline of "Civil Disobedience" that he wrote in an Indian language. He said that "Civil Disobedience" was the largest cause for the end of slavery in America, and that Indians in South Africa should learn from that example.
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. also liked what Thoreau wrote. In his autobiography, he wrote that Thoreau taught him that it is as important "not" to help bad people as it is to help good people. He said that Thoreau's lessons "came alive" in the civil rights movement.

</doc>
<doc id="129047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129047" title="Osvaldo Ardiles">
Osvaldo Ardiles

Osvaldo Ardiles (born 3 August 1952) is a former Argentine football player. He has played for Argentina national team.
143||16
253||16
14||1
410||33
!Total||53||8

</doc>
<doc id="129061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129061" title="Lambing Flat">
Lambing Flat

Lambing Flat was the name of a gold field in New South Wales, Australia. People were digging for gold at Lambing Flat in the 1860s. It was part of the Burrangong goldfields which also included Spring Creek, Stoney Creek, Back Creek, Wombat, Blackguard Gully, and Tipperary Gully. Burrangong is now the town of Young, New South Wales. Frank Gardiner, a bushranger, had a butcher shop at Lambing Flat. Ben Hall, who also became a bushranger, sold cattle to Gardiner for his shop.
Lambing Flat is most famous for an anti Chinese riot. This was just one of a number of riots on the Burrangong goldfields between November 1860 and September 1861. Several place names are sometimes used when talking about these events. Lambing Flat, the name which is name used most often, was a grass area where sheep were kept. It was where one of the more violent riots took place.
There were many things that made the European miners dislike the Chinese miners on the gold fields in the 1850s. Most of the trouble was the way Chinese miners looked for gold. The gold was alluvial gold, small pieces of gold mixed in with soil and clay close to the surface. It was found in very old river beds called "leads" which had been buried for thousands of years. Getting the gold did not need much skill, but it was hard work. European miners worked alone or in small groups. They often left one area of ground to dig in another where others had said there was more gold. Many gold miners did not make enough money to buy food and clothing. Only a few miners became rich.
The government began to tax the miners by making them pay for "Miner's Licence". They had to pay to be allowed to dig rather than pay for the gold they had found. The miners did not like this tax. There were several angry and violent protests in Victoria and New South Wales. The most famous was at the Eureka Stockade in Ballarat, Victoria where over 30 miners were killed.
The Chinese usually worked in large groups of 30 - 100 men. They were able to share the small amounts of gold they found. They looked for gold on land that other miners had searched before. The European miners thought that the land was still their land. The Chinese miners lived and worked together. Most of them had been farmers in China. They were used to long hours of hard work. They were used to basic food and houses. It has been said that they "rarely paid for the mining leases". They were happy to find a lot of small pieces of gold, instead of looking for one big piece that would make them rich.
The first public display of anti-Chinese feelings took place in Bendigo in July 1854. Some these displays were attempts to keep the Chinese from working on the goldfields. There were fights between European and Chinese miners at Daylesford and Castlemaine. A group of Chinese on their way to the Victorian goldfields found gold at Ararat. They were forced off the new goldfield by European miners. The same things were also taking place in New South Wales. European miners forced the Chinese off the diggings at Rocky River in New England in 1856. Serious fights took place Adelong in 1857 and Tambaroora in 1858. There was a big riot at the Buckland River goldfield near Beechworth in July 1857.
There were not many Chinese miners in New South Wales. Victoria had cut the number of Chinese arriving by making them pay a tax of £10 to enter Victoria. The Chinese were now starting to arrive in NSW instead. The government tried to stop the Chinese coming in 1858, but the parliament would not pass the new laws. In 1860 the Chinese and British governments signed the Convention of Peking. This meant that Chinese and British people would have the same rights in each country. Australia was a British colony, so could New South Wales keep out people from China? A new law, the Chinese Immigration Regulation Bill, was being talked about in Parliament when the first gold miners were getting to Burrangong.
Trouble began in 1860 with the starting of the Miners Protective League. The European miners held big meetings, called roll ups, to force the Chinese to leave the goldfields. They would put up signs telling the Chinese to leave. At first there was not a lot of trouble. Most of the Chinese moved to another part of the goldfield, with some going back soon after. This happened a few times over the next eight months. As long as the Chinese stayed in certain places on the goldfield at Burrangong, the European miners would put up with them.
The most well known riot took place on the night of 30 June, 1861. A group of about 3,000 miners marched to Lambing Flat led by a brass band and two men carrying the roll up banner. They forced the Chinese to leave Lambing Flat. Tents were set on fire and items belonging to the Chinese were smashed or stolen. They then went to the Back Creek diggings and set fire to more tents. Many of the Chinese were cruelly beaten, but no one was killed. About 1,200 Chinese left the area and set up camp near Roberts' farm at Currowang, 20km away. Two things started the riot. In Sydney the parliament did not pass the anti-Chinese laws. Also an untrue story went around the goldfields. The story said that a new group of 1,500 Chinese were on the road to Burrangong. The police got to Burrangong in the next few days. They arrested three of the leaders of the riot. The miners were angry and on the night of July 14, 1,000 miners attacked the police camp. The police fired their guns and rode their horses into the miners. One miner was killed and many were hurt.
The police were forced to leave. A group of 280 soldiers, sailors and extra police came from Sydney and stayed on the goldfields for a year. The Chinese came back and lived in a separate part of the diggings. The leaders of the riots were arrested and two were sent to gaol. At the end of the year, Burrangong was quiet and the Chinese were still there.

</doc>
<doc id="129071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129071" title="Category:Districts of Azad Kashmir">
Category:Districts of Azad Kashmir

This category is for Districts in Azad Jammu and Kashmir, Pakistan 

</doc>
<doc id="129074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129074" title="Lens">
Lens

Lens can mean different things:

</doc>
<doc id="129078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129078" title="Lentil">
Lentil

The lentil or daal or pulse ("Lens culinaris") is a bushy annual plant of the legume family. It is a kind of vegetable, grown for its lens-shaped seeds. It is about 15 inches tall and the seeds grow in pods, usually with two seeds in each.
The plant originated in the Middle East and was one of the first crops domesticated in the world. Humans started eating lentils before they invented ceramics. 
Consisting of 26% protein, lentils have the highest level of protein of any plant after soybeans and hemp. Because of this fact, and due to their high iron content, lentils are a very important part of the diet in many parts of the world, especially in India, which has a large vegetarian population.
Different kinds of lentils exist, including a variety of large and small lentils. Lentils come in colors that range from yellow to red-orange to green, brown and black.
Lentils are sold in many forms, with or without the skins, whole or split. Red, white and yellow lentils are decorticated, i.e., they have their skins removed.
One variety of yellow "lentils", Chana, is in fact not a lentil, but are actually made from the kernels of chickpeas. Split Pigeon peas (either green or yellow) - that are actually considered pulses, which include peas and beans - are also sometimes erroneously referred to and sold as lentils. The urad bean is also referred to as a "black lentil".
The seeds only need very little cooking. This time is especially short for kinds of lentils with their husk removed, such as the common red lentil). Lentils have a distinctive earthy flavor. They can be used to prepare an inexpensive and nutritious soup all over Europe and North and South America. Sometimes they are combined with some form of chicken or pork. They are frequently combined with rice, which has a similar cooking time. In the Middle East such a dish of lentils and rice is called "mujaddara" or "mejadra". Rice and lentils are also cooked together in khichdi, a popular Indian dish. Lentils are used throughout India, the Mediterranean regions and the Middle East. In rare cases the lentils are mixed with dairy cheese.
Many people in India are vegetarian and lentils have long been part of the indigenous diet as a common source of protein. Usually, lentils are boiled to a stew-like consistency with vegetables and then seasoned with a mixture of spices to make many side dishes such as sambar, rasam and dal, which are usually served over rice and roti.
When lentils are prepared, they are first inspected for damaged lentils, stones and other foreign matter. Then they are rinsed until the water runs through and comes out clear. Some prefer to soak the lentils for a longer time and discard the water. This removes substances that may cause indigestion. The lentils are then boiled in water or broth. They may be cooked on the stovetop, or in a slow cooker. Pressure cookers are not recommended, since the small lentils may clog the pressure relief valve, and their quick cooking time means there is little benefit from pressure cooking. Cooked lentils often require thinning: adding more hot water or broth to the cooked legumes until the desired final consistency is reached.
Lentils can be sprouted as can some beans and some other edible seeds (seeds people can eat). Seeds being sprouted are watered and rinsed repeatedly till they start to germinate (grow small roots and shoots). Sprouted lentils can be eaten raw on their own or in salads, they can also be cooked.
Apart from a high level of proteins, lentils also contain dietary fiber, vitamin B1, and minerals. Red (or pink) lentils contain a lower concentration of fiber than green lentils (11% rather than 31%). "Health" magazine has selected lentils as one of the five healthiest foods. Lentils are often mixed with grains, such as rice, which results in a complete protein dish.
In addition to providing slow-burning complex carbohydrates, lentils are one of the best vegetable sources of iron. This makes them an important part of a vegetarian diet, and useful for preventing iron deficiency. Iron is particularly important for adolescents, and menstruating or pregnant women, whose requirements for it are increased.
Lentils are relatively tolerant to drought and are grown throughout the world. About half of the worldwide production of lentils is from India, most of which is consumed in the domestic market. Canada is the largest export producer of lentils in the world and Saskatchewan is the most important producing region in Canada. The Palouse Region of Eastern Washington and the Idaho Panhandle, with its commercial center at Moscow, Idaho, constitutes the most important producing region in the United States. The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) estimates that world production of lentils totalled 3.2 million metric tons (MT) in 2003. Canada produced 520,000 MT and, according to the market analysis company STAT Communications, will likely export 400,000 MT during the 2003-04 marketing year, which runs from August to July. The FAO estimates world trade in lentils totalled 1.2 million MT in 2002, with Canada exporting 382,000 MT during the calendar year.
Lentils are mentioned many times in the Old Testament. In Jewish tradition they are considered as food for mourners, together with boiled eggs. The reason is that their round shape symbolizes the life cycle from birth to death.

</doc>
<doc id="129085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129085" title="La Gravelle">
La Gravelle

La Gravelle is a commune of 548 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129086" title="Grazay">
Grazay

Grazay is a commune of 494 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129087" title="Grez-en-Bouère">
Grez-en-Bouère

Grez-en-Bouère is a commune of 981 people (2004). It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129088" title="Philadelphia Soul">
Philadelphia Soul

The Philadelphia Soul is an American football team in the Arena Football League. The team plays in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. They are not to be confused with the Philadelphia Eagles. They are owned by Jon Bon Jovi and Ron Jaworski, a former player for the Philadelphia Eagles. They won the Arena Bowl in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="129089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129089" title="La Haie-Traversaine">
La Haie-Traversaine

La Haie-Traversaine is a commune of 420 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129091" title="Le Ham, Mayenne">
Le Ham, Mayenne

Le Ham is a commune of 422 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129092" title="Hambers">
Hambers

Hambers is a commune of 548 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129093" title="Hardanges">
Hardanges

Hardanges is a commune of 245 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129094" title="Hercé">
Hercé

Hercé is a commune of 335 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129096" title="Lehigh Valley IronPigs">
Lehigh Valley IronPigs

The Lehigh Valley Ironpigs is a minor league baseball affiliate of the Philadelphia Phillies. They play in Coca-Cola Park in Allentown, Pennsylvania. The brand new Coca-Cola Park, which opened for the start of the IronPigs' first season in 2008, seats up to 8,100, with a capacity of 10,000, and cost $50.25 million to complete. In 2012, "Forbes" ranked the IronPigs as the second most valuable franchise in Minor League Baseball.

</doc>
<doc id="129097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129097" title="Le Horps">
Le Horps

Le Horps is a commune of 734 people (1999). It is in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France. The current mayor is Gérard Dujarrier.

</doc>
<doc id="129099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129099" title="Houssay, Mayenne">
Houssay, Mayenne

Houssay is a commune of 363 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129101" title="Le Housseau-Brétignolles">
Le Housseau-Brétignolles

Le Housseau-Brétignolles is a commune of 212 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129102" title="L'Huisserie">
L'Huisserie

L'Huisserie is a commune of 4 499 people (2007). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129103" title="Izé">
Izé

Izé is a commune of 477 people (1999). It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129104" title="Javron-les-Chapelles">
Javron-les-Chapelles

Javron-les-Chapelles is a commune of 1473 people (2006). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129105" title="Jack Bauer">
Jack Bauer

Jack Bauer is the main character in the television series "24". He works at the Counter Terrorist Unit as a field agent. 

</doc>
<doc id="129108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129108" title="Jublains">
Jublains

Jublains is a commune of 699 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France. It is an old Roman town called Noviodunum. It includes:

</doc>
<doc id="129109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129109" title="Juvigné">
Juvigné

Juvigné is a commune of 1 340 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129110" title="Laigné">
Laigné

Laigné is a commune of 674 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129111" title="Christine Schürrer">
Christine Schürrer

Christine Schürrer, (born 30 June 1976 in Hannover) is a German criminal. On March 17, 2008, she murdered two Swedish children and seriously injured their mother after attacking them in their Arboga, Sweden home. The reason for the murders has been identified as jealousy as Christine had dated the children's stepfather on a holiday in 2006. 
On August 26, 2008, Christine was found guilty of the murders and the assault on the mother.

</doc>
<doc id="129113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129113" title="Kampen, Overijssel">
Kampen, Overijssel

The sister cities of Kampen are:
The city of Kampen is on the side of the river IJssel. On the other side of the IJssel, lies IJsselmuiden, which is the second largest town in the municipality of Kampen.
Kampen received city rights in 1236. It joined the Hanseatic League around 1440 and used to be an important port. The population of the city as of 2007 was 49,345. 
Kampen has one of the old town centres in best condition of the Netherlands.

</doc>
<doc id="129114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129114" title="Landivy">
Landivy

Landivy is a commune of 1,286 people (1999). It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129115" title="Larchamp, Mayenne">
Larchamp, Mayenne

Larchamp is a commune of 1017 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129117" title="Spiro Mounds">
Spiro Mounds

Spiro Mounds is an archaeological site run by the Oklahoma Historical Society and open to the public. It is in Eastern Oklahoma, near the modern town of Spiro. It is one of the most important pre-Columbian sites in the United States. 

</doc>
<doc id="129118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129118" title="Lassay-les-Châteaux">
Lassay-les-Châteaux

Lassay-les-Châteaux is a commune of 2532 people (1999). It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France. There is also a 15th-century castle that you can visit.

</doc>
<doc id="129119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129119" title="Laubrières">
Laubrières

Laubrières is a commune of 248 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129121" title="Launay-Villiers">
Launay-Villiers

Launay-Villiers is a commune of 350 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129122" title="Lesbois">
Lesbois

Lesbois is a commune of 203 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129123" title="Levaré">
Levaré

Levaré is a commune of 358 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129124" title="Lignières-Orgères">
Lignières-Orgères

Lignières-Orgères is a commune of 735 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129125" title="Livet">
Livet

Livet is a commune of 111 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129126" title="Livré-la-Touche">
Livré-la-Touche

Livré-la-Touche is a commune of 787 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129127" title="Loigné-sur-Mayenne">
Loigné-sur-Mayenne

Loigné-sur-Mayenne is a commune of 704 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129128" title="Loiron">
Loiron

Loiron is a commune of 1273 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129129" title="Longuefuye">
Longuefuye

Longuefuye is a commune of 274 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129150" title="1968-69 NHL season">
1968-69 NHL season

The 1968–69 NHL season was the 52nd season of the National Hockey League. Twelve teams each played 76 games (two more than in 1967–68). For the second time in a row, the Montreal Canadiens faced the St. Louis Blues in the Stanley Cup finals. Montreal won for their second Stanley Cup in a row as they swept the Blues in four, which was exactly the same result of the previous season.
"Note: GP = Games played, W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties, Pts = Points, GF = Goals for, GA = Goals against, PIM = Penalties in minutes"
<br>
"Note: Teams that qualified for the playoffs are highlighted in bold"
"Note: GP = Games played, G = Goals, A = Assists, PTS = Points, PIM = Penalties in minutes"

</doc>
<doc id="129151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129151" title="Category:1969 in ice hockey">
Category:1969 in ice hockey


</doc>
<doc id="129152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129152" title="Loire River">
Loire River

The Loire River is the longest river in France. It is 1,013 km long. It originates in the Massif Central. Its mouth is near Nantes by the Atlantic Ocean. The Loire gives its name to 6 French departments. For years, the Loire was very important for France's commerce. When the railway developed in the 19th century, it put an end to its importance.
The Loire's tributaries include the following rivers, in order going upstream:

</doc>
<doc id="129153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129153" title="Category:1968 in ice hockey">
Category:1968 in ice hockey


</doc>
<doc id="129154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129154" title="Category:1968 in sports">
Category:1968 in sports


</doc>
<doc id="129155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129155" title="Category:1969 in sports">
Category:1969 in sports


</doc>
<doc id="129156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129156" title="Gulliver's Travels">
Gulliver's Travels

Gulliver's Travels, or Travels into Several Remote Nations of the World, in Four Parts. By Lemuel Gulliver, First a Surgeon, and then a Captain of several Ships, is a 1726 fictional satire by Jonathan Swift. The novel follows main character Lemuel Gulliver and his journey to four countries. 
The four countries are Lilliput, a land of little people, Brobdingnag, a land of big people, Laputa, a land of intelligent but useless people, and Houyhnhnm, a land of horses. 
Swift wrote the novel for adults to show that some people and governments were wrong. The story was intended to make them change.
In 2010, a movie version was made starring Jack Black.

</doc>
<doc id="129159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129159" title="Massif Central">
Massif Central

The Massif Central is a high region in south-central France. It has mountains and plateaux. it covers 15% of the country. The geological history of the massif is complicated. It is ancient, and many things have happened to it. 
Many extinct volcanos can be found there. It has the largest concentration in the world with 450 volcanos. The Auvergne Volcanoes National Park is in the massif. The Massif is separated from the Alps by the valley of the Rhone.
These departments are usually considered as part of the Massif Central: Allier, Ardèche, Aveyron, Cantal, Corrèze, Creuse, Haute-Loire, Haute-Vienne, Loire, Lot, Lozère, and Puy-de-Dôme.
Here are some well-known mountains in the massif central:
The Massif Central is a very important mountain range in France. It is the fourth highest, the Alps, the Pyrénées, and Corsica are higher; Jura, Vosges, Morvan and Ardennes are lower.

</doc>
<doc id="129165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129165" title="Furius ISO Mount">
Furius ISO Mount

Furius ISO Mount is a program to mount and burn iso files.

</doc>
<doc id="129166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129166" title="Tiktaalik">
Tiktaalik

Tiktaalik is a genus of extinct fish. This sarcopterygian (lobe-finned) fish from the later Devonian has many features similar to those of tetrapods (four-legged animals).
"Tiktaalik" lived about 375 million years ago. It is part of the transition between fish such as "Panderichthys", known from fossils 380 million years old, and early tetrapods such as "Acanthostega" and "Ichthyostega", known from fossils about 365 million years old. Its mixture of basal fish and derived tetrapod characteristics led one of its discoverers, Neil Shubin, to call "Tiktaalik" a 'fishapod'.
This, and other species like it, prove that legs started to develop before these animals were land-based. They were shallow-water carnivorous fish, or fishapods. "Tiktaalik" was therefore a transitional fossil, and an example of mosaic evolution.

</doc>
<doc id="129177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129177" title="Game (food)">
Game (food)

Game is any animal hunted for food or not normally domesticated. Small birds, ground game (such as squirrels and rabbits), and big game (such as deer and moose) are usually hunted. Game animals are also hunted for sport. In Britain, "game birds" usually means partridge, grouse, and quail. Today, most countries have game laws. In some countries hunting is a part of well preserved tradition that is kept alive as a part of national identity.

</doc>
<doc id="129183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129183" title="Polarity">
Polarity

In physics polarity describes an attribute, that can usually have two values:
Chemical polarity is a feature of chemical bonds, where two different atoms in the same molecule have different electronegativity. As a result, the electrons in the bond are not shared equally by the two atoms. This causes an asymmetrical (polar) electric field. Molecular covalent bonds can be described as polar or nonpolar. Entire molecules can also be described as polar.

</doc>
<doc id="129199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129199" title="Johnny Shines">
Johnny Shines

Johnny Shines (April 26, 1915 – April 20, 1992) was an American blues singer and guitarist.
He was called John Ned Shines when he was born, in Frayser, Tennessee. He spent most of his childhood in Memphis playing slide guitar for money on the streets. He listened to and was inspired by Blind Lemon Jefferson and Howlin’ Wolf, but he was taught to play the guitar by his mother. Shines moved to Hughes, Arkansas in 1932 and worked on farms for three years. "First time I came to Helena was 1932, I think it was. That's the time I met Robert the first time." When he met Robert Johnson, his greatest influence, that gave him inspiration to return to music. In 1935, Shines began playing with Johnson around the south and heading as far north as Ontario where they appeared on a local radio program. The two split up in 1937, one year before Johnson died. "He (Johnson) was alright to travel with, he was a good companion to travel with, 'cos he talked a lot and I didn't."
Shines played more in the U.S. South until 1941 when he decided to go back to Canada and then to Africa. He never made it past Chicago. In Chicago, Shines found work in the construction trade and continued to play in bars. 
He made his first recording in 1946 for Columbia Records, but the music was never released. He later recorded for Chess was still the music was never released. He kept playing with blues musicians in the Chicago area for several more years. In 1952, Shines recorded for J.O.B. Records record label. The recordings were a failure and Shines sold his guitar and went back to construction.
In 1966, Vanguard Records found Shines taking photographs in a Chicago blues club and had him record tracks for the third installment of "Chicago/The Blues/Today!" The album has since then become a blues classic.
Shines played with the Chicago All Stars and Lee Jackson, Big Walter Horton and Willie Dixon. In the late 1960s and 1970s, Shines played with Robert Johnson's stepson, Robert Lockwood, Jr.. In 1980, Shines stopped played after he suffered a stroke. He managed to release one last album, "Back To The Country".
In 1989, Shines met a young, blues player called Kent Duchaine, and the two of them played together for the next several years until Shines died.
Shines died on 20 April 1992, in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. He was put into the Blues Hall of Fame later the same year.

</doc>
<doc id="129203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129203" title="Oklahoma State University">
Oklahoma State University

Oklahoma State University is a public university in Stillwater, Oklahoma.
Oklahoma State's men's athletic teams are called the Cowboys. The women's athletic teams are called the Cowgirls. Oklahoma State has 16 varsity teams. They compete in the Big 12 Conference.

</doc>
<doc id="129207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129207" title="Mexico, Illinois">
Mexico, Illinois

Mexico (formerly, Oklahoma, New Mexico, and Cabbegeville) is an unincorporated community, in Cook County, Illinois. It lies at an elevation of 597 feet (182 m).

</doc>
<doc id="129208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129208" title="Oregon Trail">
Oregon Trail

People traveled on the Oregon Trail in wagons in order to settle new parts of the United States of America during the 19th century. The Oregon Trail started in Missouri near the area where Kansas City, Missouri is today and ended in the Willamette Valley in Oregon. The Trail was about 2,200 miles (3,500km) long, and could take up to six months to travel.
People went to Oregon for many reasons. Some people wanted land. Some thought Oregon would be a better place to live. Most of them went because they wanted a new life.
The Oregon Trail was first traveled around 1841. Once a railroad was built across the United States in 1869, people could take trains to the western United States, so fewer people began to travel west in wagons. By that time, about 400,000 people had crossed the Oregon Trail in wagons. However, some people kept traveling the Trail until the 1880s.
Nobody traveled the Oregon Trail alone. Instead, travelers formed groups so they could help and protect each other. Often, relatives or people from the same town would travel together. They would hire a guide that knew the Trail and would elect leaders. The groups that did best on the Trail wrote constitutions or rules that they could use to settle disagreements or problems on the Trail.
People who traveled the Oregon Trail could use three types of animals to pull their wagons: oxen, mules, or horses. Most people used oxen. They were less expensive than horses and mules, and also less stubborn than mules.
They could eat grass along the Trail, unlike horses, who needed special food. Oxen were easy to train, and they usually traveled at a steady pace of 2 miles per hour, even in mud and snow.
It was very important for travelers to carry enough food and water for the trip. However, food for the trip was expensive. To feed four people for six months, food would cost about $150 - over $4,500 in today's dollars.
Travelers often brought along a lot of dried meat and "bread stuff" (like flour, crackers, and hardtack). Boiling water was difficult on the Trail, so cooking was not always possible. Some travelers also brought other foods, like rice, peas, dried beans, or dried fruit.
Along the Trail, travelers could fish and hunt for food. Bison, antelope, and deer were the best animals to hunt for food. Travelers also ate berries that grew along the Trail, partly to help prevent scurvy.
Most travelers used covered wagons to travel the Trail. There were a few different styles of covered wagons. One common style, called the "Independence-style" wagon, was usually about 11 feet long, four feet wide, and two feet deep. Pieces of wood held up a cover, made of something like dried ox skin, that rose about five feet above the bottom of the wagon.
There were many dangers along the Oregon Trail, including disease, bad weather, drowning during river crossings, attacks by Native Americans, and many others.
It is difficult to know how many people died along the Oregon Trail. Many travelers would bury their dead in unmarked graves and would disguise the graves. For example, they would bury people right in the middle of a trail and then have their oxen run over the graves. They did this so that animals and robbers would not dig up the graves. Because of this, historians can only estimate the total number of people who died along the Oregon Trail.
Disease was the most common cause of death on the Trail. While travelers usually brought some medicines with them, they usually were not very helpful.
Cholera was the most common illness and cause of death on the Trail. From 1849-1855, there was a cholera epidemic along the trail. Up to 3% of all travelers during this time may have died from cholera. One of the causes of the epidemic was that there was no sanitation along the Trail. 
For example, travelers liked to camp along the Platte River in Colorado, so they could easily get fresh water. However, as thousands of travelers used the same campsites over and over again, sewage from travelers with cholera got into the Platte River. After this, any traveler that drank water from the Platte River, or made food with that water, could get cholera. Often, cholera's symptoms would be so bad that travelers would die within 12 hours of getting sick.
Other diseases common on the Trail included:
The travelers used turpentine (a poison), vinegar, and whiskey to treat headaches, muscle pain, and coughs.
Historians do not agree on how many people died from disease along the Trail. One historian, John Unruh, estimates that 6,000 to 12,500 travelers died from disease on the Trail, and another 300-500 died specifically from scurvy. However, the United States National Park Service says that as many as 30,000 people may have died from disease along the Trail.
There were many other dangers along the Trail. John Unruh estimates the number of people who died from these other dangers:
Unruh estimates that 4 percent of the Oregon Trail travelers died: 16,000 out of 400,000 total travelers. However, the National Park Service says:
"The Oregon Trail is this nation’s longest graveyard. Nearly one in ten [travelers] who set off on the trail did not survive."
A usual day on the Trail started very early, just before dawn. Nobody actually rode in the wagons unless they were sick or very young. The ride was too bumpy, too dusty, and added too much work for the oxen. Instead, people walked beside their wagons. Usually, groups traveled almost all day, except for an hour around noon for lunch. Then they kept moving until just before sunset, when they would stop to set up a campsite. Most groups traveled about 15 miles per day, though on the best days they could move 20 miles a day. Since oxen moved at about 2 miles per hour, this meant a day's travel could last up to ten hours.
About 40,000 of the travelers were children. Unless they were babies, they walked alongside the wagons and worked just like adults. Their jobs included herding animals, driving wagons, washing dishes, helping with meals, watching younger children, and collecting firewood and "buffalo chips" (dry buffalo manure, which could be used to start fires if there was no firewood).
At night, the group would move the wagons into a circle ("circle the wagons") and put their animals inside the circle. This kept them from wandering away, or being killed or stolen. If the weather was dry, people slept outside. If it was wet, people slept under their wagons.
Many travelers were very afraid of attacks from Native Americans. However, most Native Americans left the travelers alone, or even helped them by trading with them and helping them cross rivers in canoes. When Native Americans did attack travelers, the stories were told over and over again, which may have made attacks seem more common than they actually were.
Travelers who did reach Oregon looked back on the Trail with different feelings. One man named Loren Hastings said in 1847: 
"I look back upon the long, dangerous and precarious emigrant road with a degree of romance and pleasure; but to others it is the graveyard of their friends."
In the 1970s, three student teachers in Minnesota made an educational computer game based on the Oregon Trail. The goal of the game was to successfully travel the trail from Independence, Missouri to Oregon City, Oregon. Dangers of the trail included river crossings, illnesses, sick oxen, and hunger. Over the next two decades, new versions of the game were made that added more options and included better graphics.

</doc>
<doc id="129213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129213" title="Emancipation Proclamation">
Emancipation Proclamation

The Emancipation Proclamation was an order by U.S. President Abraham Lincoln to free slaves in 10 states. It applied to slaves in the states still in rebellion in 1863 during the American Civil War. It did not actually immediately free all slaves in those states, because those areas were still controlled by the Confederacy. It did, however, free at least 20,000 slaves immediately, and nearly all 4 million slaves (according to the 1860 United States census) as the Union army advanced into Confederate states. Until the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1865, only the states had power to end slavery within their own borders. Thus, Lincoln issued the Proclamation as a war measure in his role as commander-in-chief. 
The Proclamation made emancipation a goal of the Civil War. It also weakened efforts within England and France to officially recognize the Confederacy. As Union troops advanced into Rebel (Confederate) territory, they freed thousands of slaves per day. Many did not wait, but fled their owners to claim their freedom. 
Five slave states (the Border States) had remained loyal to the Union and were not at war with the federal government. Thus, Lincoln did not have authority to free slaves in those states, and so this Proclamation was not applied in those states. The Proclamation also did not apply to Tennessee, nor to areas within Virginia and Louisiana which Union forces already controlled. 
The Proclamation was issued in two parts. On September 22, 1862, Lincoln said that in 100 days, he would free all slaves in areas not then under Union control. On January 1, 1863, he named the ten states in which the proclamation would then apply: Texas, South Carolina, North Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas, Virginia, Kentucky, and Louisiana. The five border states where slavery was still legal were exempt, and so not named, because they had remained loyal to the Union and were not in rebellion. Tennessee also was not named because Union forces had already regained control there. Several counties of Virginia that were in the process of separating from that state to form the new state of West Virginia were specifically named as exemptions, as were several parishes around New Orleans in Louisiana.
Only a small number of slaves already behind Union lines were immediately freed. As Union forces advanced, nearly all four million slaves were effectively freed. Some former slaves joined the Union army.
Before the war was over, some of the exempted border states ended slavery within their own borders. While the Proclamation had freed slaves, it had not made slavery illegal. Thus, Lincoln sponsored a constitutional amendment to ban slavery. The Thirteenth Amendment, making slavery illegal everywhere in the United States, was passed late in 1865, eight months after Lincoln was assassinated.

</doc>
<doc id="129215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129215" title="Brooklyn Bridge">
Brooklyn Bridge

The Brooklyn Bridge is one of the oldest suspension bridges in the United States. It is long. The bridge goes over the East River. It connects the New York City boroughs of Manhattan and Brooklyn. It is one of the leading landmarks of New York City.
The bridge was built from 1869 to 1883. It was designed by John Roebling. The construction was directed by his son Washington Roebling and Washington's wife, Emily. When it was finished, it was the tallest structure in North America.
The bridge is an official landmark. It has been a National Historic Landmark since 1964. It became a National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark in 1972.

</doc>
<doc id="129219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129219" title="Shelf life">
Shelf life

Shelf life is how long food can be kept safely. Food cannot be kept forever. After a certain time it will go bad. After this time it is no longer safe to eat it. Shelf life also used for drugs, drinks and other things that can go bad.
In some countries, a "best before", "use by" or "freshness date" must be put on packaged foods.
Shelf life is the length of time that food can be stored. During this time, the quality of the food does not change, if it is kept under normal conditions. Frozen food that is not stored in the fridge or freezer will go bad earlier, for example. Most of these labels do not guarantee the safety of food. They should only be used as a guide.
Shelf life is different from "expiration date". Shelf life is linked to food quality, expiration date to food safety. A product that has passed its shelf life might still be safe, but quality is no longer guaranteed. In most food stores, shelf life is controlled by using stock rotation. This means moving products with the earliest sell by date to the front of the shelf, so that most shoppers will pick them up first and so getting them out of the store. This is important, as stores can be fined for selling out of date products. Most shops, if not all, will have to mark such products down as wasted, leading to a loss of profit. 
Shelf life is can be changed by many things: exposure to light and heat, transmission of gases (including humidity), mechanical stresses, and contamination by things such as micro-organisms.
Mathematically, product quality is often modelled using only one parameter, for example the concetration of a chemical substance, a microbiological index, or a physical parameter. Sometimes, the parameter picked is irrelevant.
The shelf life is an important factor to health. Bacteria are everywhere, and foods left unused too long will often get large amounts of bacterial living in them. It may be dangerous to eat them and lead to food poisoning. The shelf life itself cannot always be trusted to tell how safe it is to eat a certain item of food. For example, pasteurized milk can remain fresh for five days after its sell-by date if it is refrigerated properly. In contrast, if milk already has harmful bacteria, the use-by dates do not matter.
For drugs the situation is different. If drugs are used within the expiration date, the manufacturer guarantees that they work as expected. After that date, they may still work, but only to a lesser extent. A rare exception is a case of renal tubular damage said to have been caused by out of date tetracycline. A study done by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration covered over 100 drugs, prescription and over-the-counter. The results showed that about 90% of them were safe and effective as far as 15 years past their expiration date. Joel Davis, a former FDA expiration-date compliance chief, said that with a handful of exceptions - notably nitroglycerin, insulin and some liquid antibiotics - most expired drugs are probably effective.
Preservatives and antioxidants may be put into some food and drug products to make their shelf life longer. Some companies use induction sealing and vacuum pouches to add to the shelf life of their products.
Some degradation factors can be controlled by provisions in the ed packaging. For example, the amber bottle used for many beers blocks damaging wavelengths of light. Transparent beer bottles do not. Packaging with barrier materials (e.g., (low moisture vapor transmission rate, etc.) extends the shelf life of some foods and pharmaceuticals.
Nearly all chemical reactions will occur (at various rates depending on the individual nature of the reaction) at common temperatures. Examples are the breakdown of many chemical explosives into more unstable compounds. Nitroglycerine is notorious. Old explosives are thus more dangerous (i.e., liable to be triggered to explode by very small disturbances, even trivial jiggling) than more recently manufactured explosives. Rubber products also degrade as sulphur bonds induced during vulcanization revert; this is why old rubber bands and other rubber products soften and get sticky as they age.
These breakdown processes usually happen more quickly at higher temperatures. The usually quoted rule of thumb is that chemical reactions double their rate for each temperature increase of 10 Celsius degrees (C°) because of activation energy barriers become more easily surmounted at higher temperatures. However, as with all rules of thumb, there are many caveats and assumptions. This particular one is most applicable to reactions with activation energy values around 50 kJ/mole; many of these are important at the usual temperatures we encounter. It is often applied in shelf life estimation, sometimes wrongly. There is a widespread impression. for instance in industry, that "triple time" can be simulated in practice by increasing the temperature by 15 C°, e.g. storing a product for one month at 35 °C simulates three months at 20 °C. There is enough variation that this practical rule cannot be routinely relied upon .
The same is true, to a point, of the chemical reactions of life. They are usually enzymatically catalyzed which changes reaction rates, but with constant catalytic action, the rule of thumb is still mostly applicable. In the particular case of bacteria and fungi, the reactions needed to feed and reproduce increase at higher temperatures, up to the point that the proteins and other compounds in their cells themselves begin to breakdown, or denature, so quickly that they cannot be replaced. This is the reason high temperatures kill bacteria and other micro organisms; 'tissue' breakdown reactions reach such rates that they cannot be compensated for and the cell dies. On the other hand, 'elevated' temperatures short of these result in increased growth and reproduction; if the organism is harmful, perhaps to dangerous levels.
Just as temperature increase speeds up reactions, temperature decreases reduce them. Therefore, to make explosives stable for longer periods, or to keep rubber bands springy, or to force bacteria to slow down their growth, they can be cooled. This is the reason shelf life is generally extended by temperature control: (refrigeration, insulated shipping containers, controlled cold chain, etc.) and the reason some medicines and foods "must" be refrigerated.
"Best before" is sometimes put on food and drink wrappers, followed by a date. It shows the date before which the supplier intended the food should be consumed. The term "best before" is also used to show the date by which the item will have outlived its shelf life, and is intended to ensure that customers will not unwittingly purchase or eat stale food. Sometimes the packaging process involves using pre-printed labels, making it impractical to write the "best before" date in a clearly visible location. In this case, a term like "best before see bottom" or "best before see lid" might be printed on the label and the date marked in a different location as indicated.
"Best Before" is usually advisory and refers to the quality of the product, in contrast with "Use By" which indicates that the product is no longer safe to eat after the specified date.
Generally, foods that have a "use by" date written on the packaging must not be eaten after it has expired. This is because such foods usually go bad quickly and may be dangerous to eat. It is also important to follow storage instructions carefully for these foods (for example, product must be refrigerated).
Foods that have a "best before" date are usually safe to eat after the date has passed, although they are likely to have deteriorated either in flavour, texture, appearance or nutrition.
Bathroom products/toiletries usually state a time in months by which, once the product is opened, they should be used. This is often indicated by a graphic of an open tub, with the number of months written inside (e.g., "12M" means use the product within 12 months of opening).
"Open Dating" is the use of a date or code stamped on the package of a food product to help determine how long to display the product for sale. It is also helpful to the customer and ensures that the product is at its best quality when bought. An Open Date does not supersede a Use by date, which should still be followed.
These dates are meant to help keep track of the stock in stores. Food that has passed its "sell by" or "display until" date, but is still within its use by / best before can still be eaten, if it has been stored correctly. It is common practice in large stores to throw away such food, as it makes the stock control process easier. It also reduces the risk of customers buying food without looking at the date, only to find out the next day that they cannot use it. Changing the posted date is illegal in many countries.
Most stores will rotate stock by moving the products with the earliest dates to the front of shelving units, which allows them to be sold first and saving them from having to be either marked down or thrown away, both of which contribute to a loss of profit.
It is also common for food approaching the use by date to be marked down for quick sale, with greater reductions the closer to the use by date it gets.
In a metaphorical sense, much software also has a shelf life. Most software products are released to market with defects, xecurity vulnerabilities, and design flaws. Over time, some of these are discovered and patches issued by the vendor (and possibly others, as in the open source environment) which fix bugs and add functionality. The result is that, after some time, the software application is rather different than it was at first release, even with the same version level. Since correct inclusion of patches at end user sites is spotty, the actual population of that software application in the field is quite varied; some will have patches 1 and 2, others 1, 2, and 3, some others none, in all possible variations. This increases support difficulty. There have been a few attempts to address this. One commercial attempt is from Preemptive.
The Food & Drug Administration, which controls packaged foods and drugs, only requires a use-by, or expiration, date on infant formula and some baby foods. That's because formula must contain a certain quantity of each nutrient that is described on the label. And if formula is stored too long, it loses its nutritional quality. It also separates or form lumps that will clog the bottle nipple. Except for infant formula and some baby foods, product dating is not required by federal regulations.
The Agriculture Dept., which controls fresh produce and meats, only requires labeling of the date when poultry is packed at the farm. However, many manufacturers are allowed to also add sell-by or use-by dates. 
A "freshness date" is the date used in the American brewing industry to indicate either the date the beer was bottled or the date before which the beer should be consumed. 
Beer is does not keep forever. It can be affected by light, air, or the action of bacteria. Although beer in the USA does not have to have a shelf life, freshness dates serve much the same purpose and are a marketing tool.
The Boston Beer Company, maker of Samuel Adams, was among the first to start adding freshness dates to their product line in 1985. For ten years there was a slow growth in brewers adding freshness dates to their beer. The practice rapidly grew in popularity after the Anheuser-Busch company's heavily marketed "Born-On dates" starting in 1996. Many other brewers have started adding freshness dates to their products, but there is no standard for what the date means. For some companies, the date on the bottle or can will be the date that the beer was bottled; others have the date by which the beer should be consumed.
Before a beer is bottled, it is processed to make its shelf life longer. This can change the beer's freshness date. It may be done in several ways, not all of which will be used by a particular brewery:

</doc>
<doc id="129222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129222" title="Red card">
Red card

A red card in sport is a punishment to a player of a team. It is usually given to a player who has broken the rules of the game.
In football rules, a red card means that the player is sent off the field, and is not allowed to play in the rest of the match. A player with a red card is automatically banned from his team's next game.

</doc>
<doc id="129236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129236" title="WWE Women's Championship (1956–2010)">
WWE Women's Championship (1956–2010)

The World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) Women's Championship was an official championship in World Wrestling Entertainment fought for by divas. The title was unified with the WWE Diva's Championship.
The WWE Women's Championship has descended from the National Wrestling Alliance World Women's Championship when The Fabulous Moolah became champion and held the title close to 30 years. The Title became inactive in 1990 when Rockin' Robin Vacated the Title after departing from the WWF. In 1993 Alundra Blayze won the Title after Winning a Tournament. However the Title became Inactive after Alundra Blayze dropped the Title into a Garbage Can live on WCW Monday Nitro this incident forced her to give up the title.
The WWE Women's Championship was then reactivated in September 1998 when Jacqueline Moore won a match against Sable.
Currently Michelle McCool, Mickie James, Melina Perez and Beth Phoenix are the only divas in the history of the WWE to hold both the WWE Women's Championship and WWE Divas Championship.
The final champion was Layla El who defeated Beth Phoenix in a two-on-one handicap match with Michelle McCool on Smackdown and McCool self-proclaimed herself as the co-Women's Champion. The title was unified with the WWE Diva's Championship on September 19, 2010 and retired.

</doc>
<doc id="129242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129242" title="Category:KDE">
Category:KDE


</doc>
<doc id="129246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129246" title="KWord">
KWord

KWord is a free word processor, a part of the KOffice project and of the K Desktop Environment.
The text-layout scheme in KWord is based on frames, making it look like Adobe FrameMaker. These can be placed anywhere on the page, and can include text, graphics and embedded objects. Each new page is a new frame, but the text is able to flow through KWord’s ability to link frames together. The use of frames means that complex graphical layouts can be achieved easily in KWord.
KWord was created as part of the KOffice project in 1998 using some ideas from FrameMaker such as the frames approach. The first author said that the application and its code were not the best since it was his first object-oriented application.
In 2000 the KWord application was created in a way that made it very hard to fix problems and nobody was working on the problems anymore. There had not been any official release of the application in all this time. In the same year a new maintainer started working on the application and over the duration of 2000 and the beginning of 2001 they worked to fix any problems in the code of the application. 

</doc>
<doc id="129247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129247" title="Category:KOffice">
Category:KOffice


</doc>
<doc id="129248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129248" title="1964-65 NHL season">
1964-65 NHL season

The 1964–65 NHL season was the 48th season of the National Hockey League. Six teams each played 70 games. Jean Beliveau was the winner of the newly introduced Conn Smythe Trophy as the most valuable player during the playoffs. The Montreal Canadiens won their first Stanley Cup since 1960 as they were victorious over the Chicago Black Hawks in a seven-game final series.
"Note: GP = Games played, W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties, Pts = Points, GF = Goals for, GA = Goals against, PIM = Penalties in minutes"
"Note: GP = Games played, G = Goals, A = Assists, PTS = Points, PIM = Penalties in minutes"
For the third straight playoffs, it was Montreal vs. Toronto and Detroit vs. Chicago in the first round. The Canadiens came beat the Leafs in six games, while the Hawks beat the Wings in seven.

</doc>
<doc id="129250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129250" title="Category:1965 in ice hockey">
Category:1965 in ice hockey


</doc>
<doc id="129251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129251" title="Category:1964 in ice hockey">
Category:1964 in ice hockey


</doc>
<doc id="129252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129252" title="Category:1964 in sports">
Category:1964 in sports


</doc>
<doc id="129253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129253" title="Category:1965 in sports">
Category:1965 in sports


</doc>
<doc id="129260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129260" title="Nation of Islam">
Nation of Islam

The Nation of Islam is a Islamist group. It was founded in Detroit, Michigan, in 1930 by Wallace Fard Muhammad. The main goal of the Nation of Islam is to bring back the spiritual, mental, social and economic condition of blacks in the United States. Since 1978, the group has been led by Louis Farrakhan. Malcolm X also was a member.
The current headquarters for the Nation of Islam is in Chicago, Illinois. 
The main belief of The Nation of Islam is that there is no God but Allah. They say that "Allah" “came in the person of W. D. Fard", who founded the Nation of Islam. Their type of Islam is different from Sunni Muslims and Shia Muslims. Their teachings under Islamic standards do not allow making any person divine, or treating God as human.
The flag of the Nation of Islam has the symbols of the sun, moon, and the stars. It represents the universe. It is also a banner of universal peace and harmony.
Nation of Islam

</doc>
<doc id="129265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129265" title="World Tag Team Championship (WWE)">
World Tag Team Championship (WWE)

The World Tag Team Championship is a professional wrestling tag team championship in World Wrestling Entertainment. It is the original world tag team title of WWE. Currently, it is exclusive to the Raw brand and is with the WWE Tag Team Championship to make up the Unified WWE Tag Team Championship.
The championship was first introduced into the then "World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF)" in 1971. Following its introduction into the WWF Luke Graham and Tarzan Tyler became the first "WWWF Tag Team Champions" on June 3. In 1979 the title became known as the "World Wrestling Federation (WWF) Tag Team Championship" when the promotion renamed itself World Wrestling Federation
In 2001 at the Survivor Series Pay-per-view during the Invasion Storyline The Hardy Boyz, Matt Hardy and Jeff Hardy who were the current "World Tag Team Champions" and were competing for the "World Wrestling Federation" took on The Dudley Boys, Bubba Ray Dudley and D-Von Dudley who were the current WCW World Tag Team Champions and were competing for "The Alliance" in a title unification match inside a Steel Cage, The Dudley Boys defeated The Hardy Boyz and were named the last WCW Tag Team Champions while also becoming the "WWF Tag Team Champions"
After the WWF/WWE name change in 2002, the championship was referred to as the "World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) Tag Team Championship". After a period where the championship was to be freely defended on either WWE Monday Night Raw or WWE Thursday Night Smackdown the championship became exclusive to the Raw Brand. The current General Manager at this time Stephanie McMahon created new WWE Tag Team Titles which were to be exclusive to the Smackdown Brand.

</doc>
<doc id="129267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129267" title="WrestleMania III">
WrestleMania III

WrestleMania III was the third yearly WrestleMania professional wrestling pay-per-view event made by the World Wrestling Federation (WWF). The event was held on March 29, 1987 at the Pontiac Silverdome in Pontiac, Michigan.
The event is particularly notable for the record attendance of 93,173, the largest recorded attendance for a live indoor sporting event in North America. Though differing numbers have been argued, the event is considered to be the pinnacle of the 1980s wrestling boom. Almost one million fans watched the event at 160 closed circuit locations in North America. The number of people watching via pay-per-view was estimated at several million, and pay-per-view revenues were estimated at $10 million.

</doc>
<doc id="129274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129274" title="WrestleMania XIX">
WrestleMania XIX


</doc>
<doc id="129277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129277" title="Wikipedia:Avoid weasel words">
Wikipedia:Avoid weasel words

Weasel words are small words added to the start of a statement, like "some argue that..." or "critics say...", etc. The bad thing about weasel worded statements is that their implication is misleading or too vague to substantiate. Even if an author intended to buttress an argument with an estimate of support, weasel words dilute meaning or make sentences open to multiple interpretations.
Weasel words help to obscure the meaning of biased expressions and are therefore dishonest. For example, an editor might preface the statement "Montreal is the best city in the world" with a disclaimer: ""some people say" that Montreal is the best city in the world". This is true: some people "do" say that Montreal is the best city in the world. The problem is that the reverse is true as well (some people say Montreal is not the best city in the world, and some go further and say that it is the worst), and thus it is easy to mislead the reader and to spread hearsay, personal opinion and propaganda, which is contrary to the spirit and the rules of Wikipedia (see and ). 
Another problem is that weasel words can imply that a statement is more controversial than it is. For example, saying "some people claim that Queen was a popular band" unnecessarily raises a (false) question about the statement's truth.
If a statement is true without weasel words, remove them. If they are needed for the statement to be true, consider removing the statement. If there is a genuine opinion, make the preface more specific. Who are these people? When, where, and why did they say that? What kind of bias might they have? How many is "some"? If you consider the different answers these questions might have, you can see how meaningless the "some people say" qualification is. To assist users in deciding how to attribute ideas more precisely, the Wikipedia policy provides specific criteria for the support a statement must have for it to remain in an article unchallenged. This is one of Wikipedia's core content policies, determining the type and quality of material that is acceptable in articles, and it is this policy that weasel words undermine.
There are different variations on weasel wording, with the general principle of introducing some proposition without attributing it to any concrete source. "Most scientists believe that..." fails to provide any evidence that this is indeed the case, or to clarify just where between 50% and 100% "most" is, for that matter. The case is similar with things that are apparently true "according to some studies" or "contrary to popular opinion". "It has been proven that" allusion to proof does not constitute proof, "Science says" that science is an abstract concept which in actuality is not capable of speech, and "it could be argued" that the policy is there for a reason. The word "seemingly" inserted into a statement raises the question of to whom the proposition seems thus, and on what evidentiary basis. And so on.
It is, of course, acceptable to introduce some fact or opinion and attribute it in an inline . e.g. "Research by Wong "et al", 1996, has shown that rabies can be cured by acupuncture".
And at the bottom of the page:
Weasel words often create other problems in the text. Some of these are:
The tag can be added to the top of an article or section to draw attention to the presence of weasel words. For less drastic cases, the tag (), or the tag () (all of which include an internal wikilink to "this" page) can be added directly to the phrase in question; same as the tag (). 
The key to improving weasel words in articles is either a) to name a source for the opinion (attribution) or b) to change opinionated language to concrete facts (substantiate it).
This fact suggests that the Yankees are a superlative baseball franchise, rather than simply the greatest baseball team in history. The idea is to let the readers draw their own conclusions about the Yankees' greatness based on the number of World Series the Yankees have won. Objectivity over subjectivity. Dispassion, not bias.
As with any rule of thumb, this guideline should be balanced against other needs for the text, especially the need for brevity and clarity. While ideally every assertion and assumption that is not necessarily true would have the various positions on it detailed and referenced, in practice much of human knowledge relies on the probably true rather than the necessarily true, and actually doing this would result in the article devolving into an incoherent jumble of backtracking explanations and justifications. 
This means that asking "Who?" ought not to be an automatic process, but rather a judgment call. How controversial is the statement being made? How prominent are alternative views? How relevant would introducing the controversy be to the progression of this specific article — relevant enough to be worth whatever strain on the narrative that will result? These are the important questions to be asking when dealing with citation issues.
This guideline doesn't apply, if

</doc>
<doc id="129285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129285" title="WrestleMania 2">
WrestleMania 2

WrestleMania 2 was the second annual WrestleMania professional wrestling pay-per-view event produced by the World Wrestling Federation (although the first WrestleMania was only on pay-per-view in select areas). It took place on April 7, 1986 at three venues: the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum in Uniondale, New York, the Rosemont Horizon in Rosemont, Illinois, and the Los Angeles Memorial Sports Arena in Los Angeles, California.

</doc>
<doc id="129295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129295" title="Arthur Mutambara">
Arthur Mutambara

Arthur Guseni Oliver Mutambara (born 25 May 1966) is a Zimbabwean politician. He became the President of a faction of the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) in February 2006. He has worked as the Managing Director and CEO of Africa Technology and Business Institute since September 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="129301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129301" title="Kill 'Em All">
Kill 'Em All

Kill 'Em All is thrash metal band Metallica's first album. It was released on July 29, 1983. It has sold over three million copies in the United States. When it was released most of the reviews were good. Two singles were released from the album, "Whiplash" and "Jump in the Fire". The album was going to be called "Metal Up Your Ass". However, the record label did not want this. The bass player, Cliff Burton said about the record label, "why don't we just kill 'em all?" Then the band decided to use "Kill 'em All" as the album's name.

</doc>
<doc id="129305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129305" title="Lucy Lawless">
Lucy Lawless

Lucille Frances Ryan (born March 29, 1968 in Auckland) is a New Zealand actress. When she was twenty years old, she got her first acting job in the TV program "Funny Business". In 1995, she starred in her first television series, "", becoming in an international star in this role.
Lawless is also known for her role as "D'anna Biers" in the TV series "Battlestar Galactica" between 2005 and 2008. During a break in 1997 between filming seasons on Xena, Lawless made her onstage debut singing songs on Broadway as Rizzo in the remake of the musical play Grease.
Since her role as Xena, Lawless has pursued a new career in singing after being a contestant on "Celebrity Duets". She sang at the Roxy in Hollywood in 2007, and has since performed regularly in concerts and released several CDs. She has a contralto singing range.
She was born in Auckland on 29 March, 1968. Lawless' mother, Julie, was teacher, and her father, Frank, was mayor. She has 6 brothers. She had bulimia and Depression.
Lawless began acting in secondary school, attending Marist College, New Zealand, in Mount Albert. She studied foreign languages at Auckland University for a year before dropping out and leaving for Europe with her boyfriend, Garth Lawless, to travel to Germany and Switzerland. The couple then moved to Australia, where she worked briefly as a gold miner.
Lawless wanted to act since she was five. She took her first acting class at the school. Lawless starred various national television commercials when she was a child. One of these was for McDonald's. She played an Amazon in the TV movie "Hercules and the Amazon Women", in 1994, and Lisya in his Spin-off, the TV series "" em 1995. In the same year, she plays Xena in three episodes, returning later.
In September, Xena won her own series, "", Lawless was the star in the program during 6 years. Lawless first appeared on Broadway in September 1997 in the "Grease play remake", as the "bad girl" Rizzo character. She applied to play the squeaky-clean naive blond girl Sandra Dee, but she claimed the producers after Xena had typed her to playing only "bad girls." She said the Sandy character was very similar to her sheltered childhood, growing up in New Zealand with many protective older brothers.
Lawless has since appeared onstage in the "Vagina Monologues" and as a television guest star in episodes of The Simpsons, The X-Files, Just Shoot Me!, Veronica Mars, Burn Notice, and Curb Your Enthusiasm. She was also featured in the short-lived television series Tarzan. Lawless has made cameo appearances in the movies EuroTrip, Spider-Man and Boogeyman. She returned to television in the TV movie Locusts! and its sequel Vampire Bats.
From 2005 to 2008, Lawless has had a recurring role in the television series Battlestar Galactica. She portrays D'Anna Biers, a reporter with the "Fleet News Service" who works on a critical documentary about the crew of the Galactica and is later revealed to be a Cylon.
In 1997, Lawless was named one of the "50 Most Beautiful People in the World" by People magazine. Days earlier on 6 May 1997, Lawless inadvertently exposed a breast as she concluded a performance of the US national anthem at an NHL hockey game in Anaheim, California between the Mighty Ducks and Detroit Red Wings. Lawless was quoted in Newsweek as saying:
Lawless has enjoyed a particular cult status in the lesbian community. Some of the lesbian fan base sees Lawless as a lesbian icon. A group called The Marching Xenas has participated in many gay and lesbian pride parades.
Some fans felt that the sexual nature of Xena and the character Gabrielle's relationship was cemented by an interview given by Lucy Lawless to "Lesbian News" magazine in 2003. Lawless stated that after the series finale, where Gabrielle revives Xena with a mouth-to-mouth water transfer filmed to look like a full kiss, she had come to believe that Xena and Gabrielle's relationship was "definitely gay... there was always a 'well, she might be or she might not be' but when there was that drip of water passing between their lips in the very final scene, that cemented it for me".
In 2006, Lucy Lawless donated her personal Xena costume to the Museum of American History. In an interview the same year with "Smithsonian" magazine, she was asked the question "Was the Warrior Princess outfit comfortable?" and she responded:
At the age of nineteen, Lawless became pregnant with Garth's child. In 1988, they married in Kalgoorlie, Australia. They returned to New Zealand and had a daughter, Daisy Lawless (born 15 July 1988), who also attended Marist College, New Zealand. The couple divorced in 1995. Lawless married "Xena" executive producer Robert Tapert on 28 March 1998. Lawless and Tapert have two sons: Julius Robert Bay Tapert (born 16 October 1999) and Judah Miro Tapert (born 7 May 2002), both born in Auckland.
The following table shows all the movies she has been in, the role she played and when the movie was released

</doc>
<doc id="129306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129306" title="Raccoon (disambiguation)">
Raccoon (disambiguation)

A raccoon (sometimes racoon) is a mammal native to the Americas.
Raccoon may also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="129307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129307" title="Wikipedia:Proposed very good articles/Archive 4">
Wikipedia:Proposed very good articles/Archive 4

An article with a lot of potential, very good lenghtwise, needs a few red links removing, other from that, not bad at all! 18:53, 14 January 2009 (UTC)
 () () 23:47, 11 December 2008 (UTC)
Controversial subject, article has many images; some of them show nude people. I think the images are tasteful, and generally non-pornographic. Spent quite some time trying to focus on the different aspects of nudity (also the issue of what constitutes nudity, how much of it is a taboo, and how little is needed to make that feeling go away). Article as of now, is 29k, after deductions 19k are left. Readability scores are available. No red-links. In my opinion, the article needs serious copyediting (by people other than me), and possibly more references. Just curious on your input. -- () 19:19, 13 December 2008 (UTC)
"None" of the images could be considered porn. 
This is a superior article. () 14:50, 31 October 2008 (UTC)
Hope these help! () 01:29, 16 November 2008 (UTC)
Hi. I've done a fair bit of work on this one and I think it meets all VGA criteria now. See the talk page for a comparison to the criteria. Note; for my last VGA, Powderfinger, it was asked that a philanthropy section be written so it's comprehensive. I've looked and there's little of any such info that can be written about this band. Cheers, () 06:31, 6 September 2008 (UTC)
Expect some new red links and a couple fact tags when it comes out of "in-use". Oddly, copyediting is getting lighter as I go, heavy at top but the structure cleaned up as it went along.. tons of reference changes to templates going on as well. -- 08:18, 6 September 2008 (UTC)
It's been up for comments for a while, and I think it's ready. Ryan just took a look and made some very minor changes (thanks!). I think it's now at VGA quality. () 04:57, 13 September 2008 (UTC)
Once again, my apologies for being late on these...
 () 07:52, 15 September 2008 (UTC)
A few more comments 
Hey there, I would like to propose the article, baseball uniform, to status. I believe it is well written enough and meets all of VGA criteria. Any comments would be appreciated. Thanks, () 00:03, 2 September 2008 (UTC)
Text-wise, it's quite small (11.3KB of text), but what I'm most concerned about is the fact that reader ages are so high. The more recent VGA's like or have much lower reading ages. Try working on a bit of simplification, then I'll come back, more throughoutly read it and find you sentences which need re-working. -- 05:31, 2 September 2008 (UTC)
Hey there. I've worked almost 3 months on this article, getting this article up to status, and I think this can become a . I've checked the PVGA criteria, and I believe it meets all its requirements. The article is about 13k long, having 5k the lowest for VGAs. I believe it is well written, well referenced, and is capable of becoming a VGA. Simple Wikipedia's best article's are often VGAs, and I think baseball uniform is one of Simple Wikipedia's best work yet. Any comments are appreciated. If there's something that needs more work on, please point them out and I'm sure we can resolve them as a community. -- () 03:01, 10 September 2008 (UTC)
 - too many problems at first glance. I wholeheartedly apologise for not being part of the review here but I cannot support with so many issues (as detailed in the comments section). I'm a "little" surprised that some of our more experienced editors support the article with the current number of issues. () 17:35, 11 September 2008 (UTC)
 () 17:28, 11 September 2008 (UTC)
Just a note: This discussion has been running for over a week now, so if anyone would like to close this, you may. Thanks, () 03:45, 17 September 2008 (UTC)
I've had it up for review on the proposed good page, but it meets VGA standards and I belive its ready for a vote-- () 07:31, 6 September 2008 (UTC)
"During the the American Civil War several Indian tribes sided with the Confederacy because they owned slaves also." – uncited and needs expansion. Also seems extremely shallow. Slavery can't be the only reason why the natives joined the Confederacy. Surely there were other reasons like promises of land or what-not. () 07:47, 6 September 2008 (UTC)
Further comments
 () 12:56, 11 September 2008 (UTC)
 () 16:26, 23 November 2008 (UTC)
 () 16:25, 23 November 2008 (UTC)
 () 16:05, 23 November 2008 (UTC)
Response I agree with your suggestions. I'll add a section on the engineering aspects. 
I must apologise for my apparent rudeness in ignoring your comments. I've had a lot to occupy my time in the last few weeks and haven't been on Simple Wiki at all. () 06:28, 7 December 2008 (UTC)
 - Nicely written, no redlinks, contains helpful images, and an abundant sources to back the article. -- 00:02, 12 January 2009 (UTC)
 - I have mixed feelings about the article. -- 11:36, 14 January 2009 (UTC)
 () 16:27, 20 January 2009 (UTC)
Note: I have notified all those who voted in this discussion (except for Juliancolton since he's obviously aware of this) of the concerns that have been raised. I say throw out the "consensus" right now, let this discussion go, then have a vote at a later time once the sourcing concerns have been met. After all, "verifibility and accuracy should come above everything else." () 22:12, 20 January 2009 (UTC)
(<-) Hello there; I see that some of these points may need sourcing, while others do not. It is not difficult to imagine that different cultures have different ideas about nudity (As an example: A person bathing naked on a beach in France, the Netherlands, or Sweden will probably be asked to move down the beach a little, to not disturb the clothed bathers; a person bathing naked on a beach in the US risks a fine or a prison term). It is also not difficult to imagine that within a given culture, people will have different ideas about what levels of nudity are acceptable. In other words, such statements probably do not need sourcing - they are obvious; Others, like the statement that a woman not wearing a burqa in Afghanistan will bring shame onto her family will probably need sourcing (Problem there: how do you source such a statement?) - Our problem here is that if we stick to the process, the article should not be promoted (it lacks sourcing). This will of course also mean that certain articles will never be promoted (Berlin Wall is another example), as the events they describe are too recent (or too controversial). To find sources for our nudity article, we'll probably need an Ethnographer, or a Sociologist (which we are unlikely to have, in our 50-odd editors). To make things short:
Given how difficult it is to get votes, I'd opt for promotion, fixing and demotion, rather than not promoting, fixing and re-listing; however I contributed massively to the article, so I may not exactly be neutral in that regard. 
Something else to consider: Some consider nudity a controversial topic; We say ourself that WP is not censored, there is no forbidden knowledge. Now what message would a nudity VGA blurb on the front page convey? - This decision therefore may also have political implications; whoever takes it will probably get some criticism from either the editors that are for more control (our poor children..) or those that are for less control (..a hidden form of censorship). All the best. -- () 22:32, 20 January 2009 (UTC)
Has been listed above for 3 weeks, I think we might give it a vote
It's hard to oppose, because the quality and quantity are both excellent. It's just some complex issues are hard to simplify without making them redundant. -- 15:46, 5 September 2008 (UTC)
Still about 5 red links? 10:36, 5 September 2008 (UTC)
(unindenting) The less impressive: A box containing disks, and a controller, attached with a cable. The more impressive: A 19" rack (empty wardrobe), with slots that can contain disks. See for example [One of Sun Microsystems RAID systems] or [IBM RAID offerings] - these are the actual systems holding the harddisks. Depending on how you attach the storage, how many servers want to access it, etc, these systems usually cost 5-6 digit figures (in USD); for "home grown" apps, calculate like USD 500 for a controller, plus the disks and a case (so probably like USD 1500 up, for a new system). I was at Sun Microsystems once, there they had like a "room full of wardrobes" (called "storage park", another room full of machines ("machine park") and like 2-3 diskless terminals to manage these - As stated RAID is one of the technologies used by Storage Area Networks.-- () 15:57, 12 September 2008 (UTC)
I thought of putting this up for GA first but having looked at it quite a few times I really think it might make VGA first time. I appreaciate most of the writing has been done by me but I think that shouldn't count against it if it's good enough. As far as I can tell it's pretty comprehensive, definetly long enough and has no red links. It's as good as Saturn, an existing VGA. Cheers. 23:03, 18 August 2008 (UTC)
Closed by nominator, moved to WP:PGA 10:43, 1 September 2008 (UTC)
-- 19:09, 26 August 2008 (UTC)
The Amalthea bit . I sorted it out. 
And as for Jupiter in the Solar System I only added that recently. When I've expanded it wil you support? 21:30, 26 August 2008 (UTC)
— [[User:American Eagle|AE]] ([[User talk:American Eagle|talk]]) 21:38, 26 August 2008 (UTC)
Cheers, [[User:The Flying Spaghetti Monster|F ]][[User_talk:The Flying Spaghetti Monster|S]] [[Wikipedia:Editor_review/The_Flying_Spaghetti_Monster|M]] 21:42, 26 August 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="129314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129314" title="North York">
North York

North York may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="129315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129315" title="Red Army Faction">
Red Army Faction

The Red Army Faction or RAF (German "Rote Armee Fraktion"), was one of postwar West Germany's most active and prominent militant left-wing groups. 
It described itself as a communist "urban guerrilla" group engaged in armed resistance, while it was described by the West German government as a terrorist group.
The RAF was formally founded in 1970 by Andreas Baader, Gudrun Ensslin, Horst Mahler, Ulrike Meinhof, Irmgard Möller and others.
The Red Army Faction operated from the 1970s to 1993, committing numerous crimes, especially in the autumn of 1977, which led to a national crisis that became known as "German Autumn".
It was responsible for 34 deaths including many secondary targets such as chauffeurs and bodyguards—and many injuries in its almost 30 years of existence. It ceased activities in 1993 and disbanded in 1998.

</doc>
<doc id="129317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129317" title="Large Hadron Collider">
Large Hadron Collider

The Large Hadron Collider (LHC) is the world's biggest and most powerful particle accelerator. It was built by the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN). It is a giant circular tunnel built underground. The tunnel is 17 miles (27 kilometers) long, and between 50 and 175 meters below the ground. It lies beneath the border of Switzerland and France. 10,000 scientists and engineers from over 100 different countries worked together in the making of this project, and it cost 10.4 billion Swiss francs ($10 billion) to build. It is now the largest and most complicated experimental research facility in the world. 
As its name states, the research at the LHC involves the collision of hadrons. A hadron is a particle which consists of a number of quarks held together by the subatomic strong force. Protons and neutrons are examples of a hadron. The LHC primarily uses the collision of protons in its experiments. Protons are parts of atoms with a positive charge. The LHC accelerates these protons through the tunnel until they reach nearly the speed of light. Different protons are directed through the tunnel in opposite directions. When they collide, they create conditions similar to the early universe. 
The LHC attempts to study elementary particles and the ways they interact. It has already taught us a lot about quantum physics, and researchers are hoping to learn a lot more about the structure of space and time. The observations researchers are able to make can help us learn what the universe might have been like within milliseconds after the big bang.
The LHC ionizes Hydrogen atoms in order to get the protons they use. A Hydrogen atom consists of only one proton and one electron. When they ionize the atoms, they are removing the one electron to give it a net positive charge. The Hydrogen protons are then directed through the circle by electromagnets. In order for the magnets to be strong enough, it must be very cold. The inside of the tunnel is cooled by liquid helium. They keep the temperature at just above absolute zero. The protons hit one another at close to the speed of light and convert to energy using E=mc. It then reverses and creates mass. At the collision site, there are four layers of detectors. The explosion passes through each layer and each detector records a different stage of the reaction.
When the particles hit each other, their energy is converted into many different particles, and sensitive detectors keep track of the pieces that are created. By looking carefully at the detector data, scientists can study what the particles are made of and how the particles interact. This is the only way to see some particles because very high energy is needed to create them. The LHC's particle collisions have the energy needed.
The LHC has three main parts to it. There is the particle accelerator, the four detectors, and the Grid. The accelerator creates the collision, but the results cannot be directly observed. The detectors turn it into useable data. This data is then sent to the Grid. The Grid is what the researchers use to interpret the data. It is a network of computers. There are 170 locations in 36 different countries which are filled with regular desktop computers. All of these computers are connected, and together they act as a supercomputer. The LHC's Grid is considered the most powerful supercomputer ever built. The computers share processing power and data storage space. 
The Grid is very powerful, but it is only able to take in about one percent of the data it receives from the detectors. Its limitations have motivated attempts at creating quantum computers, which could use what the LHC has taught us about quantum mechanics in order to make faster computers.
Scientists have recently used the LHC to find the Higgs boson. A boson is an elementary particle that carries force, as opposed to fermions which carry matter. The Higgs boson explains why particles have mass. For a long time, scientists could not explain why some particles had mass and others didn't. For example, photons don't have mass. The LHC's discovery of the Higgs boson proved the existence of the Higgs field. The Higgs field is an invisible field that exists everywhere in the universe. When particles pass through the field, they get mass. The Higgs boson is the last particle predicted to exist by the Standard Model. Its discovery helps scientists show that the Standard Model is right and show what the universe is made of. 
Some people think the LHC could create a black hole, which would be very dangerous. There are two reasons not to be worried. The first is that the LHC won't do anything that the cosmic rays that hit the Earth every day don't do, and these rays do not create black holes. The second reason is that even if the LHC did make black holes, they would be very tiny. The smaller a black hole is, the shorter its life. Very tiny black holes would die and turn into energy before they could hurt people.
The LHC was first used on September 10, 2008, but it did not work because a cooling system broke, which was important for the magnets that help to move the charged particles. This caused part of the facility to collapse. The winter shutdown meant that it was not used again until November 2009. While it was being repaired, scientists used the Tevatron to try and find the Higgs Boson. When the LHC was restarted in November 2009, it set a new speed record by accelerating protons to 1.18 TeV (teraelectronvolt, or trillion electronvolt). On March 30 2010, the LHC created a collison at 3.5 TeV.

</doc>
<doc id="129325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129325" title="Self-Monitoring, Analysis and Reporting Technology">
Self-Monitoring, Analysis and Reporting Technology

Self-Monitoring, Analysis, and Reporting Technology, or S.M.A.R.T. is a system to watch computer hard disks to help stop the risk of failures. It does this by watching of the hard disks to try and see when a failure might happen and where.
Hard drive failures fall into two categories:
Predictable failures can be detected by certain monitoring devices. This is like a thermometer in a vehicle that can alert the driver to do something before serious damage occurs, for example because the engine is too hot.
About 60% of all drive failures are caused by failing mechanics. Most mechanical failures result from gradual wear. An eventual failure may be catastrophic. Before complete failure occurs, there are usually certain signs that failure is imminent. These may include increased heat output, a more noisy drive, problems with reading or writing data and a big increase in the number of damaged disk sectors.
The purpose of S.M.A.R.T. is to warn a user or system administrator that a drive is about to fail. At the time of the warning, there is usually still time to do certain things to prevent data loss, for example copying the data to a different drive. Approximately 30% of failures can be predicted by S.M.A.R.T. Work at Google on over 100,000 drives has shown little overall predictive value of S.M.A.R.T. status as a whole. The study suggests that certain sub-categories of information which some S.M.A.R.T. implementations track "do" correlate with actual failure rates. In the 60 days after the first scan error on a drive, the drive is 39 times more likely to fail on average than it would have been had no such error occurred. Also, first errors in reallocations, offline reallocations and probational counts are strongly correlated to higher probabilities of failure.
PCTechGuide's page on S.M.A.R.T. commented in 2003 that the technology had gone through three phases: 
The industry's first hard disk monitoring technology was introduced by IBM in 1992 in their IBM 9337 Disk Arrays for AS/400 servers using IBM 0662 SCSI-2 disk drives. Later it was named Predictive Failure Analysis (PFA) technology. It was measuring several key device health parameters and evaluating them within the drive firmware. Communications between the physical unit and the monitoring software were limited to a binary result – namely, either "device is OK" or "drive is likely to fail soon".
Later, another variant, which was named IntelliSafe, was created by computer manufacturer Compaq and disk drive manufacturers Seagate, Quantum, and Conner. The disk drives would measure the disk’s "health parameters", and the values would be transferred to the operating system and user-space monitoring software. Each disk drive vendor was free to decide which parameters were to be included for monitoring, and what their thresholds should be. The unification was at the protocol level with the host.
Compaq submitted their implementation to Small Form Committee for standardization in early 1995. It was supported by IBM, by Compaq's development partners Seagate, Quantum, and Conner, and by Western Digital, who did not have a failure prediction system at the time. The Committee chose IntelliSafe's approach, as it provided more flexibility. The resulting jointly developed standard was named S.M.A.R.T.
The technical documentation for SMART is in the AT Attachment (ATA) standard.
The most basic information that SMART provides is the SMART status. It provides only two values: "threshold not exceeded" and "threshold exceeded". Often these are represented as "drive OK" or "drive fail" respectively. A "threshold exceeded" value is intended to indicate that there is a relatively high probability that the drive will not be able to honour its specification in the future – that is, the drive is "about to fail". The predicted failure may be catastrophic or may be something as subtle as the inability to write to certain sectors, or perhaps slower performance than the manufacturer's declared minimum.
The SMART status does not necessarily indicate the drive's past or present reliability. If a drive has already failed catastrophically, the SMART status may be inaccessible. Alternatively, if a drive has experienced problems in the past, but the sensors no longer detect such problems, the SMART status may, depending on the manufacturer's programming, suggest that the drive is now sound.
The inability to "read" some sectors is not always an indication that a drive is about to fail. One way that unreadable sectors may be created, even when the drive is functioning within specification, is through a sudden power failure while the drive is writing. In order to prevent this problem, modern hard drives will always finish writing at least the current sector immediately after the power fails (typically using rotational energy from the disk). Also, even if the physical disk is damaged at one location, such that a certain sector is unreadable, the disk may be able to use spare space to replace the bad area, so that the sector can be overwritten.
More detail on the health of the drive may be obtained by examining the SMART Attributes. SMART Attributes were included in some drafts of the ATA standard, but were removed before the standard became final. The meaning and interpretation of the attributes varies between manufacturers, and are sometimes considered a trade secret for one manufacturer or another. Attributes are further discussed below.
Drives with SMART may optionally support a number of 'logs'. The "error log" records information about the most recent errors that the drive has reported back to the host computer. Examining this log may help one to determine whether computer problems are disk-related or caused by something else.
A drive supporting SMART may optionally support a number of self-test or maintenance routines, and the results of the tests are kept in the "self-test log". The self-test routines may be used to detect any unreadable sectors on the disk, so that they may be restored from back-up sources (for example, from other disks in a RAID). This helps to reduce the risk of incurring permanent loss of data.
Many motherboards will display a warning message when a disk drive is approaching failure. Although an industry standard among most major hard drive manufacturers, there are some remaining issues and much proprietary "secret knowledge" held by individual manufacturers as to their specific approach.
From a legal perspective, the term "S.M.A.R.T." refers only to a signalling method between internal disk drive electromechanical sensors and the host computer. Hence, a drive may be claimed by its manufacturers to include S.M.A.R.T. support even if it does not include, say, a temperature sensor, which the customer might reasonably expect to be present. Moreover, in the most extreme case, a disk manufacturer could, in theory, produce a drive which includes a sensor for just "one" physical attribute, and then legally advertise the product as "S.M.A.R.T. compatible".
Depending on the type of interface being used, some S.M.A.R.T.-enabled motherboards and related software may not communicate with certain S.M.A.R.T.-capable drives. For example, few external drives connected via USB and Firewire correctly send S.M.A.R.T. data over those interfaces. With so many ways to connect a hard drive (SCSI, Fibre Channel, ATA, SATA, SAS, SSA, and so on), it is difficult to predict whether S.M.A.R.T. reports will function correctly in a given system.
Even on hard drives and interfaces that support it, S.M.A.R.T. information may not be reported correctly to the computer's operating system. Some disk controllers can duplicate all write operations on a secondary "back-up" drive in real time. This feature is known as "RAID mirroring". However, many programs which are designed to analyze changes in drive behaviour and relay S.M.A.R.T. alerts to the operator do not function properly when a computer system is configured for RAID support. Generally this is because, under normal RAID operational conditions, the computer is not permitted by the RAID subsystem to 'see' (or directly access) individual physical drives, but may access only logical volumes instead.
On the Windows platform, many programs designed to monitor and report S.M.A.R.T. information will function only under an administrator account. At present, S.M.A.R.T. is implemented individually by manufacturers, and while some aspects are standardized for compatibility, others are not.
Each drive manufacturer defines a set of attributes, and sets threshold values beyond which attributes should not pass under normal operation. Each attribute has a "raw value", whose meaning is entirely up to the drive manufacturer (but often corresponds to counts or a physical unit, such degrees Celsius or seconds), and a normalized value, which ranges from 1 to 253 (with 1 representing the worst case and 253 representing the best). Depending on the manufacturer, a value of 100 or 200 will often be chosen as the "normal" value.
Manufacturers that have supported at least one S.M.A.R.T. attribute in various products include: Samsung, Seagate, IBM (Hitachi), Fujitsu, Maxtor, Toshiba, Western Digital and ExcelStor Technology.
Threshold Exceeds Condition (TEC) is a supposed date when a critical drive statistic attribute will reach its threshold value. When Drive Health software reports a "Nearest T.E.C.", it should be regarded as a "Failure date".
Prognosis of this date is based on the factor "Speed of attribute change"; how many points each month the value is decreasing/increasing. This factor is calculated automatically at any change of S.M.A.R.T. attributes for each attribute individually. Note that TEC dates are not guarantees; hard drives can and will either last much longer or fail much sooner than the date given by a TEC.

</doc>
<doc id="129326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129326" title="Uncomplicated Firewall">
Uncomplicated Firewall

Uncomplicated Firewall is a firewall for host-based iptables firewall configuration.
A graphical user interface exists, called "GUI for Uncomplicated Firewall"

</doc>
<doc id="129328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129328" title="Good Morning (song)">
Good Morning (song)

"Good Morning" is a single on Kanye West's 3rd studio album "Graduation". The song was released in late August 2007 on iTunes. "Good Morning" is the 1st track on the album. It has samples of "Someone Saved My Life Tonight" as sung by Elton John. Additional vocals were provided by Connie Mitchell, Tony "Penafire" Williams, and Jay-Z.

</doc>
<doc id="129330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129330" title="Loupfougères">
Loupfougères

Loupfougères is a commune of 368 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129332" title="Louverné">
Louverné

Louverné is a commune of 3 538 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129333" title="Louvigné">
Louvigné

Louvigné is a commune of 774 people (2007). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129334" title="Madré">
Madré

Madré is a commune of 356 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129335" title="Maisoncelles-du-Maine">
Maisoncelles-du-Maine

Maisoncelles-du-Maine is a commune of 400 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129336" title="Marcillé-la-Ville">
Marcillé-la-Ville

Marcillé-la-Ville is a commune of 740 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129337" title="Marigné-Peuton">
Marigné-Peuton

Marigné-Peuton is a commune of 487 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129338" title="Martigné-sur-Mayenne">
Martigné-sur-Mayenne

Martigné-sur-Mayenne is a commune of 1 309 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129339" title="Mée, Mayenne">
Mée, Mayenne

Mée is a commune of 171 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129340" title="Ménil">
Ménil

Ménil is a commune of 785 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129341" title="Méral">
Méral

Méral is a commune of 913 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129342" title="Meslay-du-Maine">
Meslay-du-Maine

Meslay-du-Maine is a commune of 2 616 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129344" title="Mézangers">
Mézangers

Mézangers is a commune of 700 people (3 March 2005). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129345" title="Montaudin">
Montaudin

Montaudin is a commune of 914 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129346" title="Montenay">
Montenay

Montenay is a commune of 1 399 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129347" title="Montflours">
Montflours

Montflours is a commune of 204 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129348" title="Montigné-le-Brillant">
Montigné-le-Brillant

Montigné-le-Brillant is a commune of 1 234 people (2007). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129350" title="Montjean, Mayenne">
Montjean, Mayenne

Montjean is a commune of 797 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129351" title="Montourtier">
Montourtier

Montourtier is a commune of 326 people (2009). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129352" title="Montreuil-Poulay">
Montreuil-Poulay

Montreuil-Poulay is a commune of 414 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129353" title="Montsûrs">
Montsûrs

Montsûrs is a commune of 2 020 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129354" title="Moulay">
Moulay

Moulay is a commune of 907 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129355" title="Neau">
Neau

Neau is a commune of 712 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129356" title="Neuilly-le-Vendin">
Neuilly-le-Vendin

Neuilly-le-Vendin is a commune of 426 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129357" title="Niafles">
Niafles

Niafles is a commune of 287 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129358" title="Nuillé-sur-Vicoin">
Nuillé-sur-Vicoin

Nuillé-sur-Vicoin is a commune of 1 184 people (2007). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129359" title="Oisseau">
Oisseau

Oisseau is a commune of 1 101 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129360" title="Olivet, Mayenne">
Olivet, Mayenne

Olivet is a commune of 381 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129361" title="Origné">
Origné

Origné is a commune of 278 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129362" title="La Pallu">
La Pallu

La Pallu is a commune of 160 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire of the Mayenne department, in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129363" title="Predictive Failure Analysis">
Predictive Failure Analysis

Predicive failure analysis is a technology developed by IBM to monitor the likelihood of a hard disk failure. Today, it is part of S.M.A.R.T.

</doc>
<doc id="129367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129367" title="Parallel ATA">
Parallel ATA

Parallel ATA is a way to connect storage devices, such as Hard disks, solid-state drives, and CD-ROM drives inside personal computers. The standard is maintained by X3/INCITS committee T13. 
It used to be called Advanced Technology Attachment with Packet Interface (ATA/ATAPI). ATA/ATAPI is the result of a long history of development. It is an evolution of the AT Attachment Interface, which was itself evolved in several stages from Western Digital's original Integrated Drive Electronics interface. As a result, many near-synonyms for ATA/ATAPI and its previous incarnations exist, including abbreviations such as IDE which are still in common informal use. With the market introduction of Serial ATA in 2003, the original ATA was retroactively renamed Parallel ATA (PATA).
Parallel ATA standards allow cable lengths up to only 18 inches (46 centimeters). Because of this length limit the technology normally appears as an internal computer storage interface. 
For many years ATA provided the most common and the least expensive interface for this application. 
As of 2007, it has largely been replaced by Serial ATA (SATA) in new systems.

</doc>
<doc id="129370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129370" title="Serial Attached SCSI">
Serial Attached SCSI

Serial Attached SCSI (SAS) is a technology designed to move data to and from computer storage devices such as hard drives and tape drives. It is a point-to-point serial protocol that replaces the parallel SCSI. SCSI first appeared in the mid 1980s in corporate data centers. SAS uses the standard SCSI command set. At present it is slightly slower than the final parallel SCSI implementation, but in 2009 it will double its present speed to 6 Gbit/s. This will permit much higher speed data transfers. The protocol is "downwards"-compatible with second generation SATA drives. These drives may be connected to SAS backplanes (controllers), but SAS drives can not be connected to SATA backplanes. 
The SAS protocol is developed and maintained by the T10 technical committee of the International Committee for Information Technology Standards (INCITS) and promoted by the SCSI Trade Association (SCSITA).
The SAS connector is much smaller than traditional parallel SCSI connectors allowing for the small drives. SAS supports point data transfer speeds up to 3 Gbit/s, but is expected to reach 12 Gbit/s by the year 2012. 
The physical SAS connector is available in several different variants:

</doc>
<doc id="129371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129371" title="All the Greatest Hits">
All the Greatest Hits

All the Greatest Hits is an album from the band McFly. They released it on November 5, 2007 and it features all of McFly's UK singles. The album also includes 3 new songs: "The Heart Never Lies", "The Way You Make Me Feel" and "Don't Wake Me Up". 

</doc>
<doc id="129372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129372" title="The Judas Kiss">
The Judas Kiss

"The Judas Kiss" is the fourth single off the album by rock band Metallica off their ninth studio album "Death Magnetic". 

</doc>
<doc id="129373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129373" title="Death Magnetic">
Death Magnetic

Death Magnetic is the ninth studio album by heavy metal band Metallica. The album was released September 12, 2008 with the hits "The Day That Never Comes", "Cyanide", "My Apocalypse", "The Unforgiven III", and "The Judas Kiss". 
"Death Magnetic" was nominated for four Grammy awards. Rick Rubin won "Producer of the Year, Non-Classical" for his work on "Death Magnetic", as well as other albums this past year. 
The album won two Grammys for "Best Metal Performance" and "Best Recording Package" at the 51st Grammy Awards on February 8, 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="129377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129377" title="Tagged Command Queuing">
Tagged Command Queuing

Tagged Command Queueing (TCQ) is a technology that allows to send multiple read and write requests to a hard drive simultaneously. ATA TCQ is not identical in function to the more efficient Native Command Queuing (NCQ) used by SATA drives. SCSI TCQ does not suffer from the same limitations as ATA TCQ.
Before TCQ, an operating system was only able to send one request at a time. In order to boost performance, it had to decide the order of the requests based on its own, possibly incorrect, idea of what the hard drive was doing. With TCQ, the drive can make its own decisions about how to order the requests (and in turn relieve the operating system from having to do so). The result is that TCQ can improve the overall performance of a hard drive if it is implemented correctly.
For efficiency the sectors should be serviced in order of proximity to the current head position, rather than in the order received. The queue is constantly receiving new requests and fulfilling and removing existing requests, and re-ordering the queue according to the current pending read/write requests and the changing position of the head. The exact reordering algorithm may depend upon the controller and the drive itself, but the host computer simply makes requests as needed, leaving the controller to handle the details.
This queuing mechanism is sometimes referred to as "elevator seeking", as the image of a modern elevator in a building servicing multiple calls and processing them to minimise travel illustrates the idea well.
If the buttons for floors 5, 2, and 4 are pressed in that order with the elevator starting on floor 1, an old elevator would go to the floors in the order requested. A modern elevator processes the requests to stop at floors in the logical order 2, 4, and 5, without unnecessary travel. Non-queueing disk drives service the requests in the order received, like an old elevator; queueing drives service requests in the most efficient order. This may improve performance slightly in a system used by a single user, but really comes into its own in a system with many users, making requests all over the disk surface.

</doc>
<doc id="129378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129378" title="Native Command Queuing">
Native Command Queuing

Native Command Queuing (NCQ) is a technology designed to increase performance of SATA hard disks on computers. It can do this under certain situations by allowing the individual hard disk to internally optimize the order in which it executes the read and write requests it received. This can reduce the amount of unnecessary drive head movement and resulting in better performance (and slightly decreased wear of the drive) for workloads where multiple read/write requests are outstanding at the same time. This situation most often occurs in server-type applications. However, the current (as of 2004) technology actually slows down HD access in certain applications, like games and sequential reads and writes, because of the added latency induced by NCQ logic.
Native Command Queuing was preceded by Parallel ATA's version of Tagged Command Queuing (TCQ). ATA's attempt at integrating TCQ was constrained by the requirement that ATA host bus adapters use ISA bus device protocols to interact with the operating system. The resulting high CPU overhead and negligible performance gain contributed to a lack of market acceptance for TCQ. 
NCQ differs from PATA TCQ in that the command re-ordering is performed by the drive rather than the operating system, and each command is equal in importance. This is preferable since the drive has the most knowledge of its performance characteristics, and is able to take rotational position into account. NCQ and PATA TCQ have a maximum queue length of 32 in-flight commands (31 in practice), while SCSI TCQ has a maximum queue length of 2 in-flight commands.
For NCQ to be enabled, it must be supported and enabled in the SATA host bus adapter and in the hard drive itself. The appropriate device driver must be loaded into the operating system to enable NCQ on the host bus adapter. Many newer chipsets support the Advanced Host Controller Interface (AHCI), which should allow a generic driver supplied by the operating system to control them and enable NCQ. In fact, newer mainstream Linux kernels support AHCI natively. Unfortunately, Windows XP requires the installation of a vendor-specific driver even if AHCI is present on the host bus adapter. Windows Vista corrects this situation by including a generic AHCI driver.

</doc>
<doc id="129379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129379" title="Serial Storage Architecture">
Serial Storage Architecture

Serial Storage Architecture is a technology used to attach hard disks to Servers. It was developed by IBM in the 1990s. IBM produced a number of drives with this standard, but today, it has been largely replaced by the Fibre Channel architecture.

</doc>
<doc id="129380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129380" title="Fibre Channel">
Fibre Channel

Fibre Channel, or FC is an architecture (and a set of protocols to attach disk drives to computers, like in a Storage Area Network. Networks today are done with 4 GBit/s and 8 GBit/s over fiberglass cables. This is enough to support data transfer rates of up to 800 MBit/s. Fibrechannel permits connecting the same disk subsystem to several computers.
Basically, there are two "topologies" (ways to do this):

</doc>
<doc id="129382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129382" title="Parigné-sur-Braye">
Parigné-sur-Braye

Parigné-sur-Braye is a commune of 624 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129383" title="Parné-sur-Roc">
Parné-sur-Roc

Parné-sur-Roc is a commune of 1 157 people (2007). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129384" title="Le Pas">
Le Pas

Le Pas is a commune of 515 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129385" title="La Pellerine, Mayenne">
La Pellerine, Mayenne

La Pellerine is a commune of 291 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129386" title="Peuton">
Peuton

Peuton is a commune of 211 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129388" title="Placé">
Placé

Placé is a commune of 326 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129389" title="Pommerieux">
Pommerieux

Pommerieux is a commune of 589 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129390" title="Pontmain">
Pontmain

Pontmain is a commune of 893 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129391" title="Port-Brillet">
Port-Brillet

Port-Brillet is a commune of 1 814 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129392" title="Préaux, Mayenne">
Préaux, Mayenne

Préaux is a commune of 156 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129393" title="Pré-en-Pail">
Pré-en-Pail

Pré-en-Pail is a commune of 2 128 people (2004). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129394" title="Quelaines-Saint-Gault">
Quelaines-Saint-Gault

Quelaines-Saint-Gault is a commune of 1,739 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129395" title="Ravigny">
Ravigny

Ravigny is a commune of 198 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129396" title="Renazé">
Renazé

Renazé is a commune of 2 791 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129397" title="Rennes-en-Grenouilles">
Rennes-en-Grenouilles

Rennes-en-Grenouilles is a commune of 105 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129398" title="Le Ribay">
Le Ribay

Le Ribay is a commune of 473 people (2005). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129399" title="La Roë">
La Roë

La Roë is a commune of 241 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129400" title="La Rouaudière">
La Rouaudière

La Rouaudière is a commune of 333 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129401" title="Ruillé-Froid-Fonds">
Ruillé-Froid-Fonds

Ruillé-Froid-Fonds is a commune of 496 people (2005). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129402" title="Ruillé-le-Gravelais">
Ruillé-le-Gravelais

Ruillé-le-Gravelais is a commune of 619 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129403" title="Sacé">
Sacé

Sacé is a commune of 320 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129404" title="Saint-Aignan-de-Couptrain">
Saint-Aignan-de-Couptrain

Saint-Aignan-de-Couptrain is a commune of 360 people as of 1999. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129406" title="Saint-Aignan-sur-Roë">
Saint-Aignan-sur-Roë

Saint-Aignan-sur-Roë is a commune of 926 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129407" title="Saint-Aubin-du-Désert">
Saint-Aubin-du-Désert

Saint-Aubin-du-Désert is a commune of 236 people (number of people measured in 1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129408" title="Saint-Aubin-Fosse-Louvain">
Saint-Aubin-Fosse-Louvain

Saint-Aubin-Fosse-Louvain is a commune of 252 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129409" title="Saint-Baudelle">
Saint-Baudelle

Saint-Baudelle is a commune of 1 005 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129410" title="Saint-Berthevin">
Saint-Berthevin

Saint-Berthevin is a commune of 6 909 people (2007). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129411" title="Saint-Berthevin-la-Tannière">
Saint-Berthevin-la-Tannière

Saint-Berthevin-la-Tannière is a commune of 384 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129412" title="Saint-Brice, Mayenne">
Saint-Brice, Mayenne

Saint-Brice is a commune of 487 people (2004). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129413" title="Saint-Calais-du-Désert">
Saint-Calais-du-Désert

Saint-Calais-du-Désert is a commune of 318 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129414" title="Saint-Céneré">
Saint-Céneré

Saint-Céneré is a commune of 459 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129415" title="Saint-Charles-la-Forêt">
Saint-Charles-la-Forêt

Saint-Charles-la-Forêt is a commune of 190 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129417" title="Saint-Christophe-du-Luat">
Saint-Christophe-du-Luat

Saint-Christophe-du-Luat is a commune of 553 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129418" title="Saint-Cyr-en-Pail">
Saint-Cyr-en-Pail

Saint-Cyr-en-Pail is a commune of 441 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129419" title="Saint-Cyr-le-Gravelais">
Saint-Cyr-le-Gravelais

Saint-Cyr-le-Gravelais is a commune of 474 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129420" title="Saint-Denis-d'Anjou">
Saint-Denis-d'Anjou

Saint-Denis-d'Anjou is a commune of 1 337 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129421" title="Saint-Denis-de-Gastines">
Saint-Denis-de-Gastines

Saint-Denis-de-Gastines is a commune of 1 683 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129422" title="Saint-Denis-du-Maine">
Saint-Denis-du-Maine

Saint-Denis-du-Maine is a commune of 307 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129423" title="Sainte-Gemmes-le-Robert">
Sainte-Gemmes-le-Robert

Sainte-Gemmes-le-Robert is a commune of 930 people (2004). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129424" title="Saint-Ellier-du-Maine">
Saint-Ellier-du-Maine

Saint-Ellier-du-Maine is a commune of 465 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129425" title="Sainte-Marie-du-Bois, Mayenne">
Sainte-Marie-du-Bois, Mayenne

Sainte-Marie-du-Bois is a commune of 210 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129426" title="Saint-Erblon, Mayenne">
Saint-Erblon, Mayenne

Saint-Erblon is a commune of 166 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129427" title="Sainte-Suzanne, Mayenne">
Sainte-Suzanne, Mayenne

Sainte-Suzanne is a commune of 1 020 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129428" title="Saint-Fort">
Saint-Fort

Saint-Fort is a commune of 1 571 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129429" title="Saint-Fraimbault-de-Prières">
Saint-Fraimbault-de-Prières

Saint-Fraimbault-de-Prières is a commune of 904 people (1999). It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129430" title="Saint-Georges-Buttavent">
Saint-Georges-Buttavent

Saint-Georges-Buttavent is a commune of 1 391 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129431" title="Saint-Georges-le-Fléchard">
Saint-Georges-le-Fléchard

Saint-Georges-le-Fléchard is a commune of 288 people (2005). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129432" title="Saint-Georges-sur-Erve">
Saint-Georges-sur-Erve

Saint-Georges-sur-Erve is a commune of 342 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129433" title="Saint-Germain-d'Anxure">
Saint-Germain-d'Anxure

Saint-Germain-d'Anxure is a commune of 274 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129434" title="Saint-Germain-de-Coulamer">
Saint-Germain-de-Coulamer

Saint-Germain-de-Coulamer is a commune of 393 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129435" title="Saint-Germain-le-Fouilloux">
Saint-Germain-le-Fouilloux

Saint-Germain-le-Fouilloux is a commune of 670 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129436" title="Saint-Germain-le-Guillaume">
Saint-Germain-le-Guillaume

Saint-Germain-le-Guillaume is a commune of 410 people (2007). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129437" title="Saint-Hilaire-du-Maine">
Saint-Hilaire-du-Maine

Saint-Hilaire-du-Maine is a commune of 664 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129438" title="Saint-Jean-sur-Erve">
Saint-Jean-sur-Erve

Saint-Jean-sur-Erve is a commune of 489 people (2007). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129439" title="Saint-Jean-sur-Mayenne">
Saint-Jean-sur-Mayenne

Saint-Jean-sur-Mayenne is a commune of 1 196 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129440" title="Saint-Julien-du-Terroux">
Saint-Julien-du-Terroux

Saint-Julien-du-Terroux is a commune of 232 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129441" title="Saint-Laurent-des-Mortiers">
Saint-Laurent-des-Mortiers

Saint-Laurent-des-Mortiers is a commune of 188 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129442" title="Saint-Léger, Mayenne">
Saint-Léger, Mayenne

Saint-Léger is a commune of 231 people (2004). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129443" title="Saint-Loup-du-Dorat">
Saint-Loup-du-Dorat

Saint-Loup-du-Dorat is a commune of 335 people (2004). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129444" title="Saint-Loup-du-Gast">
Saint-Loup-du-Gast

Saint-Loup-du-Gast is a commune of 305 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129445" title="Saint-Mars-du-Désert, Mayenne">
Saint-Mars-du-Désert, Mayenne

Saint-Mars-du-Désert is a commune of 169 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129446" title="Saint-Mars-sur-Colmont">
Saint-Mars-sur-Colmont

Saint-Mars-sur-Colmont is a commune of 435 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129447" title="Saint-Mars-sur-la-Futaie">
Saint-Mars-sur-la-Futaie

Saint-Mars-sur-la-Futaie is a commune of 623 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129448" title="Saint-Martin-de-Connée">
Saint-Martin-de-Connée

Saint-Martin-de-Connée is a commune of 420 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129449" title="Saint-Martin-du-Limet">
Saint-Martin-du-Limet

Saint-Martin-du-Limet is a commune of 493 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129450" title="Saint-Michel-de-Feins">
Saint-Michel-de-Feins

Saint-Michel-de-Feins is a commune of 136 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129451" title="Saint-Michel-de-la-Roë">
Saint-Michel-de-la-Roë

Saint-Michel-de-la-Roë is a commune of 210 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129452" title="Saint-Ouën-des-Toits">
Saint-Ouën-des-Toits

Saint-Ouën-des-Toits is a commune of 1 435 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129453" title="Saint-Ouën-des-Vallons">
Saint-Ouën-des-Vallons

Saint-Ouën-des-Vallons is a commune of 174 people (1999). It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129454" title="Saint-Pierre-des-Landes">
Saint-Pierre-des-Landes

Saint-Pierre-des-Landes is a commune of 946 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129455" title="Saint-Pierre-des-Nids">
Saint-Pierre-des-Nids

Saint-Pierre-des-Nids is a commune of 1 712 people (1999). It is to be found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129456" title="Saint-Pierre-la-Cour">
Saint-Pierre-la-Cour

Saint-Pierre-la-Cour is a commune of 1,838 people (2007). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129457" title="Saint-Pierre-sur-Erve">
Saint-Pierre-sur-Erve

Saint-Pierre-sur-Erve is a commune of 138 people (2005). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129458" title="Saint-Pierre-sur-Orthe">
Saint-Pierre-sur-Orthe

Saint-Pierre-sur-Orthe is a commune of 531 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129459" title="Saint-Poix">
Saint-Poix

Saint-Poix is a commune of 393 people (2007). It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129460" title="Saint-Quentin-les-Anges">
Saint-Quentin-les-Anges

Saint-Quentin-les-Anges is a commune of 376 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129461" title="Saint-Samson, Mayenne">
Saint-Samson, Mayenne

Saint-Samson is a commune of 334 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129462" title="Saint-Saturnin-du-Limet">
Saint-Saturnin-du-Limet

Saint-Saturnin-du-Limet is a commune of 546 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129463" title="Saint-Sulpice, Mayenne">
Saint-Sulpice, Mayenne

Saint-Sulpice is a commune of 188 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129464" title="Saint-Thomas-de-Courceriers">
Saint-Thomas-de-Courceriers

Saint-Thomas-de-Courceriers is a commune of 246 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129466" title="Saulges">
Saulges

Saulges is a commune of 328 people (2005). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France. In Saulges, there is also a prehistoric canyon which is 1.8 million years old and 20 different prehistoric caves.

</doc>
<doc id="129467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129467" title="La Selle-Craonnaise">
La Selle-Craonnaise

La Selle-Craonnaise is a commune of 882 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129468" title="Senonnes">
Senonnes

Senonnes is a commune of 325 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129469" title="Simplé">
Simplé

Simplé is a commune of 256 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129470" title="Soucé">
Soucé

Soucé is a commune of 180 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129471" title="Soulgé-sur-Ouette">
Soulgé-sur-Ouette

Soulgé-sur-Ouette is a commune of 1 073 people (2007). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129472" title="Thorigné-en-Charnie">
Thorigné-en-Charnie

Thorigné-en-Charnie is a commune of 162 people (2004). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129473" title="Thubœuf">
Thubœuf

Thubœuf is a commune of 231 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129474" title="Torcé-Viviers-en-Charnie">
Torcé-Viviers-en-Charnie

Torcé-Viviers-en-Charnie is a commune of 737 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129475" title="Trans, Mayenne">
Trans, Mayenne

Trans is a commune of 238 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129476" title="Vaiges">
Vaiges

Vaiges is a commune of 1 151 people (2005). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129477" title="Vautorte">
Vautorte

Vautorte is a commune of 573 people (1999). It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129478" title="Vieuvy">
Vieuvy

Vieuvy is a commune of 115 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129479" title="Villaines-la-Juhel">
Villaines-la-Juhel

Villaines-la-Juhel is a commune of 3,179 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129480" title="Villepail">
Villepail

Villepail is a commune of 205 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129481" title="Villiers-Charlemagne">
Villiers-Charlemagne

Villiers-Charlemagne is a commune of 959 people (2004). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129482" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129482" title="Vimarcé">
Vimarcé

Vimarcé is a commune of 236 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129483" title="Voutré">
Voutré

Voutré is a commune of 821 people (1999). It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Mayenne department in the northwest of France.

</doc>
<doc id="129484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129484" title="Walt Walsh">
Walt Walsh

Walter William Walsh (April 30, 1897 to January 15, 1966) was a Major League Baseball player. Walsh only played two games, never getting an at-bat for the Philadelphia Phillies in 1920. He was used as a pinch runner in the two games he played. Walsh was born in Newark, New Jersey and died in Avon-by-the-Sea, New Jersey

</doc>
<doc id="129507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129507" title="Middle Franconia">
Middle Franconia

Middle Franconia is a government region of the Free State Bavaria. The seat of government is Ansbach. In the area of this region are the cities Nuremberg, Fürth, Erlangen.

</doc>
<doc id="129514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129514" title="Orne">
Orne

The Orne (61) is a department in France. It is in the Normandy region. Its prefecture is Alençon and its sub-prefectures are Argentan and Mortagne-au-Perche. The department's name comes from the river Orne which flows through it.
The Orne was one of the original 83 departments created in 1790.
The department borders several other departments:
There is also a 105,000 ha forest called forêt des Andaines (Andaines Forest).
The Orne is famous for its:
It is also known to be famous for its trotting horses.
"(A château is a castle in French)"

</doc>
<doc id="129515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129515" title="Carly Colón">
Carly Colón

Carlos Edwin "Carly" Colón, Jr. (born on February 21 1979) is a Puerto Rican professional wrestler better known internationally by his ring name Carlito. He was best known for his time that he spent with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) where he won the Intercontinental Championship, the United States Championship and the World Tag Team Championship and WWE Tag Team Championship with his brother Primo. Colon was released by the WWE on 21 May 2010. Since then, he is wrestling on the independent circuit.
He is also a Canadian citizen since the new citizenship laws went into effect in Canada on April 18, 2009, which automatically gave him citizenship as well as citizenship (retroactive to date of birth) to all individuals born outside of Canada in the first generation born abroad to a Canadian parent (he was born in the first generation abroad – Puerto Rico – to a Canadian mother).

</doc>
<doc id="129533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129533" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Major world religions">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Major world religions

" has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"
"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Saturday, 20 September 2008 at 10:35 pm, although it may be closed quicker due to .<br><br>

</doc>
<doc id="129540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129540" title="NBA All-Star Game">
NBA All-Star Game

The NBA All-Star Game is an NBA game in which the best players in the Eastern Conference play with the best players in the Western Conference. The first game started on March 2, 1951 at the Boston Garden. The game is played differently than a normal basketball game but stick to normal NBA rules.

</doc>
<doc id="129541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129541" title="National Hockey League All-Star Game">
National Hockey League All-Star Game

The National Hockey League All-Star Game is an exhibition ice hockey game that traditionally marks the midway point of the National Hockey League's regular season.

</doc>
<doc id="129546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129546" title="Biblical manuscript">
Biblical manuscript

A Biblical manuscript is any handwritten copy of a portion of the text of the Bible. They vary in size from tiny scrolls containing individual verses of the Jewish scriptures to huge polyglot codices containing both the Hebrew Bible (Tanakh) and the New Testament, as well as other works.
The Aleppo Codex ("c." 920 AD) and Leningrad Codex ("c." 1008 AD) were the oldest Hebrew language manuscripts of the Tanakh. The 1947 find at Qumran of the Dead Sea scrolls pushed the manuscript history of the Tanakh back a millennium from the two earliest complete codices. Before this discovery, the earliest extant manuscripts of the Old Testament were in Greek in manuscripts such as Codex Vaticanus and Codex Sinaiticus. Out of the roughly 800 manuscripts found at Qumran, 220 are from the Tanakh. Every book of the Tanakh is represented except for the Book of Esther; however, most are fragmentary. Notably, there are two scrolls of the Book of Isaiah, one complete (1QIs), and one around 75% complete (1QIs). These manuscripts generally date between 150 BC to 70 AD.
Ancient Jewish scribes developed many practices to protect copies of their scriptures from error.
Parts of the New Testament have been preserved in more manuscripts than any other ancient work. There are over 5,800 complete or fragmented Greek manuscripts, 10,000 Latin manuscripts and 9,300 manuscripts in various other ancient languages, such as Syriac, Slavic, Gothic, Ethiopic, Coptic and Armenian. 
The dates of these manuscripts range from about 125 AD (the Ryland manuscript, P; containing fragments of the oldest copy of John) to the introduction of printing in Germany in the 15th century. Most of these manuscripts date after the 10th century. Although there are more manuscripts that preserve the New Testament than there are for any other ancient writing, the text preserved in these later, numerous manuscripts may not be the same as the text as it existed in antiquity. 
Textual scholar Bart Ehrman wrote: 
In reference to the textual evidence for the New Testament, Bruce M. Metzger wrote, 
Every year, several New Testament manuscripts handwritten in the original Greek format are discovered. 

</doc>
<doc id="129547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129547" title="Districts of England">
Districts of England

The districts of England are a level of subdivisions of England used for the purposes of local government. The first local government districts were created in 1894 by the Local Government Act 1894 which created urban districts and rural districts as sub-divisions of counties (which had been created in 1889). Another reform in 1899 created 28 metropolitan boroughs as sub-divisions of the County of London.
There are 36 metropolitan districts, 32 London boroughs, 238 non-metropolitan districts, 46 unitary authorities, the Isles of Scilly, and the City of London, making a total of 354 district-level authorities.

</doc>
<doc id="129548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129548" title="Jug band">
Jug band

A jug band is a band that has a jug player and a variety of home-made instruments. These home-made instruments could be ordinary objects adapted to or created to make sound, like the washtub bass, washboard, spoons, stovepipe and comb & tissue paper (kazoo).

</doc>
<doc id="129559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129559" title="Steve Carell">
Steve Carell

Steven John "Steve" Carell (born August 16, 1962) is an American actor, producer, writer and comedian. Carell is best known for his comedic work in "The Office" and "The Daily Show". He played Andy Stitzer in "The 40-Year-Old Virgin", Gru in "Despicable Me" and "Despicable Me 2" and John Eleuthère du Pont in "Foxcatcher". He has appeared on "Saturday Night Live".

</doc>
<doc id="129562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129562" title="Qutb-ud-din Aibak">
Qutb-ud-din Aibak

Qutb-ud-din Aibak was a ruler of the Mamluk dynasty of the Delhi Sultanate. He was born to a Turkish family in Central Asia. He was sold as a slave in his childhood. But this went well because he was bought up by a Qazi of Nishapur. He was treated like one of the sons of this Qazi. But after a few years, his master died and the Sultan Mohammad Ghori bought him. He soon became one of the favourites of Sultan Mohammad. When Mohammad died in 1206, he became the Sultan in India. He spent part of his time at Delhi, but was very fond of the city of Lahore, in Punjab (now in Pakistan) and did much to beautify it. He died in 1210 due to a fall from a horse whilst playing Polo and was buried at Lahore. Qutubuddin Aibak, a ruler of medieval India, was the first ruler of the Delhi Sultanate and also the founder of the Slave dynasty. He was a Turkish of the Aybak tribe and was the sultan for only four years, 1206-1210. He was captured in his childhood and sold as a slave to the chief Qazi of Nishapur, a town situated in the northeastern Iran. He was very well treated by the Qazi and imparted good education, including training in archery and horsemanship in his childhood. However when the master died, his jealous sons sold Qutubuddin Aibak to a slave merchant. 
He was finally purchased by the ruler of Ghor in central Afghanistan, Sultan Muhammad Ghori. Qutubuddin Aibak gradually rose to the rank of a Commander and became one of the most trusted slave of Sultan Ghori. The conquests of northern India were executed mainly by Qutb-ud-din Aibak, which helped Ghori to consolidate his position there. Gradually, as Sultan Ghori concentrated on Central Asia after 1192, he was given the independent charge of the conquests in India. 
Muhammad Ghori established himself as strong ruler with his empire extending over Afghanistan, Pakistan, and northern India. Qutubuddin Aibak crowned himself the Sultan of Delhi in 1206, when Muhammad Ghori was killed on the battlefield. After his death, when Aibak came to the throne, he ruled over those places where he was appointed as the local receiver-general of Sultan Ghori. Despite the rebellions by nobles like Taj-ud-din Ildiz and Nasir-ud-din Qubachah, he strengthened the administrative system, which was established by Ghori. 
Though Qutb-ud-din Aibak started the construction of the Quwwat-ul-Islam mosque and the Qutub Minar, which were among the earliest Muslim monuments in Delhi, he could not complete them. This mosque was built by destroying the Hindu temple, which was built by Prithvi Raj, and certain parts of the temple were kept intact outside the mosque. These architectures were later completed by his successor Shamsuddin Iltutmish. 
In 1210, Qutb-ud-din Aibak died in an accident while he was playing polo. He fell from a horse and was severely injured. He was buried in Lahore near the Anarkali Bazaar. He was succeeded by Shamsuddin Iltutmish, another slave who rose to the level of a Sultan, thus extending the Slave/Mamluk Dynasty.He wasnt interested in expanding his territory instead wanted to settle problems in his present empire.

</doc>
<doc id="129563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129563" title="Muhammad of Ghor">
Muhammad of Ghor

Muhammad of Ghor was a governor and general under the Ghorid dynasty. He introduced Islam to India.

</doc>
<doc id="129566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129566" title="Vince Vaughn">
Vince Vaughn

Vincent Anthony "Vince" Vaughn (born March 28, 1970) is an American movie actor. 

</doc>
<doc id="129567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129567" title="Owen Wilson">
Owen Wilson

Owen Cunningham Wilson (born November 18, 1968) is an Academy Award-nominated American actor and screenwriter. 
Wilson was born in Dallas, to photographer Laura (Cunningham) Wilson and Robert Andrew Wilson. He has an older brother, Andrew, and a younger brother, Luke. Both brothers are also involved in movie making.
Wilson went to the University of Texas at Austin. He graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in English.
The Sheryl Crow album "C'mon C'mon" has the song "Safe and Sound". The liner notes say it is about Wilson and Crow's relationship.
On August 26, 2007, Wilson was taken to St. John's Health Center. It was reported as a suicide attempt. He was later moved to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. His lawyer later said that Wilson had depression. A few days later, Wilson withdrew from starring in "Tropic Thunder".
He dated Kate Hudson in 2006. The pair broke up. It was widely reported that he tried to commit suicide in 2007 after the relationship with Hudson ended. In 2008, it was reported the pair were to marry. However the two would again break up and make up a number of times over 2008 and 2009. 
On January 10, 2011, Wilson's representative said that Wilson and his girlfriend, Jade Duell, were expecting a baby. Just four days later, on January 14, it was Duell gave birth in Hawaii to a baby boy, Robert Ford Wilson.
Wilson is a fan of several Dallas-area professional sports teams. He has been spotted at Dallas Cowboys, Dallas Mavericks and Texas Rangers games. He is also a supporter of the English football team Chelsea F.C..
Wilson's bumped nose is because he broke it twice. Once was during a high school fight, and once playing football with friends.

</doc>
<doc id="129568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129568" title="Luke Wilson">
Luke Wilson

Luke Cunningham Wilson (born September 21, 1971) is an American movie actor.

</doc>
<doc id="129569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129569" title="Seth Rogen">
Seth Rogen

Seth Rogen (born April 15, 1982) is a Canadian actor, screenwriter, producer, director and comedian.
Rogen was born in Vancouver, British Columbia. His parents are Sandy Belogus and Mark Rogen.

</doc>
<doc id="129570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129570" title="John C. Reilly">
John C. Reilly

John Christopher Reilly (born May 24, 1965) is an Academy Award- and two-time Golden Globe-nominated American actor, comedian, singer and writer.

</doc>
<doc id="129571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129571" title="Rainn Wilson">
Rainn Wilson

Rainn Dietrich Wilson (born January 20, 1966) is an Emmy-nominated and Screen Actors Guild Award-winning American actor. He is known for his roles as the egomaniacal Dwight Schrute on the American television sitcom "The Office". 
Wilson follows the Bahá'í Faith, and has spoken publicly about other Bahá'ís who have been punished in Iran for being Bahá'ís. 

</doc>
<doc id="129573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129573" title="The Office (U.S. TV series)">
The Office (U.S. TV series)

The Office is an Emmy and Peabody Award-winning American television sitcom airing on National Broadcasting Company (NBC) and developed by Greg Daniels. It is an American adaptation of the BBC series with the same name. It is set in Scranton, Pennsylvania.

</doc>
<doc id="129574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129574" title="Kevin James">
Kevin James

Kevin James (born April 26, 1965) is an American comedian and Emmy Award-nominated actor. He is known for his portrayal of lead character Doug Heffernan on the television sitcom "The King Of Queens".

</doc>
<doc id="129575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129575" title="Mark Hamill">
Mark Hamill

Mark Richard Hamill (born September 25, 1951) is an American actor, voice actor, writer, producer, and director. Hamill is best known for his portrayal of Luke Skywalker in the original "Star Wars" trilogy (1977–1983), the "Star Wars" sequel trilogy (2015-2019), and for voicing The Joker in almost all animated Batman television series or animated movies.
Hamill has gained a reputation as a voice actor. He first did voice acting work in the early 1970s voicing the character Corey Anders on the Saturday morning cartoon "Jeannie" by Hanna-Barbera Productions. He later played Sean in the Ralph Bakshi film "Wizards", which was released just three months before "Star Wars" in 1977. In addition Hamill has also provided the voice for Fire Lord Ozai in , and Chanukah Zombie on Futurama.
Hamill is the co-writer of "The Black Pearl", a comic book miniseries published by Dark Horse Comics. He wrote an introduction to the Trade Paperback "Batman: Riddler Two-Face" which reprints various stories involving The Riddler and Two-Face to tie in with "Batman Forever". He has also written several stories for "Simpsons Comics", including "Catastrophe in Substitute Springfields!", which parodies DC's "Crisis on Infinite Earths" and also references several other classic comics.
Hamill directed and starred in the 2004 direct-to-DVD "". A comic book fan who attended science fiction and comic conventions before he became famous, Hamill stated that his character was based on an exaggerated version of himself. He and his crew shot most of the "mockumentary" film during the 2002 San Diego Comic-Con, and enlisted Stan Lee, Kevin Smith, Bruce Campbell and Hugh Hefner in small roles. The movie won an award for Best Live-Action DVD Premiere Movie at the 2005 DVD Exclusive Awards.
Hamill married dentist Marilou York in a private civil ceremony on December 17, 1978. They have three children together: Nathan (born September 25, 1979), Griffin (born March 4, 1983), and Chelsea Elizabeth (born July 27, 1988) On January 11, 1977, Hamill was in a car accident in which he fractured his nose and left cheekbone, requiring seven hours of surgery. According to Hamill in a recorded interview, he was driving his BMW on a freeway and became distracted, and seeing that he was missing his offramp, tried to negotiate four lanes of traffic (some real scars from the crash made an appearance in "The Empire Strikes Back").

</doc>
<doc id="129576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129576" title="List of cities in France">
List of cities in France

Listed are all the major cities in France (population 75,000+)

</doc>
<doc id="129577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129577" title="Whitey Wistert">
Whitey Wistert

Francis Michael "Whitey" Wistert (born February 20, 1912 in , died April 23, 1985 in ) was an American football and baseball player. He played college football for the University of Michigan Wolverines. He was added into the College Football Hall of Fame after he was elected to it in 1967. He and his two brothers are three of the seven players who have had their uniform numbers retired by Michigan Wolverines football. While at college, Wistert helped Michigan win the Big Ten Conference football championship in 1931, 1932, and 1933. He was also Big Ten Most Valuable Player in college baseball. He later played for the Cincinnati Reds of Major League Baseball.
Wistert graduated from Chicago's Schurz High School in 1929. He attended the University of Michigan where he was an athlete in both football and baseball in 1931, 1932, and 1933.
Wistert played for the Michigan Wolverines before his two brothers, Al Wistert and Alvin Wistert, did. All three Wistert brothers wore the number 11 for the Wolverines football team, and all three were members of the College Football All-America team, which is the best players through all of the United States. When interviewed by the "Detroit News" in 2004, brother Alvin Wistert said, "And if I'm not mistaken I think this is unprecedented in the of college football: that three brothers all would go to the same school, all played football. All played tackle, all wore the same number 11, all made All-American. Two of us played on four national championship teams. They all made it into the College Football Hall of Fame." 
The Wistert brothers grew up on the northwest side of Chicago and were the sons of a Lithuanian family. Their father was a Spanish-American War veteran, who later died while working for the Chicago Police Department. Brother Alvin Wistert said that their father, "was born Casmir Vistertus and he Anglicized it when he came to America to Wistert." 
The story of the Wistert brothers at Michigan began when Whitey's Carl Schurz High School school-mate John Kowalik was invited to visit the University of Michigan. At the time, Whitey Wistert "was working in a factory building "Majestic radios"." Kowalik took Whitey with him on his visit Ann Arbor, Michigan, and Alvin Wistert later said, "that's how it started: the Wisterts of Michigan."
As a football player, Wistert played for National Championship teams that never lost a game in 1932 and 1933 and was a chosen All-American in 1933. The 1934 University of Michigan yearbook, the "Michiganensian", had this to say by Grantland Rice: "Wistert was unanimously selected as the best tackle in the Middle-West this year. He was an important part of Michigan's defensive line play. He was a very good tackler and it was nearly impossible to fool him on trick plays. He was keen, quick, and accurate in finding out how a play would happen." Wistert and Chuck Bernard were the leaders of the 1933 offensive line when the team went 7-0-1 with a tie to the University of Minnesota Golden Gophers.
One of Wistert's teammates on the 1932 and 1933 Michigan football teams was Gerald Ford who later became the U.S. President. In an interview in the February 1974 copy of "Michigan Alumnus", Wistert said about Ford: "He was a real good competitor—a real bulldog type. Even during a losing year, he was voted team Most Valuable Player by his teammates, because they believed he was someone who could stay and fight even when they lose." In 1936, he was a member Michigan football coaching staff of Coach Harry Kipke.
Wistert earned varsity letters in baseball three years. He was chosen as the Most Valuable Player in the Big Ten Conference in 1934. The 1934 "Michiganensian" yearbook wrote that the final game of the baseball season was a 4–0 shutout by Wistert against the University of Chicago Maroon. It wrote, "Wistert, for the Wolves, allowed only five well- hits during the game. Although Whitey Wistert walked four men, he more than off-set this by striking out nine of the Maroons to face him." Wistert also allowed, as the pitcher, Ohio State four hits in a game.
Wistert, still being a minor league baseball player, played for a short while in Major League Baseball, playing in three games for the Cincinnati Reds between September 11, 1934 and September 25, 1934. In two times he pitched, Wistert let only one run in eight innings, for a career earned run average of 1.13. Though, in the three times he batted, he went did not hit the ball, so he struck out twice. Although he only played for a short while in Major League Baseball, Wistert played five years of professional baseball. Fellow 1933 Michigan Wolverines football All-American, Ted Petoskey also debuted for the Reds in September 1934.
Wistert became part of the College Football Hall of Fame in 1967, one year before his brother Albert did so. In 1981, he was named to the University of Michigan Hall of Honor in the fourth class of Hall of Fame joiners with his brothers. Only five other Michigan football players earned this honor before him.
Wistert became a New York lawyer after he retired from sports. He went on to become a vice president of an industrial relations in . He was United States Navy lieutenant in World War II.

</doc>
<doc id="129582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129582" title="Brest, France">
Brest, France

Brest is a town in France. It is in the Finistère department and the Brittany region. Its population in 1999 was around 150,000. Even if it is by far the largest town in Finistère it is not the prefecture (Quimper is).
Brest is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="129584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129584" title="St John's Innovation Centre">
St John's Innovation Centre

St John's Innovation Centre (SJIC) is a famous company which helps small companies to grow. It is in Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, England. It was started in 1987 in St John’s College, Cambridge, near the Cambridge Science Park. 

</doc>
<doc id="129588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129588" title="St John's College, Cambridge">
St John's College, Cambridge

St John's College is a college of the University of Cambridge. It was started by Lady Margaret Beaufort in 1511. It is geographically one of the largest colleges of the University of Cambridge, and the third largest in terms of its membership. It is the second richest of all the Oxbridge colleges. The college is also known for its famous choir.

</doc>
<doc id="129591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129591" title="Cambridge Science Park">
Cambridge Science Park

The Cambridge Science Park was started by Trinity College, Cambridge in 1970. It is the oldest science park in the United Kingdom. It has many science and technology related businesses, and has strong links with the nearby University of Cambridge.

</doc>
<doc id="129593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129593" title="Lauterpacht Centre for International Law">
Lauterpacht Centre for International Law

The Lauterpacht Centre for International Law (LCIL) at the Faculty of Law, Cambridge, England, was founded in 1985 by Sir Elihu Lauterpacht under the name The Research Centre for International Law. It was renamed in 1997 “to honour the achievements of his father Sir Hersch Lauterpacht and himself”. The purpose of the centre is to "promote international law by a combination of individual and group research”. The centre is currently directed by Professor James Crawford SC, FBA.

</doc>
<doc id="129595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129595" title="Hersch Lauterpacht">
Hersch Lauterpacht

Sir Hersch Lauterpacht (16 August 1897, Zółkiew, Poland – 8 May 1960) was a member of the United Nations' International Law Commission from 1952 to 1954 and a Judge of the International Court of Justice from 1955 to 1960. The Lauterpacht Centre for International Law at the University of Cambridge in the United Kingdom is named after him. His son Elihu Lauterpacht started the center and was its first director.

</doc>
<doc id="129596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129596" title="Painesville, Ohio">
Painesville, Ohio

Painesville is a city in Lake County, Ohio, United States, along the Grand River

</doc>
<doc id="129597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129597" title="College Football Hall of Fame">
College Football Hall of Fame

The College Football Hall of Fame is a hall of fame and museum devoted to college football. It located in downtown Atlanta, GA in the United States.
The people in the College Football Hall of Fame (also called Inductees) include:

</doc>
<doc id="129598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129598" title="Solid mechanics">
Solid mechanics

Solid mechanics is the branch of mechanics, physics, and mathematics that concerns itself with how solid matter under external actions works (such as external forces, temperature changes, applied displacements, etc.). It is part of a larger study known as continuum mechanics. One of the most common practical applications of solid mechanics is the Euler-Bernoulli beam equation.

</doc>
<doc id="129601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129601" title="Chicago Police Department">
Chicago Police Department

The Chicago Police Department, also known as the CPD, is the main law enforcement agency of the City of Chicago, Illinois, in the United States, under the jurisdiction of the city mayor. It is the largest police department in the Midwest and the second largest in the United States after the New York City Police Department with over 13,600 sworn officers and over 2,600 other employees. Dating back to 1837, the Chicago Police Department is one of the oldest modern police forces in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="129604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129604" title="Lady Margaret Beaufort">
Lady Margaret Beaufort

Lady Margaret Beaufort (May 31, 1443 – June 29, 1509), of the House of Lancaster, was the mother of King Henry VII of England, and grandmother of Henry VIII. She was an important figure in the Wars of the Roses. Lady Margaret Hall, a college of the University of Oxford, is named after her.

</doc>
<doc id="129605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129605" title="Chicago Tribune Silver Football">
Chicago Tribune Silver Football

The Chicago Tribune Silver Football is awarded by the "Chicago Tribune" to the college football player chosen to be the Most Valuable Player of the Big Ten Conference. 

</doc>
<doc id="129606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129606" title="Science park">
Science park

A science park is a property designed and used for supporting high tech, science, or research related businesses. Science parks are found all over the world, but they mostly exist in developed countries. Over 140 are found in North America alone. 

</doc>
<doc id="129609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129609" title="Oxbridge">
Oxbridge

Oxbridge is a word that is used to mean the University of Oxford and the University of Cambridge in England. It used to mean a fictional mix of the two universities, but now refers to both in real life. 
The word 'Oxbridge' started because the two universities are very similar:
The competition between Oxford and Cambridge also has a long history, dating back to the days when Cambridge was founded by unsatisfied scholars from Oxford.

</doc>
<doc id="129611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129611" title="Nîmes">
Nîmes

Nîmes is a commune. It is the prefecture of the Gard department in the Languedoc-Roussillon region. Nîmes dates back to Ancient Rome.
Nîmes was an important Roman town. Many sites have been discovered, including:
The town was supplied with water by the Pont du Gard.
Nîmes is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="129612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129612" title="Lieutenant">
Lieutenant

A Lieutenant is an officers rank in the military, police and fire departments. It is an entry level supervisory position. The word comes from the French language. Lieu means "place" and tenant means "holding". A lieutenant is someone who takes the place of a superior when that person is not available. It can also mean a deputy position to assist someone else to carry out their job. 
In many military organizations, a lieutenant is an entry level commissioned officer's rank. Generally, but not always, it is divided into two levels. 
A second lieutanant (2LT) (2ndLt) (2d Lt) (O1) is the lower rank of lieutanant. A second lieutenant is addressed as "lieutenant" the same as a first lieutenant. In the United States Army, for example, a second lieutenant leads a platoon made up of two or more squads or about 16 to 44 soldiers. In this capacity he or she functions as a platoon leader or commander. The length of time an officer can hold the rank of second lieutenant is different in different services. For example, in the British Army it may be held for up to 2 years.
A first lieutenant (1LT) (1stLt) (1st Lt) (O2) is the senior rank of lieutenant. A first lieutenant is also addressed as "lieutenant". In the army, a first lieutenant often functions as the executive officer of a Company (military unit). A company may have from 110 to 140 personnel. In the British Army, an officer may hold this rank for up to three years.
There is great variation in the insignia used worldwide. In most English-speaking and Arabic-speaking countries, as well as a number of European and South American nations, full lieutenants (and equivalents) usually wear two stars (pips) and second lieutenants (and equivalents) one. An example of an exception is the United States, whose armed forces distinguish their lieutenant ranks with one silver bar for first lieutenant and one gold (brass) bar for second lieutenant.
In many Navies including the United States Navy, a lieutenant is the equivalent rank to an army captain and a lieutenant (junior grade) is the same as an army first lieutenant. The equivalent to a second lieutenant is the naval rank of ensign.

</doc>
<doc id="129613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129613" title="Trinity College, Cambridge">
Trinity College, Cambridge

Trinity College is a college of the University of Cambridge in Cambridge, England. Trinity has more students than any other college in Cambridge or Oxford. It is also the wealthiest Oxbridge college. It owns the O2 Arena. It is one of the three royal colleges.
Trinity College was formed by King Henry VIII in 1564 when two colleges merged together. These two colleges were Michaelhouse, which had been formed by Hervey de Stanton in 1324, and King's Hall, which had been formed by King Edward II in 1317 and formed again in 1337 by King Edward III.
Two members of the British royal family and six British prime ministers have studied at Trinity College.
Of the 90 people from Cambridge who have won Nobel prizes, 32 were from Trinity College.
Famous people who have studied there include Isaac Newton (who went there in 1661) and Ludwig Wittgenstein.
The first time that the rules of association football were written down was at Trinity in 1848.
Trinity College's Wren Library is the biggest library at Cambridge. It has around 300,000 books and is open to the public.

</doc>
<doc id="129614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129614" title="Al Wistert">
Al Wistert

Albert Alexander "Ox" Wistert (December 28, 1920 – March 5, 2016) was a former All-Pro American football player. He played college football at the University of Michigan with the Wolverines. He was born in Chicago, Illinois.
He played in the National Football League for the Phil-Pitt Steagles in 1943 and the Philadelphia Eagles from 1944 to 1951. He is named on the Philadelphia Eagles Honor Roll. 
He has his college jersey #11 retired at the University of Michigan and his NFL jersey #70 retired by the Philadelphia Eagles. Outside of football he has become a successful life insurance salesman which he had for 40 years. He was married to his wife Ellie for 61 years before her death and he has three daughters and three grandchildren.
Wistert died on March 5, 2016 in Grants Pass, Oregon. He was aged 95.

</doc>
<doc id="129616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129616" title="Alvin Wistert">
Alvin Wistert

Alvin "Moose" Wistert (June 26 1916 – October 3 2005) was an American Football player.

</doc>
<doc id="129617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129617" title="The Detroit News">
The Detroit News

The Detroit News is one of the two major newspapers in the U.S. city of Detroit, Michigan.

</doc>
<doc id="129618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129618" title="John Kowalik">
John Kowalik


</doc>
<doc id="129620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129620" title="Veteran">
Veteran

A veteran (from Latin "vetus", meaning "old") is a person who has a long experience in something. The term is most often used to describe people who used to be in the armed forces, especially those who had to fight.

</doc>
<doc id="129621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129621" title="Besançon">
Besançon

Besançon is a city in France. It was the capital of the former Free County ("Franche-Comté") region. It is the prefecture of the Doubs department. Its population is around 117,600 (2008).
Besançon is an old city. It is discovered in 58 BC and Julius Caesar writes about it in his book Commentarii de Bello Gallico where it is called "Vesontio". The etymology (origin of the word) is not certain. It could have a Celtic origin. The Celtic word "wes" means mountain. In the 4th century, the letter B became V. The city name changed to "Besontio" or "Bisontion". It became Besançon in 1243.
The city has a Renaissance citadel. It was later used by the Nazis during World War II.
Besançon has an oceanic climate and a continental climate. The average temperature is 10.2 °C (50 °F). The warmest month of the year is July (18.9 °C or 66 °F) and the coldest month is January (1.6 °C or 35 °F). Besançon receives about 1108 mm (44 inches) of precipitation per year. The wettest month is May (111.4 mm or 4.4 in); the driest is July (80.5 mm or 3.2 in). The highest temperature ever, recorded on 31 July 1983, was 38.8 °C (101.8 °F), and the lowest was a −20.7 °C (−5.3 °F) reached on 1 January 1985.
Besançon is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="129622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129622" title="Hunter Valley">
Hunter Valley

The Hunter Valley, is an area of New South Wales. The Hunter River flows through the valley. The Hunter Valley is one of the largest river valleys on the NSW coast. It is known for its wineries and coal mines. It is about to and less than 2 hours drive from north of Sydney, Australia. About 590,000 people live in the valley. More than half of the people live in the coastal cities of Newcastle and Lake Macquarie. There are also other towns and villages across the valley. There are 11 Local Government Areas that look after the area. These eleven LGAs are:

</doc>
<doc id="129624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129624" title="Mulhouse">
Mulhouse

Mulhouse is a city in France. Its population is around 110,000. Its in the Alsace region and is the sub-prefecture of the Haut-Rhin department. Two rivers run through the town:
Mulhouse dates back to the XIIth century.
Medieval Mulhouse consists of an upper and a lower town.

</doc>
<doc id="129626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129626" title="Boulogne-Billancourt">
Boulogne-Billancourt

Boulogne-Billancourt (often called Boulogne or Boulbi) is a town in the western suburbs of Paris in France. Boulogne-Billancourt is a sub-prefecture of the Hauts-de-Seine département. It is in the Île-de-France region. Its population is around 106,000. Its land area is 6.17 km². Its population density is 17,877/km².
Consequently, Boulogne-Billancourt is one of the most densely populated municipalities in Europe. It is also home to major communication companies headquarters.

</doc>
<doc id="129633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129633" title="Perpignan">
Perpignan

Perpignan () is a city in the south of France. It is also a commune and the capital of the Pyrénées-Orientales department. Perpignan was the capital of the old province and county of Roussillon ("Rosselló" in Catalan) and continental capital of the Kingdom of Majorca in the 13th and 14th centuries.
Perpignan was named, from 2001, as a "City Art and History" () by the French Ministry of Culture and Communication.
Perpignan is mentioned in a document from 927 as "Villa Perpinianum".. Later, there are other, but similar, names:
In Catalan, the regional language of the Pyrénées-Orientales, the name of the city is "".
The medieval town of Perpignan seems to have been founded around the beginning of the 10th century (first mentioned in a document as "villa Perpinianum" in 927). Soon Perpignan became the capital of the County of Roussillon. The last Count of Rossillon, Girard II, gave his lands in 1172 to the King of Aragón and Count of Barcelona.
Perpignan was made a partly self-governing commune in 1197. The French king Louis IX gave the Roussillon to the Kingdom of Aragón by the Treaty of Corbeil (1258).
When James I the Conqueror, king of Aragon and count of Barcelona, founded in 1229 the Kingdom of Majorca, Perpignan became the capital of the territory on the mainland. This continued from 1278 to 1344. The "Castle of the Kings of Majorca" () was built during this period. The different parts of the kingdom were the Balearic Islands, Northern Catalonia (Roussillon and Cerdagne) and the coastal area of Montpellier.
This period is considered the golden age in the history of the city. Perpignan became an important center of cloth industry, leather and goldsmiths' and other crafts.
In 1344 Peter IV of Aragon took the Kingdom of Majorca and Perpignan once more became part of the County of Barcelona. A few years later Perpignan lost approximately half of its population to the Black Death. Perpignan was attacked and occupied by Louis XI of France in 1463, but in 1493 Charles VIII of France gave it back to Ferdinand II of Aragon.
Again Perpignan was taken by the French during the Thirty Years' War in September 1642. Perpignan was finally given by Spain to France, and from then on it is part of France.
The coat of arms of Perpignan shows, as is the case in other cities in the region, the patron saint of the city. Here St John the Baptist is represented in front of the Catalan colours (yellow and red) with a lamb and a Christian cross in his hands, and walking above water.
Perpignan is at the centre of Roussillon, an old province organized around an agricultural plain. The city is at approximately from the Mediterranean Sea and about from the Pyrenees mountain range.
It has an area of and its average altitude is ; at the city hall, the altitude is ..
Perpignan is in the valley of the Têt river, in the Roussillon plain which is bordered to the south by the Pyrenees, to the west by the region of Corbières and to the east by the Mediterranean Sea. The old city is on the right side of the Têt river, where the small river La Basse joins the Têt.
It is the southernmost of the great cities of metropolitan France ().
The cities of Pia and Cabestany are now part of Perpignan, while Bompas, Saleilles, Canohès, Toulouges, Le Soler, Baho, Saint-Estève and Rivesaltes are all close to the city limits. Nearest cities are Narbonne to the north (65 km), Montpellier towards the northeast (150 km), Barcelona to the south (190 km) and Toulouse to the northwest (200 km). The distance to Paris is .
The climate of Perpignan is a warm Mediterranean climate (Köppen climate classification "Cfa"), with mild winters and dry summers and warm.
The average temperature for the year in Perpignan is 15.6°C (60.0°F). The warmest month, on average, is July with an average temperature of 23.9°C (75.0°F). The coolest month on average is January, with an average temperature of 8.3°C (47.0°F).
The average amount of precipitation for the year in Perpignan is . The month with the most precipitation on average is October with of precipitation. The month with the least precipitation on average is July with an average of .
Traditional commerce is in wine and olive oil, corks (the cork oak "Quercus suber" grows in Perpignan's mild climate), wool and leather, and iron.
, Perpignan had 120,489 inhabitants for a density of persons/km.
The men of Perpignan are called "perpignanais" (women, "perpignanaises"); in Catalan, "perpinyanès" for a man and "perpinyanesa" for a woman.
In Perpignan, both French and Catalan are spoken, as can be seen in the street signs.
Perpignan is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="129634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129634" title="Murrurundi, New South Wales">
Murrurundi, New South Wales

Murrurundi is a small country town in the Upper Hunter Valley of New South Wales. Murrurundi is by road from Newcastle and km from Sydney. In 2006 there were 2162 people (ABS 2006) living in Murrurundi. The town is circled by mountains of the Liverpool Range. It is on the Pages River, which flows into the Hunter River. The name "Murrurundi" is from an Aboriginal word meaning "Five fingers". This is the name given to a group of rocks at the north end of the town.
The first people to live in the Murrurundi area were the Australian aboriginal people, the Wanaruah and the Kamilaroi. European settlement of the area began in the 1820s. Benjamin Hall, the father of bushranger Ben Hall started a cattle farm in the area in 1839. The town was started by the New South Wales government in 1840. In the same year, a local land owner - Thomas Haydon - started his own town called Haydonton. Benjamin Hall opened a butcher's shop in Haydonton in 1842. Ben Hall lived here until the age of 13. In 1913, the two towns were joined together to make the modern-day town of Murrurundi.
Kerosene shale was first mined at Mount Temi, north of Murrurundi in 1886. The mine was reopened in 1910. The shale was moved from the mine on a rope system known as an aerial ropeway. It was then loaded onto trains at a railway built at Temple Court, just west of Murrurundi. The mine closed in the First World War.
Every year there is a rodeo and the King of the Ranges stockman (cowboy) contest. Other sports played in the town include rugby, touch football, swimming, and cricket.
Murrurundi railway station is on the Main North railway line, from Sydney. The station opened in 1872. There is a large brick station-house, a passing loop and goods yard.
There is a train to and from Sydney and Armidale/Moree every day.

</doc>
<doc id="129635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129635" title="Roubaix">
Roubaix

Roubaix is a city in the north France, in the Nord département and the Hauts-de-France region. It is near the city of Lille and is close to the Belgian border. There are about 94,000 people (2011). There are about 7,119 people per square kilometer. 
The city is well known for its cycling race Paris-Roubaix which is over 259.5 km and includes almost 50 km of cobblestone sections.
Roubaix is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="129637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129637" title="Pau, France">
Pau, France

Pau is a commune in southwestern France, in the region of Nouvelle-Aquitaine. It is the "prefecture" (capital) of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques department. It is also the capital of 6 "cantons" in the department: Jurançon, Pau-Centre, Pau-Est, Pau-Nord, Pau-Ouest and Pau-Sud.
Pau is the second city of Aquitaine, after Bordeaux. Pau was also the capital of the old historical province of Béarn.
Pau is at about from Bordeaux and from Toulouse, on a 200 m elevation overlooking the valley of a mountain river called the Gave de Pau, and at from the Atlantic Ocean and at from the Pyrenees.
It has an area of and its average altitude is ; at the city hall, the altitude is .
Pau is surrounded by the "communes" Buros, Montardon, Morlaàs, Bizanos, Idron, Gelos, Jurançon,Lons and Billère.
The climate of Pau is Marine West Coast Climate (Köppen climate classification "Cfb"), with mild winters and warm summers.
The average temperature for the year in Pau is 13.5°C (56.3°F). The warmest month, on average, is July with an average temperature of 20.7°C (69.3°F). The coolest month on average is January, with an average temperature of 6.6°C (43.9°F).
The average amount of precipitation for the year in Pau is . The month with the most precipitation on average is December with of precipitation. The month with the least precipitation on average is February with an average of .
With a population of 77,575, Pau has a population density of inhabitants/km.
The inhabitants of Pau are known, in French, as "Paulois" (women: "Pauloises").
Pau is the "prefecture" of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques department since 1796. It is also the capital of four "Cantons":
Pau is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="129639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129639" title="John Dunn">
John Dunn

John Dunn (14 December 1846 – 19 March 1866) was an Australian bushranger. He was only 17 years old when he joined up with Ben Hall and John Gilbert and became a member of their gang.
He was born at Murrumburrah near Yass, New South Wales. His parents were Michael Dunn and Margaret Kelly. Dunn was only a small youth and worked as a jockey. He had robbed a Chinese gold miner and been in trouble with the police. 
Dunn was a member of the gang when they tried to rob the mail coach near Jugiong on 16 November, 1864. Gilbert shot dead Sergeant Parry during the robbery. The government already had offered reward money for the capture of the Gilbert and Hall; they now offered £500 for John Dunn.
The bushrangers spent Christmas, 1864, with Dunn's parents at Murrumburrah. After visiting Dunn's grandfather, John Kelly, near Binalong they rode to Binda on Boxing Day, 26 December. Gilbert and Dunn spent the night dancing at the Flag Hotel. Hall stood at the door and stopped people from going to get the police.
On 26 January 1865, Hall, Gilbert and Dunn were at Collector, south of Goulburn. While Hall and Gilbert were robbing the hotel, John Dunn stayed outside to watch for the police. Most of the police were out in the bush searching for the bushrangers. Policeman, Constable Samuel Nelson, was told the bushrangers were at the hotel. He told his wife he would "have to do his best". As he walked up to the hotel Dunn shot him in the side of the body, and then fired two shots into his face. Nelson was the father of nine children. One of the children saw the shooting. The bushrangers stole Nelson's gun, and his personal belongings and then left the town. During the next three months, the gang continued to rob from farmhouses and mail coaches.
In May 1865, Hall, Gilbert, and Dunn were made "outlaws"; they could be killed by anyone at anytime. Hall was found by the police in the bush near Forbes, New South Wales and shot dead. A week later, Gilbert was shot by the police at the home of John Kelly, Dunn's grandfather, near Binalong, on 13 May. Dunn was able to escape, although he was shot in the foot. Kelly had told the police where the bushrangers were so that he could get the reward money. 
Dunn went into hiding near Quambone Station (a farm) but another friend told the police where he was living. Dunn was shot and badly hurt when the police went to capture him on 26 December 1865. A policeman, McHale, was shot in the groin. Even though he was hurt, he climbed out of the police station window but was soon caught again. He was taken to Sydney to be tried in court. On 19 January 1866, he was found guilty of killing Nelson and sentenced to death. He was hanged on 19 March, 1865 at the Darlinghurst Gaol. He was only 19 years old. He is buried in the old Devonshire Street cemetery in Sydney.

</doc>
<doc id="129640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129640" title="Gianfranco Zola">
Gianfranco Zola

Gianfranco Zola OBE (born 5 July 1966) is a Italian former football player, who is now the manager of West Ham United
As a footballer he played for Napoli, Parma, Chelsea and Cagliari He was renowned for his technique, skill and dribbling. In total, he played in 632 league games and scored 184 goals in his career. He became manager of West Ham on 11 September 2008, replacing Alan Curbishley, after he stopped working as Italy Under-21's manager.
403||125
229||59
632||184
!Total||35||9

</doc>
<doc id="129642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129642" title="Category:1866 deaths">
Category:1866 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="129645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129645" title="Asnières-sur-Seine">
Asnières-sur-Seine

Asnières-sur-Seine is a town in France near Paris. It is in the region Île-de-France and the department Hauts-de-Seine. About 76,000 people live there. It is one of the most densely populated municipalities in Europe (its density is 17,178/km²).
"Asnières-sur-Seine" used to just be called Asnières. The name Asnières was first mentionned in 1158 as "Asnerias", from Medieval Latin "asinaria", meaning "donkey farm". The soil of Asnières was poor, where heather grew in Medieval times, was probably only good enough for breeding donkeys.

</doc>
<doc id="129646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129646" title="Fort-de-France">
Fort-de-France

Fort-de-France is the capital of the French Caribbean oversees department of Martinique. It is one of the major cities in the Caribbean. Martinique exports sugar, rum, tinned fruit, and cacao from the port in Fort-de-France.
Fort-de-France is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="129647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129647" title="Drake Bell">
Drake Bell

Drake Bell (27 June 1986) is an American actor, singer, director and guitarist.
Bell was born in Santa Ana, California in 1986. In June 2005, he was badly hurt in a car accident in Los Angeles. He was in the car with a friend. A truck went through a red light and hit Bell's car, a 1966 Ford Mustang. The steering wheel of Bell's car was made of wood and metal. Because the seatbelts of the car were only around the waist and there were no airbags, he hit his face against the steering wheel. This caused a broken neck, six dislodged teeth, a broken jaw and a deep cut across his chin. Bell had plastic surgery to fix his face.
Bell started to act when he was 5 years old. At the age of 8, he wrote his first song. When he was 9, he played "Jesse Ramo" in the movie "Jerry Maguire". In 1999, he started to act in "The Amanda Show" with Amanda Bynes. He played Drake Parker on the television series "Drake & Josh". In 2008, Bell played in the movies "Superhero Movie" and "Merry Christmas, Drake & Josh".
Bell learned to play guitar when he was 13. In September 2005, he started to sell his first album, "Telegraph". In December 2006, he started to sell his second album, "Its Only Time". His third album was released in 2014. Some songs of his new album appeared, including "Saturday Night", "All alone at the Disco", "Sea Song", "C.C.Rider", "To Hip gotta go", "Little Miss Prissy" and "Jingle Bells".
Bell has made comments that have upset a lot of people. He made a negative comment when Caitlyn Jenner appeared on the cover of Vanity Fair. He deleted the comment soon after he posted it but it was still seen by many readers. In an interview with Buzzfeed he made comments against stars such as Justin Bieber, Lady Gaga and Ariana Grande. He got into still another controversy with a Justin Bieber fan wishing him death.

</doc>
<doc id="129648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129648" title="Saffron">
Saffron

Saffron () (Persian: زَعْفَرَان) is a spice made from the stigma of the flower of the saffron plant. The spice is used in cooking as a seasoning and as a food colouring. It is native to Southwest Asia. It is the world's most costly spice, and has been for a long time.
Saffron has a bitter taste and smells like hay. This smell is caused by the chemicals picrocrocin and safranal. Saffron also contains a dye, crocin, that gives food a rich golden colour. Saffron is a part of many foods from around the world, and is also used in medicine.
The word "saffron" comes from the 12th century Old French word ', which comes from the Latin word '. ' is also related to the Italian ' and Spanish '. "Safranum" comes from the Arabic word ' (), which means "yellow".
The cultivated saffron (saffron crocus "C. sativus") flowers in the autumn and comes up every year, so it is known as a perennial plant. It does not grow wild, and is now a triploid form of the eastern Mediterranean plant called "Crocus cartwrightianus". It is thought that "C. cartwrightianus" came from Crete. The saffron crocus resulted when "C. cartwrightianus" was subjected to a lot of artificial selection by growers who wanted plants with longer stigmas. It can not reproduce because the saffron crocus's purple flowers do not produce useful seeds. This means that reproduction needs human help. The corms (underground bulb-like starch-storing organs) must be dug up, broken apart, and planted again. A corm lives for only one season, reproducing by splitting into up to ten "cormlets" that will grow into new plants. The corms are small brown balls up to in diameter and are covered in thick parallel fibres.
After a period in summer known as "aestivation", some narrow green leaves come up from the ground. These can grow to up to in length. The number of leaves is between five and eleven. In autumn, purple buds appear. In October, after most other flowering plants have released their seeds, the saffron grows its brightly-coloured flowers, which are coloured from light to dark purple. At the time of flowering, the plant is usually less than in height. Inside each flower are three prongs, called the "style". Each prong has a crimson "stigma" of between 25 and 30 mm in length at the end of it.
The saffron crocus grows best in climates like that of the Mediterranean maquis or the North American chaparral, where hot, dry summer winds blow across the land. However, saffron can live through temperatures as cold as , and short periods of snow. Saffron needs no extra water if it grows in a wet place like Kashmir, where there is usually 1000–1500 mm of rain each year. It is also important for the rain to fall at the right time of year: there should be a lot of rain in the spring and little in the summer. Rainfall just before flowering also makes the plant give more saffron. Rainy or cold weather during flowering can cause disease, so the plant gives less saffron. Other things that can make the plant give less saffron are: the weather being damp or hot for a long time; rabbits, rats, and birds, digging in the ground near the plant; parasites such as the roundworm; fungus and corm rot. Saffron plants grow best in strong and direct sunlight. Planting is best done in fields that slope towards the sunlight (i.e. south-sloping in the Northern Hemisphere), giving the crocuses' more sunlight. In the Northern Hemisphere, planting is mostly done in June, with corms planted some 7–15 cm deep.
Growers have found that planting corms deep and in rows spaced 2–3 cm apart makes more threads, whereas planting depths of 8–10 cm makes more flowers and corms. Saffron crocuses grow best in crumbly, moist and well-drained clay soils with high organic content. They are often planted in raised beds, to help with drainage. Farmers often use 20–30 tonnes of manure per hectare on the plants before plating the corms The buds do not start to grow until early autumn, then in the middle of autumn the plants begin to flower. Picking the flowers must be done quickly: they flower at dawn, but curl up and die during the day. The flowers of the saffron crocuses only last for one or two weeks. From 150 flowers, the farmer can get about 1 g of dry saffron threads. To produce 12 g of dried saffron (72 g freshly harvested) would take about 1 kg of flowers (1 lb for 0.2 oz of dried saffron). It can be worked out that from this that one freshly picked flower makes 0.03 g of fresh saffron, or 0.007 g of dried saffron.
The history of saffron growing reaches back more than 3,000 years. The wild plant from which the saffron crocus came was called "Crocus cartwrightianus". Humans began choosing wild plants that had long "stigmas". Gradually, a form of "C. cartwrightianus", "C. sativus", came into being in the late Bronze Age Crete. Experts believe that the first document to mention saffron is a 7th century BC Assyrian book about botany which was written in the time of Ashurbanipal. There is evidence for the use of saffron in the treatment of about 90 illnesses during the past 4,000 years. 
The Minoans had pictures of saffron in their palaces as long ago as 1500–1600 BC, showing how it could be used as a medicine. Later, Greek legends told of sea voyages to Cilicia, where adventurers hoped to find the world's most valuable saffron. Another legend tells how someone named Crocus was bewitched and transformed into the original saffron crocus. Ancient Mediterranean peoples–including perfumers in Egypt, physicians in Gaza, townspeople in Rhodes, and the Greek "hetaerae" courtesans–used saffron in their perfumes, ointments, potpourris, mascaras, divine offerings, and medical treatments. 
In late Hellenistic Egypt, Cleopatra used saffron in her baths to make her feel good. Egyptian healers used saffron as a treatment for all types of gastrointestinal ailments. Saffron was also used as a fabric dye in such Levant cities as Sidon and Tyre. Aulus Cornelius Celsus prescribes saffron in medicines for wounds, cough, colic, and scabies, and in the mithridatium. Such was the Romans' love of saffron that Roman colonists took their saffron with them when they settled in southern Gaul, where it was extensively cultivated until Rome's fall. Competing theories state that saffron only returned to France with 8th century AD Moors or with the Avignon papacy in the 14th century AD.
Paints made from saffron were being used for drawing 50,000 years ago. These have been found in the country that is today called Iraq. Later, people called the Sumerians used wild-growing saffron in their medicines and magical potions. Traders carried saffron for long distances before the 2nd millennium BC. Ancient Persians were growing their own type of saffron ("Crocus sativus" 'Hausknechtii') in Derbena, Isfahan, and Khorasan by the 10th century BC. Sometimes saffron threads were woven into textiles. They were given as offerings to the gods and used in dyes, perfumes, medicines, and body washes. Saffron threads were also scattered across beds and mixed into hot tea as a way of curing sad feelings. Other people were afraid that the Persians would use saffron as a drug and aphrodisiac. During his Asian campaigns, Alexander the Great used Persian saffron in his tea, rice, and baths to help heal his battle wounds. Alexander's troops copied their leader's actions and brought the habit of saffron-bathing back to Greece.
No one knows how saffron arrived in South Asia. Traditional Kashmiri and Chinese accounts date its arrival anywhere between 900–2500 years ago. Historians studying ancient Persian records date the arrival to sometime before 500 BC, saying it was either Persian transplantation of saffron corms to stock new gardens and parks or a Persian invasion and colonization of Kashmir. Phoenicians then sold Kashmiri saffron as a dye and a treatment for melancholy. From there, saffron use in foods and dyes spread throughout South Asia. For example, Buddhist monks in India started wearing saffron-coloured robes after the Buddha Siddhartha Gautama's death. However, the robes were not dyed with costly saffron but turmeric, a less expensive dye, or jackfruit.
Some historians believe that saffron first came to China with Mongol invaders by way of Persia. On the other hand, saffron is mentioned in ancient Chinese medical texts, including the forty-volume "Shennong Bencaojing" (神農本草經—"Shennong's Great Herbal", also known as "Pen Ts'ao" or "Pun Tsao") pharmacopoeia, a tome dating from 200–300 BC. Traditionally attributed to the legendary "Yan" ("Fire") Emperor (炎帝) Shennong, it documents 252 phytochemical-based medical treatments for various disorders. Yet around the 3rd century AD, the Chinese were referring to saffron as having a Kashmiri provenance. For example, Wan Zhen, a Chinese medical expert, reported that "[t]he habitat of saffron is in Kashmir, where people grow it principally to offer it to the Buddha." Wan also reflected on how saffron was used in his time: "The [saffron crocus] flower withers after a few days, and then the saffron is obtained. It is valued for its uniform yellow colour. It can be used to aromatise wine."
In Europe, saffron cultivation declined steeply following the Roman Empire's fall. Saffron was reintroduced when the Islamic civilization "Al-Andalus" spread to Spain, France, and Italy. During the 14th century Black Death, there was a huge increase in demand for saffron-based medicine. Much saffron had to be imported by Venetian and Genoan ships from southern and Mediterranean lands such as Rhodes. The theft of one such shipment by noblemen started the 14 week long "Saffron War". The conflict and resulting fear of rampant saffron piracy spurred significant saffron cultivation in Basel, which grew prosperous. Cultivation and trade then spread to Nuremberg, where epidemic levels of saffron adulteration brought on the "Safranschou" code. Under this law under saffron adulterers were fined, imprisoned, and executed. Soon after, saffron cultivation spread throughout England, especially Norfolk and Suffolk. The Essex town of Saffron Walden, named for its new specialty crop, became England's main saffron growing and trading center. However, an influx of more exotic spices such as chocolate, coffee, tea, and vanilla from newly contacted Eastern and overseas countries caused European cultivation and usage of saffron to decline. Only in southern France, Italy, and Spain, did significant cultivation continue.
Europeans brought saffron to the Americas when immigrant members of the Schwenkfelder Church left Europe with a trunk containing saffron corms; indeed, many Schwenkfelders had widely grown saffron in Europe. By 1730, the Pennsylvania Dutch were growing saffron throughout eastern Pennsylvania. Spanish colonies in the Caribbean bought large amounts of this new American saffron, and high demand ensured that saffron's list price on the Philadelphia commodities exchange was set equal to that of gold. The trade with the Caribbean later collapsed in the aftermath of the War of 1812, when many saffron-transporting merchant vessels were destroyed. Yet the Pennsylvania Dutch continued to grow lesser amounts of saffron for local trade and use in their cakes, noodles, and chicken or trout dishes. American saffron cultivation survived into modern times mainly in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania.
Saffron's aroma is often described to be something like metallic honey with grassy or hay-like notes. Its taste has also been noted as hay-like and somewhat bitter. Saffron gives a light yellow-orange colouring to foods. Saffron is widely used in Iranian (Persian), Arab, Central Asian, European, Indian,Turkish, Moroccan and Cornish cuisines. Confectioneries and liquors also often include saffron. Common saffron substitutes include safflower ("Carthamus tinctorius", which is often sold as "Portuguese saffron" or "assafroa") and turmeric ("Curcuma longa"). Saffron has been used as a traditional medicine for a long time. Modern medicine has also discovered itas having anticarcinogenic (cancer-suppressing), anti-mutagenic (mutation-preventing), immunomodulating, and antioxidant-like properties. Saffron has also been used as a fabric dye, particularly in China and India, and in perfumery.
Most saffron is grown in a belt of land ranging from the Mediterranean in the west to Kashmir in the east. Annually, around 300 tonnes of saffron are produced worldwide. Iran ranks first in the world production of saffron, with more than 94 percent of the world yield. Iran's annual saffron production is expected to hit 300 tons by the end of the nation's Fourth Five-Year Socioeconomic Development Plan in 2009. Other minor producers of saffron are Spain, India, Greece, Azerbaijan, Morocco, and Italy. A pound of dry saffron (0.45 kg) requires 50,000–75,000 flowers. These flowers would need about a football field's area of cultivation. Some forty hours of labour are needed to pick 150,000 flowers. Upon extraction, stigmas are dried quickly and (preferably) sealed in airtight containers. Saffron prices at wholesale and retail rates range from US$500/pound to US$5,000/pound (US$1100–US$11,000 per kilogram)—equivalent to £250/€350 per pound or £5,500/€7,500 per kilo. In Western countries, the average retail price is $1,000/£500/€700 per pound (US$2200/£1100/€1550 per kilogram). A pound comprises between 70,000 and 200,000 threads. Vivid crimson colouring, slight moistness, elasticity, recent harvest date, and lack of broken-off thread debris are all traits of fresh saffron.
Several saffron cultivars are grown worldwide. Spain's varieties, including the tradenames 'Spanish Superior' and 'Creme', are generally mellower in colour, flavour, and aroma; they are graded by government-imposed standards. Italian varieties are slightly more potent than Spanish, while the most intense varieties tend to be Iranian in origin. Westerners may face significant obstacles in obtaining saffron from India. For example, India has banned the export of high-grade saffron abroad. Aside from these, various "boutique" crops are available from New Zealand, France, Switzerland, England, the United States, and other countries, some organically grown. In the U.S., Pennsylvania Dutch saffron—known for its earthy notes—is marketed in small quantities.
Consumers regard certain cultivars as "premium" quality. The "Aquila" saffron ("zafferano dell'Aquila")—defined by high safranal and crocin content, shape, unusually pungent aroma, and intense colour—is grown exclusively on eight hectares in the Navelli Valley of Italy's Abruzzo region, near L'Aquila. It was first introduced to Italy by a Dominican monk from Inquisition-era Spain. But in Italy the biggest saffron cultivation, for quality and quantity, is in San Gavino Monreale, Sardinia. There, saffron is grown on 40 hectares (60% of Italian production); it also has very high crocin, picrocrocin, and safranal content. Another is the Kashmiri "Mongra" or "Lacha" saffron ("Crocus sativus" 'Cashmirianus'), which is among the most difficult for consumers to obtain. Repeated droughts, blights, and crop failures in Kashmir, combined with an Indian export ban, contribute to its high prices. Kashmiri saffron is recognisable by its extremely dark maroon-purple hue, among the world's darkest, which suggests the saffron's strong flavour, aroma, and colourative effect.
Saffron types are graded by quality according to laboratory measurements of such characteristics as crocin (colour), picrocrocin (taste), and safranal (fragrance) content. Other metrics include floral waste content (i.e. the saffron spice sample's non-stigma floral content) and measurements of other extraneous matter such as inorganic material ("ash"). A uniform set of international standards in saffron grading was established by the International Organization for Standardization, which is an international federation of national standards bodies. Namely, ISO 3632 deals exclusively with saffron. It establishes four empirical grades of colour intensity: IV (poorest), III, II, and I (finest quality). Saffron samples are then assigned to one of these grades by gauging the spice's crocin content, which is revealed by measurements of crocin-specific spectroscopic absorbance. Absorbance is defined as formula_1, with formula_2 as absorbance (Beer-Lambert law). It is a measure of a given substance's transparency (formula_3, the ratio of light intensity passing through sample to that of the incident light) to a given wavelength of light.
For saffron, absorbance is determined for the crocin-specific photon wavelength of 440 nm in a given dry sample of spice. Higher absorbances at this wavelength imply greater crocin concentration, and thus a greater colourative intensity. These data are measured through spectrophotometry reports at certified testing laboratories worldwide. These colour grades proceed from grades with absorbances lower than 80 (for all category IV saffron) up to 190 or greater (for category I). The world's finest samples (the selected most red-maroon tips of stigmas picked from the finest flowers) receive absorbance scores in excess of 250. Market prices for saffron types follow directly from these ISO scores. However, many growers, traders, and consumers reject such lab test numbers. They prefer a more holistic method of sampling batches of thread for taste, aroma, pliability, and other traits in a fashion similar to that practiced by practised wine tasters.
Despite such attempts at quality control and standardisation, an extensive history of saffron adulteration–particularly among the cheapest grades–continues into modern times. Adulteration was first documented in Europe's Middle Ages, when those found selling adulterated saffron were executed under the "Safranschou" code. Typical methods include mixing in extraneous substances like beet, pomegranate fibers, red-dyed silk fibers, or the saffron crocus's tasteless and odorless yellow stamens. Other methods included dousing saffron fibers with viscid substances like honey or vegetable oil. However, powdered saffron is more prone to adulteration, with turmeric, paprika, and other powders used as diluting fillers. Adulteration can also consist of selling mislabeled mixes of different saffron grades. Thus, in India, high-grade Kashmiri saffron is often sold mixed with cheaper Iranian imports; these mixes are then marketed as pure Kashmiri saffron, a development that has cost Kashmiri growers much of their income.

</doc>
<doc id="129659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129659" title="Phineas and Ferb">
Phineas and Ferb

Phineas and Ferb is an American animated television program produced by Disney. It was first on TV on February 1, 2008. It has been nominated for an Emmy award. It airs on the Disney Channel and related channels. The program is about two brothers from a blended family with a pet platypus, who do impossible plans.
In every episode, Phineas and Ferb create big machines in their backyard, like a roller coaster or a huge waterslide. Their sister, Candace, tries to show her mother the machines. But always when the mother is in the backyard, the machines have disappeared. Almost all episodes have a song which the characters sing.
The creators of the show are Dan Povenmire and Jeff "Swampy" Marsh. They also worked together on the Nickelodeon series "Rocko's Modern Life".
"Phineas and Ferb The Movie: Across the 2nd Dimension" was on the Disney Channel on August 5, 2011. In the movie the characters discover Perry the platypus is an agent. They go to another dimension and utilize many inventions.
In 2012, it was said that a crossover between "Phineas and Ferb" and Marvel Entertainment, will air in summer of 2013. It will be called "Phineas and Ferb: Mission Marvel". It will have Marvel Comics superheroes Spider-Man, the Hulk, Iron Man and Thor and the villains the Red Skull, M.O.D.O.K., Venom and Whiplash. It is the first major animated crossover between Marvel and Disney since the acquisition of Marvel by Disney in 2009.
"Main Article": 
A Phineas and Ferb episode with a crossover with Star Wars by Disney to premiere in Summer 2014 same as how the mission marvel crossover It later confirmed in a Hollywood online article that it is set to premiere July 26 2014 on Disney Channel.
<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>

</doc>
<doc id="129660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129660" title="TobyMac">
TobyMac

Kevin Michael "Toby" McKeehan (born October 22, 1964 in Fairfax, Virginia), better known as TobyMac, is a well known Christian singer from the band dc Talk. The band separated in 2000 to pursue solo careers. Some of his most notable songs are "Made to Love", "Burn for You", "Boomin", "City on Our Knees", "Me Without You", and "Feel It". He has also released a live album, "Alive and Transported".

</doc>
<doc id="129661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129661" title="DC Talk">
DC Talk

DC Talk (also written as dc Talk) is a well-known Christian rock/rap band, most famous for its song "Jesus Freak". The band started in 1988, and was part of the rise in popularity of the contemporary Christian music genre during the 1990s. The band split up in 2000 to have solo careers.

</doc>
<doc id="129664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129664" title="Argenteuil">
Argenteuil

Argenteuil is a town northwest of Paris, France. Argenteuil is a sub-prefecture of the Val-d'Oise department.
Argenteuil is the second most populated town in the suburbs of Paris (after Boulogne-Billancourt) and the most populated commune in the Val-d'Oise department; however it is not the prefecture. Its population is about 94,000 (1999).
Claude Monet painted things in Argenteuil many times.

</doc>
<doc id="129667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129667" title="Colombes">
Colombes

Colombes is a town in the northwest suburbs of Paris, France. Its in the region Île-de-France and the department Hauts-de-Seine. Its population is about 77,000.

</doc>
<doc id="129669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129669" title="Virgin birth of Jesus">
Virgin birth of Jesus

The virgin birth of Jesus is a belief held by Christians,Jews and Muslims. It says that Mary, Jesus' mother, was a virgin even after she became pregnant with Jesus. By the 2nd century, most people in the Christian church believed this. The idea of the virgin birth was included in the two most common Christian creeds, the Nicene Creed and the Apostles' Creed. The Nicene Creed says that Jesus "was incarnate of the Holy Spirit and the Virgin Mary" (meaning that Jesus was God in human form, and was born to the Virgin Mary). The Apostles' Creed also says that Jesus was "born of the Virgin Mary." The belief was not challenged, except by some sects which were not very important, before the Enlightenment theology of the eighteenth century.
The Gospels of Matthew and Luke say that Mary was a virgin and that Jesus was created by the Holy Spirit. These Gospels started the belief that Jesus' creation was a miracle. This belief, which is now common in Christianity, says that Jesus had no natural father; no sexual intercourse and no male seed was involved in creating him. The Gospel of Matthew also says that the virgin birth of Jesus fulfills a prophecy from the Book of Isaiah.
Since the second century, the Roman Catholic Church and the Eastern Orthodox Church have taught that Mary gave birth as a virgin (meaning she stayed a "virgo intacta" - an "intact virgin" - even after giving birth).
The virgin birth of Jesus is also part of Islam. The Qur'an often describes Jesus as "Jesus, son of Mary" ("Isa bin Maryam").
According to Uta Ranke-Heinemann, the idea that Jesus was born to a virgin was not meant to be taken literally (as if it really happened). Instead, it is an allegory about something special that God did. It is like the story about how God made Adam. Both Adam and Jesus were God's creations.
Raymond Brown argues that Jesus may have been an illegitimate child. This idea first appeared around 177-180 AD. Around this time, Celsus wrote that Jesus himself had made up the story about being born to a virgin. In fact, Celsus wrote, Jesus' mother was a poor country woman who earned her money by spinning (making thread). She had been married to a carpenter, but he kicked her out. He did this because she was convicted of adultery with a soldier named Panthera. After this, she wandered around and secretly gave birth to Jesus. Later, because he was poor, Jesus found work in Egypt. There, he learned magical powers. These made him confident, and he started calling himself God.
The letters of Paul of Tarsus are thought to be the earliest texts in the New Testament. They do not say that Jesus' mother was a virgin.
In Galatians 4:4, Paul wrote:
But when the fullness of time had come, God sent his Son, born of a woman, born under the law ...
In this sentence, Paul says that Jesus was born "of a woman", not "of a virgin". This could be evidence that Paul did not know about the virgin birth of Jesus. However, when Paul was alive, when Hebrew people talked about a new baby, they usually listed only the child's father, or both parents. The fact that Paul listed no father may suggest that there was no human father.
Some people think God created Jesus without a human father so Jesus could avoid a curse. In the Old Testament (), God put a curse on Jeconiah, who had been King of Judah. God told Jeconiah that none of his family would ever 'sit on the throne of David.' David was one of Jeconiah's ancestors, and had been King of Jerusalem. says that Jeconiah was an ancestor of Joseph, Mary's husband. If Jesus was Joseph's child, Jesus would be related to Jeconiah. God's curse would keep him from being King of Jerusalem. However, because God created Jesus without a human father, Jesus was not related to Jeconiah, and could be King.
In his Epistle (letter) to the Romans, Paul says: 
People argue about what Paul meant when he said Jesus was "descended from David according to the flesh." David, Jeconiah, and Joseph were all in the same family line. For Jesus to be part of David's family line, he would have to be related to Joseph. This would mean Joseph had to be Jesus' human father. However, some people think Paul did not mean Jesus was physically descended from Joseph, only that Joseph acted like Jesus' father.
Raymond Brown argues that it is important to look at when each book in the Bible was written. He says that looking at this shows:
However, Paul, in Epistle to the Colossians 1:15, calls Jesus the "first-born Son, superior to all created things." This makes it clear that Paul saw Jesus as very special, unlike any other human being.

</doc>
<doc id="129670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129670" title="Montreuil, Seine-Saint-Denis">
Montreuil, Seine-Saint-Denis

Montreuil is a town in the east suburbs of Paris, France. Montreuil is near the Bois de Vincennes park in the Île-de-France region and the Seine-Saint-Denis department. About 91,000 people lived there in 1999. It is the third most populated suburb of Paris (after Boulogne-Billancourt and Argenteuil).

</doc>
<doc id="129672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129672" title="Tourcoing">
Tourcoing

Tourcoing is a town in the Nord department and Nord-Pas de Calais region in France. It is Lille and Roubaix and the Belgian border; its population is 94,204 (1999).
There is a Napoleon III-style "Hôtel de ville" (Town Hall) built in 1885.

</doc>
<doc id="129673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129673" title="ReLoad">
ReLoad

ReLoad is an album by Metallica. It was released in the United States on November 18, 1997 by Elektra Records. It went straight to No.1 in the "Billboard" 200. Three singles were released from it. "Better Than You" won the 1999 Grammy Award for Best Metal Performance. It was the last studio album by Metallica with Jason Newsted playing bass.

</doc>
<doc id="129674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129674" title="Consensus">
Consensus

Consensus is a term which describes general agreement among members of a group or community. It also means the theory and process of bringing a group together in agreement. 
The cooperative spirit of consensus is different from the competitive spirit which is brought to a point in majority voting. According to Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales,
We are really strongly focused on consensus. One criticism of Wikipedia is that the majority rules. But majority is not the right way to describe it. We strive for consensus rather than majority rule. If you are in a group of five or ten people working on an article, if 30 percent of those working on the article dissent, then continue to write the article until all but the most unreasonable agree. Those who continue to disagree are typically exhibiting non-collaborative, and sometimes abusive, behavior.

</doc>
<doc id="129676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129676" title="Grantland Rice">
Grantland Rice

Grantland Rice (November 1, 1880–July 13, 1954) was an early 20th century American sports-writer.

</doc>
<doc id="129677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129677" title="Chuck Bernard">
Chuck Bernard

Joseph Charles "Chuck" Bernard (August 29, 1911 in – March 1962) was a professional American football center who played for the Detroit Lions in 1934 and was a two-time All-American at the University of Michigan.
After graduating from the University of Michigan, Bernard played 10 games for the Detroit Lions in 1934.

</doc>
<doc id="129678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129678" title="Saint-Denis">
Saint-Denis

Saint-Denis is a city and "commune" in the north suburbs of Paris, France. Saint-Denis is a sub-prefecture of the Seine-Saint-Denis département, and is the seat of the Arrondissement of Saint-Denis. It is in the Île-de-France region. Inhabitants of Saint-Denis are called "Dionysiens".
Saint-Denis is home to the Saint Denis Basilica. You can also find France's national football stadium, Stade de France, built in 1998 for the Football World Cup.
Saint-Denis used to be an industrial suburb, but its reconverting its economic base.
Almost every French king since Dagobert Ist, was buried in the Basilica. Saint-Denis dates back to the second century. It used to be a village called "Catolacus". Saint Denis, the first bishop of Paris, was martyred in about 250 AD. He was buried in the cemetery of Catolacus. Denis' tomb became a place of worship.
During the French Revolution in 1793, the city was renamed "Franciade", and the royal necropolis was looted and destroyed. The name was changed back in 1803.
During the Second World War, the Germans occupied Saint-Denis from June 13, 1940. The town was liberated by General Leclerc on August 27.
In 1998, the Stade de France was built. This helped the town's economy.
The painter Claude Monet was born in Saint-Denis.
Saint Denis has a very high crime rate. It has an average of 150.71 criminal incidents per 1000 inhabitants (the national average is 83/1000). Police efficiency is also very bad with only 19.82% of crimes solved.

</doc>
<doc id="129679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129679" title="Offensive">
Offensive

Offensive may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="129685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129685" title="University of Minnesota">
University of Minnesota

The University of Minnesota, Twin Cities (U of M or The U) is the oldest and largest part of the University of Minnesota system. The nickname of the University of Minnesota is the Golden Gophers.
Minnesota's sports teams mostly play in the Big Ten Conference. The women's ice hockey team plays in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association (WCHA); the men's ice hockey team also played in the WCHA until 2013, when the Big Ten began a men's ice hockey league.

</doc>
<doc id="129687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129687" title="Minnesota Golden Gophers">
Minnesota Golden Gophers

The Minnesota Golden Gophers are the college sports team for the University of Minnesota. The athletics director is Joel Maturi.

</doc>
<doc id="129689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129689" title="Dixie Dean">
Dixie Dean

Dixie Dean (William Ralph Dean, 22 January 1907 – 1 March 1980) was an English football player. He played for Everton FC during the 1920s and 30s. He scored more goals than any other player in English football history. Worldwide, only Pele scored more competitive goals than Dean.
Born in Birkenhead, he began his career at his hometown club Tranmere Rovers before moving on to Everton. He was particularly known for scoring goals with his head. Dean played most of his career at Everton. When injuries caught up with him, he moved on to Notts County. He is best known for his exploits during the 1927–28 season. He scored a record 60 league goals that season, and the English first division then was the strongest football league in the world. He also scored 18 goals in 16 appearances for England.
A statue of Dean was unveiled outside Goodison Park in May 2001. A year later, he became one of the first 22 players inducted into the English Football Hall of Fame. Dean was the first Everton player to wear the number 9 shirt, and is regarded as one of the greatest footballers of all time from Britain.

</doc>
<doc id="129691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129691" title="Harry Kipke">
Harry Kipke

Harry G. Kipke (March 26, 1899 - September 14, 1972) was the head football coach at the University of Michigan from 1929-1937. He is one of only three coaches in school history to direct teams to four consecutive conference championships.

</doc>
<doc id="129693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129693" title="Sentence (law)">
Sentence (law)

In criminal law, a sentence forms the final act of a judge-ruled process. The sentence generally involves a decree of imprisonment, a fine and/or other punishments against a defendant convicted of a crime.

</doc>
<doc id="129696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129696" title="Interstate 82">
Interstate 82

Interstate 82 (sometimes called I-82) is a long Interstate Highway in the states of Washington and Oregon. The road goes from Interstate 90 and U.S. Route 97 in Ellensburg, Washington southeast through Yakima, Washington, the Tri-Cities of Washington, and Umatilla, Oregon before ending at Interstate 84 in Hermiston, Oregon.
Since I-82 is north of Interstate 84, it breaks the rules for Interstate numbering. This happened because when Interstate 80N was renumbered to Interstate 84 in 1980, Interstate 82 became north of Interstate 84. The renumbering was part of a project to remove Interstates that have letters within their numbers.
The highway goes over Selah Creek on a bridge called the Fred G. Redmon Bridge. When this bridge was opened on November 2, 1971 it was the longest concrete arch bridge in North America. The bridge is 549 feet long when it goes above the creek.
In 1999, the state of Oregon wanted to make Interstate 82 longer. They planned three different roads, but all of them were not chosen. The freeway also has a spur route, Interstate 182, which connects Interstate 82 to Richland, Washington and Pasco, Washington.

</doc>
<doc id="129698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129698" title="Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/RyanCross 2">
Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/RyanCross 2

Ended 21 September, 2008. 17 support / 1 oppose.
RyanCross has gone from edits like this or this, to edits like this.
He is "an excellent article writer who has bowed and admitted when wrong (HBP, TDK) and shown a desire to learn from that mistake and not commit it again." He has "over 6000+ edits counting deleted edits, 70% of which are mainspace edits, and over 300 deleted edits, most of which are WP:QD tagging." He "participates in discussions at and/or at ."
His are well deserved and his are numerous and dispersed. Even some like him! My only criticism is that his seems to have ground to a halt. That all aside, happy voting! We're not exactly going to need Nostradamus to predict the outcome of this . -- 20:11, 14 September 2008 (UTC)
RyanCross has been extremely helpful in aspects like countering vandalism, with various reports on a daily basis. His active participation in QDs, Rfds, Good Article nominations and has made quality edits over these months. I fully support and trust RyanCross and welcome him into the family of administrators.--n 01:53, 15 September 2008 (UTC)
--n 02:35, 15 September 2008 (UTC)
Late co-nomination from American Eagle<br>
I have decided to co-nominate to be granted the flag. Here's why he should be granted the Sysop flag, he has at least 50 , I’m guessing that’s a record, but I’m not sure. As well as clerking for the VIP. He has hundreds of , most of which are QD tags (literally hundreds). He is a full-rollbacker on the English Wikipedia, so he also knows how to use that flag.
He has no end of experience, with being over 3 months old. He told me that he has read all the policies and I personally know that he understands them. I've talked with him through many times on here, and even through another site we’re both on. I have no end of trust for him and we have become very good wiki-friends. But that doesn’t blind me at all; it only makes me want to see him be granted this flag even more. In closing, I ask you to support Ryan for adminship, he is so trustworthy, kind and welcoming, a great vandal-worker, etc. All of which are vital for the adminship position on the Simple English Wikipedia. Thank you. -- () 06:07, 16 September 2008 (UTC)
"Candidate's acceptance:" Thank you for your nominations, Gwib, Tdxiang, and American Eagle. I'm honored and happy to accept, hoping that this may help me serve our community, and the Simple English Wikipedia, in the best way I possibly can.
Candidate's statement: Hello, I'm RyanCross of the Simple English Wikipedia. I've been an active editor for 3 months now, and have made over 6000 edits, about 70% of those edits in the mainspace. I believe I meet the requirements stated of the and I believe I have the trust of the community for me to become an .
My contributions to articles are very good from my side of view. I've done a lot of article building, improving, and creating (about 150 creations). That's why we're here in the first place! :-) I also create and edit templates, and sometimes categories too. All my creations (except disambiguations and categories) can be found . I've also created 1 which is baseball uniform . Other articles I'm proud of are Green Day and Whitey Wistert. I'm almost always on patrol, mostly reverting. Many of my reports (47 I think) have been dealt with and blocked. I've tagged numerous articles for , most of which have been accurate. I have over 350 deleted edits from mostly QD tagging according to this edit counter. I participate and comment at on occasions. I would be able to close RfDs when the time comes and when I think consensus has been decided if I became an administrator. I also have a perfect edit summary usage by the looks of this edit counter and I always issue an appropriate edit summary telling what I am doing. I think I'm a civil person, and I'm good with keeping a cool head at all times. I comment at and the often, and with the tools, I can accomplish requests at which need admin actions. 
With my experience, I think I'll be a very good administrator. By the way, I have also noticed that few or even no administrators are online when I am online at times. I could help fill in those areas. If I am granted adminship, I promise I will do my best to help the community run smoothly and will not purposely misuse the tools for self purposes. Adminship is no big deal, and it's not a "trophy". Administrators just get a few extra buttons to further help with the maintenance side of Wikipedia.
I hope the community will think that I'll be a trustworthy administrator, and I think I can do a lot for our community! :-) Thank you for your time. -- () 21:26, 14 September 2008 (UTC)
Although I am happy to support Ryan for this he just canvassed me. Is this allowed? () 07:31, 15 September 2008 (UTC)
A simple breakdown of the VIP reports is deceiving. I haven't reported a vandal to VIP ever since getting the sysop tools; I block on sight after they vandalize after their fourth warning. In fact I can't remember the last time I even handled a report. Also, Microship's comment is way too long, can someone move it to the talk page? () 17:20, 15 September 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="129702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129702" title="Wes Welker">
Wes Welker

Wesley Carter Welker (born May 1 1981, in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma) is an American football wide receiver for the Denver Broncos of the National Football League.

</doc>
<doc id="129706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129706" title="Food coloring">
Food coloring

A food coloring is any substance that is added to food or drink to change its color. Food coloring is used both in commercial food production and in cooking at home.
People associate certain colors with certain flavors. The color of the food can therefore influence its perceived flavor in anything from candy to wine.
For this reason, food manufacturers add dyes to their products. One of the reasons this is done is to simulate the colour the customer expects as "natural". An example would be to add red coloring to glacé cherries. Without coloring, the cherries would be beige. Food coloring can also be done for effect, such as a green ketchup instead of an expected red.
Most people are aware that food with bright or unnatural colors, such as the green ketchup mentioned, contains food coloring. Far fewer people know that "natural" foods such as oranges and salmon may also be dyed to hide natural variations in color. The color of foods varies through the seasons. Processing food and storing it may change its color. For these reasons, it may give a commercial advantage to add colors to food, so that it has the color expected or preferred by the customers. Some of the main reasons are:
Food colorings need to be tested before they can be used. These tests are done to make sure the coloring is not poisonous, and has no unwanted side-effects. Sometimes, different testing-bodies have different opinions on the safety of a certain coloring. In the United States, FD&C (generally indicates that the FDA has approved the colorant for use in Foods, Drugs and Cosmetics) numbers are given to approved synthetic food dyes that do not exist in nature. In the European Union, E numbers are used for all additives, both synthetic and natural, that are approved in food applications.
Most other countries have their own regulations and list of food colors which can be used in various applications, including maximum daily intake limits.
Natural colors are not required to be tested by a number of regulatory bodies throughout the world, including the United States FDA. The FDA lists "color additives exempt from certification" for food.
A growing number of natural food dyes are being commercially produced, partly due to consumer concerns surrounding synthetic dyes. Some examples include:
To make it easy to get the exact color, these color components are often available in very pure form. They can also be used with suitable carrier materials.
In the United States, certifiable color additives are available for use in food as either "dyes" or "lakes".
Dyes dissolve in water, but are not soluble in oil. Dyes are manufactured as powders, granules, liquids or other special purpose forms. They can be used in drinks, dry mixes, baked goods, confections, dairy products, pet foods and many other products. Dyes also have side effects which lakes do not, including the fact that large amounts of dyes ingested can color stools.
Lakes are the combination of dyes and insoluble material. Lakes tint by dispersion. Lakes are not oil soluble, but are oil dispersible. Lakes are more stable than dyes and are ideal for coloring products containing fats and oils or items lacking sufficient moisture to dissolve dyes. Typical uses include coated tablets, cake and donut mixes, hard candies and chewing gums, lipsticks, soaps, shampoos, talc etc.
Because food dyes are generally safer to use than normal artistic dyes and pigments, some artists have used food coloring as a means of making pictures, especially in forms such as body-painting.
Food colorings can be used to dye fabric, but are usually not wash-fast when used on cotton, hemp and other plant fibres. Some food dyes can be fixed on Nylon and animal fibers.
In the past, research has not shown any link between Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder and food dyes. Newer studies show that synthetic preservatives and artificial coloring agents can make the symptoms of ADD and ADHD worse. The older studies were inclonclusive on this point, perhaps because the clinical methods of measuring this behavior were inappropriate. Parents' reports of food additives proved to be better indicators whether additives were present than clinical tests. Several major studies show academic performance increased and disciplinary problems decreased in large non-ADD student populations when artificial ingredients and artificial coloring were eliminated from school food programs.

</doc>
<doc id="129709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129709" title="Varsity letter">
Varsity letter

A varsity letter (or monogram) is an award in the United States for excellence in school activities. They are typically awarded to student athletes who have played on a varsity team. 

</doc>
<doc id="129711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129711" title="Category:Roads in Washington">
Category:Roads in Washington


</doc>
<doc id="129712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129712" title="Category:Roads in Oregon">
Category:Roads in Oregon


</doc>
<doc id="129718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129718" title="Free content">
Free content

Free content, or free information, is any kind of work, artwork, or other creative content which does not have lots of legal about how people can use it. People have freedom to make changed versions of the content, give changed and not changed versions of the content to others, and sell copies of the content and changed versions of it. The author of free content does not use all of his copyright monopoly, he gives many of the rights to others. The articles in Wikipedia are free content.
Free software is different from free music or text, because it is often much more difficult to understand and change a program if one does not have its source code, than it is to change a song or a text. Because of that, the source code of free software must always be easy to receive, or the software will not be free. However, source code for pictures, movies and music can also exist and be given to others. Choosing what to call a “source code” is sometimes important when publishing a work under a copyleft license.

</doc>
<doc id="129721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129721" title="Ted Petoskey">
Ted Petoskey

Frederick Lee "Ted" Petoskey (born January 5, 1911 in , died November 30, 1996 in ) was a three-sport athlete at the University of Michigan.

</doc>
<doc id="129725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129725" title="Interstate 5">
Interstate 5

Interstate 5 (sometimes called I-5, or in Southern California, The 5) is a long Interstate Highway in the states of California, Oregon, and Washington. The road goes from Mexican Federal Highway 1 at the United States-Mexican border to British Columbia Highway 99 at the United States-Canadian border. It is the main interstate highway of the West Coast. Nearly 60% of its length is in California.

</doc>
<doc id="129727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129727" title="Earned run average">
Earned run average

In baseball, earned run average (abbreviated to ERA) is the mean of earned runs given up by a pitcher. It is measured per nine innings pitched in Major League Baseball. ERA is found by dividing the number of earned runs allowed by the number of innings pitched and multiplying by nine. For example, if a pitcher pitches 95 innings and allows 25 earned runs, his ERA is 2.37.

</doc>
<doc id="129728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129728" title="Interstate 90">
Interstate 90

Interstate 90 (sometimes called I-90) is a Interstate Highway in the states of Washington, Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, South Dakota, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, and Massachusetts. The road goes from Interstate 5 in Seattle, Washington to Logan International Airport in Boston, Massachusetts. It is the longest Interstate in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="129733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129733" title="Washington State Department of Transportation">
Washington State Department of Transportation

The Washington State Department of Transportation (sometimes called WSDOT) is the part of the government of Washington about roads, railroads, ferries, airports, and other ways to get around. It was made in 1905 as Washington Department of Highways.

</doc>
<doc id="129739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129739" title="Body-painting">
Body-painting

Body-painting (also body painting and bodypainting) is when special colors are applied to a human's skin. The colors used are temporary. Depending on the color used, paintings last between a few hours, and a few weeks. 
Body-painting can be done for various reasons. Examples are:

</doc>
<doc id="129742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129742" title="Category:Pre-Columbian cultures">
Category:Pre-Columbian cultures

The term Pre-Columbian cultures are cultures of the Americas in the era before significant European influence.

</doc>
<doc id="129751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129751" title="Materpiscis">
Materpiscis

Materpiscis (from the Latin meaning "mother fish") is a genus of pyctodontid placoderm from the Late Devonian period about 380 million years ago. A fossil found of this armored placoderm shows an embryo and umbilical cord inside a mother fish's body.

</doc>
<doc id="129752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129752" title="Chevy Chase">
Chevy Chase

Cornelius Crane "Chevy" Chase (born October 8, 1943) is an American Emmy Award-winning comedian, writer, and actor. He was one of the original cast members on "Saturday Night Live". He left after a year.

</doc>
<doc id="129754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129754" title="Diprotodon">
Diprotodon

Diprotodon was the largest marsupial that ever lived. it existed from about 1.6 million years ago until extinction some 46,000 years ago. So it lived through most of the Pleistocene epoch.
Diprotodon looked like a rhino without a horn. Its feet turned inwards like a wombat’s, giving it a pigeon-toed appearance. It had strong claws on the front feet, so it may have been able to dig up roots to eat. Footprints of its hairy feet have been found, so we know it had fur like a horse rather than being bald like a rhino. Diprotodon is found in sites all over Australia, but not in Tasmania. 
Female skeletons have been found with babies located where the mother's pouch would have been. The largest specimens were hippopotamus-sized: about from nose to tail, standing tall at the shoulder and weighing about .

</doc>
<doc id="129755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129755" title="Tahlequah, Oklahoma">
Tahlequah, Oklahoma

Tahlequah (Pronounced "Tal a Kwa") is the county seat of Cherokee County, Oklahoma, United States. It is at the foot hills of the Ozark Mountains. Tahlequah is also home to Northeastern State University.

</doc>
<doc id="129771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129771" title="Russo-Japanese War">
Russo-Japanese War

The Russo-Japanese War was a war between the Japanese Empire and the Russian Empire. It started in 1904 and ended in 1905. The Japanese won the war, and the Russians lost. 
The war happened because the Russian Empire and Japanese Empire disagreed over who should get parts of Manchuria and Korea. It was fought mostly on the Liaodong Peninsula and Mukden, the seas around Korea, Japan, and the Yellow Sea. The politics of the two countries in the war were very complicated, but both wanted to gain land and economic benefits. 
The Chinese Empire of the Qing, was large but weak, and it was Qing land and possessions they fought over. For example Korea was under Qing rule, but was seized by Japan. The Russians wanted a 'warm-water port' on the Pacific Ocean for their navy and trade. The harbour at Vladivostok freezes over in the winter, but Port Arthur (now called the Liaodong Peninsula in China) can be used all the time. Russia had already rented the port from the Qing and had got their permission to build a railway from St Petersburg to Port Arthur. 
Russia wanted a warm-water Pacific Ocean port for trade and her navy. Japan wanted to expand her empire into Korea and China. Japan thought that when Russia completed her railway in 1906 she would be able to beat Japan in a war because she could supply large numbers of troops there. To avoid war Japan would have to compromise with Russia, and Russia would get the better deal. Japan wanted a bigger share of Korea and China than she thought Russia would offer and decided to attack before the railway was complete and she still had a chance of doing well in a war with Russia.
The war started with a Japanese surprise attack on Port Arthur. It continued with Japanese victories in Manchuria and elsewhere. The last major battle at Tsushima destroyed the Russian navy.
United States President Theodore Roosevelt helped Russia and Japan make peace after the war. He won a Nobel Prize for this. Russia had to give up all influence in the Far East. The Russian people were very angry at the government and at Tzar Nicholas II for not continuing the war because everyone was sure that Russia could have won. This is true because Japan was completely broke and she would have suffered an economic crisis after just a few more months of fighting. Russia's army was also much stronger than Japan's and had very large reserves to replace the soldiers she lost, but Japan had no more men with military training to replace her losses and no money to give new men training. 
Japan would take over Korea five years later in 1910. The Japanese got Port Arthur and the Russian railway in China. Japan would continue to grow its empire in Asia until World War II. The Russian defeat was one of the reasons for the Russian army's great improvement after 1904 and this improvement helped start the European arms-race that was a cause of World War I. The war also contributed to the Russian Revolution and Civil War in 1917.

</doc>
<doc id="129781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129781" title="Goodison Park">
Goodison Park

Goodison Park is the stadium of the English football club Everton FC. It is in the city of Liverpool. 

</doc>
<doc id="129783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129783" title="WikiLeaks">
WikiLeaks

WikiLeaks is a non-profit organization which uses its website to publish governmental, private data, corporate or religious documents that had previously been secret. The website was started in 2006, and had over 1.2 million documents in its database by the time one year had passed. Usually, it does not give out the names and addresses of people who post documents. The site is based in Sweden. Though its name is similar to Wikipedia, it is not related to Wikipedia or the Wikimedia Foundation. The name was chosen because WikiLeaks used a wiki model at first, where people could edit the site, but it has since changed and is no longer open for editing.
In July 2010, WikiLeaks was in the news for publishing over 76,900 documents related to the War in Afghanistan. In October that same year, WikiLeaks posted almost 400,000 documents that were about the War in Iraq.
This was the largest ever leak of documents about the US Army. It reported mainly on deaths of civilians, soldiers, and sightings of homemade bombs or armed civilians.
On 28 November WikiLeaks and five major newspapers - from Spain ("El País"), France ("Le Monde"), Germany ("Der Spiegel"), the United Kingdom ("The Guardian"), and the United States ("The New York Times") - all began to publish the first 291 of 251,287 confidential diplomatic cables from 274 embassies dated from 1966–2010. WikiLeaks plans to release all of the cables in phases over several months.
This leak was widely covered by the international media, as many of the leaks contained information that affected countries other than the United States. Some leaks were published by other news organizations like Fairfax Media. White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs said that an "open and transparent government is something that the President believes is truly important. But the stealing of classified information and its dissemination is a crime".

</doc>
<doc id="129784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129784" title="Eugowra, New South Wales">
Eugowra, New South Wales

Eugowra is a town in the central west of New South Wales, Australia. The town is placed west of the state capital, Sydney. In 2006, 535 people lived in Eugowra.
The word "Eugowra" comes from an Australian aboriginal word meaning "the place where the sand washes down the hill". The first people to live in the Eugowra area were the Wiradjuri people. Europeans first began exploring the area in 1815. John Oxley went through the area on his trip to explore the inland of NSW in 1817. Farming began at Eugowra station (farm) in 1834.
The town was started in the 1860s on the site of the farm. This was where the track for people going to the Lachlan gold fields crossed the Mandagery Creek. A bridge was built over the creek, and then the John Bull Hotel (later the Fat Lamb Hotel) was built next to it. In 1881, the town was laid out and a police station, courthouse and school were built. The creek has flooded many times; in 2005 it had a flood peak of . This cut the town in two, and water flowed through many buildings and houses.
Australia's biggest gold robbery took place near Eugowra. The bushrangers, Frank Gardiner, Ben Hall and their gang robbed the Forbes to Orange Ford and Company coach on 15 June, 1862. The bushrangers stole of gold and £3,700 in cash. The value in 2008 money is about A$4 million. The site of the robbery was a gully north of Eugowra, known as Eugowra Rocks. Coaches and wagons had to slow down to get around a steep gully which went down to Mandagery Creek. They also had to get past many large granite rocks. One of these rocks was called "Coonbong" (dead man) by the Wiradjuri people. Gardiner’s gang stopped two bullock wagons and left them in the middle of the road. When the gold escort coach arrived it had to slow right down and try to get past the wagons. The bushrangers, hidden behind the rocks, fired their guns at the coach. The coach driver and two policemen were wounded. One policeman had been shot in the testicles. The horses reared up and the coach was tipped on its side. One policemen assisted the wounded and they escaped into the bush. They went towards the Eugowra homestead for help. The other policeman went back down the road to a small hotel, Lyell's Shanty.
The bushrangers took the gold and money. They put it onto the back of one of the coach horses. They went back to their horses which had been hidden up the hill. They escaped into the bush and stopped at the southern end of Noble’s Lagoon to share out the bags of gold. They went to Mount Wheogo, north of the Weddin Mountains, where Gardiner had his camp.
A local farmer, Hanbury Clements, heard the gun shots and went to find out what was going on. He found the wounded men and helped them back to the farm house. He got on to his horse and rode the to Forbes in the dark in less than three hours to report the robbery. The police arrived quickly, and with the help of an aboriginal tracker, Jimmy Dargan, they were soon following the bushrangers. Gardiner’s camp at Wheogo had a good view of the country. John "the Warrigal Walsh", (the brother of Ben Hall's wife), warned the bushrangers that the police were coming and the gang got away.
Most of the gold was still loaded on the back of the very tired coach horse. The bushrangers finally had to leave the horse in the foothills of the Weddin Mountains. They only took the money with them. The police got most of the gold back. Only Ben Hall and Frank Gardiner's share of the gold was not found.
Today, the town has a supermarket, two hotels, a newsagent, a butcher and golf and bowling clubs. There is also farm supplies, a lucerne plant and a sawmill. Eugowra is famous for its granite. More than 2000 slabs of granite were used in the new Parliament House, Canberra in Canberra.

</doc>
<doc id="129791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129791" title="Californication (album)">
Californication (album)

Californication is the seventh studio album by American alternative rock band Red Hot Chili Peppers. It was released on June 8, 1999 on record label Warner Bros. Records. The producer was Rick Rubin. On "Californication", John Frusciante returned to Red Hot Chili Peppers. He had appeared on "Mother's Milk" and "Blood Sugar Sex Magik", but Dave Navarro was the guitarist on the band's last album, "One Hot Minute". The band's sound was very different because of Frusciante's return.

</doc>
<doc id="129793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129793" title="Dan Kelly">
Dan Kelly

Dan Kelly (1861 – 28 June 1880) was an Australian bushranger and outlaw. The son of an Irish convict, he was the youngest brother of bushranger Ned Kelly. Dan and his brother killed three policemen. With two friends, they formed the Kelly Gang. Dan Kelly died during the famous siege of Glenrowan.
More books have been written about the Kelly Gang than any other subject in Australian history. The Kelly Gang were the subject of the world's first full length feature movie, "The Story of the Kelly Gang", made in 1906. They robbed banks, took over whole towns, and kept the people in Victoria and New South Wales frightened. For two years the Victorian police searched for them, locked up their friends and families, but could not find them.
Dan Kelly's father, John "Red" Kelly, was an Irishman, a convict who had been sent to Van Diemen's Land in 1842. He would have been kept in the convict gaol at Port Arthur.
In 1848, after his time in gaol, Red Kelly moved to Victoria, and began working as a farmer around Beveridge. There he built a simple wooden house. The house in Kelly Street is still standing. The original three rooms have been added to over the years, and the house now has 11 rooms.
Red married an Irish girl, Ellen Quinn, in Melbourne in 1850. They had seven children: Annie (1853), Edward "Ned" (1854), Maggie (1856), Jim (1859), Dan (1861), Kate (1862) and Grace (1863).
In 1864, Dan Kelly's family moved north to a farm at Avenel. Red Kelly stole a calf and was sent to gaol for six months. Dan was in trouble with the police when he was five years old because they believed he had stolen a horse. Dan's father died in 1866, and in 1867, his mother, Ellen Kelly, moved the family to a small farm near Greta in north east Victoria. Ellen Kelly's two sisters, Catherine and Jane Lloyd, were living at Greta, and her two brothers, John and James Quinn, had moved to the area in 1864. The Quinn family were well known to the police. Dan Kelly was again in trouble with the law when he was only 10 years old. He and his brother Jim, aged 12, were arrested by Constable Flood for riding a horse that did not belong to them. Jim was working for a local farmer and had taken the horse to ride home on. Flood did not believe them, and the boys were forced to spend two nights in a prison cell.
In 1875, like many other young men in north east Victoria, Dan Kelly and his cousins, the Lloyds, went to New South Wales to look for seasonal farm work in the Riverina area and on the Monaro High Plains. His group of friends were known as "the Greta mob". They went out together to hotels, dances and horse races. By 1876, they were well known for their visits to nearby towns such as Wangaratta, Beechworth and Benalla.
On one visit to Benalla in 1876, Dan was arrested for stealing a saddle. The police let him go when they could not get enough evidence. Dan and his cousins got into trouble with the police in October 1877. They had gone to a shop to pick up food and other supplies, but the shop was shut. When the owner refused to open the shop, Dan Kelly broke down the door. They were charged with violent assault, damage to property (the door), breaking into houses and stealing things worth £113. The boys went into hiding, and the police spent three weeks looking for them. Constable Alexander Fitzpatrick told Ned Kelly to get them to give themselves up. In court, the police were not able to prove most of the charges, but Dan went to prison for one month for damaging property worth £10.
On 15 April 1878, Constable Fitzpatrick, went to the Kelly's house to arrest Dan Kelly for stealing horses. Dan had been seen in Chiltern riding a stolen horse. What happened at the house is now called the "Fitzpatrick incident". There was a fight with Fitzpatrick, and he said the Kelly family had tried to kill him. Dan and Ned went into the bush to hide. Ellen Kelly was sent to gaol for three years for attempted murder. Maggie's husband, William Skillion, and a neighbour, William Williamson, were sent to gaol for six years.
Ned and Dan Kelly went into the bush to a place in the Wombat Ranges. Dan Kelly had built a small hut some time earlier on Bullock Creek, where he had cleared an area of about to keep horses. He had also built a small still for making alcohol. The brothers spent their time searching for gold in the creek.
During the months they were hiding at Bullock Creek, they were often visited by their friends including Steve Hart, Joe Byrne, Aaron Sherritt and the Lloyds. The police took the charge of attempted murder very seriously. A reward of £100 was offered for the capture of the two Kelly boys. The police thought the brothers were hiding in the Wombat Ranges. In October 1878, they sent two search groups out to find them. One group travelled south from Greta, and the other started from Mansfield and travelled north.
The Mansfield group was led by Sergeant Michael Kennedy, with three policemen; Constables Thomas McIntyre, Thomas Lonigan, and Michael Scanlon. They set up a camp at Stringybark Creek in a thick forest area. Kennedy and Scanlon went searching for the Kellys, while Lonigan and McIntyre remained at the camp. The Kellys were living in a hut close by at Bullock Creek. They heard noises and discovered the police camp. They decided to capture the policemen and take their guns and horses. Ned and Dan, and friends Joe Byrne and Steve Hart, went to the police camp and told them to surrender.
Constable McIntyre put his arms up, but Lonigan got out his gun. Ned Kelly shot him dead. When the other two police came back to camp, McIntyre told them to surrender. Scanlon went for his gun but Ned shot him dead. Kennedy ran shooting from tree to tree with Ned chasing him. During the shooting, Kennedy was shot and was badly wounded. Ned shot him in the chest to end his suffering. McIntyre was able to escape during the confusion. It was later reported in the newspapers that it was Dan who had shot Kennedy. Dan was wounded during the shooting.
The Victorian government passed a law on 30 October 1878, making the Kelly Gang outlaws; they no longer had any legal rights. They could be shot by anyone, at any time, without warning. Anyone who could capture one of the Gang, alive or dead, would be paid a reward of £500, or £2,000 for the four men. The bushrangers were seen at several places around north east Victoria. They had tried to cross the Murray River into New South Wales, but the water was too deep. The police had several large groups hunting for them. On 10 December, the Kelly Gang robbed the bank at Euroa. In February 1879, they went to Jerilderie, New South Wales. They locked the town's policemen in the police station cells, and kept many people prisoner in the Royal Mail Hotel for three days. Dan Kelly and Steve Hart kept the people in the hotel, while Ned Kelly and Joe Byrne robbed the bank. After the bank robberies, the reward was increased to £2,000 for each man, or the larger amount of £8,000 for the Gang.
Over the next 18 months many policemen were sent to north-east Victoria to search for the Kelly Gang. The police could not find the bushrangers because they were badly led and they did not know how to live in the bush. However the Kellys were experts in living in the bush and they had the support of the local people.
In June 1880, the Kelly Gang came out of hiding. They knew that Joe Byrne's friend, Aaron Sherritt, had been giving information to the police. Four policemen were living at Sherritt's house, near Beechworth, to protect him. Dan Kelly and Byrne went to Sherritt's house late at night and knocked on the door. When Sherritt opened the door, Byrne shot him dead. The policemen were hiding under the bed. Kelly and Byrne rode quickly back to Glenrowan where Ned Kelly and Hart had forced many of the town people into a hotel, the Glenrowan Inn. They also had forced railway workers to pull up the train tracks. They knew that more police would be sent by train to Beechworth to find them. They wanted the train to crash when it reached the place where tracks had been removed near Glenrowan. The bushrangers, wearing homemade armour, would then capture any of the policemen that were alive after the crash. With the police out of the way, the Kelly Gang would then go into Benalla and rob the bank. The captured police would be released when Ellen Kelly, William Williamson, and William Skillion, were let out of gaol.
The plan did not work because the four policemen did not come out of Sherritt's house until the next morning. This meant that the news of the murder did not reach Melbourne as quickly as the Kelly Gang had hoped. The people held prisoner in the hotel became restless. Ned organised music and Dan joined in dancing to keep the people in the hotel entertained. Dan also organised some sporting games including long jump and hop, step and jump. Dan wanted to leave Glenrowan when they knew the plan was not going to work because the train was late. Ned Kelly let Thomas Curnow, the school teacher, go home to his wife. Dan told his brother not to trust Curnow, and to keep him at the hotel. Instead of going home, Curnow went to the railway and about 3.00am he was able to stop the train before it reached the broken rails. The police quickly left the train and placed themselves around the hotel so that the Kelly Gang was trapped inside.
When the bushrangers heard the train pull into the station, they knew their plan to destroy the train had failed. They put on their suits of armour and went on to the verandah of the hotel to wait for the police. In the first few shots, police Superintendent Hare, Ned Kelly and Joe Byrne were wounded, and Jack Jones, son of the hotel owner was killed. Ned Kelly, who was dressed in his armour, was able to leave the hotel and kept shooting at the police. The police fired their guns into the hotel building for seven hours. It is estimated that 15,000 bullets were fired during the shooting. Byrne died after being shot in the groin. Ned Kelly went back to the hotel but could not find Dan or Steve Hart who were hiding in a back room. He again left and tried to find his horse. Ned Kelly was shot in the legs as he searched outside for his brother. The police were then easily able to capture him.
At 10.00am there was a large crowd of people watching the action. Police Inspector Sadleir was forced to stop the shooting to allow many of the hostages to escape. He would not let Dan's sister Maggie, or a Catholic priest Father Gibney, go into the hotel to tell the men to give themselves up. Instead, he ordered that a cannon be sent from Melbourne so that they could destroy the hotel.
At 2.30pm, the police set fire to the building to try and make the rest of the Kelly Gang leave the building. Father Gibney ignored the police and went into the burning building. He found Dan Kelly and Steve Hart dead in a back room of the hotel. He said their bodies were lying side by side, their heads resting on blankets. Byrne's body was dragged out of the hotel, but the bodies of Hart and Kelly were badly burned during the fire. People who saw the burned and blackened bodies were unable to tell which was Dan Kelly and which was Steve Hart. They were placed on sheets of bark from a tree and photographed. Three Glenrowan people held prisoner inside the hotel died during the siege.
Family members, including his sisters, Kate and Maggie, and friends took the bodies back to Greta. The police tried to get the bodies back, and sent a group of 16 policemen to Greta, but they became worried that this would start another fight and they went back to Benalla. Dan Kelly and Steve Hart were buried in unmarked graves at Greta, on 30 June 1880. About 100 people were at the funeral, with Dan's cousin, Tom Lloyd, as the undertaker, and a Greta farmer, Daniel O'Keefe, acting as a preacher. After the graves were filled in, the whole area was ploughed over to keep the site of the graves hidden. The family was worried that the police would still try to get the bodies.
After Glenrowan, Dan Kelly and Steve Hart's armour was taken by the police and kept at Benalla. Ned Kelly's armour was sent to Melbourne to be used at his trial. Joe Byrne's armour was sent to the police depot in Richmond. At the end of 1880, all the pieces were in Melbourne. One set of armour was given to Sir William Clarke. Over the years the pieces became mixed up. In 2002, the State Library of Victoria and the police exchanged some pieces to try and get the sets complete. The State Library has Ned's armour, Joe's is still owned by the Clarke family, and the police have Dan and Steve's armour which can be seen at the Victoria Police Museum in Melbourne.
Because it was not possible to prove how they died, or that the bodies were really Dan and Steve, there have been many stories about what might have happened. It is possible they may have killed themselves. This was the story that was used in the first Kelly movie, "The Story of the Kelly Gang" in 1906, and in the 2003 Ned Kelly movie. There have also been stories that both survived the fire. There is little evidence to support these claims. One man, James Ryan, said he was Dan Kelly. In 1934 he went on stage at the Brisbane Exhibition and told stories about the Kelly Gang. He died on 29 July 1948, after being struck by a train. The Ipswich City Council have put a memorial on his grave. In 2001, scientists took a small piece of bone from the grave of Charles Devine Tindall at Toowoomba, Queensland, to see if they could find DNA to prove he was Dan Kelly. Devine, who had burn scars on his body, told his family he was really Dan. He said he had hidden under the floor of the Glenrowan hotel and escaped after the fire. In October 1902, a Melbourne newspaper printed a story that Dan Kelly and Steve Hart were living in South Africa. The men had fought in the Second Boer War. Another man, Jim Davis from Darra (a suburb of Brisbane, Queensland), said in 1938 that he was Dan Kelly. He claimed that he, Steve Hart and Joe Byrne had escaped from the hotel. He also said he was born at the Eureka Stockade in 1854, which makes him too old to have really been Dan.
The story of Dan and Ned Kelly has been told many times. There have been more books written about the Kelly Gang than any other event in Australian history. The very first full length movie in the world, made in 1906, was "The Story of the Kelly Gang". In the 2003 Ned Kelly movie starring Heath Ledger as Ned Kelly, the part of Dan Kelly was played by Laurence Kinlan. Orlando Bloom played the part of Joe Byrne.
In 2012 a pistol was put up for sale which had "1876 DAN KELLY" carved into it. A pistol was known to have been found at Glenrowan after the siege but it is now lost. The pistol being sold was found on the banks of the Murrumbidgee River in 1900. It is a muzzle load single shot pistol made for the East India Company Cavalry.

</doc>
<doc id="129794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129794" title="By the Way">
By the Way

By the Way is the eighth studio album by American alternative rock band Red Hot Chili Peppers. It was released on July 9, 2002 by record label Warner Bros. Records. It sold over 282,000 copies in the first week, and reached the number two position on the "Billboard" 200 chart. The singles from the album were "By the Way", "The Zephyr Song", "Can't Stop", "Dosed" and "Universally Speaking". The lyrics on the album were about different things to past Red Hot Chili Peppers albums. However, some critics thought it was similar to the previous album, "Californication", but more a bit more serious.

</doc>
<doc id="129797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129797" title="Stadium Arcadium">
Stadium Arcadium

Stadium Arcadium is the ninth studio album by American alternative rock band Red Hot Chili Peppers. It was released on May 9, 2006 by record label Warner Bros. Records. It sold 442,000 copies in the U.S. in the first week. It also appeared in the number one position on the "Billboard" 200 chart. According to Anthony Kiedis, "Stadium Arcadium" was going to be three different albums that the band would release; one every six months. However, they changed their mind and made one big double album. Critics said in reviews of "Stadium Arcadium" that the music on it was not very original, and was similar to the band's older work. However, they said it was still very good music. "Stadium Arcadium" won a Grammy Award, and so did "Dani California", the first single.

</doc>
<doc id="129799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129799" title="Category:Spreadsheet software">
Category:Spreadsheet software

This is a category about spreadsheet software.

</doc>
<doc id="129802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129802" title="KSpread">
KSpread

KSpread is a free software spreadsheet program that is part of KOffice, an office suite for the KDE Desktop Environment. 
Among KSpread features are multiple sheets per document, assorted formatting possibilities, support for more than 100 built-in functions, templates, chart, spell-check, hyperlinks, data sorting and scripting with Python, Ruby and Javascript.
KSpread native format is XML, compressed with ZIP. However, KSpread has the ability to import several different spreadsheet formats, including those from Microsoft Excel, Applix Spreadsheet, Quattro Pro, CSV and OpenOffice.org Calc.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="129823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129823" title="Nanterre">
Nanterre

Nanterre is a town in the west suburbs of Paris, France. Nanterre is the prefecture (capital) of the Hauts-de-Seine département and is in the Île-de-France region. Its population is about 84,000 (March 8, 1999 census). Its density is about 7,200/km². 
Eastern Nanterre, contains a part of the La Défense business district of Paris and some of the tallest buildings in Paris. The city of Nanterre also includes the University called Paris X – Nanterre, and its one of the largest in the Paris region.

</doc>
<doc id="129824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129824" title="Category:IWork">
Category:IWork

This category contains articles related to iWork.

</doc>
<doc id="129826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129826" title="Créteil">
Créteil

Créteil is a city in the southeast suburb of Paris, France. It is the prefecture of the Val-de-Marne department in the Île-de-France region.
Créteil is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="129827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129827" title="IWork">
IWork

iWork is a suite of programs created by Apple Inc., containing Pages, a word processing and desktop publishing program, Keynote, a presentation package and Numbers, a spreadsheet program.
Although iWork is called "a successor to AppleWorks" by Apple, it does not have the functions of AppleWorks's database and drawing tools. Also, it does not compete directly with the Mac version of Microsoft Office, but instead offers tools with a different focus (presentation, rather than analysis) at a lower price. It is made to integrate with other applications from Apple's iLife Suite. Although iLife comes free on every Mac, iWork is sold separately. A free 30-day trial of iWork was given with every new Mac (up through February of 2008—as of March 2008, but now the iWork trial is available only as a download), and with copies of iLife.
iWork '05 was launched on January 11, 2005 and had the new version 2 of Keynote and the first release of Pages. Before it was released, what would become iWork was said to be an add-on, upgrade, or new release of AppleWorks.
On January 10, 2006, Apple introduced iWork '06 at the Macworld Expo in San Francisco, which upgraded Pages to version 2 and Keynote to version 3. New features common to both applications included 3D charts, tables with formula support, reviewer comments, and shaped image masking. The addition of tables with formula support may have been added to quiet rumors of an Apple spreadsheet application. Since iWork's focus is on presentation, Apple gave a way to put most common spreadsheet features into a table while providing only limited additional functionality.
iWork '08 was announced on August 7, 2007 at a special event at Apple's Cupertino campus. New versions of Pages and Keynote were introduced, as was a new spreadsheet application, Numbers. Despite this, hard disk space requirements were reduced from 1.85 GB in iWork '06 to 690 MB in iWork '08. iWork '08 was the end of AppleWorks which was not sold anymore a week later. iWork 08 drops support for Mac OS X v10.3 'Panther'.

</doc>
<doc id="129832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129832" title="KPresenter">
KPresenter

KPresenter is a free presentation program that is part of KOffice, an office suite for the KDE Desktop Environment.
KPresenter's native format is XML, compressed with ZIP. KPresenter is also able to load presentations from Microsoft PowerPoint, MagicPoint and OpenOffice.org Impress documents.

</doc>
<doc id="129833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129833" title="Category:Presentation software">
Category:Presentation software

This category contains articles related to Presentation software.

</doc>
<doc id="129841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129841" title="Aulnay-sous-Bois">
Aulnay-sous-Bois

Aulnay-sous-Bois is a town and commune in the northeast suburb of Paris, France. It is in the Île-de-France region and the Seine-Saint-Denis department. About 80,000 people lived there in 1999. The people who live there are called the "Aulnaysiens".
In October and November 2005, it was badly affected by the French riots.

</doc>
<doc id="129843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129843" title="Vitry-sur-Seine">
Vitry-sur-Seine

Vitry-sur-Seine is a town and commune in the southest suburb of Paris, France. It is in the Île-de-France region and the Val-de-Marne department. About 79,000 people lived there in 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="129847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129847" title="Distrito Nacional">
Distrito Nacional

The Distrito Nacional is a subdivision of the Dominican Republic enclosing the capital Santo Domingo, so it is not in any of the provinces. It is a municipality but, in some aspects, it is like a province; for example, it elects one senator to the congress.
Before 16 October 2001, the Distrito Nacional was much larger, including what is now the Santo Domingo Province.
The Distrito Nacional ("National District") is in the south coast of the country. It has the Santo Domingo province to the north, east and west, and the Caribbean Sea to the south.
The Distrito Nacional was created by the Dominican constitution of 1844 as a province: the "Santo Domingo" province (different from the modern province of the same name). It had the municipalities of Santo Domingo, Baní, San Cristóbal, San José de Los Llanos, Monte Plata, Bayaguana and Boyá.
In 1932, its name was changed to "Provincia Nacional" and all municipalities that were to the north of the Isabela and Ozama rivers became part of the San Cristóbal province.
In 1934, the name was changed to "Distrito Nacional" and, instead of a province, it became like a municipality. The name was changed again to "Distrito de Santo Domingo" but the 1955 constitution changed it back to "Distrito Nacional".
In (last national census), there were people living in the Distrito Nacional, second only to the Santo Domingo province. The population density was persons/km², the highest density in the country.
Its population represents of the total population of the country and the province is ranked as the 2nd (out of 31 plus the National District) more populated administrative division.
, the total estimated propulation of the province is 1,015,150 inhabitants.
The Distrito Nacional is a single municipality, with a total area of . It has of the area of the Dominican Republic and it is ranked as the 32nd, the smallest administrative division of the country.
The two important rivers in the Distrito Nacional are Ozama and Isabela. The river Ozama is the eastern limit of the Distrito Nacional and separates it from Santo Domingo Este, head municipality of the Santo Domingo province. The river Isabela, a tributary of the Ozama, is the northern limit of the Distrito Nacional and separates it from Santo Domingo Norte.
The climate of the province is a tropical climate, warm during the whole year.

</doc>
<doc id="129851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129851" title="Duarte Province">
Duarte Province

The Duarte Province is a Dominican province; it is found in the northeastern part of the country. It has the name of one of the Founding Fathers of the country, Juan Pablo Duarte.
It was created in 1896 as a district (an old country subdivision) with the name "Distrito Pacificador" but the Constitution of 1907 changed all districts to provinces. In 1925 its name was changed to "Duarte".
The Duarte province is bordered on the east by the María Trinidad Sánchez and Samaná provinces, on the south by the Monte Plata and Sánchez Ramírez provinces, on the west by the La Vega and Hermanas Mirabal provinces and on the north by the Espaillat and María Trinidad Sánchez provinces.
The area that currently forms the Duarte province was originally part of La Vega province until 1885 when it was made part of the Espaillat province.
In 1896, this part of the country was made a province, including some coastal towns that are now part of the María Trinidad Sánchez province. With the creation of this last province in 1959, the Duarte province lost all coastal areas and became a landlocked province (surrounded by other provinces by all sides). At this time, the municipalities of the Duarte province were San Francisco de Macorís, Castillo, Pimentel and Villa Riva, with Hostos as a municipal district.
Arenoso was made a municipality in 1993, Las Guáranas in 1998 and Hostos (with the name of Eugenio María de Hostos) in 2004.
The municipal districts of the province were created in:
In (last national census), there were people living in the Duarte province, and 191,878 () living in towns and cities. The population density was persons/km².
Its population represents of the total population of the country and the province is ranked as the 8th (out of 31 plus the National District) more populated province.
, the total estimated propulation of the province is 295,741 inhabitants.
The largest city of the province is San Francisco de Macorís, its head municipality or capital, with a population (in 2010) of 149,508 inhabitants. Other big cities are Pimentel and Castillo.
The Duarte province has a total area of . It has 3.3% of the area of the Dominican Republic and it is ranked as the 13th (out of 31 plus the National District) largest province.
There are two geographical regions in the province: the northern half with the "Cordillera Septentrional" (in English, "Northern mountain range"); and the southern half, in the "Cibao Oriental" ("Eastern Cibao"), the eastern part of "Cibao" Valley.
There are two main roads in the province. The first road comes from Moca and Salcedo and goes to the southeast and then to the north to end in Nagua, on the northern coast.
The second road is shorter than the first and is a branch of the "Carretera Duarte" (Duarte National Road) that ends in San Francisco de Macorís.
Most rivers in the province are short and have their sources in the "Cordillera Septentrional". Most of them flow to the south and are tributaries of the "Camú" or "Yuna" rivers; Camú is the main tributary of Yuna and these two rivers mark the southern limit of the province and flow from west to east.
The climate of the province is a tropical climate but modified by elevation and the "Trade winds" (winds that come from from the Atlantic Ocean, filled with water), which blow from the Atlantic all year long. Rains are common in this province, mainly in the northern mountains where there are rainforests.
There are 7 municipalities and 11 municipal districts (M.D.) in the province. The municipalities and its municipal districts (M.D.) are:
The main economic activity of the province is agriculture; the main products are coffee in the mountains, rice in the southern and eastern part of the province and cacao in the low mountains and those parts of the valley close to the mountains.
Other important economic activity is cattle raising. There are several industries, especially textiles and food, in San Francisco de Macorís.

</doc>
<doc id="129853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129853" title="Jamie Noble">
Jamie Noble

James Gibson (born December 23, 1976) better known by his ring name Jamie Noble, is an American professional wrestler. He is best known for his time wrestling with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) and as a road agent/producer to SmackDown's cruiserweight division. He is also known for his appearances with Ring of Honor, where he won its World Championship, and World Championship Wrestling in its cruiserweight division and is a one time Cruiserweight Champion.

</doc>
<doc id="129854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129854" title="Paul London">
Paul London

Paul Sanchez-Garcia London (born April 16, 1980) is an American professional wrestler. He was formally signed to World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) performing on its Raw brand.
After being trained at the Texas Wrestling Academy, London began competing for Ring of Honor, where although he never won a title, began popular amongst the fans due to his high risk offensive moves. He later competed for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, Pro Wrestling ZERO-ONE, and various independent promotions, winning numerous championships and won the ECWA Super 8 Tournament in 2003.
London made his debut in WWE in late 2003, and immediately began teaming with fellow cruiserweight Spanky, (Brian Kendrick). After Kendrick briefly left WWE, London formed a tag team with Billy Kidman, and together they won the WWE Tag Team Championship. After their split, London began competing in the cruiserweight division, and won the WWE Cruiserweight Championship. In late 2006, Kendrick returned, and the two reformed as a team. London and Kendrick were previously managed by WWE Diva, Ashley Massaro, who London has previously dated. The team split when Kendrick was drafted to the SmackDown brand in June 2008.
In WWE, London is a former WWE Cruiserweight Champion, World Tag Team Champion, and two-time WWE Tag Team Champion. During his second reign as WWE Tag Team champion, London and his partner, Brian Kendrick, became the longest reigning WWE Tag Team Champions since the title's creation.
He was released from his WWE contract in late 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="129855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129855" title="Val Venis">
Val Venis

Sean Allen Morley (born March 6 1971) perhaps best known by his ring name of Val Venis, is a Canadian professional wrestler. He is best known for his time wrestling for the WWF/WWE.During his career in WWF/E, Morley has held the Intercontinental Championship twice, European Championship once and World Tag Team Championship once with Lance Storm.

</doc>
<doc id="129858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129858" title="I Don't Care">
I Don't Care

"I Don't Care" is a song by American rock band Fall Out Boy and the lead single from their fifth studio album "Folie à Deux" in 2008. It reached No. 21 on the US "Billboard" Hot 100 songs chart and has sold over 1 million copies in the US.

</doc>
<doc id="129864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129864" title="Joy Giovanni">
Joy Giovanni

Joy Giovanni (born January 20, 1978) is an American actress, glamour model, and former WWE Diva. She is best known for her time with World Wrestling Entertainment, where she worked on their "SmackDown!" brand.

</doc>
<doc id="129867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129867" title="Youngstown, New York">
Youngstown, New York

Youngstown is a village of Niagara County in the state of New York in the United States. 1,957 people were living here as of 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="129869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129869" title="Barney Dreyfuss">
Barney Dreyfuss

Bernhard "Barney" Dreyfuss (February 23 1865 – February 5 1932) was a German-American executive in Major League Baseball who owned the Pittsburgh Pirates franchise from 1900 to 1932. 
Dreyfuss was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2008 following his election by the Veterans Committee.

</doc>
<doc id="129874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129874" title="Brother Bear 2">
Brother Bear 2

Brother Bear 2 is a 2006 Disney animated movie, released direct-to-video on August 29, 2006, and the sequel and second and final to Disney's animated feature movie "Brother Bear". Melissa Etheridge contributed wrote the movie's three songs. In the movie, the adventures of bear brothers Kenai and Koda continue. While the first movie dealt with Kenai's relationship with Koda, this one is more about his bond with a young human, Nita.
"Brother Bear 2" did surprisingly better in critical response than "Brother Bear 1", with a higher rating of 58% in Rotten Tomatoes, indicating mixed-to-positive reviews. The consensus is "the story seems lacking along with some annoying plot holes, but "Brother Bear 2" is a worth-watching fun family film that will entertain kids and adults along the way".
It is unknown when a "Brother Bear 3" will be released.

</doc>
<doc id="129876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129876" title="The Geysers">
The Geysers

The Geysers, a geothermal power field 72 miles (116 km) north of San Francisco, California, is the largest geothermal development in the world. It is currently outputting over 750 MW. The Geysers consists of 22 separate power plants that utilize steam from more than 350 producing wells. The Calpine Corporation operates and owns 19 of the 22 facilities.

</doc>
<doc id="129880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129880" title="Wind power">
Wind power

Wind power is the conversion of the energy in wind into a more useful form of energy, like electricity. It is a renewable source of energy that helps to cut down on the pollution of earth's air. 
Wind power capacity has expanded quickly to 336 GW in June 2014, and wind energy production was about 4% of total worldwide electricity usage, and growing fast. Wind power is widely used in European countries, and more recently in the United States and Asia. In 2012 wind power accounted for approximately 30% of electricity generation in Denmark, 20% in Portugal and 18% in Spain.
Wind power stations use the wind to turn a turbine which turns a magnet inside a coil (a type of generator). The wind has kinetic energy (movement energy) which is changed into mechanical energy by the blades on the turbine. The turbine then turns a generator which creates electrical energy (voltage). The turbine is usually connected by a gearbox to help control the speed it turns the generator at.
Wind Power Stations have the advantage over Fossil Fuel Power Stations as they do not produce any greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide or water vapour. They also do not produce gases that help make acid rain such as sulfur dioxide.
Wind turbines have to be carefully placed. They must be in positions where there is a constant, steady supply of wind. In fact, the wind must not become too strong or it may damage the turbine. Because wind is unpredictable, so is the amount of power that wind turbines will produce, making them an unreliable source of energy.
Some people also consider wind turbines to be ugly and unsightly. Also, huge numbers of electricity pylons ("transmission towers") are built on land to carry the electricity to the electric company. These pylons in areas of natural beauty are a major reason for local people to object to wind farms and their consequences.

</doc>
<doc id="129901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129901" title="Serbian Dinar">
Serbian Dinar

Dinar () is the official currency in Serbia. This currency is convertible.

</doc>
<doc id="129921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129921" title="Avenel, Victoria">
Avenel, Victoria

Avenel is a small town in Victoria, Australia. It is in the Shire of Strathbogie local government area. At the 2006 census, 728 people lived in Avenel. The town was built on the old Hume Highway. The new Hume Freeway now goes around the town. The town has sporting clubs for football, netball, tennis, cricket and lawn bowls. The town is about 15 minutes north-east of Seymour along the Hume Highway.
Bushranger Ned Kelly lived in Avenel when he was young. He saved a boy from drowning in Hughes Creek and was given a green silk sash as a reward. He was wearing this sash under his armour when he was captured by the police after the Siege of Glenrowan. His brother and father are buried in the Avenel cemetery.
There is a railway station in Avenel which is on the main line between Melbourne and Albury.

</doc>
<doc id="129926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129926" title="One Hot Minute">
One Hot Minute

One Hot Minute is the sixth studio album by American alternative rock band Red Hot Chili Peppers. It was released on September 12, 1995 by record label Warner Bros. Records. John Frusciante had left the band after their previous album, "Blood Sugar Sex Magik", so Dave Navarro joined as the new guitarist.
Red Hot Chili Peppers' music was very different because of Navarro. "One Hot Minute" is less about sex and love than the band's previous work, but is instead about themes like drugs and depression. It also had some heavy metal guitar riffs. Anthony Kiedis had become addicted to cocaine and heroin in 1994, so some of the lyrics he wrote were about the effects of drugs.
"One Hot Minute" did not sell many copies, even though it reached number four on the "Billboard" 200 chart. "Blood Sugar Sex Magik" sold twice as many copies as "One Hot Minute". In 1998, Navarro was asked to leave the band. Red Hot Chili Peppers told the media it was because they and Navarro liked to make different kinds of music. Stephen Thomas Erlewine of Allmusic said that ""One Hot Minute" is as musically ambitious as "Blood Sugar Sex Magik", but is even more unfocused, which means it provides the fewest thrills of any of the group's albums."

</doc>
<doc id="129927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129927" title="Greta, Victoria">
Greta, Victoria

Greta is a small town in Victoria, Australia. It is east of the city of Benalla. The local government that looks after Greta is the Rural City of Wangaratta. At the 2006 census, there were 231 people living in and around Greta. 
The area had four villages, all of which were called Greta at some time. The first township known as Greta, on Fifteen Mile Creek, is now called Greta West. The name is thought to come from Greta River in Cumberland, England.
After gold was found near Beechworth in 1852, roads to the gold diggings passed through the Greta area. At that time, there was a large swamp, which was later drained. The town site was laid out at Fifteen Mile Creek in 1852. During the 1860s the land was sold into small farm lots, used for cereals, cattle grazing, and dairying. At this time the township started with the Post Office opened on September 4, 1863. It closed in 1971, though post offices at Greta West and Greta South remained open until 1994.
In 1867 a Catholic school was started. By the 1880s there were 5 schools in the Greta area; Greta, Greta South, Greta West, Hansonville, and Fifteen Mile Creek. Today, only 2 of the 5 schools remain; Greta Valley and Fifteen Mile School Camp.
The nearby city of Benalla was joined to the railway in 1873. This meant that less people passed through Greta. It became mainly a farming area.
A Methodist church was started in 1878 and an Anglican church in 1890. A public hall was built in 1916.
Bushranger Ned Kelly's family lived on a small farm near Greta. It was in the small cottage at Greta that Constable Fitzpatrick tried to sexually assault Ned's sister, Kate Kelly. In the fight that followed, Fitzpatrick was injured. His mother, Ellen Kelly was put in gaol for 4 years for trying to murder Fitzpatrick. The police tried to arrest Ned and his brother Dan Kelly, but they had escaped into the bush. This was the start of the Kelly Gang.
After the siege at Glenrowan, Dan Kelly and Steve Hart, were buried in the Greta Cemetery. Ellen Kelly died at Greta in 1923, and is buried in the Greta Cemetery. Ned's younger brother, Jim Kelly, lived in the cottage at Greta until 1948. He is buried in the Greta Cemetery.
The town has a football team playing in the Ovens & King Football League.

</doc>
<doc id="129938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129938" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/List of mythological gods">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/List of mythological gods

" () has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"
"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Tuesday, 23 September 2008 at 4:42 pm, although it may be closed quicker due to .<br><br>

</doc>
<doc id="129959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129959" title="Alan Ball, Jr.">
Alan Ball, Jr.

Alan James Ball, Jr., MBE (12 May 1945 – 25 April 2007) was an English World Cup winning football player turned manager. He was born in Farnworth, Lancashire. He is known for career as an international player and at club level for Everton and Arsenal. He died of a heart attack in Warsash, Hampshire.

</doc>
<doc id="129984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129984" title="Good Life">
Good Life

Good Life is a rap single by Kanye West and featuring T-Pain. The song was released off the album "Graduation". The video was released September of 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="129996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129996" title="Lateral thinking">
Lateral thinking

Lateral thinking is a term invented by Edward de Bono, a Maltese psychologist, physician and writer. It first appeared in the title of his book "The Use of Lateral Thinking", published in 1967. De Bono explains lateral thinking as methods of thinking about changing concepts and perception. Lateral thinking is about reasoning that is not immediately obvious and about ideas that may not be obtainable by using only traditional step-by-step logic. 

</doc>
<doc id="129997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129997" title="Period (physics)">
Period (physics)

A Time period (denoted by 'T' ) is the time needed for one complete cycle of vibration to pass a given point. As the frequency of a wave increases, the time period of the wave decreases. "Frequency" and time "Period" are in a reciprocal relationship that can be expressed mathematically as: T = 1/f or as: f = 1/T.

</doc>
<doc id="129998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129998" title="Edward de Bono">
Edward de Bono

Edward de Bono (born 19 May 1933) is a Maltese physician, author, inventor and consultant. He is best known because he invented the term lateral thinking (structured creativity). He is also very much in favour to explicitly teach thinking in schools.
Most of de Bono's writings are about using lateral thinking to solve problems. In his book "Po: Beyond Yes and No" (1973), de Bono describes what he calls an "open block". This is when people ignore certain things that may solve a problem, because they already have an idea of how the problem should be solved. They may therefore not recognise other solutions to the problem. For example, if a person's car breaks down, the open block of being used to being in a car may cause them to wait for a taxi, ignoring buses passing by, without even reading the destinations.
In this book de Bono suggested a number of techniques for overcoming the open block. This includes going back and challenging assumptions, or generating new ideas for addressing problems. De Bono calls this a "po". A po is an idea that moves thinking forward to a new place from where new ideas or solutions may be found. Po can be taken to mean any of the following: provoking operation, provocative operation or provocation operation.

</doc>
<doc id="130000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130000" title="Quoll">
Quoll

Quoll (genus Dasyurus) are meat-eating marsupials native to Australia and Papua New Guinea. The name "dasyurus" means "hairy tail." Adults are between 25 and 75 cm long, with hairy tails about 20-35 cm long (about the size of a cat). Females have pouch to carry their babies.
Quolls are threatened by eating toxic cane toads, but a University of Sydney project is teaching them not to eat them.
The family Dasyurini to which quolls belong also includes the Tasmanian devil, antechinuses, the kowari, and mulgaras.
Within the genus "Dasyurus", the following species exist:
There is at least one fossil species from the Pliocene, that is "D. dunmalli".

</doc>
<doc id="130001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130001" title="Anesthesiologist">
Anesthesiologist

An anesthesiologist (also anaesthesiologist) is a doctor of medicine.An anesthesiologist (American English) or anaesthetist (British English) is a physician trained in anesthesia and perioperative medicine. Terminology varies between countries. The main jobs of an anesthesiologist are:
The first anesthesiologist was John Snow (18131858). 

</doc>
<doc id="130005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130005" title="Wind power in the United States">
Wind power in the United States

Wind power in the United States is a growing industry. As of 2011, the total installed capacity of was 42,432 megawatts (MW), making it second in the world, behind China. In 2010 wind power accounted for 2.3% of the electricity generated in the United States. This amounted to 94,650 thousand megawatt-hours of electricity.
Driven by state renewable energy mandates, fourteen states have installed over 1,000 MW of wind capacity, and a total of 37 states now have installed at least some large-scale wind power. Texas, with 10,135 MW of capacity, has the most installed wind power capacity of any U.S. state, followed by Iowa with 3,675 MW. The Roscoe Wind Farm (781 MW) in Texas is the largest wind farm in the US as of 2011.
The U.S. wind industry generates tens of thousands of jobs and billions of dollars. Wind projects boost local tax bases, and help the economy of rural communities by providing a steady income stream to farmers with wind turbines on their land. GE Energy is the largest domestic wind turbine manufacturer.

</doc>
<doc id="130006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130006" title="Necromancy">
Necromancy

Necromancy is a form of divination in which a person tries to summon the spirits of the dead. Necromancy is seen by Christians and Jews as black magic and demon-summoning, as the Book of Leviticus 19:31 says: 'do not turn to mediums or necromancers; do not seek them out and so make yourselves unclean.'

</doc>
<doc id="130007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130007" title="Tarot">
Tarot

The Тarot (often Тarot cards) are a set of seventy-eight cards, comprising twenty-two Тrump cards, and four suits of fourteen cards each with four Face cards. In the English speaking world, Тarot cards are mostly used for divination. Tarot cards are also used in many European countries for playing trick taking card games. Cartomancy is to use Tarot cards for divination.

</doc>
<doc id="130008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130008" title="Francis Dashwood, 15th Baron le Despencer">
Francis Dashwood, 15th Baron le Despencer

Francis Dashwood, 15th Baron le Despencer (December 1708–11 December 1781) was an English rake and politician. He was Chancellor of the Exchequer (1762-1763) and founder of The Hellfire Club.
Dashwood was born in London. He was educated at Eton College where he became associated with William Pitt the Elder. Orphaned at age 16, he went on a Grand Tour of Europe in 1726.

</doc>
<doc id="130009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130009" title="Demonology">
Demonology

Demonology is the study of demons or beliefs about demons. It is the branch of theology relating to superhuman beings or spirits who are not gods.

</doc>
<doc id="130010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130010" title="Megalania">
Megalania

Megalania ("Varanus prisca") was a giant monitor lizard that lived in southern Australia. It was part of a species of megafauna that lived during the Pleistocene, and appears to have disappeared around 40,000 years ago. The first Aboriginal settlers of Australia may have encountered living "Megalania".
"Megalania" is the land-based lizard known to have existed. Judging from its size, "Megalania" would have fed mostly upon medium- to large-sized animals, including any of the giant marsupials like "Diprotodon" .
Ralph Molnar in 2004 determined a range of possible sizes for "Megalania". He did this by scaling up from dorsal vertebrae, after he determined a relationship between dorsal vertebrae length and total body length. If it had a long thin tail like the Lace monitor ("Varanus varius"), then it would have reached a length of . If its tail-to-body proportions were more similar to that of the Komodo dragon, then a length of around is more likely. Using 7 m as the maximum length, Molnar estimated the average weight of the lizard at , and as the maximum.
This is twice the length of their closest living relative, the Komodo dragon of eastern Indonesia.

</doc>
<doc id="130028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130028" title="Pierre Boulle">
Pierre Boulle

Pierre Boulle (1912 - 1994) was a French writer. He was born in Avignon, France. Boulle wrote many novels and short stories in French. Two stories became popular English language movies: "Planet of the Apes" and "The Bridge on the River Kwai". Boulle won the award for Best Adapted Screenplay and BAFTA Award for Best British Screenplay for "The Bridge over the River Kwai". He is said to have given the shortest acceptance speech in Academy Award history, the single word, "Merci", which means "Thank you".
Boulle served in the army in World War II.
Boulle died in Paris on 30 January 1994, at age 81.

</doc>
<doc id="130029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130029" title="The Fool (Tarot card)">
The Fool (Tarot card)

The Fool or The Jester ("Il Matto" in Italian) is one of the 78 cards in a Tarot deck. It is one of the 22 Trump cards that make up the Major Arcana and the only one of the major arcana found in the modern playing cards in the role of the joker. The Fool is often numbered 0. It is used in divination as well as in game playing.

</doc>
<doc id="130030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130030" title="Category:Tarot">
Category:Tarot


</doc>
<doc id="130031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130031" title="Major Arcana">
Major Arcana

The Major Arcana (Trumps Major, Major Trumps) are twenty two tarot cards in a deck of 78.

</doc>
<doc id="130035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130035" title="American International Group">
American International Group

American International Group, Inc. (AIG) (, , ) is a major American insurance corporation based in New York City. The company's UK headquarters are in London, its Continental Europe operations are based in Paris and its Asian HQ is in Hong Kong. According to the 2008 Forbes Global 2000 list, AIG was the 18th-largest company in the world. It became part of the Dow Jones Industrial Average on April 8, 2004. 
On September 16 2008, the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank announced its plan to lend the insurer $85 billion, U.S. dollars, in exchange for a 79.9% equity stake in the company. 
AIG announced on the same day that its board accepted the terms of the Federal Reserve Bank's loan offer.

</doc>
<doc id="130038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130038" title="Tokyo Stock Exchange">
Tokyo Stock Exchange

The , or TSE, is in Tokyo, Japan. It is the second largest stock exchange market in the world by market value, second only to the New York Stock Exchange. It currently lists 2,271 domestic companies and 31 foreign companies, with a total market capitalization of over 5 trillion USD.
The Tokyo Stock Exchange was established in 1878. It is the second oldest stock exchange in Asia.

</doc>
<doc id="130040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130040" title="Fratton Park">
Fratton Park

Fratton Park is a football stadium in England. It is the home stadium of Portsmouth F.C.. 

</doc>
<doc id="130043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130043" title="List of Premier League stadiums">
List of Premier League stadiums

Since the beginning of the Premier League, 53 football stadiums have been used to host matches, with one more stadium set to host its first match in the 2016–17 season. The first round of Premier League matches took place on 15 August 1992. 11 clubs hosted the opening fixtures. Following the Hillsborough Disaster in 1989, the Taylor Report suggested the removal of standing terraces by the start of the 1994–95 season. They were replaced by all-seater stadiums.
When Fulham came up from Division 1 in the 2000–2001 season, terraces returned for a short while. This gave them more time to complete the changes. For a bit of time they had to play at Loftus Road after not enough progress was made in converting Craven Cottage. They returned to their home ground after building work was completed in time for the 2004–05 season.
Burnley's Turf Moor stadium became the 50th Premier League stadium on 19 August 2009, where they faced Manchester United. Bournemouth's Dean Court is the most recent stadium to host a Premier League match, when they played their first ever home Premier League match against Aston Villa on 8 August 2015. The next stadium to host its first Premier League match will be London Stadium, new home to West Ham United, when West Ham hosts Bournemouth on 21 August 2016.
Stadiums listed in bold mean they are the home grounds of teams currently in the 2016–17 Premier League season. Those in "italics" have now been demolished.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="130046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130046" title="Boleyn Ground">
Boleyn Ground

The Boleyn Ground, often called Upton Park is a football stadium in London, England. It is the home stadium of West Ham United.
On the 7th May 2016, the final game was played between West Ham United F.C. and Swansea City A.F.C. because the ground was sold for demolition. By July 2016, the seats were removed and it was handed over to the developers for demolition.

</doc>
<doc id="130049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130049" title="City of Manchester Stadium">
City of Manchester Stadium

The City of Manchester Stadium is a stadium in Manchester, England. It is also called the Etihad Stadium, COMS or Eastlands. The stadium was designed by Arup and built by John Laing. It was first designed as part of Manchester's failed bid for the 2000 Summer Olympics. The stadium was built for the 2002 Commonwealth Games at a cost of £110 million. After the Games, it was turned into a football stadium. It became the home of Manchester City F.C. who moved there from Maine Road in 2003 after signing a 250-year lease.
The stadium is shaped like a bowl. It has two levels all the way around. There is a third level along the two side stands. As of the start of the 2010/2011 season, it is the third-largest stadium in the FA Premier League and the ninth-largest in the United Kingdom, with 55,097 seats. The highest attendance for a football game at the stadium was on 6 February 2016 when 54,693 fans watched Manchester City play Leicester City. On 14 May 2008, it hosted the UEFA Cup Final.
Manchester City F.C. signed an agreement with Manchester City Council in March 2010 to allow redevelopment of land around the stadium. This may include adding more seats to make 60,000 in the stadium. Work on land around the stadium started in September 2010. The club is also talking with Manchester City Council to make a new lease on the stadium for the future.
Plans to build a stadium in east Manchester were made around 1990 as part of the city's bid to host the 2000 Summer Olympics. Manchester City Council paid for a design for an 80,000 seat stadium on a brownfield site known as "Eastlands". However, in October 1993, the games were awarded to Sydney, Australia. Manchester then made a successful bid to host the 2002 Commonwealth Games. They used the stadium plans from the Olympic bid. In 1996, the planned stadium competed with Wembley Stadium to gain funding to become the national stadium. The money was used to redevelop Wembley instead.
City of Manchester Stadium's foundation stone was laid by Prime Minister, Tony Blair, in December 1999. Construction began in January 2000. The stadium was designed by Arup and built by John Laing. The stadium cost about £110 million. £77 million of that was paid by Sport England and the rest was paid by the Manchester City Council. For the Commonwealth Games, the stadium had one lower level along three sides of the athletics track. There was a second level on the two sides. It had an open-air temporary stand at one end. The first public event at the stadium was the opening ceremony of the 2002 Commonwealth Games on 25 July 2002. Among the celebrities present at the ceremony was Queen Elizabeth II. During the ten days of competition, the stadium hosted all athletics events and the rugby sevens. Four Commonwealth records were set at the stadium, including the women's triple jump and the women's 5000 m.
After the Commonwealth Games, the stadium was changed so it could be used as a football stadium. Athletics events had been very successful at the Commonwealth Games. Athletics figures such as Jonathan Edwards and Sebastian Coe therefore criticised the decision to change the stadium into a football stadium. Redevelopment was called necessary to give the stadium a future. Sections of the track were removed and placed at other athletics stadiums. The ground level was lowered to make way for another level of seating. The temporary stand was taken apart. It was replaced with a permanent structure of similar design to the existing one at the southern end. This work took a year and added 12,000 seats. Manchester City F.C. moved to the new ground for the 2003–04 season. The change cost over £30 million. It was paid for by the football club.
The first public football match at the stadium was a friendly between Manchester City and Barcelona on 10 August 2003. Manchester City won the game 2–1. The first goal at the stadium was scored by Nicolas Anelka. The first competitive match followed four days later. It was a UEFA Cup game between Manchester City and Welsh Premier League side TNS. City won 5–0. Manchester City started the Premier League season with an away match. They beat Charlton 3–0. Their first home league match in their new stadium was not until 23 August. They drew 1-1 with Portsmouth. David Sommeil scored City's goal. Portsmouth's was scored by Yakubu Aiyegbeni. Their first Premier League win did not come until 14 September. Nicolas Anelka scored a hat-trick to help City beat Aston Villa 4–1. The record football attendance at the stadium is 47,348. It was set at a Premier League game against Chelsea on 5 December 2009.
The stadium has also hosted several other sporting events. It became the 50th stadium to host an England international football match when the English and Japanese national teams played on 1 June 2004. On 30 October of that year, it played host to a rugby league match between Great Britain and Australia in the Tri-Nations series. In June 2005, the stadium hosted England's opening game in the UEFA Women's Championship. It set an attendance record for the competition. It is rated as an elite stadium by UEFA. It hosted the 2008 UEFA Cup Final between Rangers and Zenit St Petersburg.
The stadium has a number of unofficial nicknames. "Eastlands" was used before the stadium was officially named. It is still commonly used. "City of Manchester Stadium" is sometimes abbreviated to "COMS" when written. "The Blue Camp", a pun on Barcelona's Nou Camp, has been used rarely. After the club was taken over by the Emirati Abu Dhabi United Group in 2008, some fans called the stadium "Middle Eastlands" as a joke. The stadium has generally received positive feedback from fans. It came in second behind Old Trafford in a 2005 poll to find the United Kingdom's favourite football ground. As Manchester City Council owns the stadium, it is also called the "Council House" by fans of City's rivals, Manchester United.
The stadium is owned by Manchester City Council. It is leased by the football club. The 2008 takeover made the football club the richest in the world. This led to rumors that the club could think about buying the stadium from the city.
The inside of the City of Manchester Stadium is a full oval bowl. It has three levels of seating at the sides and two levels at each end. While the seating is a full bowl, each side of the stadium has its own name. This is like other football grounds. At first, all sides of the stadium were named by compass direction ("North Stand" and "South Stand" for the ends, "East Stand" and "West Stand" for the sides). In February 2004, after a vote by fans, the West Stand was renamed the "Colin Bell Stand." It was named in honour of the former player. The vote was almost stopped, as it was taken over by rival fans. They hoped the stand would be nicknamed "The Bell End" (even though the stand is to the side, not at an end). However, fans of the club made it clear they wanted the name to stay. The South Stand was officially named the "Key 103 Stand" for sponsorship reasons from 2003 to 2006. Fans mostly ignored this name for it. Part of the North Stand is called the "Family Stand". It is reserved for supporters with children. The East Stand is unofficially known to fans as "the Kippax". It is named after the East Stand from Maine Road. Supporters of visiting teams sit in part of the South Stand. There are 68 executive boxes within the stadium. They are along the West, North and East Stands.
The stadium roof is toroidal (like a doughnut) in shape. It is suspended from steel cables attached to eight towers. These provide access to the upper level of seating via spiral ramps. The areas without seating in each corner have movable louvres. This allows for air to move through the pitch. Entry is gained by contactless smart card rather than the usual manned turnstile. This system can admit up to 1,200 people per minute around all entrances. A service tunnel running under the stadium provides access for emergency vehicles. It allows the visiting team's bus to enter the stadium directly. Inside the stadium are six themed restaurants. Two of restaurants have views of the pitch. There are also a number of conference facilities. The stadium is also licensed for marriage ceremonies.
The City of Manchester Stadium has a UEFA standard dimension pitch, . It has a natural grass pitch reinforced with artificial grass fibres made by Desso. There are 218 floodlights in the stadium. Each uses 2000 watts. In total they use 436,000 watts when they are all on.
The stadium is the centrepiece of an area known as Sportcity. It also includes several other sporting venues. Next to the stadium is the "Manchester Regional Arena". The Arena served as a warm-up track during the Commonwealth Games. It is now a 6,178 capacity venue that hosts national athletics trials and Manchester City reserve team games. The Manchester Velodrome and the National Squash Centre are close to the stadium. In September 2006, Manchester City received planning permission to build an wind turbine at the stadium. Designed by Norman Foster, the turbine was meant to give power for the stadium and nearby homes. Safety concerns about ice on the blades led to the proposal being stopped. From 2005 to 2009 a Thomas Heatherwick sculpture, "B of the Bang", was present in front of the stadium. Built to honor the success of the 2002 Commonwealth Games, it was the tallest sculpture in the UK. However, structural problems led to the sculpture being taken apart in 2009.
On 30 January 2007, it was announced that the UK's first Super Casino would be built in the Sportcity area close to the stadium.
Plans for this have since been stopped. It did receive authorisation from the Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport.
Many people called The 2002 Commonwealth Games a huge success with the stadium gaining positive reviews for its atmosphere and architectural design.
The City of Manchester Stadium has won a number of design awards. This includes the 2004 Royal Institute of British Architects Inclusive Design Award for inclusive building design, and the 2003 Institution of Structural Engineers Structural Special Award.
Manchester City's reaction to the stadium was a mix of positive and negative. Some fans were not too excited about moving from the famous Maine Road, Maine Road had a reputation for having a great atmosphere and character. Others were happy about the bigger stadium and move back to east Manchester where Manchester City formed. A 2007 Premier League fan poll found that fans thought views at the stadium were second best in the Premier League after the Emirates Stadium. But the stadium had a problem common in modern stadia; the atmosphere was rated as second lowest in the league by City fans. Fans of opposing teams have generally given positive feedback. The stadium came in second behind Old Trafford in a 2005 poll to find the United Kingdom's favourite football ground.
The City of Manchester Stadium is to the east of Manchester city centre. The stadium site itself has 2,000 parking spaces. Another 8,000 spaces in the area around the stadium are provided by local businesses and schools working with the football club. The nearest railway station is Ashburys. It is a 20-minute walk south of the stadium. Services are limited due to the small size of the station. Manchester Piccadilly, which serves mainline trains from London, Birmingham and Edinburgh, is a 30-minute walk away. Several special bus services serve the stadium when events take place.
An extension to the Metrolink tram system with a stop at the stadium was announced in 2000. However, after a government spending review, the plan was put on hold in July 2004. In July 2006, funding for the extension was reinstated, but for a shorter length. A Sportcity Metrolink station opened on 11 February 2013.
Outside the football season, the stadium hosts concerts. It is one of the UK's largest music venues. It has a maximum capacity of 60,000 for performances. The first concert at the stadium was a performance by the Red Hot Chili Peppers in 2004. They were supported by James Brown. Local band and vocal Manchester City supporters, Oasis, have played concerts at the stadium. One of their shows was featured on their DVD "Lord Don't Slow Me Down". Another Manchester act, Take That, also released a DVD of their performance at the stadium, "".
Other artists who have played the stadium are U2, Rod Stewart, Foo Fighters supported by Manic Street Preachers and The Futureheads, Bon Jovi & George Michael.
Summer activities such as concerts and boxing matches often tear up the pitch. In 2008, end-of-season fixes, along with an early start to the football season, meant the pitch was not ready in time for the first scheduled home game. Because of this, Manchester City played their UEFA Cup first round qualifying match at Barnsley's Oakwell Stadium.

</doc>
<doc id="130053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130053" title="Craven Cottage">
Craven Cottage

Craven Cottage is a football stadium in the Hammersmith area of London, England. It is the home ground of Fulham F.C. It is called Craven Cottage after the cottage in the corner of the stadium.

</doc>
<doc id="130056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130056" title="Emirates Stadium">
Emirates Stadium

The Emirates Stadium is a football stadium in London, England. It is the home stadium of Arsenal F.C. It is named after the airline Emirates.
The stadium was built 2004 to 2006. It replaced the old Highbury stadium which has only 38,419 seats and was too small for the need of modern football.

</doc>
<doc id="130065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130065" title="Ewood Park">
Ewood Park

Ewood Park is a football stadium in Blackburn, England. It is the home stadium of Blackburn Rovers F.C.

</doc>
<doc id="130069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130069" title="Crushcrushcrush">
Crushcrushcrush

Crushcrushcrush is a single released by Pop rock band Paramore from their second album RIOT!
In the music video you can see the band performing. They are some spies also and it plays on the lyric "They taped over your mouth scribbled out the truth with their lies you little spies"
Crushcrushcrush is a download in Rock Band.

</doc>
<doc id="130081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130081" title="Beechworth, Victoria">
Beechworth, Victoria

Beechworth () is a town in north-east Victoria, Australia., It was first settled in the gold rush of the mid-1850s. At the 2006 census, 3227 people lived in Beechworth.
Beechworth has many old buildings which have been well looked after. The town has changed from a gold field to a popular place for people to visit. Wine making is also an important activity around Beechworth.
The area was first used as a cattle farm by David Reid and was called Mayday Hills. In 1853 it was renamed Beechworth.
From 1852-1857, Beechworth was an important gold area. Thousands of people moved to the area to dig for gold. One group of miners found 14 lb (about 7 kg) of gold in one gold pan (a small metal dish used separate gold from the soil). Another group found 50 lb (approx. 25 kg) of gold in a week. In the first election in 1855, one candidate, Daniel Cameron, rode a horse with solid gold horse shoes through the main street. This event is the reason the logo for Beechworth is a golden horse shoe, and the ride is remembered every year with the Golden Horseshoe Festival.
Beechworth was a long way from the centre of colonial government in Melbourne, both in distance and time taken to get there. The railway was built to Beechworth in September 1876. By this time the miners had found most of the gold, and the town was no longer important. The rail line was closed in 1977 and the tracks were taken away, after 101 years of service. The rail line is now used as a walking and bicycle path.
In the gold rush, Beechworth had a tannery, jewelers, boot makers, a brewery, blacksmiths, and farm animal sale yards. It had schools, a convent, hotels, a prison with high stone walls, a hospital, a mental hospital, courthouse, police station, stage coach companies and a gunpowder magazine (building for storing gunpowder).
In the gold rush men and women came from the USA, England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, and China. At one time more than 30,000 people lived in Beechworth. Gold mining camps started up up as thousands of miners rushed into areas such as Spring Creek, Reedy Creek, Silver Creek, the Nine Mile Creek and the Woolshed. The Chinese were not allowed live in Beechworth and so they lived on the edge of town. There were many rules and laws to try to control the Chinese miners. Beechworth Cemetery has a large number of early Chinese miners graves. There was a lot of unrest and complaints about having the Chinese goldminers around Beechworth.
Robert O'Hara Burke, leader of the Burke and Wills expedition was a policeman in Beechworth. He was the Senior Inspector of Police from 1854 to 1857.
The Burke Museum is in Loch Street and holds a lot of items on Beechworth and the local area. They have newspapers, photographs, artifacts, clothings, pictures, books on local history and other papers about the area. They have displays about the gold rush, Chinese miners and the gold diggings of the 1850s.
The bushranger Ned Kelly had many links to Beechworth. He was a prisoner in the gaol. He fought a famous boxing match with Isaiah 'Wild" Wright in behind a local hotel. Aaron Sherritt and Joe Byrne of the Kelly Gang came from the Woolshed gold field, near Beechworth. Twenty-one men, thought to be friends or relatives of the Kelly Gang were prisoners in the gaol. They were held without trial or evidence for over 3 months, by the Chief Commissioner of Police, Captain Standish.
Sadlier was a policeman who became famous in the hunt for Ned Kelly in the 1870s. He had been a policeman in Beechworth during the gold rush.
George B. Kerferd (1836-1889) lived in Beechworth and became a Premier of Victoria. He helped Beechworth get a railway to Melbourne.
Castieau (1831-1885)was the Prison Governor at Beechworth from 1856 to 1869. The prison, famous for its huge granite walls, was known as "Castieau's Castle". As the Governor of the Melbourne gaol in 1880 he was an official witness to the hanging of Ned Kelly.
In the gold rush Beechworth had 2 newspapers: "The Ovens and Murray Advertiser" and "The Constitution and Mining Intelligencer". "The Ovens and Murray Advertiser" is still a local paper printed each week.
Beechworth is a popular place for visitors. Items to see are Ned Kelly displays at the old court house, Burke Museum, waterfalls, Gun Powder Magazine, Newtown Bridge (Stone Bridge), Tail Race (Mining Race), Spring Creek Water Falls, Spring Creek Gorge, Beechworth Asylum ghost tours, lakes, old buildings, goldfields, walks, the Beechworth Bakery, brewery, the Beechworth lolly shop and night tours. The town is at the end of the Murray to the Mountains Rail Trail.

</doc>
<doc id="130083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130083" title="Hallelujah (Paramore song)">
Hallelujah (Paramore song)

"Hallelujah" is a song released by Fueled by Ramen band Paramore it is the third track off their second album RIOT! 

</doc>
<doc id="130088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130088" title="Collector, New South Wales">
Collector, New South Wales

Collector is a small village in New South Wales, Australia. It is on the Federal Highway between Goulburn, New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory and is 7km north of Lake George.
The area was first settled by Europeans in 1829. T.A. Murray started a farm and built a 12-room house on the land in 1837. A post office opened at Collector in 1848. The village is named after the Australian aboriginal name for the area, "colegadar". The village was by-passed by the Federal Highway in 1988.
The Bushranger Hotel in Collector was the site of the shooting of policeman, Constable Samuel Nelson on 26 Jan 1865, by John Dunn. Dunn was a bushranger and a member of Ben Hall's gang. The bushrangers were robbing the hotel when Nelson tried to stop them.
Other businesses in the village are: The Grapefoodwine Restaurant, Lynwood Café /Restaurant, Cafe Lerida of Lerida Estate Winery, Collector Art Gallery and Collector Quarries.
Collector is also famous for the sculpture Dreamers Gate by Tony Phantastes. He built it between 1993 and 1997 to as a memorial, among other things, to his father. It is a gothic sculpture made of cement and wire 24 metres long and 7 metres high. The artist and the Gunning Shire Council have been arguing over the sculpture since 1999. The council want the sculpture removed because it is unsafe.

</doc>
<doc id="130089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130089" title="Wikipedia:User talk page warnings">
Wikipedia:User talk page warnings

User warnings are meant to guide good-faith testers and dissuade bad-faith vandals. You may place any of the warning templates listed here on talk pages to warn users against vandalism. You are responsible for making sure that the template's text is suitable to the violation. If the template's tone is not appropriate, do not use the template. The templates are just a shortcut instead of typing. If you cannot find a template that says what you want to say, then just post a message for the user on his or her .
User warnings are for preventing further and/or , and not to punish users. If a user stopped vandalizing some time ago, and his or her edit history does not suggest a pattern of frequent vandalism, there is no need to warn or block the user. Likewise, if a user is in the middle of an obviously bad-faith vandalism spree, there is no need to issue the less serious warnings, or even to warn him or her before applying a temporary or a permanent block.
The warning templates are split into two types of warnings: single-issue templates which are one-off messages usually to provide information hints and tips, and multi-level warnings that can be issued with different levels of seriousness which are normally used for edits that do not meet Wikipedia's criteria or policies. When issuing multi-level warnings, use only one warning level at a time. Using several templates with different warning levels at the same time does not serve any purpose, since the user will not have read the less serious warnings before you issued more serious ones.
 ==Warnings==
 

</doc>
<doc id="130097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130097" title="Kivio">
Kivio

In computing, Kivio is a free diagramming software that is part of KOffice, an office suite for KDE.
Kivio is a flowcharting and diagramming program for the KOffice office suite, and has a user interface that looks like Microsoft Visio. 
Features:

</doc>
<doc id="130100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130100" title="Diagramming software">
Diagramming software

Diagramming software is a computer program that is used to produce graphical diagrams.

</doc>
<doc id="130102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130102" title="Category:Diagramming software">
Category:Diagramming software

This category contains articles related to diagramming software.

</doc>
<doc id="130104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130104" title="Ottakring">
Ottakring

Ottakring is part of Vienna. It is the 16th district of Vienna, created in 1893 from the villages of Ottakring and Neulerchenfeld. It is about 15 minutes away from the centre of Vienna by subway.
Today, there are less people in this district than in the past. In 1910, about 179,000 people lived there, but in 2006 there were only 94,000.
Josef Weinheber and Michael Häupl (the current mayor of Vienna) are some famous people from Ottakring.

</doc>
<doc id="130106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130106" title="Heuriger">
Heuriger

Heuriger is a word that describes the wine of the current year, and the places which serve it. According to a law of 1784, the winemakers may serve their own current wine, without a special license. These restaurants are licensed according to laws of the Bundesland. In Vienna these laws date from 1975. Very often,these establishments also serve cheese and sausages, other meat products, certain kinds of fish, mixed pickles, eggs, various spreads (to put on breads) etc. Usually they only serve cold dishes. 

</doc>
<doc id="130112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130112" title="Intertidal zone">
Intertidal zone

Intertidal zones are coastal areas, the space between high and low tides. They often have rock, sand or mud that is under water at high tide, and above water at low tide.
Rock pools are common on some shores. These areas is often home to many species of crabs, shellfish, shallow water fish and many other animals. Many environmental things affect these areas, for example, waves, sunlight, salinity, wind, and water tide. About 300,000 species have been found in the intertidal zone. These species have to tolerate the pounding of waves, the changes in temperature, and the drying out at low tide.

</doc>
<doc id="130121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130121" title="St James' Park">
St James' Park

St James' Park is a football stadium in Newcastle, England. It is the current home stadium of Newcastle United.
St.James' Park hosted three matches of the Euro 1996 and also hosted some matches during the 2012 Olympic Games and for the 2015 Rugby World Cup.
The stadium was used by many great musicians like The Rolling Stones, Bruce Springsteen & The E Street Band, Queen, Bob Dylan, Bryan Adams & Rod Stewart, among others.

</doc>
<doc id="130122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130122" title="Villa Park">
Villa Park

Villa Park is a football stadium in Birmingham, England. It is the current home stadium of Aston Villa. The colour of the seats are blue because Villa's colours are claret and blue. The ground is located near Aston. The stands are called the Holte End, the Doug Ellis stand, the Trinity Road End and the North Stand. 

</doc>
<doc id="130125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130125" title="Category:Emo bands">
Category:Emo bands

The following category is for bands that are classed as playing emo music or are associated with the genre.

</doc>
<doc id="130126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130126" title="DW Stadium">
DW Stadium

The DW Stadium is a football stadium in Wigan, Greater Manchester, England. It is the current home stadium of Wigan Athletic football club and the Wigan Warriors rugby league club. The stadium is named after the sportswear and fitness company "DWSportsfitness".
It opened in 1999 as JJB Stadium, from the "JJB Sports" sportswear company. The name changed in 2009 when Wigan Athletic owner Dave Whelan bought a chain of fitness clubs from JJB Sports and set up a new business, DWSportsfitness. The deal also gave Whelan stadium naming rights, and he changed its name to DW Stadium at that time.

</doc>
<doc id="130128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130128" title="White Hart Lane">
White Hart Lane

White Hart Lane is a football stadium in London, England. It is the current home stadium of Tottenham Hotspur. 

</doc>
<doc id="130129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130129" title="Hawthorne Heights">
Hawthorne Heights

Hawthorne Heights are an American rock band. They formed in 2001 and were originally called "A Day in the Life" but later changed their name and lineup. 
They have released three albums and a number of singles. Their album titled "Fragile Future" was released on August 5, 2008, in the United States and on August 11, 2008, in the United Kingdom. Their most recent album is called "Skeletons", and was made available on June 1, 2010. Their other albums include "If Only You Were Lonely" and "The Silence in Black and White". They spawned emo classics such as "Saying Sorry" and "Ohio Is for Lovers".
Casey Calvert, who played guitar and did the death growls for the band, died on November 24, 2007, and another member found him in the morning. They had to push back touring etc., and had started on a tour already and had big plans.
Later, another person in the band, Micah Carli, started doing the harsh death growl vocals for the band.
They have had many tours including the Never Sleep Again tour, the Warped Tour and Projekt Revolution. They played the Never Sleep Again tour with fellow band Silverstein.

</doc>
<doc id="130131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130131" title="Stadium of Light">
Stadium of Light

The Stadium of Light is a football stadium in Sunderland, England. It is the current home stadium of Sunderland A.F.C. This stadium was officially inaugurated by the Prince Andrew, Duke of York, on the 30th July, in 1997, during a match between Sunderland A.F.C. and Ajax Amsterdam.
The Stadium of Light is a all seated stadium and mainly used for the leaguematches of Sunderland A.F.C. Beside this use there were some matches of nationalteams. 
The Stadium is also used for concerts (for example Oasis, Take That and Pink). Also the graduation ceremony of the University of Sunderland is held in the stadium.
The record of visitors was in a leaguematch versus Liverpool with 48,353 set 13 April 2002. 

</doc>
<doc id="130138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130138" title="Lungfish">
Lungfish

Lungfish are members of the subclass Dipnoi. They are a sister group to the Coelacanths and to the early lobe-finned fish which gave rise to the tetrapods. All these fish have paired appendages, fins or limbs, attached to a pelvis or shoulder by means of a single bone, the femur or humerus.
The living members of the group are special freshwater fish. They are the only living fish that have both lungs, as well as gills. They need this because they live in small lakes and rivers that sometimes dry up. When this happens, these fish don't die, but they can survive in the mud, for up to 4 years. They use their lungs during this time. This is called aestivation, which is a type of dormancy.
Currently there 8 species of lungfish, 6 of them in Africa, one in South America and one in Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="130146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130146" title="Cellobiose">
Cellobiose

Cellobiose is a kind of sugar.
This word is from biochemistry and cellobiose is part of the disaccharide group of sugars. This sugar was called "cellose".
Cellobiose is made from cellulose, which comes from the cells of plants. Things that have a lot of cellulose are good for making cellobiose, like cotton or paper. Water and cellulose make cellobiose: this process is called hydrolysis.
Pure cellobiose looks like a white powder, but people cannot eat this pure powder.

</doc>
<doc id="130166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130166" title="Alfred Wegener">
Alfred Wegener

Alfred Lothar Wegener (1 November 1880 – 13 November 1930) was a German scientist and meteorologist. He is most notable for his theory of continental drift, which he proposed in 1912. This was the idea that the continents were slowly drifting around the Earth. At the time he was unable to demonstrate a mechanism for this movement, and other scientists thought it was simply impossible. His hypothesis was not accepted until the 1950s when several discoveries gave evidence of continental drift.
Wegener was born in Berlin and in 1904 he earned his PhD in Astronomy at the University of Berlin. In 1914 he was drafted ('called up') into the German Army. After he was severely wounded he was transferred to the army weather service. 
The theory had been proposed before, more than once. The first time was by the mapmaker Abraham Ortelius in the 16th century. 
Wegener used geologic, fossil, and glacial evidence from opposite sides of the Atlantic Ocean to support his theory of continental drift. For example, he said that there were geological similarities between the Appalachian Mountains in North America, and the Scottish Highlands. Also, he said that the rock strata in South Africa and Brazil were similar.
He believed these similarities could be explained only if these geologic features were once part of the same continent. Wegener said that because they are less dense, continents float on top of the denser rock of the ocean floor. Although continental drift explained many of Wegener's observations, he could not find scientific evidence to make a complete explanation of how continents move.
The British geologist Arthur Holmes championed the theory of continental drift at a time when it was deeply unfashionable. He proposed in 1931 that the Earth's mantle contained convection cells that dissipated radioactive heat and moved the crust at the surface. His "Principles of Physical Geology", ending with a chapter on continental drift, was published in 1944.
However, most Earth scientists and palaeontologists did not believe Wegener's theory and thought it was foolish. Some critics thought the old theories of giant land bridges could explain the similarities among fossils in South America and Africa. Others argued that Wegener's theory did not explain the forces that would have been needed to move continents to such great distances. Wegener thought that the forces that moved the continents could be the same forces that made earthquakes and volcanic eruptions.
During the 1950s, in the mid-atlantic ridge discoveries of sea-floor spreading and magnetic reversal proved that Wegener's theory was real and led to the theory of plate tectonics. Today geologists say that continents are actually parts of moving tectonic plates that float on the asthenosphere, a layer of partly molten rock.

</doc>
<doc id="130175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130175" title="Motte-and-bailey">
Motte-and-bailey

A Motte-and-bailey is a kind of castle, or fortification. Many of them were built in the 11th and 12th century around Europe. These structures were made on a hill (that was often artificial). On this hill, a keep of wood or stone was built. This was easy to build, and the materials were readily available and cheap. However, this meant they were easy to burn down. Also wood rots when it gets wet so the structure doesn't often last long and need lots of repairing. They used to be made out of wood but as time went by different types of castles made of stone became more common as they were much stronger. These were surrounded by a ditch and protected with a stone wall. Motte and bailey castles appeared in England after the Norman Conquest of 1066. Motte and bailey castles were a common feature in England by the death of William the Conqueror in 1087. Their construction was the start of what was to become a massive castle building programme in England and Wales. Motte and bailey castles have been around for 8 centuries and are part of today's history.

</doc>
<doc id="130186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130186" title="Madison Lake, Minnesota">
Madison Lake, Minnesota

Madison Lake is a small town in Blue Earth County, Minnesota, United States. The population was 1,017 in the 2010 census.

</doc>
<doc id="130189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130189" title="Dinar">
Dinar

The Dinar is the name of the official currency in several countries. The word "dinar" (, , ) is derived from denarius, a Roman currency.

</doc>
<doc id="130200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130200" title="Category:Sustainable development">
Category:Sustainable development

For articles relating to sustainable development.

</doc>
<doc id="130201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130201" title="Wasatch Mountains">
Wasatch Mountains

The Wasatch Range is a mountain range that stretches about from the Utah- Idaho border, south through central Utah in the western United States. 

</doc>
<doc id="130202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130202" title="Wikipedia:Very good articles/Baseball uniform">
Wikipedia:Very good articles/Baseball uniform

A baseball uniform is a kind of clothing that baseball players wear. They mostly do this to show that their job is related to playing the sport, baseball. Most baseball uniforms have the names and uniform numbers of players who wear them on the uniform somewhere, usually on the backs of the uniforms to tell different baseball players from each other. Baseball shirts, pants, shoes, socks, caps, and gloves are parts of baseball uniforms. Most uniforms have different logos and colors to tell which team is which.
Baseball uniforms were first worn by the New York Knickerbockers Baseball Club in the 1800s. Their uniforms were pants made of blue wool, white flannel shirts and straw hats. Since then, the uniforms have gone through many changes. More items, ideas, and many other improvements were done and added to baseball uniforms over the years. The style of baseball uniforms also changed, little by little over time. 

</doc>
<doc id="130203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130203" title="Jacob Zuma">
Jacob Zuma

Jacob Gedleyihlekisa Zuma (born 12 April 1942) in what is now Nkandla, KwaZulu-Natal is a South African politician. He has been the President of South Africa since 2009. 
Zuma did not go to school.
In the 1960s, he was against the government of South Africa's policy of apartheid. He spent some time in prison on Robben Island for conspiring to overthrow the government. 
In 2005 he was charged with rape but he was found not guilty. 
Zuma is a proud Zulu. One of their traditions he follows is polygyny (having more than one wife). He has had six wives (one of them killed herself in 2000) and has fathered more than twenty children.
Zuma was the person to tell the public on December 5, 2013 that Nelson Mandela had died.

</doc>
<doc id="130204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130204" title="Cup of coffee">
Cup of coffee

A cup of coffee is North American sports terminology for spending a short time by a minor league player at the major league level.

</doc>
<doc id="130205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130205" title="Inning">
Inning

An inning, or innings, is a fixed-length section of a game in several sports – most notably cricket and baseball when one team would try to score while the other team would try to stop the first from scoring.

</doc>
<doc id="130206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130206" title="Industrial relations">
Industrial relations

The field of industrial relations (also called labor relations) looks at the relationship between management and workers, mostly groups of workers shown by a union.

</doc>
<doc id="130207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130207" title="The Michigan Daily">
The Michigan Daily

The Michigan Daily is the daily student newspaper of the University of Michigan. The first edition of the paper was published September 29, 1890.

</doc>
<doc id="130208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130208" title="Strikeout">
Strikeout

In baseball or softball, a strikeout or strike out (denoted by SO or K) happens when a batter gets three strikes when at bat.

</doc>
<doc id="130210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130210" title="Conan O'Brien">
Conan O'Brien

Conan Christopher O'Brien (born April 18, 1963) is an American television host, comedian, writer, producer, musician, and voice actor. He is best known for hosting several late-night talk shows, the most recent of which, "Conan", premiered on American cable television station TBS in 2010. 
O'Brien was born in Brookline, Massachusetts. His father, Thomas Francis O'Brien, is a physician, epidemiologist, and professor of medicine at Harvard. His mother, Ruth O'Brien (née Reardon), is an attorney and partner at the Boston firm Ropes & Gray. He is the third of six children. O'Brien's family is Irish Catholic; some of his Irish ancestors immigrated before the American Civil War. In a "Late Night" episode, O'Brien paid a visit to County Kerry, Ireland, where his ancestors originated.
Conan got his first start in comedy as a writer for "Saturday Night Live" and "The Simpsons". Conan hosted "Late Night" from 1993 to 2009. In 2009, he replaced Jay Leno as host of "The Tonight Show". In 2010, NBC decided to give "The Tonight Show" back to Leno, which led to Conan leaving NBC. Many people were upset that Conan had to leave. After leaving "The Tonight Show", Conan grew a beard and went on a comedy tour. In November 10, he will host a late-night talk show on TBS called "Conan". 

</doc>
<doc id="130212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130212" title="Win (baseball)">
Win (baseball)

A win is a statistic in Major League Baseball given to the pitcher for the winning team.

</doc>
<doc id="130213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130213" title="Category:Baseball statistics">
Category:Baseball statistics


</doc>
<doc id="130214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130214" title="Loss (baseball)">
Loss (baseball)

In baseball, a loss (denoted L) is charged to the pitcher of the losing team.

</doc>
<doc id="130215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130215" title="Alfred P. Sloan">
Alfred P. Sloan

Alfred Pritchard Sloan, Jr. (May 23, 1875 – February 17, 1966) was the president and chairman of General Motors.
Sloan was born in a business family. Passing the examination of MIT when he was very young, he was talented. 
Sloan took a turn of the company that his father bought for him out of danger when he was 26.Then he worked at General Motors as the president who innovated combination between centralization and decentralization and led 
the company into prosperity.
Besides, he was a philanthropist who donated considerable money to charity.

</doc>
<doc id="130225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130225" title="Kenny Black">
Kenny Black

Kenneth George Black (born 29 November 1963) is a former professional footballer and current manager of Scottish club Airdrie United F.C..

</doc>
<doc id="130226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130226" title="John Brown (football player)">
John Brown (football player)

John Brown, also well known by his nickname "Bomber", (born January 26, 1962 in Stirling) is a former Scottish professional footballer, and former manager of Clyde.

</doc>
<doc id="130227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130227" title="Alex Rae">
Alex Rae

Alexander Scott Rae, (born September 30 1969 in Glasgow), is a professional footballer, who is currently player-manager at Dundee.

</doc>
<doc id="130228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130228" title="Jim McIntyre">
Jim McIntyre

James 'Jim' McIntyre (born 24 May 1972 in Alexandria, Dunbartonshire) is a Scottish footballer who is currently player-manager for Dunfermline Athletic in the Scottish First Division.

</doc>
<doc id="130229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130229" title="David Irons">
David Irons

David John Irons (born July 18 1961 in Glasgow) is a Scottish former professional footballer. His playing career spanned 26 years as a central defender or midfielder. He is currently manager of Scottish League club Greenock Morton.

</doc>
<doc id="130230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130230" title="Roberto Landi">
Roberto Landi

Roberto Landi (born January 2, 1956 in Forlì) is an Italian football manager, currently in charge of Scottish First Division side Livingston.

</doc>
<doc id="130231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130231" title="Ian McCall">
Ian McCall

Ian Holland McCall (born 30 September 1964 in Dumfries, Scotland) is a former Scottish footballer and current manager. In 2015 he became manager of Ayr United.

</doc>
<doc id="130233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130233" title="Gordon Chisholm">
Gordon Chisholm

Gordon Chisholm (born April 8 1960 in Glasgow, Scotland) is a former professional footballer. He is currently the manager of Scottish First Division club Dundee.

</doc>
<doc id="130234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130234" title="Derek Adams">
Derek Adams

Derek Adams (born 25 June 1975) is a former Scottish footballer. As of 2011 he is manager at Ross County.
He is the son of George Adams. George Adams is also a former player and is now the Director of Football at the Dingwall club.

</doc>
<doc id="130235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130235" title="Derek McInnes">
Derek McInnes

Derek John McInnes (born 5 July 1971 in Paisley, Renfrewshire) is a former professional footballer and current manager of Bristol City.
McInnes featured prominently for Greenock Morton, Rangers, West Bromwich Albion and Dundee United during his playing career.
McInnes became manager of St. Johnstone in November 2007. He guided the club to promotion to the Scottish Premier League in 2009 and kept that status for two seasons. McInnes was made manager of Bristol City on 19 October 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="130236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130236" title="Airdrie">
Airdrie

Airdrie is a town in North Lanarkshire, Scotland. It is home to Scottish First Division football team Airdrie United F.C..

</doc>
<doc id="130237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130237" title="Gynoecium">
Gynoecium

A gynoecium (from Ancient Greek "gyne", "woman") is the female reproductive parts of a flower. The male parts are called the androecium. Some flowers have both female and male parts, and some do not.
Another key term is carpel. Carpels are the building blocks of a pistil. The gynoecium may have one pistil or more. A pistil may have one carpel or more than one stuck together ("fused"). Carpels and pistils have three parts: a stigma at the top where the pollen lands; a style and an ovary. In the case of a pistil, the stigma, style, and ovary may be made up of those parts of more than one carpel, fused.
Plant ovaries are the parts of the gynoecium which (much like animal ovaries) contain ovules. The style is generally stalklike. It is between the ovary at the bottom and the stigma at the top. In some plants, there are no styles in the pistils. The stigma is the pollen receptor at the top of the carpel. Stigmas may be separate or they may be in a region called the "stigmatic region".
A carpel is the basic unit of the female reproductive organ of a flower (the gynoecium). The parts of the carpel are:
The ovule, when mature, has one or two coats round the central nucellus, except at the top where there is an opening, the micropyle. The nucellus is a tissue round one large cell, the megaspore. The one large cell divides, giving the egg and some other cells.
An example of a simple carpel is that of a pea, bean or "Arabidopsis": the fruit develops from the single carpel consisting of two rows of ovules aligned beside one another along the "placental" margin.
An alternative term for the female parts. This table shows how it is used:

</doc>
<doc id="130242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130242" title="Chase This Light">
Chase This Light

Chase This Light is an album by alternative rock band Jimmy Eat World. It was released on October 23 2007.
Several singles came from this album including "Big Casino", "Always Be" and "Let It Happen".

</doc>
<doc id="130243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130243" title="Saves the Day">
Saves the Day

Saves the Day are a band who have played many genres of music during their career. They formed together in 1997, and have often changed their lineup, with singer Chris Conley being the only original member who is still in the band.
At first, Saves the Day was influenced heavily by melodic hardcore band Lifetime. At first, their songs had macabre lyrics and a lot of power chords. In 2001, they started to have more of a pop sound.
The band started to record a trilogy of albums in 2005. The first album, "Sound the Alarm" (2006), is more similar to the band's original sound than the band's previous albums. The second album, "Under the Boards", was released in fall 2007 and mixed together many previous records' sounds. "Daybreak", the concluding album in the trilogy, was released in 2011. They started recording it after a string of shows in late October 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="130245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130245" title="Jesus Christ Superstar">
Jesus Christ Superstar

Jesus Christ Superstar is a rock opera. It is based on the Gospel accounts of Jesus. Tim Rice wrote the lyrics and Andrew Lloyd Webber wrote the music. "Superstar" premiered on 12 October 1971 at the Mark Hellinger Theatre on Broadway. It opened on the West End in 1972. It was released as a movie in 1973 starring Ted Neeley and Carl Anderson.

</doc>
<doc id="130249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130249" title="Cumbernauld">
Cumbernauld

Cumbernauld is a town in North Lanarkshire, Scotland. It is home to the Scottish First Division football team, Clyde F.C..

</doc>
<doc id="130250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130250" title="Livingston">
Livingston

Livingston is a town in the Scottish county of West Lothian. It is home to the Scottish First Division football club Livingston F.C.

</doc>
<doc id="130252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130252" title="Dunfermline">
Dunfermline

Dunfermline (Scottish Gaelic: Dùn Phàrlain) is a town in Fife, Scotland. It sits on high ground three miles from the northern shore of the Firth of Forth, northwest of Edinburgh, and was an ancient capital of Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="130253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130253" title="Greenock">
Greenock

Greenock (Gaelic "Grianaig," is a large town in the Inverclyde council area of western Scotland. 
Greenock's population was recorded as being 45,467 in the 2001 census, a decrease from about 78,000 in 1966. It lies on the south bank of the Clyde at the "Tail of the Bank" where the River Clyde expands into the Firth of Clyde, and is in what was the county of Renfrewshire.

</doc>
<doc id="130254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130254" title="Dumfries">
Dumfries

Dumfries, meaning either "fort" or "ridge of the thicket", is a former royal burgh and town within the Dumfries and Galloway council area of Scotland and is close to the Solway Firth, near the mouth of the River Nith. Dumfries was the county town of the former county of Dumfriesshire. the town has a population of 49,883, meaning dumfries is one of the largest non city areas in scotland. the town is also far larger than the one in Virginia.Its nickname is "Queen of the South", which is also the name of its local football team Queen of the South F.C..
geography
the suburbs of dumfries include: 
Sandside
Lochside
Lincluden
Troqueer
Rotchell
Marchmount
Locharbriggs
Heathhall
The river nith runs through the centre of the town. The eastern side of Dumfries had the DG1 postcode while the western side of the town has the DG2 postcode. 
EDUCATION
dumfries has four main high schools, with three being in DG1. There is one primary school per key district. There is one college in the town, while the University of west of Scotland and the open university is on the same campus. Glasgow university also has a campus on the same site.

</doc>
<doc id="130255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130255" title="F.C. Internazionale Milano">
F.C. Internazionale Milano

F.C. Internazionale Milano, also known as Inter Milan is a football club which plays in Italy. Their home stadium is the San Siro. They are also the only Italian team to win the treble.
This club is well known as a strong team in Europe. And their nickname is nerazzurri which results from nero and azzurro. Nero means black and azzurro means blue in Italy.
Coppa Italia:
 

</doc>
<doc id="130256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130256" title="Enzo Scifo">
Enzo Scifo

Enzo Scifo (born 19 February 1966) is a former Belgian football player. He has played for Belgium national team.
206||49
90||20
182||52
478||121
!Total||84||18

</doc>
<doc id="130258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130258" title="Peter Bonetti">
Peter Bonetti

Peter Bonetti is a former football player. He has played for England national team.
600||0
21||0
5||0
626||0
!Total||7||0

</doc>
<doc id="130259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130259" title="Alan Shearer">
Alan Shearer

Alan Shearer (born 13 August 1970) is a retired English footballer and BBC football pundit considered in many circles to be superior to Gary Lineker. He played for England national team, and club teams like Southampton, Blackburn Rovers and Newcastle United. He won the Premier League with Blackburn in the 1994/95 season. He is the person who has scored the most goals in the Premier League, as well as the 4th most goals for England. He played as a striker and was very good at taking penalties, and being at the right place at the right time in the goal area, so he scored many goals that were easy to score, but he had to be smart to be there at the right time. Shearer is considered a legend in his hometown of Newcastle, and he is well respected in the rest of England as well because of his good playing for England. He also managed Newcastle for the last eight games of the 2008/2009 Premier League season. The team only got five points out of 28 possible points and were relegated to the championship for the 2009/2010 season.
559||283||58||27||50||32||58||32||725||374
559||283||58||27||50||32||58||32||725||374
!Total||63||30

</doc>
<doc id="130260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130260" title="Dingwall">
Dingwall

Dingwall is a town in the north of Scotland. It is home to the local football club, Ross County F.C.

</doc>
<doc id="130262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130262" title="Excelsior Stadium">
Excelsior Stadium

The Excelsior Stadium is the home of Airdrie United F.C. of the Scottish First Division. The ground is named as such as a tribute to the fact that Airdrieonians began life as Excelsior Football Club in 1878.
When the stadium first opened it was officially titled Shyberry Excelsior Stadium ("Shyberry" being the company who sponsored the stadium when it first opened). Now, though, even the name "Excelsior Stadium" is rarely used by Airdrie United supporters as well as opposing fans and even the media as the stadium has instead come to be referred to as New Broomfield which is more palatable from an Airdrie perspective due to its association with the former home of Airdrieonians, Broomfield Park.

</doc>
<doc id="130263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130263" title="Ruud Gullit">
Ruud Gullit

Ruud Gullit (born Rudi Dil, 1 September 1962) is a Dutch former football player. He has played for the Netherlands national team.
244||109||17||16||8||1||269||126
178||63||31||13||22||7||231||83
32||4||8||3||colspan="2"|-||40||7
454||176||56||32||30||8||540||216
!Total||66||17

</doc>
<doc id="130264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130264" title="Zbigniew Boniek">
Zbigniew Boniek

Zbigniew Boniek (born 3 March 1956) is a former Polish football player. He has played for Poland national team.
172||50
157||30
329||80
!Total||80||24

</doc>
<doc id="130265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130265" title="Broadwood Stadium">
Broadwood Stadium

Broadwood Stadium is an association football stadium in Cumbernauld, North Lanarkshire, Scotland. 
The stadium currently plays host to the home matches of Scottish First Division side, Clyde F.C., and the home matches of Scottish Premier Reserve League side Rangers Reserves. 

</doc>
<doc id="130269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130269" title="Dens Park">
Dens Park

Dens Park is a football stadium on Dens Road in the Scottish city of Dundee. 
The stadium is the home of Dundee F.C. and has a capacity of 11,856. Uniquely, the stadium shares part of the same road (Sandeman Street) as Tannadice, which is the home of city rivals Dundee United F.C.
The club moved to 'Dens' from their first stadium at Carolina Port in 1899. Over the years, the ground has been redeveloped, with the construction of the near-identical Bobby Cox and Bob Shankly stands, which sit at either end of the ground. The former is given over to home supporters, and the latter to visiting supporters. 

</doc>
<doc id="130278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130278" title="Sega 32X">
Sega 32X

The Sega 32X is a game console first released by Sega in 1994. It was an add on for the Sega Mega Drive and was Sega's first console in the 32-bit games market. In Japan, it was called the Sega Super 32X. In North America, it was called the Sega Genesis 32X. In Europe and Australia, it was called the Sega Mega 32X.

</doc>
<doc id="130279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130279" title="Sega CD">
Sega CD

The Sega CD was a CD-based console add-on made by Sega and released in 1991 in Japan, 1992 in North America, and 1993 in Europe. It was 16-bit and Sega's first foray into the CD market. It was somewhat successful, but was criticized for the lack of quality games.

</doc>
<doc id="130280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130280" title="Amiga CDTV">
Amiga CDTV

The Amiga CDTV was a high-end game console released by Commodore in March 1991. It was one of the first CD-based independent game consoles. However it was a commercial failure and was replaced by the Amiga CD32 in 1993.

</doc>
<doc id="130281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130281" title="Vilanova i la Geltrú">
Vilanova i la Geltrú

Vilanova i la Geltrú is a coastal town approximately south of Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.

</doc>
<doc id="130282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130282" title="Commodore International">
Commodore International

Commodore is the common name for Commodore International Limited, a U.S. computer and electronics manufacturing company. Headquarters were in West Chester, Pennsylvania. In the 1960s and 70s they made adding machines and calculators. This company was important in the development of the home–personal computer in the late 1970s and 1980s. Commodore developed the first color computer sold under $300, known as the VIC-20 in 1981, and the world's best-selling desktop computer, called the Commodore 64 (1982). Commodore later released the Amiga computers in 1985. The company went bankrupt in 1994. 

</doc>
<doc id="130284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130284" title="Commodore 64 Games System">
Commodore 64 Games System

Commodore 64 Games System (often abbreviated C64GS) was a cartridge based console made by Commodore International. It was Commodore's first console and was released in December 1990. It was a commercial failure because Commodore could not market the console properly due to its lack of games and the fact it was an 8-bit console in a 16-bit era.

</doc>
<doc id="130285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130285" title="East End Park">
East End Park

East End Park is a football stadium in Dunfermline, Fife, Scotland. 
The stadium currently plays host to the home matches of Scottish First Division side, Dunfermline Athletic Football Club.

</doc>
<doc id="130286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130286" title="Cappielow">
Cappielow

Cappielow is a district of Greenock in Inverclyde, west central Scotland. It is home to Scottish Football League side Greenock Morton F.C. The name Cappielow, taken alone, usually refers to the Cappielow Park stadium, but it can also refer to a small area of housing or the adjoining industrial estate.

</doc>
<doc id="130287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130287" title="Almondvale Stadium">
Almondvale Stadium

Almondvale Stadium is a football stadium in Livingston, West Lothian. It is the home of Scottish First Division club Livingston F.C..
The stadium, which used to be called the "City Stadium" because of a deal with the City Group, was built in 1995. It had also previously been called the "West Lothian Courier Stadium". Since the club was taken over by the Lionheart Consortium, it was changed back to its original name, Almondvale Stadium. 
It is hired by Livingston FC from West Lothian Council every year. As Livingston moved up the divisions into the top flight of Scottish Football, they expanded the stadium to meet Premier League standards.

</doc>
<doc id="130288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130288" title="FM Towns Marty">
FM Towns Marty

The FM Towns Marty was the world's first 32-bit game console (not the Amiga CD32, which was only in Europe and North America). It was one of the first CD-based consoles and the first made for gaming rather than high-end PC-like systems, like the Amiga CDTV and Phillips CDi. It was only released in Japan and was a commercial failure, but despite this, it was made until 1999 – longer than the average games console.

</doc>
<doc id="130289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130289" title="Firhill Stadium">
Firhill Stadium

Firhill Stadium is the home ground of the Scottish association football club, Partick Thistle F.C.
In December 2005 Firhill also became the temporary home of Glasgow's professional Rugby Union team, Glasgow Warriors, when they moved from their previous base at Hughenden. The Glasgow Warriors will take up a two-year residency at Firhill from the start of the 2007-08 Magners League season.

</doc>
<doc id="130290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130290" title="Palmerston Park">
Palmerston Park

Palmerston Park is a multi-use stadium on Terregles Street in Dumfries, South West Scotland. The site of the ground was formerly a farm called Palmers Toun. This is on the Maxwelltown side of the River Nith in Dumfries. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home ground of Queen of the South F.C. The stadium holds 6,412 people. It also holds the record of having the tallest free standing floodlights in Scottish football, standing at 85 feet.

</doc>
<doc id="130291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130291" title="Philips CDi">
Philips CDi

The Philips CD-i was a CD-based 16-bit console released by Philips in 1991 along with the FM Towns Marty and Amiga CDTV. It shares the distinction of being one of the first CD based consoles. It was a bit of a commercial failure but still had a long console life when it was discontinued in 1998. The reason of its failure was most likely due to lack of third party support, mediocre games, and the infamous Link and Mario games.

</doc>
<doc id="130293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130293" title="Victoria Park">
Victoria Park

Victoria Park is a football stadium in the town of Dingwall, Ross-shire, Scotland. It is the home stadium of Ross County F.C. who play in the Scottish First Division.
There are two stands, the West and East Stands, which have covered seats and two standing-only terraces known as the Academy End and Jailend. It has a total capacity of 5800 (2590 seated), so does not meet Scottish Premier League standards.
The Highland Football Academy is behind the Academy End and an "Astroturf" (fake grass) pitch is next to the East Stand. To date, the board have spent more than £3.5 million on renovating the stadium and plans are being made to create a modern all-seater stadium suitable for the Premier League.
The stadium holds more people than the town of Dingwall, which had a population of 5,026 at the last census.

</doc>
<doc id="130294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130294" title="Nintendo 64DD">
Nintendo 64DD

The Nintendo 64DD (DD meaning Disk Drive) was a magnetic disk add-on for the Nintendo 64. It was considered too late in the fifth generation and flopped on its release in Japan in 1999. When it came out, the Dreamcast had already been released and soon for Nintendo fans the GameCube was developed with a built-in CD drive. For these reasons, it flopped, and few games were ever released for it. Super Mario 64 2 (sequel to Nintendo 64's 1996 Super Mario 64 was planned, but cancelled due to the commercial failure of the Nintendo 64DD. In 2004, a Ninetndo DS remake called Super Mario 64 DS and was released the same day as the original DS.

</doc>
<doc id="130295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130295" title="McDiarmid Park">
McDiarmid Park

McDiarmid Park is the home stadium of St. Johnstone Football Club from Perth, Scotland. It has an all-seated capacity of 10,673. The record attendance is 10,525, which occurred on May 23, 1999, when Tayside rivals Dundee were the visitors for the last game of the season.

</doc>
<doc id="130302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130302" title="Karbon14">
Karbon14

Karbon14 (also known as Kontour, which was known KIllustrator) is a vector graphics editor. It is pat of KOffice, the KDE office suite.

</doc>
<doc id="130304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130304" title="Category:Vector graphics">
Category:Vector graphics

The main article for this category is vector graphics.

</doc>
<doc id="130305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130305" title="Category:Vector graphics editors">
Category:Vector graphics editors


</doc>
<doc id="130310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130310" title="MediaWiki:Sp-contributions-footer">
MediaWiki:Sp-contributions-footer


</doc>
<doc id="130315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130315" title="Nike">
Nike

Nike may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="130316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130316" title="Leonese language">
Leonese language

Leonese language ("Llionés" in Leonese) is the language of León in Spain and the Bragança District of Portugal, and it is one of the Romance languages. Leonese was the language of the Kingdom of León in the Middle Ages.
Leonese is spoken by 25,000 people in the Spanish provinces of León, Zamora and the Portuguese district of Bragança. Leonese is recognised by the UN as "Seriously Endangered" and officially recognised by the Autonomous Government.
Leonese is taught in sixteen schools in León city and there are lessons for adults in several villages in the provinces of León and Zamora.
The language has a system with five vowels in a stressed position, represented by "a, e, i, o," and "u" and three (two archiphonemes /I/, /U/ and one phoneme /a/) in non-stressed position, represented by "e, u, "and "a" at the end of word.
For approximately fifteen years some cultural associations have offered courses in Leonese, sometimes with the support or collaboration of local administrations in the provinces of Leon and Zamora. The autonomous community of Castile and León has never collaborated in these courses, which in most cases have taken place in precarious conditions, without continuity or by unqualified teachers and, very often, far from the area where Leonese is spoken.
The UNESCO in its Atlas of Languages in Danger in the World, places Leonese among languages in danger.
Leonese is classified in the worst of the possible situations whose characteristics are: 
Literature written in the Leonese dialect started in the Middle Ages and is still written today. The first written text in Leonese is the "Nodicia of Kesos" (959 or 974), found in Ardón. Other works in Leonese language include the "Fueru de Llión", "Fueru de Salamanca", "Fueru Xulgu", "Códice d'Alfonsu XI", "Disputa d'Elena y María" and "Llibru d'Alixandre".
Important writers are Torres Naharro, Juan del Encina, and Lucas Fernández. Some writers like Caitano Bardón ("Cuentos en Dialecto Leonés"), Luis Maldonado or Aragón Escacena ("Entre brumas") restarted the Leonese literature in the early 20th century. Today, important writers include Eva González in the last 20th century or Abel Pardo, Xuasús González, Adrianu Martín or Félix Llópez.

</doc>
<doc id="130317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130317" title="Leonese">
Leonese

Leonese might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="130354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130354" title="Good Girl Gone Bad">
Good Girl Gone Bad

Good Girl Gone Bad is the third studio album released by Barbadian recording artist Rihanna. The singles from the album include (from the original version of the album) "Umbrella", "Breakin' Dishes", "Shut Up and Drive", "Hate That I Love You", "Don't Stop the Music", and "Rehab". The album is a change from the reggae sound of Rihanna's previous albums for a more pop, dance-pop and R&B album.
Rihanna did a worldwide concert tour on September 15, three months after the release of the album. The tour had three parts with sixty-one shows. It ended on April 5, 2008. The first part of the tour began in Canada. It included eleven shows across the country with Akon. The tour later went through United States and Europe without Akon.
Supporting acts for the tour were Akon, Ciara and David Jordan.
Credits for "Good Girl Gone Bad" adapted from AllMusic.

</doc>
<doc id="130373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130373" title="Judd Apatow">
Judd Apatow

Judd Apatow (born December 6, 1967) is an American movie producer, director, and screenwriter. He is best known for producing a distinct series of critically and commercially successful comedy movies, including ' (2004), "The 40-Year-Old Virgin" (2005), ' (2006), "Knocked Up", "Superbad" (both 2007), "Forgetting Sarah Marshall", "Step Brothers" and "Pineapple Express" (all 2008).

</doc>
<doc id="130376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130376" title="Interstate 182">
Interstate 182

Interstate 182 (sometimes called I-182) is a 15.19-mile long Interstate Highway in the state of Washington, going into the Tri-Cities. The road goes from Interstate 82 west of Richland to U.S. Route 12 in Pasco. It runs along U.S. Route 12 from Interstate 82 to U.S. Route 12, Washington State Route 240 through Richland, and U.S. Route 395 in Pasco.

</doc>
<doc id="130378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130378" title="Interstate 84 (west)">
Interstate 84 (west)

Interstate 84 (sometimes called I-84) is a long Interstate Highway in the states of Oregon, Idaho, and Utah. The road goes from Interstate 5 in Portland, Oregon to Interstate 80 in Echo, Utah. There is another road with the same name in the eastern part of the country.

</doc>
<doc id="130379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130379" title="Ellensburg, Washington">
Ellensburg, Washington

Ellensburg is a city in the state of Washington.

</doc>
<doc id="130380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130380" title="Tri-Cities, Washington">
Tri-Cities, Washington

The Tri-Cities are a group of 3 cities in Washington. They are Richland, Pasco, and Kennewick.

</doc>
<doc id="130381" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130381" title="Umatilla, Oregon">
Umatilla, Oregon

Umatilla is a city in the state of Oregon. It is the county seat of Umatilla County. Its population was 6,906 at the 2010 United States Census.

</doc>
<doc id="130382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130382" title="Hermiston, Oregon">
Hermiston, Oregon

Hermiston is a city in the state of Oregon.

</doc>
<doc id="130383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130383" title="Richland, Washington">
Richland, Washington

Richland is a city in the state of Washington.

</doc>
<doc id="130384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130384" title="Pasco, Washington">
Pasco, Washington

Pasco is a city in the state of Washington.

</doc>
<doc id="130385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130385" title="Selah, Washington">
Selah, Washington

Selah is a city in the state of Washington.

</doc>
<doc id="130386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130386" title="Union Gap, Washington">
Union Gap, Washington

Union Gap is a city in the state of Washington.

</doc>
<doc id="130387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130387" title="Zillah, Washington">
Zillah, Washington

Zillah is a city of Yakima County in the state of Washington in the United States. 2,198 people were living in Zillah as of 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="130388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130388" title="Granger, Washington">
Granger, Washington

Granger is a city in the state of Washington.

</doc>
<doc id="130390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130390" title="Sunnyside, Washington">
Sunnyside, Washington

Sunnyside is a city in the state of Washington.

</doc>
<doc id="130391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130391" title="Grandview, Washington">
Grandview, Washington

Grandview is a city in the state of Washington in the United States. The population of the city was 8,377 at the 2000 census.
Grandview was incorporated on September 21, 1909. It began as the midway point on the rail line between Prosser and Sunnyside.
Grandview is located at (46.253670, -119.910133).
It has a total area of 5.4 square miles (14.0 km²). The whole of it is land.
As of the census of 2000, there were 8,377 people, 2,431 houses, and 1,956 families in the city. The density was 1,552.3 people per square mile. There were 51.12% White, 0.58% African American, 0.94% Native American, 0.94% Asian, 0.11% Pacific Islander, 43.27% from other races, and 3.03% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 68.04% of the population.
There were 2,431 households out of which 49.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them. 60.0% were married couples living together. 14.6% had a female householder with no husband present. 19.5% were non-families. 16.6% of all households were made up of individuals and 7.8% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 3.40 and the average family size was 3.80.
In the city the population was spread out with 36.2% under the age of 18, 11.3% from 18 to 24, 27.0% from 25 to 44, 16.1% from 45 to 64, and 9.4% who were 65 years of age or older. The average age was 27 years. For every 100 females there were 98.5 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 96.6 males.
The average income for a household in the city was $32,588, and the average income for a family was $36,165. Males had a median income of $29,321 versus $21,959 for females. The per capita income for the city was $12,489. About 16.0% of families and 20.3% of the population were below the poverty line, including 26.0% of those under age 18 and 17.6% of those age 65 or over.

</doc>
<doc id="130392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130392" title="Prosser, Washington">
Prosser, Washington

Prosser is a city in the state of Washington.

</doc>
<doc id="130393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130393" title="Music of the Sun">
Music of the Sun

Music of the Sun is the first studio album released by Barbadian recording artist Rihanna. The album was released in August 2005 by Def Jam and SRP with the singles "Pon de Replay" and "If It's Lovin' that You Want. The album features a wide range types of music, including dancehall, reggae and R&B and features guest appearances from Vybz Kartel, Kardinal Offishall, J-Status and Elephant Man.
Credits for "Music of the Sun" are adapted from AllMusic.
!scope="row"| Canada (CRIA)
!scope="row"| United Kingdom (BPI)
!scope="row"| United States (RIAA)

</doc>
<doc id="130394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130394" title="Benton City, Washington">
Benton City, Washington

Benton City is a city in the state of Washington. About 2,600 people live in Benton City as of 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="130395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130395" title="Pon de Replay">
Pon de Replay

"Pon de Replay" is the debut single recorded by Barbadian recording artist Rihanna, from her debut studio album "Music of the Sun" (2005). It was written and produced by Vada Nobles, Alisha "M'Jestie" Brooks, Carl Sturken and Evan Rogers. Her debut single, the song was released on May 24, 2005 as the lead single from the album. It is a dancehall, reggae and R&B song that means "play it again" in one of Barbadoss official langauges.
The song peaked at number 2 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100, becoming her first Top 5 single; it also peaked at number 1 in New Zealand, number 2 in the UK and at number 6 and number 7 in Australia and Canada, respectively. The beat for "Pon de Replay" was also used in Natasja Saad's hit "Mon De Reggae". Pon de Replay was also a major dance hit topping both the Hot Dance Music/Club Play and the Dance Radio Airplay chart for 2 weeks. It also performed well on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks charts peaking at #24; most of its chart points had been received from airplay from pop stations and from its digital downloads. In an unusual situation, the track reached #6 on the Hot Rap Tracks, an unlikely supporter of the song. On the non-Billboard chart, ARC Top 40, the track also hit #1. Pop girl group Girl Authority covered the song in 2006 for their debut album. The song was the 21st best sell of 2005 with 3,970,000 units sold.
The hit single, "Pon de Replay" was first made public in the mainstream media on March 17, 2005 by publicist, Jonathan Hay through co-producer Vada Nobles on MTV News.
In the music video, directed by Little X, Rihanna and her friends arrive at the club where everybody is bored and not dancing because of the low music. Rihanna steps up and sings the song, causing the DJ to turn the music up and everybody to start dancing. The music video also features Rihanna doing some belly dancing moves. The music video was also popular receiving much play from MTV and BET. It peaked at #2 on MTV's "Total Request Live" spending 37 days on the countdown; it was not able to retire due to the early introduction of the music video for her second single, "If It's Lovin' That You Want". The video reached #4 on BET's "106 & Park" and remained on the countdown for over 20 days.
"Weird Al" Yankovic covered part of the song in his polka medley Polkarama! from the album "Straight Outta Lynwood".

</doc>
<doc id="130396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130396" title="Kennewick, Washington">
Kennewick, Washington

Kennewick is a city in the state of Washington.

</doc>
<doc id="130397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130397" title="Plymouth, Washington">
Plymouth, Washington

Plymouth is an unincorporated community found in Benton County of the state of Washington in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="130398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130398" title="Outlaw">
Outlaw

An outlaw or bandit is a person who is "outside the law" usually because they have committed serious crimes.
A longtime criminal can be declared an "outlaw", which means the outlaw cannot use the legal system to protect himself if needed.

</doc>
<doc id="130400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130400" title="Kittitas County, Washington">
Kittitas County, Washington

Kittitas County is a county in the U.S. state of Washington. The county seat is Ellensburg, Washington. In 2005, 36,841 people lived there. The county includes of which 2,297 are land (the rest is water). The highest point is Mount Daniel at .

</doc>
<doc id="130401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130401" title="Yakima County, Washington">
Yakima County, Washington

Yakima County is a county in the U.S. state of Washington. The county seat is Yakima, Washington.

</doc>
<doc id="130402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130402" title="Benton County, Washington">
Benton County, Washington

Benton County is a county in the U.S. state of Washington. The county seat is Benton City, Washington.

</doc>
<doc id="130403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130403" title="Umatilla County, Oregon">
Umatilla County, Oregon

Umatilla County () is a county in the U.S. state of Oregon. The county seat is Umatilla. In 2005, 73,878 people lived there. The county includes 3,231 square miles (8,369 km) of which 3,215 is land and the rest is water.

</doc>
<doc id="130418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130418" title="Cell">
Cell

In biology, the cell is the basic structure of organisms. All cells are made by the division of other cells.
The environment outside the cell is separated from the inside of the cell by the cell membrane. Inside some cells, parts of the cell stay separate from other parts. These separate parts are called organelles (like small organs). They each do different things in the cell. Examples are the nucleus (where DNA is), and mitochondria (where usable energy is created).
There are two basic kinds of cells: prokaryotic cells and eukaryotic cells. Prokaryotes, bacteria and archaea, are simple cells that have no cell nucleus. They do have bacterial microcompartments.
Eukaryotes are complex cells with many organelles and other structures in the cell. They are larger than prokaryote cells: they can be as much as 1000 times greater in volume. Eukaryotes store their genetic information (DNA) on chromosomes in the cell nucleus. Organisms (living things) which are made up of multiple cells are eukaryotes.
The only kinds of prokaryotic organisms alive at present are bacteria and archaea. Prokaryotic organisms evolved before eukaryotic organisms, so at one point the world consisted of nothing but prokaryotic organisms. There are also viruses, which are hard to classify, but cause some important diseases. Viruses are made of RNA, or DNA, and protein, and they reproduce themselves inside the cells of bacteria or eukaryotes.
Unicellular organisms are made up of one cell. Examples of unicellular organisms are:
Unicellular organisms need to:
All unicellular organisms must:
Some may:
Multicellular organisms are made from many cells. They are complex organisms. This can be a small number of cells, or millions of cells. All plants and animals are multicellular organisms. The cells of a multicellular organism are not all the same. They have different shapes and sizes, and do different work in the organism. The cells are specialized. This means they do only some kinds of work. By themselves, they cannot do everything that the organism needs to live. They need other cells to do other work. They live together, but cannot live alone.
Cells were discovered by Robert Hooke (1635–1703). He used a compound microscope with two lenses to look at the structure of cork, and to look at leaves and some insects. He did this from about 1660, and reported it in his book "Micrographica" in 1665. He named cells after the Latin word "cella", meaning room. He did this because he thought cells looked like small rooms.
Many other naturalists and philosophers tried out the new instrument. The structure of plants was investigated by Nehemiah Grew (1641–1712) and Marcello Malpighi (1628–1694). Grew's major work was "The anatomy of plants" (1682). It is not clear who first saw animal cells, Malpighi, Jan Swammerdam (1637–1680) or Antonie van Leeuwenhoek (1632–1723).
Leeuwenhoek's discoveries and drawings of 'little animalules' opened up a whole new world for naturalists. Protozoa, and microorganisms generally were discovered, and the discoveries about them are still going on today. Christian Gottfried Ehrenberg's book "Die Infusionsthierchen" summarised what was known in 1838. Lorenz Oken (1779–1851) in 1805 wrote that infusoria (microscopic forms) were the basis of all life. 
The idea that cells were the basis of the larger forms of life came in the 18th century. Finding out who did the work has taken some time:
The cell theory includes these important ideas: 
The body cells of metazoans divide by simple mitotic cell division. Sexual reproduction is ancestral in eukaryotes, and in metazoa it is carried out by specialised sex cells. They are produced by a process called meiosis. 
Prokaryotic cells reproduce using binary fission, where the cell simply splits in half. For both mitosis and binary fission the cell must replicate (copy) all its genetic information (DNA) so that each new cell will have a copy.

</doc>
<doc id="130421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130421" title="Cartomancy">
Cartomancy

Cartomancy is the study of reading cards for fortune-telling or divination. There are many different types of cards used for cartomancy, some of which include standard playing cards and the tarot.

</doc>
<doc id="130422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130422" title="Category:Divination">
Category:Divination


</doc>
<doc id="130423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130423" title="Borscht">
Borscht

Borscht (, , Lithuanian: "barščiai", ) is a type of red beet soup eaten in Eastern European countries, such as Russia, Romania, Poland, Belarus, Lithuania and Ukraine. It contains red beets, sausage, onion and cabbage. Borscht soup is usually eaten with a piece of black bread.

</doc>
<doc id="130424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130424" title="Visconti-Sforza tarot deck">
Visconti-Sforza tarot deck

The Visconti-Sforza tarot deck is the oldest known tarot deck. It was ordered to be made in the 15th century by Filippo Maria Visconti who was then the Duke of Milan. The name of the deck is used to describe various decks that have survived over time.

</doc>
<doc id="130425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130425" title="Thoth tarot deck">
Thoth tarot deck

The Thoth tarot deck is a tarot deck painted by Lady Frieda Harris at the request of Aleister Crowley. Crowley referred to this deck as "The Book of Thoth", and wrote a book with the same title of use with the deck.

</doc>
<doc id="130426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130426" title="Category:Tarot decks">
Category:Tarot decks


</doc>
<doc id="130431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130431" title="Tlaxcala (disambiguation)">
Tlaxcala (disambiguation)

Tlaxcala might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="130432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130432" title="Tlaxcala">
Tlaxcala

Tlaxcala is the smallest state in Mexico with about a million people. It is in central Mexico, east of Mexico (state).

</doc>
<doc id="130433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130433" title="Category:McFly">
Category:McFly


</doc>
<doc id="130434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130434" title="Category:Soccer in the United States">
Category:Soccer in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="130435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130435" title="International Alliance of Research Universities">
International Alliance of Research Universities

The International Alliance of Research Universities (IARU) was a program launched in January 2006 as a leading co-operative network of 10 international research-intensive universities. The president of the IARU is Australian National University Vice-Chancellor Professor Ian Chubb. 
Its members are:

</doc>
<doc id="130436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130436" title="Category:American Civil War battles">
Category:American Civil War battles


</doc>
<doc id="130437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130437" title="Rod Serling">
Rod Serling

Rodman "Rod" Serling (December 25, 1924 – June 28, 1975) was American screenwriter, radio and television narrator and producer. He is best known for producing and hosting the television series "The Twilight Zone". In 1973 and 1974, he hosted a syndicated radio program.
After three emergency surgeries, Serling died during surgery on 28 June 1975 from heart problems. He was buried on July 2 1975 in Interlaken, New York. In 1994, computers were used to have him host a television movie of the "Twilight Zone" using old images of him.

</doc>
<doc id="130440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130440" title="Masoretic Text">
Masoretic Text

The Masoretic Text is a copy of the Hebrew Bible that was written by the Masoretes between the 6th and 10th centuries.
The Masoretic Text is an authority because it is the source for most translations of the Hebrew Bible or the Old Testament.
Before the first century CE, there were some small differences between copies of the Hebrew Bible. During first century CE, Jewish Bible specialists agreed on the same words, a process called standardisation.
Between about 100 and 300 CE, a group of Jewish Bible specialists called the Tannaim copied this Hebrew Bible. Then between about 300 and 500 CE, another group of Jewish Bible specialists called the Amoraim continued the work of the Tannaim. The Masoretes then continued the Amoraim's work for the next 500 years. 
The Masoretes were very careful when they copied the Bible. When they thought there was a mistake in the work of the Amoraim or the other specialists, they wrote a note in the side of the book, rather than change the book. After they copied a book, they counted the verses, words and letters in each book to make sure there were no mistakes. 
The Masoretes also added vowel points to make the Bible easier to read because the Hebrew writing does not show vowels.
There were two main places where Masoretes worked: Babylon and Israel. The Masoretes also wrote book about the Bible called the Masorah.

</doc>
<doc id="130468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130468" title="Category:English Premier League">
Category:English Premier League


</doc>
<doc id="130469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130469" title="Category:Football in England">
Category:Football in England


</doc>
<doc id="130470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130470" title="Category:Football in Scotland">
Category:Football in Scotland


</doc>
<doc id="130471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130471" title="Category:English Football League">
Category:English Football League


</doc>
<doc id="130473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130473" title="Golant">
Golant

Golant is a small village in Cornwall, United Kingdom. It is in the parish of St Sampson on the banks of the Fowey estuary and between St. Austell and Polperro. The church in the villiage is dedicated to St. Sampson.
Golant railway station was at one time by the river to the south of the village. It was served by trains on the Great Western Railway's Fowey branch line from 1 July 1896 until 4 January 1965. The station has since been removed. The space is now used for a car park.
Annie Vernon, the Olympic rower, first learned her sport at Golant's Castle Dore Rowing Club.
Until very recently, Golant has been almost unknown except to the people who live there and pilgrims and other walkers of the Saints' Way. Nearby, there is a little used ford across the Fowey estuary. In late summer 1644, during the first English Civil War, war came to Golant and the area around the village. A large group of about 10,000 Parliamentary soldiers fought against the forces of King Charles on the peninsula between Lostwithiel, St Blazey and Fowey. King Charles was in the area at the time.

</doc>
<doc id="130475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130475" title="Saints' Way">
Saints' Way

The Saints' Way () is a long-distance footpath in Cornwall, in the United Kingdom.
It follows the probable route of early Christian travellers making their way from Ireland to the Continent. Rather than risk the difficult passage around Land's End they would disembark their ships on the North Cornish coast and progress to ports such as Fowey on foot. The footpath today between Padstow in the north and Fowey in the south is 26 miles in length and is well marked. Guide books are available.
Saints' Way information at Cornwall County Council

</doc>
<doc id="130479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130479" title="Golda Meir">
Golda Meir

Golda Meir (; , , born Golda Mabovitch, May 3 1898 - December 8 1978, known as Golda Myerson from 1917 to 1956) was the fourth prime minister of the State of Israel.
Golda Meir became Prime Minister of Israel on March 17 1969 after serving as Minister of Labour and Foreign Minister. She was said to be the "Iron Lady" "(a strong minded woman)" of Israel's politics years before that name became said about the British prime minister, Margaret Thatcher. Meir was Israel's first and so far only female prime minister. She was the world's third female prime minister. The two biggest events of her time as prime minister were the murder of eleven Israeli athletes at the 1972 Summer Olympic Games and the 1973 Yom Kippur War. After questions about her handling of the war, Meir resigned from her job even though she had been found to be not to blame for problems with the war.
Her name at birth was Golda Mabovitch () in Kiev in the former Russian Empire (today Ukraine), to Blume Naidich and Moshe Mabovitch, a carpenter. The family moved to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA. Her father found a job as a carpenter, and her mother ran a grocery store. At the age of eight, she was already put in charge of watching the store when her mother went to the market for supplies. At age 14, Golda went to North Division High School and worked part-time. Her mother wanted her to leave school and marry, but she did not. She ran away from home and bought a train ticket to Denver, Colorado, and went to live with her married sister, Sheyna Korngold. The Korngolds held evening meetings at their home where Meir learned about the Jew's desire for a country of their own, literature, women's rights, trade unions and more. In Denver, she also met Morris Meyerson, a sign painter, whom she later married at the age of 19.
The two biggest things to happen during her time as prime minister were; the murder of eleven Israeli athletes at the 1972 Summer Olympic Games by the terrorist group Black September, and the twenty day war called the Yom Kippur War between Israel and the Arab states led by Egypt and Syria in October 1973.
The Yom Kippur War was from October 6 to October 26, 1973 and was between a group of Arab countries led by Syria and Egypt against Israel. Israel was surprised by the attack and after the Yom Kippur War, the government was asked questions about Israel's not being ready for the war. A group of people who were asked to look into the war cleared her of direct blame, and her party won the elections in December 1973, but she left on April 11 1974, because of what she felt the people of Israel wanted. Yitzhak Rabin became prime minister after her on June 3 1974.
In 1975, Meir was awarded the Israel Prize for her services to the State of Israel.
On December 8 1978, Golda Meir died of cancer in Jerusalem at the age of 80. She was buried Helkat Gdolei Ha'uma in Mount Herzl in Jerusalem on December 12 1978.

</doc>
<doc id="130484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130484" title="Haumea (dwarf planet)">
Haumea (dwarf planet)

Haumea is a dwarf planet in the Solar System. Its discovery was announced in 2005 by astronomers Michael E. Brown, Chad Trujillo and David Rabinowitz of the United States, and J. L. Ortiz of Spain. It was classified as a dwarf planet on September 17, 2008. Haumea is a Trans-Neptunian object, because it orbits the Sun after Neptune. It has two known moons, Hiʻiaka and Namaka. Haumea is special because of its very short day and odd shape. It turns once on its axis every four hours. This quick turning has caused Haumea to be shaped like an ellipsoid. It was the fifth discovered dwarf planet.
The object was originally nicknamed 'Santa' as it was discovered shortly after Christmas. In 2008, the International Astronomical Union gave it the proper name Haumea, after a Hawaiian god of childbirth and fertility.

</doc>
<doc id="130486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130486" title="Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 42">
Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 42

Please at Meta! Kind regards -- () 21:33, 29 August 2008 (UTC)
A plan is in the works to found a new UK chapter of the Wikimedia Foundation, and we are currently gathering support from the community. If you are interested in being part of this new UK chapter as a member, a board member or as someone with a general interest in the chapter, please head over to and let us know. We also welcome help in making finishing touches to the plans. An election will be held shortly for the initial board, who will oversee the process of founding the company and accepting membership applications. They will then call an AGM to formally elect a new board, which will take the chapter forward, starting to raise funds and generally supporting the Wikimedia community in the UK.
I am relatively new to Simple English wiki. I was wondering if we could have a bot look at articles from the English wiki and see if they are 'simple enough' to be included in this wiki, otherwise 'simplify' them. Is there already any such bot? Otherwise if people agree to the idea, I am willing to program one.
Although still a proposal, prehaps this would be good here? 19:16, 31 August 2008 (UTC)
How does a project move from user space into main space. The project page states: "Until a WikiProject has been accepted by the community here and moved to the Wikipedia mainspace ... " But how does the community decide when the project has been accepted? -- () 21:19, 31 August 2008 (UTC)
WikIProjects are good for actual collaboration. There is collaboration here, but it's of a different kind. 
With that in mind, I think that WikiProjects are good at coalescing information together for people to look at, but not necessary have much discussion on it. () 06:53, 1 September 2008 (UTC)
I think that there should at least be a link on the main page so that users who are new or don't know about the Wikiprojects will have a way to find them. Its hard to get new members when people don't know they exist. -- () 00:01, 4 September 2008 (UTC)
I wrote this file but you decided to purge, I was not finished yet and still...
Dear Matilda, you did not let me finish the article, and the deabte was inconclusive,
congratulations for your high class idea of justice.
Let me finish the article with the proper justification, this is a non English speaking person.
best regards, 
Please keep in mind that the article listed in the most wanted (new changes) box should keep a kind of balance. They should come from different "fields of interest". Currently, we'd have enough slots to completely fill them with Bible/Christianity-related or Sports-related entries. It is in my opinion important to include articles there from different fields of interest (not everyone is interested in Bible-related or sports-related stub creation only).
-- () 11:53, 1 September 2008 (UTC)
Hi all,
I just found out that if I want to put greek symbols on this wiki, this does not work. Most wikis have an "symbol input bar" (don't know how it's called, I'm just making up this term right now), but this one hasn't. So I guessed that I could type in some Greek symbols in word, and then copy-paste them into the wiki. But now I get this kind of blocks for every symbol. I think it's Unicode, but I don't know for sure. (Here's an example with the word "kai": ). How come this? Japanese and Chinese symbols do work even when copy-pasted (example: 学生 がくせい), so why won't Greek work?
Hey there. I've added two more proposals, one for and the other for (Baseball uniform at and Green Day at ). They could really use some comments, opinions and reviews. Thanks, () 03:24, 2 September 2008 (UTC)
I've created this for Wikipedia pages. What it will do is right align the table of contents, with a link to the talk page if there is one, a link to the archive (if you use the archive parameter) and a link to the header, if you use the header. See for an example. Feedback, please! 10:11, 2 September 2008 (UTC)
I want to remind everyone I have a current editor review. Please comment for those who haven...and for those who have I appreciate it. --  †   20:43, 2 September 2008 (UTC)
On another Wikipedia (arabic, prehaps?), I added an interwiki link to an article. I was then welcomed, not with a standard welcome template that most editors would get, but a special English language one with links pertaining to those about translations and interwikis. Would this be an idea to port over here? We welcome many people with links they have no interest in, as all they are doing is adding an interwiki. We could outline, prehaps, the way we do interwikis (if we do it differently from standard), a short summary of Simple English, and maybe a note to say that it is a good place to go if you want to learn English. After all, this is an oppotunity to 'sell' our Wikipedia on 'passers by'; it's probably rather like big signs in shop windows: people walk past, prehaps look at the items on sale, but never quite go in. Can we change that? 
Regards, Microchip () 10:27, 3 September 2008 (UTC)
Hello all, the articles about the contestants in the upcoming US presidential election (Obama, Biden / McCain, Pallin) have been semi-protected; This means that anonymous or new users talk about changes on the respective talk pages, because they can no longer change the page itself. Note that talking about changes on the article talk page is generally a good idea.
For those of you interested in politics, can we get the following for these candidates:
Please provide links where possible. Just wanted to let you know.-- () 10:42, 4 September 2008 (UTC)
Hi, can someone have a look at Mobile Technology Academy? I don't want to put it as QD immediately but it seems to be advertising to me (or at least not NPOV). What do you 'experts' think? () 16:11, 4 September 2008 (UTC)
Do we have one? I have been trying to simplify many words, and putting them in an excel document. (Reminds me of 1984 Newspeak LOL)
Hi, I have added the article Oklahoma to the voting section of . Please vote on it and the other articles needing votes on the page. Thanks, -- () 07:35, 6 September 2008 (UTC)
I would like to propose that we move all active Wikiprojects to one main page at . This way, we keep everything unified, and everyone can easily find out if there are any new Wikiprojects. It eliminates the need for , that not everyone adds their Project to, and thus makes sure everyone knows. And anyway, is a lot easier to remember than . Shorter, too. () 10:56, 6 September 2008 (UTC)
Actually there are no spoilers in here, but it serves as a good example of what the post is about.
I created a new spoiler tag. The old ones mark the top and bottoms of spoiler sections but with the information sitting right there, it is not very effective. These tags automatically hide the content of the section unless the reader choses to click the [ show ] button. The old spoiler tags got redirected already, and this is going to cause issues until they can all be sorted out. The main issue would be with tags marking the start of spoiler sections but none closing them. I never intended to redirect.. Gwib jump the gun on the situation but that can be cleaned up. The problem was there anyway, so adding closing tags needed to be done sometime anyway. Now is as good as later. 
The tags are fairly simple to remember and . One additional issue that could occur is that they use table formating so pipe characters ("|") floating free inside them could cause issues. Most pipes are already part of a tag or link and would not cause problems, but there could be free ones out there somewhere. -- 11:42, 6 September 2008 (UTC)
Doing something thzt requires a lot of javascript would seriously hamper accessibility for people with disabilities. () 14:45, 6 September 2008 (UTC)
What do you think? 19:47, 29 August 2008 (UTC)
"" currently states: "Pronunciations of words should be written using the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA)." I'd like to suggest that this be changed to: "Pronunciations of words should be written using the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA), a , or both." I think the option of using a respelled pronuncation should be included because many editors and readers are unfamiliar with the IPA. — Cheers, 15:49, 6 September 2008 (UTC)
I have nothing against the use of IPA – certainly it can render the pronunciations of words very accurately – but I'd disagree that the IPA is as easy to learn as a respelled pronunciation. "Respelling" in this context means using the letters of the alphabet to indicate how words should be pronounced rather than using a set of different symbols. I would say that in many cases readers should be able to work out how a word is pronounced by looking at the respelled pronunciation without consulting ". On the other hand, the majority of readers would almost certainly have to look up a chart (such as ", which doesn't yet exist at Simple English Wikipedia) to figure out an IPA transcription. I'm therefore suggesting that the Manual of Style be amended so editors are given the option of using a respelled pronunciation if they wish to. Feel free to help improve "". — Cheers, 07:30, 7 September 2008 (UTC)
Well, "doughnut" rendered according to "" would be or , which seem quite clear to me. — Cheers, 16:55, 7 September 2008 (UTC)
I'm not saying that we should do away with the use of IPA transcriptions, but that respelled pronunciations should also be permitted as they can be helpful. Would Simple English editors support the following change, then: "Pronunciations of words should be written using the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA), with or without a ."? The amended guideline would then suggest that an IPA transcription should always be given, but that a respelled pronunciation may optionally be provided as well. Also, what silent 'E' in "doughnut" are we referring to? (On a side point, I'm getting confused by some abbreviations. What do "IIIRC" in Eptalon's comment and "TOT" in Jonas's comment mean?) — Cheers, 05:37, 8 September 2008 (UTC)
I'd say that a pronunciation transcription is generally only necessary if the word in question is pronounced in an unexpected way. (Worcester is pronounced ; other UK place names that are not spelled the way they are pronounced include Bicester, Leicester, Harwich (), Norwich and Southwark in London (believe it or not, !). But Rochester is pronounced as spelt.) — Cheers, 16:03, 8 September 2008 (UTC)
Definitely! So, back to my suggestion on updating the Manual of Style – how's this?
— Cheers, 20:04, 10 September 2008 (UTC)
So, does anyone object to the above proposed change to the guideline? — Cheers, 06:56, 14 September 2008 (UTC)
Here's something I made to replace . ... what do you think? [ on]  07:56, 16 May 2008 (UTC)
Wikipedia editors, 
Please do not use HotCat to increase your edit count so you can be administrators. Using an automatic or semi-automatic tool is not a personal contribution to the encyclopedia. If you want to be trusted by the community, you should work on articles more, without your automatic tools. A helpful contributor to the encyclopedia doesn't need HC to blow up their mainspace editcount so that someone who has seen their editcount as far as mainspace edits (but not the edits themselves) can blindly support. I am not saying that I know this is happening, I am saying that it might be, and if so, stop it. A question: Is there a way that HotCat can run on a bot account to prevent users from using it to make their mainspace count 10000? —  · 21:11, 6 September 2008 (UTC)
As far as I'm aware...on most recent RFAs...edit counts was never an issue. It's usually been about how the prospective admin has acted. TRM was trusted from the English Wikipedia; AE had done excellent work over a period of months; Razorflame was weighed down by owernship issues; my refusal to identify my en account became a major issue, with up to three new opposes that were later struck; so and and so forth. () 22:48, 6 September 2008 (UTC)
I have created the and templates on my own, but there are still problems with them, so they cannot be used yet. For the Wikiversity template, it links to http://simple.wikiversity.org/, which does not exist. I'm not sure how to make it link to the English Wikiversity instead. I need help to fix that before we can use it. For the Wikijunior template, the text is "Wikibooks Wikijunior has more about this subject". I'm not sure how to change it to "Wikijunior has more about this subject". I need help to fix these problems, then we can use them. Linking articles to Wikijunior is important, since we are building a Simple English Wikipedia. or 12:57, 7 September 2008 (UTC)
Hello, I just re-started and re-invigorated the , with a little help from . The project includes all types of heavy metal from classic blues influenced heavy metal such as Cream and Led Zeppelin to more modern metal such as Slipknot and Linkin Park. If you are interested in any form please sign up, as there is now a big to do list of articles to be made and improved. Cheers, 20:59, 7 September 2008 (UTC)
I dont knmow, but wouldn't it be a good idea to get the candidates of the next US presidential elections (i.e. 2008) inot shape? - In my opinion, each of the articles should provide answers to the following questions:
Personally, I do not have time to fill in the info for Barack Obama, Joe Biden, John McCain and Sarah Palin but I think getting some very basic info in these articles (in the appropriate languag,e with references) might give us more visibility. -- () 12:31, 8 September 2008 (UTC)
Hello all, I have spent considerable time getting RAID ready for VGA, yet there seem to be no votes so far. I am aware that the subject of the article is technical. Normal users outside the computer science field will likely not get in toch with a RAID system (Certain varieties are gainining popularity in desktop systems though) - Can I therefore ask you to look at the article, and leave comments or votes on the ? - Thanks. -- () 13:45, 9 September 2008 (UTC)
Can anyone tell me a welcome template that works? I tried using a while ago, but the name part doesn't work. Thanks 08:36, 11 September 2008 (UTC)
Remember now, peer review is just as important than GA and VGA, if not more! - () 17:37, 11 September 2008 (UTC)
I was thinking of a "Did You Mean" addon to the wikipedia search to help me and those who can't speak English properly or spell words () 17:52, 12 September 2008 (UTC)
I'm trying to find subject and verbs in this sentence: "The window fan made a clanking sound durig the night and kept us from sleeping."
I'm doing an english assignment. " "
Oklahoma is our newest VGA, well done to . Unfortunately, RAID's PVGA was unsuccessful. Please pitch in and help out so it can get over the line next time!
There are currently two articles up for voting at ; Baseball uniform (ends 17 September) and Red Hot Chili Peppers (ends 20 September). Please comment/vote! () 05:23, 13 September 2008 (UTC)
Hello. I was wondering, do s/s "need" images in them for articles to be promoted to those levels? Since we only use images from commons, some articles may not have images but are well-written enough to become a GA/VGA. So again, are images "needed" in articles to become a GA/VGA? -- () 07:44, 14 September 2008 (UTC)
Last night, Oklahoma was yesterday as VGA as it met the current criteria for , i.e. that "Within one week of being listed under the voting section, 80% of named editors must agree that the article is indeed very good. There is a required minimum of 6 named voters." Nothing personal, but I had about 20 outstanding comments about the article, a lot of them breaches of the WP:MOS (the misuse or lack of hyphens where appropriate, problems with the references date formats and missing access dates, full stops on captions which are sentence fragments), which need to be fixed. My biggest fear is that this article will be upheld as a "model" article and thus render instruction from the MOS as optional which would then cause a slow but inevitable degradation in the quality of our "finest work". The over-prescriptive nature of when to pass a PVGA to VGA means that this article has been promoted prematurely. It's another example of this current process failing to work. I would advise that, before promoting articles from PVGA to VGA, all comments are addressed, either by fixing issues or having satisfactory agreement that suggests, at the very least, the comments have been read. () 18:00, 14 September 2008 (UTC)
Hello folks. The Scottish Premier League, the 14th best league in the world, is ready for voting: - Can you please take a look and !vote or leave some comments? Thanks 10:50, 16 September 2008 (UTC)
Hello community, in Simple English Wikipedia I can currently read, among other things:
I think we should re-focus the project a little, giving it better aims:
Are there any other things that you think we should mention? -- () 22:12, 16 September 2008 (UTC)
Is Simple English for kids to understand Wikipedia articles, or is it designed for foreigners to understand? The reason I ask is because the "F-bomb" is mentioned on the SpongeBob SquarePants article. It's not vandalism, either. It's a good faith edit (I think), because supposedly there was a movie in 2005 with the above mentioned swear word as a title. I personally think it should be removed. I'm wondering if it should be removed in case it wouldn't be good for kids to see. It's a really trivial mention, so it doesn't seem to have a place. I ask here because I'm not too sure anyone would see it on the SpongeBob Squarepants Talk page. Any insight would be appreciated. () 06:28, 17 September 2008 (UTC)
What's the time-frame for the Selected Article? Wikipedia's is once a day; what about Simple English? My purpose isn't to change the current time-frame; no way in heck. This is 100% curiosity. () 06:45, 17 September 2008 (UTC)
I just want to make the friends coming from different countries,but I get no idea of how to do it ? 
Hello. The was supposed to be closed at around 3:00 (UTC) yesterday. It is now overdue. Could someone who hasn't participated in the discussion close the proposed very good article? Thanks, () 01:57, 18 September 2008 (UTC)
Seeing as the result of the debate on whether or not Simple English Wikipedia is to be censored ruled in favor of those who don't want it censored, I'd like to make a proposal that hopefully won't be harmful to the growth of the Simple English version of Wikipedia. <BR><BR>I think it would be good if we had a tab/radio button/ribbon/something else that I will now go into more detail about: Perhaps buttons like these could be incorporated into a design that makes a "family-friendly" version of a given page or the entirety of Simple English. This could feature omitted/rephrased text, and omitted or altered images, and maybe(or maybe not) have a variety of versions of a given page. And you can toggle this "ON" or "OFF" at will, with the "DEFAULT" setting being "UNCENSORED". (Original setup of Wikipedia)<BR><BR> Therefore, if such a design was implemented, it could still be argued that despite such a design, the "DEFAULT" would always be there at start-up, unless a logged-in member chose to start-up as a preset on "FAMILY-FRIENDLY".<BR><BR>Not only that, but a parent who is logged in could determine for his/her kids & family what they would deem as "FAMILY FRIENDLY". If it was granted to the user to determine "Acceptable versus Unacceptable", there wouldn't be constant, nonstop edit-wars and the like. (At least not concerning the "Acceptable vs Unacceptable template" {if it was implemented}). <BR><BR>I don't know, just throwing out an idea that I'll let others accept, tweak, or discard. Let the will of the people be made known! Thanks for reading this. <BR><BR> : )<BR><BR> () 04:08, 18 September 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="130495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130495" title="Psychosocial">
Psychosocial

"Psychosocial" is the second single and fourth track from Slipknot's fourth studio album, "All Hope Is Gone" which was released August 26 2008.
The music video for "Psychosocial" was shot at Sound Farm studios in Jamaica, Iowa on June 30, 2008. The shoot was delayed due to an unrelated head injury sustained by turntablist Sid Wilson before the shoot, who was subsequently hospitalized. On July 18, 2008 the video premiered on MTV's "FNMTV" show, hosted by Pete Wentz. The video, which was directed by Paul Brown, was shot using high-end cameras which shoot 1,000 frames per second and are contrasted with traditional 35 mm hand crank camera equipment. Percussionist Shawn Crahan explains; "we have the most extreme on both ends, with nothing in the middle. That's what the video is, and nobody does that. There's an art form behind it."
During an interview with "Kerrang!", guitarist James Root revealed that the video features the burning of the purgatory masks adorned by the band members in the splash teaser photos shown on Slipknot's website, reportedly because the masks represent the band's ego.
The are two versions of the video. One uses the album version of the song, whilst the other uses a much shorter version of the song; excluding the "Limit of the Dead!" lines.
This song was nominated to best rock video at the VMA´s 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="130496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130496" title="Pete Wentz">
Pete Wentz

Peter Lewis Kingston Wentz III (born on June 5, 1979) better known as Pete Wentz, is an American musician and songwriter. He is most famous for his work with the Chicago-based band Fall Out Boy. In recent years, he has also become an entrepreneur and the host of the MTV program, FNMTV. 
Wentz has been diagnosed with bipolar disorder. Ashlee Simpson divorced him.
Fall Out Boy came off hiatus in 2013, releasing a new single "My Songs Know What You Did in the Dark (Light 'Em Up)" and an album "Save Rock and Roll", along with a supporting Spring tour. They will be going on the Save Rock and Roll Arena Fall Tour this September with pop punk group Panic! at the Disco and rapper Big Sean in support of the album as well.

</doc>
<doc id="130499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130499" title="FNMTV">
FNMTV

FNMTV Premiers is a television program shown on MTV. The program is hosted by Pete Wentz of rock band Fall Out Boy. "FNMTV" is shown every Friday night. It shows all new never-before seen music videos and live performances. The program has had several famous guests including Lil Wayne, Jonas Brothers, Miley Cyrus, Rihanna, Maroon 5, and Katy Perry.
Other possible name results for the title are "FN'MTV", "Friday Night MTV", "Feedback New MTV", "Feedback New Music Television", "FN (standing for f***ing MTV) MTV", "F'in MTV", or "FN'MTV "Friday Night"".

</doc>
<doc id="130501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130501" title="Lil Wayne">
Lil Wayne

Dwayne Michael Carter, Jr. (born September 27, 1982), known by his stage name Lil Wayne, is an American rapper from New Orleans, Louisiana. He joined the Cash Money Records collective as a teenager. He worked with B.G. on the album "True Story" and eventually recorded for the label. "Get It How U Live", released in 1997, was Lil Wayne's first album with Hot Boys, and "Tha Block is Hot", his solo debut, came out 1999. "Block" debuted in the top ten on the American Billboard 200 chart and Lil Wayne was nominated for "Best New Artist" from magazine the same year. Following this success, Wayne soon featured on other rappers' singles, including "Bling Bling" by B.G. and "#1 Stunna" by the Big Tymers in 2000.
After his hit debut album "Tha Block Is Hot" and two albums released with little promotion, Lil Wayne reached higher popularity with 2004's "Tha Carter" and its two subsequent albums "Tha Carter II" (2005) and "Tha Carter III" (2008). During that period, Lil Wayne appeared on several mixtapes and singles of other artists.
Lil Wayne accredits Ms. Ashley Cooper of Rowe Elementary School to his success as an entertainer. She is a fifth grade teacher who inspires all his song because she is just too cool. Ms. Cooper and Lil' Wayne go way back to when they were in preschool. Cooper would spit the beats and Wayne would come up with lyrics.
Initially planned to be released in 2007, "Tha Carter III"'s largest delay came after the majority of the tracks were leaked and distributed on mixtapes, such as "The Drought Is Over Pt. 2" and "The Drought Is Over Pt. 4". Lil Wayne initially decided to use the leaked tracks, plus four new tracks, to make a separate album, titled "". "The Leak" was to be released December 18, 2007, with the actual album being delayed until March 18, 2008, The release of "The Leak" in this format never came to fruition, but an official EP titled "The Leak" and containing five tracks was released digitally on December 25, 2007.
On March 15, 2013, Lil Wayne was hospitalized in Los Angeles after having many seizures. TMZ reported that Wayne is breathing through tubes and is moved to an Intensive Care Unite. 

</doc>
<doc id="130502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130502" title="Tha Carter III">
Tha Carter III

The Carter III is the sixth studio album by rapper "Lil Wayne". The album contains singles like "Lollipop", "Got Money", "A Milli", "Mrs. Officer", and "Mr. Carter". It has been certified triple-platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America and has sold 3.6 million copies in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="130533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130533" title="Category:Governor of Oklahoma">
Category:Governor of Oklahoma


</doc>
<doc id="130534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130534" title="Administrative county">
Administrative county

An administrative county "(pronounced: add-mini-stray'-tive, count-e)" was an old way of dividing up the land in a country that was once used in England and Wales, beginning in 1888 and also in Ireland, beginning in 1898. It was used for local government reasons. They do not exist anymore, except in Northern Ireland where their old areas are used as the areas for lieutenancy. They were also once used in Scotland for government reasons but they were not real names that the people who lived in an area called it except when talking to the government. They stopped being used in England and Wales in 1974, and stopped in Scotland in 1975.

</doc>
<doc id="130548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130548" title="Tlaxcala de Xicoténcatl">
Tlaxcala de Xicoténcatl

Tlaxcala de Xicoténcatl is the capital of the Mexican state of Tlaxcala. About 84.000 people live in the city itself. Its urban area has about 250.000 people. The city has a historic center. The church of St. Francis was consecrated in 1521. It is the oldest church on American soil.

</doc>
<doc id="130549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130549" title="Saral">
Saral

Saral is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan. It is part of Chakwal Tehsil and is located at 33°5'39N 72°55'18E.

</doc>
<doc id="130551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130551" title="Nor Khachakap">
Nor Khachakap

Nor Khachakap (; formerly, Saral) is a village in Lori province, Armenia.

</doc>
<doc id="130557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130557" title="Category:United States Senate">
Category:United States Senate


</doc>
<doc id="130558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130558" title="Category:2000 songs">
Category:2000 songs


</doc>
<doc id="130590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130590" title="The Great Escape (Boys Like Girls song)">
The Great Escape (Boys Like Girls song)

"The Great Escape" is the 2nd single off of the self-titled first studio album by rock band Boys Like Girls. "The Great Escape"'s music video was released in late February of 2007. It peaked at #8 on the Billboard Pop Songs chart.

</doc>
<doc id="130604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130604" title="Stella">
Stella

Stella may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="130606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130606" title="Corey Taylor">
Corey Taylor

Corey Taylor (born December 1973) also known by his number #8, is an American singer. He is the lead singer of the bands Slipknot and "Stone Sour". 

</doc>
<doc id="130609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130609" title="Wait and Bleed">
Wait and Bleed

"Wait and Bleed" is a single from the metal band Slipknot's first album, "Slipknot". 
The video for the song is a live performance.

</doc>
<doc id="130610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130610" title="Spit It Out">
Spit It Out

Spit It Out is the second single from the album "Slipknot" by metal band Slipknot. It was released on September 4, 2000 and is off their debut album "Slipknot".

</doc>
<doc id="130621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130621" title="IBGE">
IBGE

The Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics or IBGE (), is the agency responsible for statistical, geographic, cartographic, geodetic and environmental information in Brazil. The IBGE performs a national census every ten years, and the questionnaires account for information such as age, household income, literacy, education, occupation and hygiene levels.
The IBGE's headquarters is located in Rio de Janeiro.

</doc>
<doc id="130622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130622" title="Category:Lists of cities">
Category:Lists of cities


</doc>
<doc id="130631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130631" title="Windows 7">
Windows 7

Windows 7 is the third newest version of Microsoft Windows, which is an operating system for computers. Microsoft says Windows 7 is faster, more reliable and more compatible, and that it is a refinement of the previous version named Windows Vista.
The beta version of Windows 7 was released on January 9th, 2009, and the release candidate was released on May 5th. The final version of Windows 7 was sent to PC makers on July 22nd, 2009, so that they have three months to change it and include it with their computers. Windows 7 was released to the public on October 22nd, 2009.
First, a beta version of Windows codenamed "Blackcomb" was planned as the successor to Windows XP and Windows Server 2003. Big features were planned for Blackcomb, including an emphasis on looking for data and an advanced storage system named WinFS to enable such situations. However, an interim, minor release, codenamed "Longhorn" was announced for 2003, delaying the making of Blackcomb. By the middle of 2003, however, Longhorn had gotten some of the features meant for Blackcomb. After three major viruses exploited flaws in Windows operating systems within a short time period in 2003, Microsoft changed its development priorities, putting some of Longhorn's major development work on hold while they made new service packs for Windows XP and Windows Server 2003. Development of Longhorn (Windows Vista) was also "reset", or delayed in September 2004. A number of features were cut from Longhorn.
Blackcomb was renamed "Vienna" in early 2006, and again to "Windows 7" in 2007. In 2008, it was announced that "Windows 7" would also be the official name of the operating system.
The first known build was called Milestone 1. It was just a customized version of Windows Vista and it had a send feedback feature since it was a pre-release version.
The next build was called Milestone 2. It had a new taskbar.
The third Milestone was released in September 2008. It looked like Vista, but it had a new Action Center instead of the Security Center. The action center shows messages for many more stuff, not just security for Windows.
Build 6801 was a customized version of Milestone 3 that was shown at the Professional Developers Conference and was given to the people that were there.
Build 6933 was shown at PDC but was not given to the people attending. In December 2008, a leaked version of build 6956 was available for download on Peer To Peer networks.
On January 9th 2009, build 7000 was released as a public beta. According to the Engineering Windows 7 team, they had a lot of feedback from users.
The Release Candidate was made available on May 5th, 2009 and the build number is 7100.
Windows 7 was launched on October 22nd, 2009.
Windows 7 includes a number of new features, such as touching the screen, supporting virtual hard disks, being faster on multi-core processors and the taskbar is the biggest improvement. The taskbar allows users to pin most frequently used programs. Also, the glass user interface, Aero, has been improved.
Windows 7 has removed Inkball, Windows Ultimate Extras, the classic Start Menu, Windows Mail, Windows Movie Maker, Windows Photo Gallery and Windows Calendar. Windows Mail, Windows Movie Maker, and Windows Photo Gallery were replaced by Windows Live Essentials. The Windows Live Essentials are not included in Windows 7. They have to be downloaded.
There are six main editions of Windows 7.
The three main editions of Windows 7 are:
Three editions were not released worldwide. They are Starter, which you can only get already installed on a low-cost PC such as a Netbook, Home Basic, which was only released in poor countries, and Enterprise, which is only available to big companies.

</doc>
<doc id="130646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130646" title="Windows NT 6.0">
Windows NT 6.0

The name Windows NT 6.0 (formerly known as Windows Longhorn) can be one of the two versions of Microsoft Windows:

</doc>
<doc id="130660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130660" title="Category:Slipknot">
Category:Slipknot


</doc>
<doc id="130662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130662" title="List of association football stadiums by capacity">
List of association football stadiums by capacity

This is a list of association football stadiums. They are put into order by how many people they can hold at one time.
This list is only for football stadiums.

</doc>
<doc id="130664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130664" title="Wikipedia:Boardvote">
Wikipedia:Boardvote


</doc>
<doc id="130665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130665" title="Wikipedia:Importers">
Wikipedia:Importers

The local import tool is at . This tool brings - or "imports" - a page from a different Wikipedia to the Simple English Wikipedia. It can also bring the page history of the page to the Simple English Wikipedia.
There are two types of imports:
Administrators automatically have the ability to perform transwiki imports. Other users may request this flag if they need it (see below). Upload import is disabled on most Wikimedia wikis, but this wiki has elected to allow bureaucrats to assign and revoke the flag if needed.
To gain access to the local import tool one must place a request on the page. This is only required for the first instance of granting the tool. Subsequent grants can be accomplished by placing the task request on the . An attending will grant the tool.
The editor must meet certain requirements:
Once all the requirements are met, a local bureaucrat will issue the flag. The same user will remove the flag once the task is done.
With the importer tool, if you need it, get it. Once you are done, then give it back.
Importing over a page that already exists locally will usually cause visible conflicts in the page's revision history. Before using the tool, consider the common problems below.
If you import an article, . If this cannot be accomplished in a reasonable time an administrator will either delete or move the page to your .
Importing over the top of a page that already exists locally will usually cause problems with the page's .
The chronology of a revision table is arranged using two methods. The system that calculates which edits are the previous/next edits (and the number of bytes between them) is based on ; while the system that calculates the number of revisions between two edits is based on .
When a page's revision history is imported, the foreign edits are assigned local revision numbers. Each number assigned is one higher than the last, starting from the earliest. Therefore, any edits already made to that page at the time of the import will have lower revision numbers than the imported edits, even if their timestamps indicate they were made at a later time. If the timestamps on any of the local edits were made more recently than the imported edits, it causes an overlap and a break in continuity.
This can make the revision table difficult to read, both for humans and computers. The difference between edits may look strange on the revision table (see image, far right). The exact change can still be seen correctly by clicking on the , but only if you specify both of the revisions you wish to compare. Cycling through the changes without specifying both, in this instance, will lead you round in circles (see image, upper right).
Another description of these kinds of complications can be found .
Importers can avoid conflicts in revision histories by checking to see whether local edits have been made to a page. If they have, the following options will prevent an overlap:
The only way to correct the conflict once the page has been imported is to the conflicting revisions.

</doc>
<doc id="130667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130667" title="Wikipedia:Developers">
Wikipedia:Developers


</doc>
<doc id="130668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130668" title="Wikipedia:Oversight">
Wikipedia:Oversight

Page can be hidden or removed from the public history so they can only be seen by other oversighters, and . The right is a sensitive one, and removes private data that can be legally problematic (examples are found below). 
Oversight is about sensitive topics, about removing personal information, or information that damages the reputation of an editor. For this reason, the reporting should be done "outside" this wiki, for example by sending an E-Mail. The safest bet is to send a mail oversight-wp-simple@lists.wikimedia.org. This mailing list is read by all local oversighters. It is also possible to directly contact an oversighter, they are listed below. You can also mail the via link.
This feature is approved for use in four cases:
There are two types of oversight-level removal. Edits needing oversight are hidden through , and can be seen and/or restored by any oversighter. The old method was through , which is discouraged. Evidence of the edit is removed entirely from public logs, and can only be restored by if there is a mistake.
The hiding of revisions is logged privately, visible only to other oversight users in the . The log lists who made the removal, when, from which page, and a provided comment. The contents may be reviewed by those with oversight rights, though the originally stated intention was that this will only be available for a limited time period.
Sometimes there is no local oversighter available. In this case, the are allowed to help out. They should wait at least 15 minutes before doing it. Stewards are always available on the freenode IRC network in the channel #wikimedia-stewards.
Oversighters are elected by the community via a . Per Foundation policy, a user must have at least 25 supports and a 70% consensus to be elected. 

</doc>
<doc id="130676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130676" title="Astelia banksii">
Astelia banksii

Astelia banksii is an evergreen silver-green plant from the beaches of New Zealand. It likes it best in partial shade and in fertile and well-drained soil.

</doc>
<doc id="130678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130678" title="Barclays">
Barclays

Barclays is a major bank. It was founded in 1690.

</doc>
<doc id="130684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130684" title="The Beano">
The Beano

The Beano is a weekly British children's comic. The first issue was on July 30, 1938. Annuals are released each year. 

</doc>
<doc id="130687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130687" title="Dunedin">
Dunedin

Dunedin is a city in New Zealand, Ōtepoti in Maori, is the second-largest city in the South Island of New Zealand, and the main city of the region of Otago. The city stands on the hills and valleys surrounding the head of Otago Harbour. The harbour and hills are the remnants of an extinct volcano. It is the home of the University of Otago.
Dunedin is twinned with several cities throughout the world. These include:

</doc>
<doc id="130693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130693" title="Dunfermline Building Society">
Dunfermline Building Society

Dunfermline Building Society (which includes Dunfermline Direct) is a trading division of Nationwide Building Society. 
Nationwide Building Society is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority for life assurance, pensions, investments, insurance and regulated mortgages.

</doc>
<doc id="130698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130698" title="Big Mac Index">
Big Mac Index

The Big Mac Index is an economic index. It compares the purchasing power of two currencies. It looks at how expensive a Big Mac is in different countries. 
The Big Mac Index was first written about in "The Economist" magazine in September 1986. They have published the index each year since then. The McDonald's Big Mac was chosen because it is made in a similar way with similar ingredients in many countries around the world.
The exchange rate between two countries can be compared by dividing the price of a Big Mac in one country (in its currency) by the price of a Big Mac in another country (in its currency). This value is then compared with the actual exchange rate. If the rate is lower, then the first currency is under-valued (according to purchasing power parity (PPP) theory) compared with the second currency. Conversely, if the rate is higher, then the first currency is over-valued.
For example, using figures in July 2008:

</doc>
<doc id="130701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130701" title="Economic index">
Economic index

An economic index is a number that is calculated from different economic factors, like prices or income. These numbers are calculated to be able to compare different economies in different countries. An example for such an index would be the Gross Domestic Product (or GDP).
Usually, the base is given a value of 100 and all later data is expressed in relation to this base. 
For example, the consumer price index (CPI) of a year might stand at 95 (a fall of 5 percent in the prices) or 105 (an increase of 5 percent in the prices).
Indexes (indices) also measure up and down movement of industrial production, and of the market prices of bonds, commodities, shares, etc.

</doc>
<doc id="130703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130703" title="JeOS">
JeOS

JeOS is a version of Ubuntu designed for virtual machines.

</doc>
<doc id="130705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130705" title="All Hope Is Gone (song)">
All Hope Is Gone (song)

All Hope Is Gone is the second single off the album by Slipknot called "All Hope Is Gone".

</doc>
<doc id="130707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130707" title="The Blister Exists">
The Blister Exists

"The Blister Exists" is the final single from Slipknot's "Vol. 3: (The Subliminal Verses)" album. A music video for the song was released May 21st 2004. "The Blister Exists" is known among fans for its snare drum solo. This song was used to open concerts from The Subliminal Verses tour, following a staged announcement where the audience was told that "due to unforeseen circumstances, Slipknot will not be performing this evening." The song appeared in the video game "Prince of Persia: Warrior Within".
The music video displays the band performing the song live, with clips of their fans with much similarity to "The Nameless" music video.

</doc>
<doc id="130710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130710" title="Fellatio">
Fellatio

Fellatio is oral sex performed on the penis. Fellatio is often called a blow job. The opposite of this is cunnilingus. Cunnilingus is oral sex performed on the vulva. 
Fellatio can continue until the receiver ejaculates or as part of foreplay, before actual sexual intercourse. Fellatio began in what is called pornography.
There is no risk of getting pregnant by performing a fellatio, because there is no connection from the mouth to the womb and the fallopian tubes. There is however a large risk of transmitting diseases if the mouth comes in contact with semen on the penis. If the person drinks alcoholic drinks, it can make this risk higher. HIV can also enter through open sores or bleeding gums. 
Very few people are allergic to semen. Some claim that swallowing ejaculate is an intimate act. 
Diseases such as Chlamydia, human papillomavirus (HPV), gonorrhea, herpes, hepatitis (multiple strains), and other sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), as well as viruses such as HIV, can be transmitted through oral sex. The risk of transmitting HIV through fellatio is unknown, but it is thought to be low. Any kind of direct contact with body fluids of a person infected with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, poses a risk of infection. The risk from most of these types of infection, however, is generally considered far lower than that associated with vaginal or anal sex.
If the receiving partner has wounds on their genitals, or if the giving partner has wounds or open sores on or in their mouth, or bleeding gums, this poses an increased risk of STD transmission. Brushing the teeth, flossing, undergoing dental work, or eating crunchy foods such as potato crisps relatively soon before or after giving fellatio can also increase the risk of transmission, because all of these activities can cause small scratches in the lining of the mouth. These wounds, even when they are microscopic, increase the chances of contracting STDs that can be transmitted orally under these conditions. Such contact can also lead to more mundane infections from common bacteria and viruses found in, around and secreted from the genital regions. Because of this, some medical professionals advise the use of condoms when performing or receiving fellatio with a partner whose STD status is unknown. Flavoured condoms may be used for this purpose.
Many people accuse someone of performing fellatio as an insult. For example 'cock sucker!' or 'suck my dick'. 
Many cultures see fellatio as showing control over ones partner, as often the giver is on their knees. In ancient Greece it was called "playing the flute". The Moche people of ancient Peru practiced it regularly and made vases showing it.

</doc>
<doc id="130711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130711" title="Halo 3">
Halo 3

Halo 3 is a first-person shooter video game made by Bungie Studios for the Xbox 360, published by Microsoft. The game brings an end to the story started in the two previous video games of the Halo series; "" and "Halo 2". The game came out on September 25, 2007 all over the world, except Europe and Japan where it was released on September 26.
Microsoft made 4.2 million copies of "Halo 3" for the first day of sales to make sure there were enough copies.
The game's story is based around a future war between a fictional alien race known as "the Covenant" and the human race. The player takes the role of Master Chief, a genetically enhanced "super soldier" who fights for the human race. The player is helped through the story by marines and another alien race known as "the elites". The game had many new features that were not in the first two games including more vehicles, weapons and equipment.
Sales of the game added up to over $900 billion USD in its first week. More than a million people played the game on Xbox Live in the first 24 hours of its release.
By January 1, 2008 it had sold over 8 million copies making it the best selling video game of 2007.
The game was mostly well-reviewed in the press. It received a 94 out of 100 rating on Metacritic, a website that puts many reviews together and gives an average score.
The gameplay in "Halo 3" is similar to the gameplay in "" and "Halo 2" but with added features. It is a first-person shooter that takes place mostly on foot but with sections that have vehicles the player can drive. A player can carry a range of weapons including sniper rifles, rocket launchers, grenades and alien weapons such as "beam rifles" and "needlers". Unlike the old games, during multiplayer all weapons a player is carrying can be seen on the player. This includes side holsters for pistols and larger weapons that can be slung across the players back. "Halo 3" also introduces 'support weapons', large two handed weapons that slow the players movement but do a lot of damage. Two examples include the flamethrower and a heavy machine gun, which are new to "Halo 3". The game also included a map-editor called "forge" where players can create their own arenas and battlegrounds to fight in. Almost all weapons and objects in a level can be moved or deleted in forge mode. The game also has "theater" mode which lets players record some of their best kills or plays from multiplayer mode. The last 20 games played are automatically saved, although this feature needs an Xbox 360 hard drive to work. These movies can be uploaded to Bungie's website where other people can download them and watch them on their PC.
"Halo 3's" story mode contains nine levels. It finishes the story of the "Halo" trilogy. The story can be played alone, with a friend on the same console or with four players over Xbox Live. The first player takes control of Master Chief, the second player plays as the leader of the Elites, "Arbiter" and the last two as elites themselves. There are skulls hidden through the levels. If they are found by any of the players the gameplay changes in some way. For example one skull makes confetti and balloons appear when a player gets a headshot and another makes all enemies stronger and tougher.
A multiplayer game can have up to four people on one console, or up to sixteen players over Xbox Live. There are many different types of multiplayer games. There is a death match, where the goal is to kill all the players (called "Slayer" in Halo). There are capture the flag games with two teams (eight people on each team). In capture the flag, each team has their own flag. The goal of the game is to steal the enemy flag, and take it back to base to score a point. Aside from these there are also team games. These games can have two, six, or eight players on each team.
There is a ranking system in Halo 3 that matches players with other players of the same ability, to make sure it is a fair game. The ranks are based on real life military ranks. The lowest is corporal but players can progress all the way up to general. Because multiplayer Halo is often played online there is a mute option, which lets any one player blank out the voice of any other player if they are being insulting or annoying.
The game is set in the same fictional world as the rest of the Halo series. Most of the game takes place in the future year 2553, over 500 years from now. In the storyline humans have developed faster than light travel, and now live on many planets and moons of the Solar System. When humanity started to build another settlement on a planet around another star they met the alien "Covenant". The Covenant declared religious war on humanity. During Halo 2 the Covenant discovered Earth. At the start of Halo 3, the Covenant are launching a full-scale invasion of Earth.
The Halo of the games title is the name of a series of space super weapons built by a mysterious race called the Forerunners a long time before the game. The Halo's are the last defence against another alien race known as "the Flood". The Flood want to use every living thing in the galaxy for food. The Halos are actually giant super weapons, that when activated, will kill all life in the galaxy. This is the only way to stop the Flood,to starve them by killing all their food. The Covenant do not know this and are attempting to fire Halos as part of a wrong religious prophecy. In the first Halo game, , the humans and Master Chief manage to stop the Covenant from firing one of the Halos. They also destroy one of them in the process. The destruction of one of the Halos starts an emergency. The Halos can now "all" be fired from one place, using a device called "the Ark". The Covenant, still not understanding the truth, launch an invasion of Earth, where they believe the Ark is buried. This is where the "Halo 3" story starts.
The main character of "Halo 3", as in all the Halo games, is Master Chief. Master Chief is a super soldier, the last surviving member of the Spartan Project. The Spartan Project was started by humans to genetically, using genes, make soldiers who were stronger, faster and tougher than any normal human. Another character from Halo 1 and 2, controlled by the second player in a co-op game is "Arbiter", the leader of the alien Elites. In "Halo 2" he is an enemy but in "Halo 3" he joins forces with the humans. Other returning characters include the veteran human soldier "sagent Avery Johnson", the AI "Cortana", the robot "343 Guilty Spark" and "the Gravemind", dangerous leader of the Flood.
"Halo 3" begins where Halo 2 left off. The player once again plays as Master Chief as he falls towards Earth. He crashes in Kenya near the city of Mombasa. He is found by a squad of marines led by sergeant Avery Johnson, the commander from Halo and Halo 2. The player and the marines fight their way through invading Covenant force to a human outpost. Here they find human forces making a last attempt to stop the Covenant from activating a they found buried in the Kenyan desert. They are unsuccessful however, and the Covenant open the portal to the Ark, where they will be able to fire the Halos and destroy the galaxy. 
Just after the Covenant fleet of spacecraft leave the portal, a big ship crashes into the city of Mombasa. This ship has been taken over by the Flood. The player as Master Chief, must fight their way into the ruined spacecraft and recover the robot Cortana who can tell them the way to re-open the portal and follow the Covenant. Once the player is successful, the humans re-open the portal and head after the Covenant to stop them firing the Halos. Joining them is 343 Guilty Spark, one of the robots who helped build the destroyed Halo from the first game. Once through the portal the player and his allies discover the huge, planet-sized structure known as the Ark, where all the Halos can be fired from. Led by 343 Guilty Spark the player makes their way to the centre of the Ark where the Covenant leader, the Prophet of Truth is preparing to fire.
Just as the player arrives to stop the Prophet of Truth, the Flood infested ship "High Charity", arrives in an attempt to take over the Ark. The player, Arbiter and Johnson now take out all the Flood in the area before Arbiter kills the Prophet of Truth and prevents the Halos from being fired. There is no time for the player to rest however, as he must now head to the nuclear reactor at the center of the Flood infested spacecraft, "High Charity" in an effort to kill the Flood. Once this is complete, the player and Arbiter must go and activate "one" Halo ring. This will destroy the Ark and kill all the Flood in this area of the Milky Way Galaxy whilst saving the rest. The player and the Arbiter head off to activate the single Halo and save the Galaxy. 
When they arrive 343 Guilty Spark warns them that activating this Halo will destroy the whole Ark and the Halo itself. The player ignores the warning. This angers 343 Guilty Spark. He kills Sergent Johnson, and attempts to kill Master Chief to keep'his' Halo from being destroyed. This is in effect the final 'boss battle' of the game. The player defeats the robot, and activates the Halo. A countdown starts but it too late for the player as Master Chief and the AI Cortana. They manage to board a spacecraft to take them away but it is caught in the explosion and is split in two. Master Chief is assumed dead.
If the player completes the game on any difficulty, after the credits you see that the Master Chief and Cortana survived. If you finish the game on the "Legendary" difficulty you can see an alternate ending after the credits.
The first work was started on "Halo 3" before the release of Halo 2 in 2004. Through 2004/2005 Bungie refused to confirm they were working on "Halo 3", only saying that they had a 'new project'. The game was officially announced with a trailer at E3 2006. While details of the multiplayer were openly announced and talked about before release, details of the story were kept mostly secret until the day of the launch. 
There are over 40,000 recorded clips of Non Player Character (NPC) dialogue in Halo 3. That is more than twice times as many for Halo 2. Separate sound recordings were made for nearby and distant gunfire to make a more believable experience. Like Halo 1 and 2 the game has its own especially recorded classical soundtrack. The music was recorded with a 27 piece choir and a 60 piece orchestra.
 Various marketing ideas were used to promote the release of Halo 3. A Beta, unfinished version, of the multiplayer mode was released with the Microsoft game Crackdown a few months before the actual release. The advertising campaign cost an estimated $10 million US dollars. The 'Believe' campaign was a high profile launch on television, radio, billboards and other high profile places. It focused on the epic quality of the games storyline. The game's tagline or key phrase was " 'finish the fight' ". Pepsi also announced a new energy drink called Game Fuel. It had an image of Master Chief and the Halo 3 logo on the packaging. Bill Gates, the owner of Microsoft personally sold copies of the game at a Washington game store.
"Halo 3" sales reached $170 million within 24 hours, making it the biggest selling entertainment product launch in US history. It beat the previous record set by Halo 2 in 2004. It was the best selling video game of 2007 in the US, despite only being available on Xbox 360. On January 3, 2008 Microsoft announced "Halo 3" has sold 8.1 million copies worldwide.
Halo 3 was mostly given very good reviews in the media. On Metacritic the game has an average score of 94 out of 100. This was an average from 74 reviews. The multiplayer was often given praise and IGN said that the multiplayer was 'the strongest of the series so far'.
The music to the campaign was also highly praised, along with the voice acting. The main bad points from reviews were the short length of the story mode and the AI of your allies. Bryan Vore of gamecritics said that some parts of the story mode were 'embarrassing'. Nevertheless he still said the full game was a 'masterpiece'.
Halo 3 has one of the largest amounts of players online of games. The online multiplayer has many different game types such as 4 vs 4, 2 vs 2, 8 vs 8 and a lot more. In most gametypes, the player spawns (comes to life) with an Assault Rifle or a Battle Rifle, but other games have other weapons (like Shotty Snipers, which has a Shotgun and a Sniper). Some games require working as a team, while others require single skills. Increasing your skill and timing is important to win in Halo 3, just like every other game.

</doc>
<doc id="130712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130712" title="Extremaduran language">
Extremaduran language

The Extremaduran language () is the native language of Northwestern province of Cáceres. About 150,000 people speak it in Extremadura. This language is very similar to Leonese language and Asturian or Bable, spoken in other territories that once made up the Kingdom of León. Is called "artu estremeñu" (High extremaduran) too. The Central and Low Extremaduran ("Meyu estremeñu" and "Bahu estremeñu") are Spanish dialects with extremaduran influences.

</doc>
<doc id="130713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130713" title="Macron Stadium">
Macron Stadium

Macron Stadium is a football stadium in the town of Horwich, near Bolton, in the county of Greater Manchester, England. It is the current home stadium of Bolton Wanderers F.C.. It opened in 1997 as Reebok Stadium, named after the club's former sponsor, the sportswear company Reebok. In 2014, after the sponsorship deal with Reebok ended, a new deal was signed with Italian sportswear company Macron, and the stadium was renamed accordingly.
On the stadium, there is the 188 from their current sponsor, 188Bet. The team is in the Football league championship.

</doc>
<doc id="130728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130728" title="Tanoli">
Tanoli

The Tanolis (), also called Tanaoli, Tanol, Tol, Tholi, Tahola, Tarnoli, or Tanawali, are a tribe of Hazara. They live mainly in the former Amb, Hazara Division of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. According to various traditions, they are probably of Turkic, Central Asian origins.

</doc>
<doc id="130731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130731" title="Jirga">
Jirga

A jirga (sometimes spelt jirgah) (Pashto / ) is a tribal meeting of elders. The meeting makes decisions by consensus. It is mainly the Pashtun people who have theses meetings - but other people who live near the Pashtun also have these meetings to settle disputes. They are most common in Afghanistan and among the Pashtun in Pakistan near its border with Afghanistan.
The meeting is usually made to help solve a dispute between two people. The people involved in a dispute usually begin by finding a mediator, choosing someone who is trusted to fairly solve the problem. The mediator can be a religious leader, a local notable, or someone who is known for helping to settle disputes. 
The mediator hears from the two sides, and then forms a jirga of community elders, taking care to include supporters of both sides. After listening to both sides the jirga then comes to a decision. When the decision has been made the mediator then announces it. The jirga's decision has to be accepted.

</doc>
<doc id="130732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130732" title="Category:Dispute resolution">
Category:Dispute resolution


</doc>
<doc id="130737" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130737" title="Gujar Khan">
Gujar Khan

Gujar Khan () is a city in Rawalpindi District, Punjab, Pakistan. It is the capital of Gujar Khan Tehsil, one of the seven tehsils or subdivisions of Rawalpindi District. It is about 55 kilometres southeast of Islamabad, the capital of Pakistan and 220 km to the northwest of Lahore capital of Punjab.
Gujar Khan, as well as being tehsil capital, is divided into 3 Union Councils:
According to the 1998 census of Pakistan, the city had 57,099 people.
Pothowari is the main language of Gujar Khan, other languages are Urdu, Punjabi and Pashto.
Gujar Khan has four twin cities, these are:

</doc>
<doc id="130740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130740" title="Category:Rawalpindi District">
Category:Rawalpindi District


</doc>
<doc id="130749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130749" title="Chlamydia infection">
Chlamydia infection

Chlamydia infection (from the Greek, χλαμύδος meaning "cloak") is a common sexually transmitted infection (STI) in humans. It is caused by the bacterium "Chlamydia trachomatis". It can be treated with antibiotics. 
The term "Chlamydia infection" can also refer to infections caused by any species belonging to the bacterial family "Chlamydiaceae". "C. trachomatis" is only in humans. Chlamydia is a major infectious cause of human genital and eye disease. 
The infection is one of the most common sexually transmitted infections in people worldwide – about 2.8 million cases of chlamydia infection occur in the United States each year. It is the most common bacterial STI in humans.
"C. trachomatis" naturally lives only inside human cells. Chlamydia can be transmitted during vaginal, anal, or oral sex. It can also be passed from an infected mother to her baby during vaginal childbirth. Many people with Chlamydia show no symptoms of infection. Between half and three-quarters of all women who have chlamydia have no symptoms and do not know that they are infected. Untreated, chlamydial infections can cause serious reproductive and other health problems with both short-term and long-term consequences.
Chlamydia conjunctivitis or trachoma is a common cause of blindness worldwide. The World Health Organization estimates that it accounted for 15% of blindness cases in 1995, but only 3.6% in 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="130752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130752" title="Ted Strickland">
Ted Strickland

Theodore "Ted" Strickland (born August 4, 1941) was the 68th Governor of Ohio. He held the office from 2007 to 2011. He is a member of the Democratic Party. 
Before he became Governor, he served in the United States House of Representatives for two terms (1993–1995 and 1997–2007).

</doc>
<doc id="130755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130755" title="Michigan Wolverines">
Michigan Wolverines

The Michigan Wolverines are 24 varsity sports teams at the University of Michigan.

</doc>
<doc id="130767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130767" title="Boston Massacre">
Boston Massacre

The Boston Massacre happened when five civilians (people who were not in the military) were shot and killed by British troops on March 5, 1770. It was in Boston, Massachusetts, which was a British colony at the time. The event happened at night when a large mob got together outside of the Custom House. One British soldier named Hugh White had hit a boy who had insulted his commanding officer. The boy ran away and came back with a large mob of angry people. More British soldiers came to help protect Hugh White from the people. The mob threw snowballs with clams inside them. As the mob got larger and larger the scene became more and more chaotic. Someone in the crowd yelled "fire". In the confusion, some of the soldiers fired into the crowd. Crispus Attucks, an African-American man, was one of the first people killed.
Eight British soldiers went to court after the Boston Massacre. Only two of them, Hugh Montgomery and Matthew Killroy, were found guilty of manslaughter in court. Their punishment was to have their thumbs branded (have their thumbs marked with a burn). John Adams was the lawyer who defended the British soldiers. He knew that many people would be upset with him for defending the soldiers, but he believed that everybody deserved a fair trial. ("Adams would later become the President of the United States").
Paul Revere, a man who worked with metals in Boston, made an engraving of the British soldiers shooting into the crowd. Many people saw the engraving and became angry. A few years later, the American Revolution started, and the colonies would become an independent country, the United States of America.

</doc>
<doc id="130772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130772" title="Dreadlocks">
Dreadlocks

Dreadlocks, also called locks or dreads, are coils of hair which are made by themselves, in all hair types, if the hair is allowed to grow naturally without grooming for a long time. They are part of some religions, like the Rastafarian religion in Jamaica. People who do not have to have dreadlocks because of their religion sometimes have dreadlocks as well. A lot of them do not let their dreads form naturally, but make dreadlocks themselves. There are different ways in which people help their hair go together to form dreadlocks. Backcombing, braiding, and twisting are some of the different techniques used to form dreadlocks.

</doc>
<doc id="130775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130775" title="List of Russian football teams">
List of Russian football teams

These are some Russian football teams.

</doc>
<doc id="130776" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130776" title="F.C. Dynamo Moscow">
F.C. Dynamo Moscow

F.C. Dynamo Moscow is a football club which plays in Russia.

</doc>
<doc id="130777" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130777" title="Lev Yashin">
Lev Yashin

Lev Yashin (22 October 1929 – 20 March 1990) is a former Russian football player. He has played for Dynamo Moscow and Soviet Union national team.
326||0
326||0
!Total||74||0

</doc>
<doc id="130778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130778" title="Ronaldo">
Ronaldo

Ronaldo (born 18 September 1976) is a Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.
34||24||13||4||12||10||59||38
45||42||4||4||7||9||56||55
164||117||18||13||44||21||226||151
89||58||9||3||22||7||115||68
332||241||44||24||85||47||461||312
!Total||97||62

</doc>
<doc id="130780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130780" title="Míchel (footballer)">
Míchel (footballer)

Míchel (born 23 March 1963) is a former Spanish football player. He has played for Spain national team.
404||94
34||9
438||103
!Total||66||21

</doc>
<doc id="130789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130789" title="League of Ireland Premier Division">
League of Ireland Premier Division

The League of Ireland Premier Division is a football league which is the top division in the Republic of Ireland. For historic reasons, one club based in Northern Ireland, namely Derry City, plays in the Republic's league system, and is currently in the Premier Division.

</doc>
<doc id="130793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130793" title="Japanese kickboxing">
Japanese kickboxing

The Japanese kickboxing is called in English "oriental kickboxing". According to certain people, the word "kickboxing" would have been invented, in Japan, in the years 1950 by experts of karate who needed to fight with total contact.
In the year 1958, a man who practised kickboxing is the student of oriental languages, the Burmese Maung Gyi who studied martial arts from experts of bando in Burma and also from Gogen Yamaguchi - the grand person with special skill of karate, called "the cat". Maung Gyi fights in Japan under different names and makes the Burmese boxing (lethwei) known in time when the competitions of Japanese kickboxing happened.

</doc>
<doc id="130800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130800" title="Emilio Butragueño">
Emilio Butragueño

Emilio Butragueño (born 22 July 1963) is a former football player. He has played for Spain national team.
341||123
85||26
426||149
!Total||69||26

</doc>
<doc id="130801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130801" title="Francisco Gento">
Francisco Gento

Francisco Gento is a former football player. He has played for Spain national team.
438||130||73||20||511||150
438||130||73||20||511||150
!Total||43||5

</doc>
<doc id="130802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130802" title="Athletic Bilbao">
Athletic Bilbao

Athletic Club, most often known in English as Athletic Bilbao, is a football club which plays in Spain.
The club formed from a merger of two football clubs ; Bilbao F.C. and Athletic Club in 1903.

</doc>
<doc id="130803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130803" title="Rafael Moreno Aranzadi">
Rafael Moreno Aranzadi

Rafael Moreno Aranzadi is a former football player. He has played for Spain national team.
!Total||5||1

</doc>
<doc id="130804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130804" title="Telmo Zarra">
Telmo Zarra

Telmo Zarra is a former football player. He has played for Spain national team.
279||257
279||257
!Total||20||20

</doc>
<doc id="130805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130805" title="Andoni Goikoetxea Olaskoaga">
Andoni Goikoetxea Olaskoaga

Andoni Goikoetxea Olaskoaga (born 23 May, 1956) is a former Spanish football player. He has played for Spain national team.
314||35
314||35
!Total||39||4

</doc>
<doc id="130820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130820" title="Hugo Sánchez">
Hugo Sánchez

Hugo Sánchez (born 11 July 1958) is a former Mexican football player. He has played for Mexico national team.
269||123
42||19
347||234
20||6
678||382
!Total||58||29

</doc>
<doc id="130822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130822" title="Tony Adams">
Tony Adams

Tony Adams (born 10 October 1966) is an English former footballer. He has played for Arsenal and England national team.
504||32||54||8||60||5||48||3||666||48
504||32||54||8||60||5||48||3||666||48
!Total||66||5

</doc>
<doc id="130823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130823" title="Paolo Maldini">
Paolo Maldini

Paolo Maldini (born 26 June 1968) is a former Italian football player. He had played for Milan and Italy national team.
648||29||72||1||161||3||881||33
648||29||72||1||166||3||886||33
!Total||126||7

</doc>
<doc id="130824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130824" title="Alessandro Del Piero">
Alessandro Del Piero

Alessandro Del Piero (born 9 November 1974 in Conegliano) is an Italian former football player. He has played for Juventus from 1993 to 2012, Sydney FC from 2012 to 2014 and Delhi Dynamos in 2014 as a striker. He was the captain of the team since 2001. He began playing for the national team in 2006.
Del Piero is considered among the best talents that Italian football has ever produced. In 2004, he was included in the FIFA 100, a list of 125 greatest living players. In 1999, he was listed 77th in the list of the best players of the 20th century published by World Soccer magazine. He is one of five Italian players to score over 300 goals (312 as pf 6 November 2010) along with Filippo Inzaghi (315), Roberto Baggio (318), Giuseppe Meazza (338) and Silvio Piola (364).
Del Piero is the son of Gino, an electrician, and Bruna, a housekeeper. He regularly played football in the backyard with two friends, Nelso and Pierpaolo as a child. All three dreamed of becoming footballers, but only Del Piero would eventually manage to do so. Alessandro's older brother, Stefano, briefly played professional football for Sampdoria before injury struck him. The family lived in the hamlet of Saccon near San Vendemiano. While growing up, Del Piero's family did not have much money for travelling abroad, so he was considering being a truck driver in order to see the world.
Del Piero played for the local youth team of San Vendemiano since the age of 7. He used to play as a goalkeeper because he could play a lot more football that way. His mother thought it would be better for him if he played as a goalkeeper, since he would not have to run and the possibility of him getting injured was less likely. His brother told their mother that Alex was better at attacking and Del Piero switched position.
It was while playing with his local side of San Vendemiano in 1988 that Del Piero was first spotted by scouts. He left home at the age of 13 to play in the youth side of Padova Calcio.
448||189||48||21||112||47||608||257
448||189||48||21||112||47||608||257
!Total||91||26

</doc>
<doc id="130827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130827" title="Football League Fourth Division">
Football League Fourth Division

Football League Fourth Division is a former football league in England and Wales.

</doc>
<doc id="130838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130838" title="Purchasing power">
Purchasing power

Purchasing power is a relation between labor and money. Some people have money. Adam Smith says that the purchasing power is the amount of money needed to labour (goods or services) from other people. 

</doc>
<doc id="130839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130839" title="Eratosthenes">
Eratosthenes

Eratosthenes of Cyrene (276 –194 ) was a third century BC Greek mathematician, geographer and astronomer. He was head of the Library of Alexandria from 240 until his death: this was the most important library of the ancient world. 
According to the Suda, his contemporaries nicknamed him "Beta", (the second letter of the Greek alphabet), because he was the second best in the world in almost any field. Eratosthenes was a friend of Archimedes, who also lived and worked in Alexandria. Archimedes was the greatest mathematician and inventor of the age, so perhaps the Beta nickname was not unjust.
The works Eratosthenes wrote are known to us only indirectly: the great Library was destroyed, and no copies survived. Strabo (~63–24) wrote about geography in antiquity. He tells us that the works of Eratosthenes were "On the measurement of the Earth" and "Geographica".
Eratosthenes made several remarkable discoveries and inventions. He was the first person to calculate the circumference of the Earth (with remarkable accuracy), and he invented a system of latitude and longitude. He calculated the tilt of the earth's axis (again with remarkable accuracy); he may also have accurately calculated the distance from the earth to the sun and invented the leap day. He created a map of the world based on the available geographical knowledge of the era. Eratosthenes was also the founder of scientific chronology; he wanted to fix the dates of the chief literary and political events from the conquest of Troy.
Eratosthenes measured the circumference of the Earth without leaving Egypt. He knew that on the summer solstice at local noon at the city now called Aswan on the Tropic of Cancer, the sun would appear at the zenith, directly overhead. He also knew, from measurement, that in Alexandria, the angle of elevation of the sun would be 1/50 of a full circle (7°12') south of the zenith at the same time. 
Assuming that Alexandria was due north of Syene he concluded that the distance from Alexandria to Syene must be 1/50 of the total circumference of the Earth (360 degrees). His estimated distance between the cities was 5000 stadia (about 500 geographical miles or 800 km) by estimating the time that he had taken to travel from Syene to Alexandria by camel. He rounded the result to a final value of 700 stadia per degree, which implies a circumference of 252,000 stadia. The exact size of the stadion he used is frequently argued. The common Attic stadium was about 185 m, which would imply a circumference of 46,620 km, which is 16.3% too large. However, if we assume that Eratosthenes used the "Egyptian stadium" of about 157.5 m, his measurement turns out to be 39,375 km, an error of less than 1%. The method is an early application of trigonometry in the measurement science of geodesy. 
In mathematics, the sieve of Eratosthenes (Greek: κόσκινον Ἐρατοσθένους) is a simple, ancient algorithm for finding all prime numbers up to a specified integer. It works efficiently for the smaller primes (below 10 million).
The sieve was described and attributed to Eratosthenes in the "Introduction to Arithmetic" by Nicomachus.
Eratosthenes went further and computed the tilt of the Earth's axis to within a degree. This is the tilt which is the main cause of the annual climate cycle of spring, summer, autumn, winter. He also deduced the length of the year as 365¼ days. He suggested that calendars should have a leap day every fourth year, an idea taken up two centuries later by Julius Caesar.

</doc>
<doc id="130845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130845" title="Tubule">
Tubule

A tubule is a very small tube. In anatomy, a tubule is a very small tube coated with epithelium from your glands.
Definition: A minute tube, especially as an anatomical structure.

</doc>
<doc id="130850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130850" title="Villupuram">
Villupuram

Villupuram is a town and municipality in Viluppuram District. It is the one of the most important junctions in the Tamil Nadu.

</doc>
<doc id="130858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130858" title="Gilf el-Kebir">
Gilf el-Kebir

Gif el-Kebir is a large plateau in Egypt. The name can be translated as "the great barrier". It is located in trhe extreme south-east of Egypt, next ot Lybia and Sudan. It has about the same size as Switzerland. It rises 300 m above the rest of the desert. The plateau is very arid and difficult to access. 
There is a crater called "Kebir crater" in the plateau.
The Uweinat mountain range at the very south of the plateau is shared between Egypt, Libya and Sudan.
Wadis:
The Gilf Kebir is mentioned in Michael Ondaatje's novel 'The English Patient'. It was also the site of the recent discovery of a bag which had been lost in the Second World War by a dispatch rider (Alec Ross) of the Long Range Desert Group, part of the British Army. This contained the rider's personal letters and photographs, and had been well preserved.
The Gilf Kebir is known for its prehistoric (Neolithic) petroglyphs

</doc>
<doc id="130863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130863" title="HBOS">
HBOS

HBOS is a major bank. It was founded in 2001 when Halifax merged with the Bank of Scotland. It is headquarted in Edinburgh, Scotland. On 17 September 2008 it was said that Lloyds TSB would take over HBOS.

</doc>
<doc id="130864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130864" title="Wikipedia:Very good articles/Red Hot Chili Peppers">
Wikipedia:Very good articles/Red Hot Chili Peppers

The Red Hot Chili Peppers are an American alternative/funk rock band. The band started in 1983 in Los Angeles, California. The state of California has been a theme in many of their songs. The members of the band are singer Anthony Kiedis, bass guitarist Flea, guitarist John Frusciante, and drummer Chad Smith.
Red Hot Chili Peppers have released nine studio albums. Their early albums were not very successful. The band's membership changed several times during the 1980s, but Kiedis and Flea have been with the band since it started. When Frusciante and Smith joined in 1989, Red Hot Chili Peppers' next album, "Mother's Milk", was successful. It was the band's first album to appear on the "Billboard" music chart. While Red Hot Chili Peppers were on tour in 1992 after their fifth album, "Blood Sugar Sex Magik", Frusciante left the band because of a drug addiction.
Dave Navarro became the new guitarist after Frusciante. Navarro and the other members of Red Hot Chili Peppers did not work together very well. Navarro was asked to leave the band in 1998, after one album. At this time, Frusciante had been making albums by himself. He was also suffering from a heroin addiction. When he was feeling better, Flea asked him to join Red Hot Chili Peppers again and Frusciante said yes.

</doc>
<doc id="130876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130876" title="Must Get Out">
Must Get Out

"Must Get Out" is the 5th single by Maroon 5. The song was released in 2005 of their first album "Songs About Jane". 

</doc>
<doc id="130877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130877" title="Ansel Adams">
Ansel Adams

Ansel Easton Adams (February 20, 1902 – April 22, 1984) was a legendary American photographer and environmentalist, best known for his black-and-white photographs of the American West and primarily Yosemite National Park.

</doc>
<doc id="130882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130882" title="Dorothea Lange">
Dorothea Lange

Dorothea Lange (May 25, 1895 – October 11, 1965) was an influential American documentary photographer and photojournalist, best known for her Depression-era work for the Farm Security Administration (FSA). Lange's photographs made human the tragic consequences of the Great Depression and greatly influenced the development of documentary photography.

</doc>
<doc id="130883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130883" title="Category:American photographers">
Category:American photographers

The category is for American photographers.

</doc>
<doc id="130885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130885" title="Lostprophets">
Lostprophets

Lostprophets were a rock band from Pontypridd, Wales. They were signed to the record label Sony BMG. They released five studio albums in their career and had two top ten hits in the UK, "Last Train Home" and "Rooftops". They won six Kerrang! Awards. They broke up in October 2013 after singer Ian Watkins was charged in December 2012 with raping a baby and other sex crimes. In November 2013, he was convicted of attempted rape and sexual assault of a child. On 18 December 2013, Watkins was sentenced to 35 years in prison.
Lostprophets' first release was their 1997 EP "Here Comes the Party".
In 1999 Lostprophets were signed to a record label called Visible Noise. Their first album "Thefakesoundofprogress" was released on 27 November 2000. On 2 February 2004 the band's second album "Start Something" was released in the UK and South Korea. Six singles were released from the album. "Burn Burn" reached number seventeen in the UK Singles Chart. The band's third album, "Liberation Transmission", was released in June 2006 and was the band's first album to enter the UK Albums Chart at No.1. The album was also successful in Japan. Kerrang! gave it five out of five stars. In 2009 Lostprophets did a cover of "Boys Don't Cry" on an album of The Cure covers given away free with NME.
"The Betrayed", the band's fourth studio album, was released in the UK on 13 January 2010. It reached number three in the UK Albums Chart. Their last album, "Weapons" was released on 2 April 2012. It reached the number five in the UK Albums Chart. It got mixed reviews.
HMV stopped selling Lostprophets' albums in 2013 after Watkins was convicted of trying to rape a baby. The BBC will not play Lostprophets' music anymore.
In June 2014, the remaining members formed No Devotion with American singer Geoff Rickly as their lead vocalist.

</doc>
<doc id="130902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130902" title="Category:Image with comment templates">
Category:Image with comment templates


</doc>
<doc id="130911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130911" title="Racism">
Racism

Racism is the belief that some races are better than others, and the actions which result from those beliefs. For example, during The Holocaust, Nazis in Germany believed that some races did not even deserve to exist. These beliefs were racist. Because of those beliefs, they killed many people who belonged to those races. Those actions, which resulted from their racist beliefs, were also racist.
Racism has existed throughout human history. It has influenced wars, slavery, the creation of nations, and laws. However, racism has never been the "only" cause of wars and slavery. Leaders often used racism to make their actions seem all right. For example, the Nazis used the idea that Slavic peoples were less than human to make it seem all right to take over those people's countries.
Humans often categorize themselves by race or ethnicity. They do this based on ancestry, as well as visible traits like skin color and facial features. People of the same ethnic group are often connected by ancestry, speaking the same language, having the same culture, and living in the same places.
However, scientists say that humans do not really fit well into these categories, biologically. The DNA of people from different races is very similar. Evidence from genetics and archaeology suggests that all humans came from the same group of early humans in East Africa. This means that different races did not appear at different times. All humans came from the same race, and separated into different races later.
In the late 18th century, Europeans began using the term "Aryan" to refer to the original prehistoric Proto-Indo-Europeans and their descendants up to the present day (i.e., the Indo-European peoples—those Caucasians who speak the Indo-European languages). It was also assumed at the time, that, Aryans were a culturally superior people. By the late 19th century, some Europeans began to use the name "Aryan" for only the Nordic peoples of Europe (one branch of the Indo-European peoples), as a "pure," "noble" and racially "superior" race they claimed were descended from the original Aryan tribes. The theory that the Aryans first came from Europe became especially popular in Germany and to a lesser degree in Austria and Hungary.
There was much prejudice based upon this perception of the world as the Europeans and Orientals both regarded them selves as superior to the other skin colours, which lead to African slavery, Apartheid, the Jim Crow Laws, Nazism and Japanese imperialism.
When Europeans came to America, they killed thousands of Native Americans and when the European settlers got to Australia, they started killing off large numbers of Aborigines.
With the birth of their empires, many other native tribes suffered in Canada, New Zealand, China, Pakistan, Bangladesh and India.
Japan also held similar beliefs about Chinese and Koreans in their colonies.
Racism in the U.K., Ireland and France was usually about limiting the rights of Jews, Roma and minorities like the French Basques.
As the countries became independent after the 1950s, many migrated to the U.K. and France, but were decremented against. Some British cafes and hotels would not welcome in Caribbean guests and the French made Arabs feel unwelcome in some French towns as well. Since the 1960s, India, Pakistani and Bangladeshi people have moved to the U.K. and been victimised and 'Paki-bashed'. 9/11, 2001, has heightened the French and British fears about Islam and Arabs in general. Polish and Brazilian migrant labours are also discriminated against in some places. Racist parties like the U.K.'s British National Party and National Front trade on these fears to get votes.
Alleged scientific findings of racial differences were used by Nazi Germany to justify the racialist policy with its concept of "Großdeutschland" (Greater Germany) and the Nordic race idea. The Nazis' attitude towards the Jews were anti-Semitic and falsely blamed them for Germany's defeat in World War I and the Great Depression. The Nazis and some of their anti-Semitic allies, like Hungary, committed genocide against the Jews during the Holocaust of World War II.
Both the Nazis and Romania's Iron Guard also persecuted the Roma, who were considered part of the allegedly inferior 'Indic' race. During World War II, the Nazis embarked on a systematic attempt at genocide of the Roma, known as the "Porajmos". The Nazis also knowingly killed of thousands of Slavs, lesbians, Communists, liberals and gays.
Fascist Benito Mussolini, in a 1919 speech to denounce Soviet Russia, claimed that Jewish bankers in London and New York City were bound by the chains of race to Moscow, and claimed that 80 percent of the Soviet leaders were Jews.
Many Italian fascists held anti-Slavist views, especially against neighbouring Yugoslav nations, who they saw as being in competition with Italy, which had laid claim to the Yugoslavia's region of Dalmatia.
Mussolini said Italy would get its own way and was willing to use force to settle arguments. An early example was Italy's bombardment of the Greek island of Corfu in 1923. Soon after he succeeded in setting up a puppet regime in Albania and crushed a rebellion in Libya, which had been an Italian colony since 1912.
Italy, like Germany, Austria and Hungary regarded all Slavs and Roma as stupid, racially inferior due to the effects of Social Darwinism and undeserving of their basic rights. Anti-Arab discrimination was also used in parts of Libya.
The Iron Guard was an antisemitic fascist movement and political party in Romania from 1927 to 1941. They despised and denounced both Jews and the Roma.
American racism has been a major issue in the country since before its founding. Historically dominated by White settler society, race in the United States as a concept became significant in relation to other groups. Generally racist attitudes in the country have been most onerously applied to Native Americans, African Americans and some "foreign-seeming" action against Mexican immigrants among others. The Chinese, Japanese and Irish had trouble in America, during the 19th century, but the Blacks fell foul of the Jim Crow Laws which once racially separated the racist parts of America between Blacks and Whites. These first emerged in the late 19th Century and lasted to the mid 1960s and the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
Millions of Africans were killed while they were held as prisoners or as slaves by the Europeans and Arabs. The African-American people and some others call this "The Black Holocaust".
The United States' legal system has been accused of racism. 40% of the prison population are black. 12% of the general population is black. Black people are more likely than white people to be sentenced to death for a crime.
The New York Police Department stop-and-frisk program has been accused of racial profiling.
The book To Kill A Mockingbird is a well-known American novel largely focusing on race in the Jim Crow era, described earlier.
In the United Kingdom the two most popular nationalist political parties are the British National Party (BNP) and the UK Independence Party (UKIP). There is also a group called the English Defense League (EDL). They are thought to be racist by a lot of people. They are against unlimited immigration and colonization by the disciples of Islam. Although Muslims can be of any race, they are usually South Asian. Muslims traditionally practice and ordain the Shariah Law (which traditionally punishes criminals with public amputations and stoning). In a 2013 poll, 27% of 1000 British people aged between 18 and 24 said that they did not trust Muslims.
In the United Kingdom most people are white. 7% are Asian and 3% are black. 4.83% of the British population are Muslims.
South African Apartheid laws were a system was used to deny many rights of non-white people. They started in 1948. The laws allowed the white minority to keep the Black majority out of certain areas. Black people had to carry special papers (passes) or have permission to live and work in particular areas. Whites opposed intermarriage with non-whites and coloured people were also discriminated against, but not as badly as the non-whites. The Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Act of 1949 prohibited marriage between persons of different races and the Immorality Act of 1950 made sexual relations with a person of a different race a criminal offence. The blacks suffered greatly and were even banned from voting at one point. Nelson Mandela became South Africa's first black president in 1994. Mandela ended apartheid. Currently, racial quota laws discriminate against Whites in South Africa. The Black President Zuma of South Africa publicly sings "Kill The Boer", which means, Kill the White [Farmer]". Genocidewatch.org reports that the White South Africans are facing genocide.
The Imperial Rule Assistance Association ("Taisei Yokusankai") was a coalition of fascist and nationalist political movements of Japan such as the Imperial Way Faction ("Kōdōha") and the Society of the East ("Tōhōkai"). It was formed under the guidance of Japanese Prime Minister Fumimaro Konoe Prior to creation of the IRAA, Konoe had already effectively nationalized strategic industries, the news media, and labour unions, in preparation for total war with China. Japan needed more land, minerals and colonies, so they annexed Korea, Manchuria and part of China. The Japanese regarded the Chinese, Koreans and Europeans as an inferior race that should be crushed and exploited.
When Konoe's successor, Hideki Tōjō took over the IRAA he attempted to establish himself as the absolute leader, or "Shogun", of Japan, under the Emperor of Japan.
Some Japanese people still believe that they did not commit as many massacres as the Western World and China said they did.
With the revelations of the holocaust, as well as worldwide antiracist efforts, old ideas about race changed and, more slowly, some prejudices about race faded. The civil rights movement tried to liberate persons of African origin from racist white supremacist rule in South Africa and the southern USA. Blacks could vote in South Africa after a 50 year ban.
In some cases positive discrimination and political correctness have taken the situation to the opposite extreme, leading to accusations in the UK, USA and Australia of reverse racism, that is to say racism in favor, not against the ethnic minorities. 'Political correctness' is a term applied to language, ideas, policies, or behavior seen as seeking to minimize offense to gender, racial, cultural, disabled, aged or other identity groups. Conversely, the term "politically incorrect" is used to refer to language or ideas that may cause offense or that are unconstrained by orthodoxy or good manners (e.g. racists and Islamophobes).
The growth of the Hispanic population through immigration from Mexico and elsewhere, combined with and high birth rates, are a factor in the USA's rising population in the last quarter-century. The 2000 census also found Native Americans/Amerindians at their highest population ever, 4.5 million, since the U.S was founded in 1776.

</doc>
<doc id="130916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130916" title="Korba">
Korba

Korba is a city in the central Indian state of Chhattisgarh. The city is the center of power in the state, meaning that it is the source from which people who live there get their energy supply. It contains major power companies such as NTPC and LENCO. Apart from power projects, it is the home of the most profiting coal mines in India namely DIPKA & GEVRA which are part of SECL (South Eastern Coalfields Limited). Vedanta group's presence is also felt through BALCO aluminium plant. 

</doc>
<doc id="130918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130918" title="Apoptosis">
Apoptosis

Apoptosis is the controlled death of a cell. It plays an integral part of tissue development. During limb development in a foetus, apoptosis allows body digits (fingers and toes) to separate from each other. The process is most prevalent until puberty begins. The rate of apoptosis should be balanced by the rate of cell production via mitosis.
The phenomenon of programmed cell death was first described by Carl Vogt in 1842. However, it was only in 1965 that John Foxton Ross Kerr researched the idea extensively. Using electron microscopy, he was successfully able to distinguish between necrosis and apoptosis. He then joined the research team of Professor Currie and Andrew Wyllie who, in 1972, published a report on their findings in the "British Journal of Cancer". They used the term "apoptosis" as used by Hippocrates to mean "bones falling off". 
When a cell dies by apoptosis, surrounding tissue is not harmed. <br>
1. Enzymes break down the cytoskeleton of the cell.<br>
2. Cytoplasm becomes dense, with organelles tightly packed.<br>
3. Cell surface membrane forms "blebs".<br>
4. Chromatin condenses and the nuclear envelope breaks. DNA breaks into fragments.<br>
5. The cell breaks down into vesicles, taken up by phagocytosis. 
Apoptosis is the normal end of a cell's life. At any point in time, there may be too many cells in one area, and the DNA
coding for apoptosis will activate in some of those cells and they will die safely. This is important to the overall functioning of the organism. If, for example, the making of liver cells were to speed up and they never died, the liver would no longer function properly. The liver cells would eventually take over the organism's body. Apoptosis takes place by the help of lysosomes. Lysosomes rupture when the cell is old or damaged, this lets out digestive enzymes all over the cell and digests it, therefore killing the cell.
Cancerous cells do not undergo apoptosis, and that is why they are such a problem. They continuously multiply until the host organ or the organism's body cannot function anymore. This occurs because the apoptosis coding has mutated and so has other coding. This causes rapid mitotic division of the unwanted cells. This is a cancerous growth. 

</doc>
<doc id="130919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130919" title="Phagocyte">
Phagocyte

Phagocytes are the white blood cells that protect the body by eating (phagocytosing) dirt, bacteria and dead or dying cells. They are important for fighting infections. They are also important for becoming immune. Phagocytes are important in all animals and are very complex in vertebrates. One liter of human blood has about six billion phagocytes. 
Their name comes from the Greek "phagein", 'to eat or devour ', and "kutos", 'hollow vessel'. Phagocytes were first seen in 1882 by Ilya Ilyich Mechnikov. Phagocytes can be found in many animals. Some amoebae behave like macrophages, and scientists think macrophages evolved a long time ago.
Phagocytes of humans and other animals are called professional or non-professional, depending on how good they are at phagocytosis. The professional phagocytes are neutrophils, monocytes, macrophages, dendritic cells, and mast cells. The reason they are called professional phagocytes is because they have receptors on their surfaces which can detect harmful objects, such as bacteria. Phagocytes are very important in fighting infections and in getting rid of dead and dying cells.
When there is an infection, phagocytes move to the bacteria by sensing chemicals. These chemicals may come from bacteria or from other phagocytes that are already there. The phagocytes move by a way called chemotaxis. When bacteria touch a phagocyte, they bind to the receptors on the phagocyte and are eaten (phagocytosed). When bacteria enter some phagocytes, the phagocytes use oxidants and nitric oxide to kill the pathogen. After phagocytosis, macrophages and dendritic cells can also do 'antigen presentation': this is when the phagocyte moves parts of the killed bacteria back to its surface. These parts are then shown to other cells of the immune system. Some phagocytes then move to the body's lymph nodes and show the bacterial parts to white blood cells called lymphocytes. This action is important in getting immunity. 
Many bacteria have ways to not be eaten or killed by phagocytes. They may avoid contact by

</doc>
<doc id="130923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130923" title="Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Da Punk '08">
Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Da Punk '08

"End date: August 26, 2008 "
Please also refer to 
Hello. I am requesting the SysOp tools as I think I can help the Simple English Wikipedia better with them.
There has been a freqent backlog at RfD, and I have closed the RfD's in the past. However, since I am not an admin, I cannot delete pages. So, I have to wait for a admin to delete the page. This takes a long time to do, therefore defeating the purpose of closing the RfD in the first place. One of the reasons I am after the tools is that I believe waiting for a admin to QD a RfD'd page is merely a waste of time.
Secondly, I do a lot of new page patrol. Sometimes this involves vandals. I therefore would find it quicker if I had the tools to delete and block the vandals. This way, I can stop the vandals earier.
The sockpupperty on Simple was Ionas. Ionas has confessed on Archer7 talk page and on Simple Talk. I am not commenting on the EN (accussed) sockpuppeting.
I would be happy to answer questions from the community about why I need the tools, and what makes me qualified to use them. I would be happy to go under recall, and simular conditions to Razor if needed. I am re-opening a earier RfA, as the reason I closed it is now invalid. Thank you -- 21:15, 18 August 2008 (UTC)
"Candidate's acceptance: Self Nomination Withdrawn."
Comment This user has few edits but claims to be a reincarnation of on their userpage. Please could this be proved? () 21:21, 18 August 2008 (UTC)
For The Record: User is also known as and . See also: , , , , , .—  · 21:34, 18 August 2008 (UTC)
This RFA is an excellent public relations case: silence does not help, it only hurts. Whereas Johnson and Johnson aggressively fought back during the famed , Robert Nugent (president of Foodmaker, owner of Jack in the Box) not only waited a week to address the , but chose to blame the beef supplier and health official instead of himself. Needless to say, it didn't work, and they had to bring in a consultant to improve their image ("Fast Food Nation", p. 208). In the absence of a counter-argument...we assume the worst. I assume that the en.wiki administrators are "right" and that mere denial "enforces" the ideathat they're right. Why are they wrong? Jonas has admitted to sockpuppetry here, but that isn't what got you banned on en. 04:24, 19 August 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="130937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130937" title="FM Static">
FM Static

FM Static is a Pop punk band that makes albums with "Tooth & Nail Records". The band was started by Thousand Foot Krutch (another band) lead man Trevor McNevan and Thousand Foot Krutch drummer Steve Augustine. In 2003, they made their first album called ("What Are You Waiting For?"). This album has sold over 60,000 copies so far and had the singles ""Definitely Maybe" and "Crazy Mary". On August 1, 2006, FM Static started selling their second album called "Critically Ashamed", which has the single "Waste of Time"" on it. Their third album was announced in late April 2008. The two piece finished recording "Dear Diary" in early August 2008. It was released on April 7, 2009. 
FM Static won the "Best Website Ever Made" award from the "Webgrammys", and they have been nominated for the "GMA Canada" "Covenant Awards".

</doc>
<doc id="130954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130954" title="Wadi">
Wadi

A Wadi is usually a valley, sometimes the bed of a river. The river that is part of the wadi only has water after heavy rain. Staying in a wadi can be a danger to life. This is because the water in a wadi can rise very quickly. Canyon is another name for it, used in other countries. 

</doc>
<doc id="130966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130966" title="Noble gas compound">
Noble gas compound

Noble gas compounds are chemical compounds that have an element from Group 18 of the periodic table in them. Group 18 (previously called Group 0) contains all the noble gases. 
For a long time, scientists thought that noble gases could not form compounds because their valence electron shell had no space for more electrons. This means that they could not accept any more electrons, which made bonding impossible. However, in 1933, Linus Pauling said that heavy noble gases could react with fluorine or oxygen, as they are the most electronegative atoms. His prediction was correct, and xenon hexafluoride (XeF) was later discovered. Many more noble gas compounds have been found since then.
Noble gases can also make endohedral fullerene compounds when the noble gas atom is pushed inside a fullerene molecule. In 1993, it was discovered that when C is put under pressure of about 3 bar of Helium or Neon, He@C and Ne@C are made. Only about one out of every 650,000 C were found with a helium atom. But with more pressures (about 3000 bar), it is possible to get as much as 0.1%. Endohedral molecules with argon, krypton and xenon have also been made, as well as other compounds of He@C.

</doc>
<doc id="130969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130969" title="Vector graphics editor">
Vector graphics editor

A vector graphics editor is a computer program that lets users make and change vector graphics images and save them in one of many popular vector graphics formats such as EPS, PDF, WMF, SVG or VML.

</doc>
<doc id="130971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130971" title="Perth">
Perth


</doc>
<doc id="130972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130972" title="What Are You Waiting For?">
What Are You Waiting For?

What Are You Waiting For? is the debut album from FM Static, a Canadian pop punk band. It was released in the summer of 2003 although there was a TFK record the same year.
Although not a bestseller or anything really great, "What Are You Waiting For?" did manage to sell around 60,000 copies in three and a half years. Remember, FM Static are only a side project.

</doc>
<doc id="130974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130974" title="Category:Pop punk albums">
Category:Pop punk albums

Released albums in the Pop punk genre of music. From all eras.

</doc>
<doc id="130977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130977" title="Negev">
Negev

The Negev is the southern region of Israel. It is a desert that covers about 60% of the current state of Israel. Only about 10% of the people that live in Israel live there. The Negev has borders with Egypt and the Gaza Strip to the west, the Arabah in the east, and a line connecting Gaza city to Ein Gedi near the Dead Sea to the north.
The Negev has a UNESCO World Heritage site. The Negev incense route was a trade route in the Negev. It connected Arabia to the Mediterranean in the Hellenistic-Roman period. The trade led to the development of ancient towns, forts and caravanserai en route, and agricultural development. It was proclaimed as of outstanding universal value by UNESCO in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="131021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131021" title="Alfred Eisenstaedt">
Alfred Eisenstaedt

Alfred Eisenstaedt (6 December 1898 – 24 August 1995) was a German photographer and photojournalist. He is renowned for his candid photographs, frequently made using a 35mm Leica M3 rangefinder camera. He is best remembered for his photograph capturing the celebration of V-J Day in Times Square.

</doc>
<doc id="131052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131052" title="Petrochemical">
Petrochemical

Petrochemicals are chemical products that are made from petroleum, natural gas or other hydrocarbons.
Some petrochemicals include alcohol, antiseptics, artificial rubber, detergents, drugs, explosives, food additives, insecticides, perfume, plastic, and textile fiber.

</doc>
<doc id="131074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131074" title="Electronegativity">
Electronegativity

Electronegativity, symbol χ, is a chemical property that says how well an atom can attract electrons towards itself. The electronegativity of an atom is influenced by the atom's atomic number and the distance between the atom's valence electrons (the outermost electrons that take part in chemical bonding) and its nucleus. It was first theorised by Linus Pauling in 1932 as part of his valence bond theory, and is related to other chemical properties. Generally, electronegativity increases from the bottom-left to the upper-right of the periodic table; this is known as a periodic trend.
There are many ways to calculate the electronegativity of an atom. The most common way of calculation is the one suggested by Linus Pauling, and it gives the relative Pauling scale. This scale gives elements dimensionless quantities (values) between 0.7 to 3.98, with hydrogen being at 2.20.
The opposite of electronegativity is electropositivity; the measure of how well an atom gives away electrons.
Pauling suggested the idea of electronegativity in 1932 to explain why the strength of a covalent bond between two different atoms (A-B) is stronger than the average of the strengths of the covalent bonds A-A and B-B. His valence bond theory said that this stronger bond between different atoms is caused by the ionic effects to the bonding.
The difference between the electronegativity of atom A and atom B is
where the dissociation energies (that is, the energy needed to break the bond between the atoms), "E", of A-B, A-A and B-B bonds are given in electronvolts, and the factor (eV) is added to make sure the final answer has no unit. With the above formula, we can calculate the difference in elecronegativity between hydrogen and bromine to be 0.73. (dissociation energies: H-Br, 3.79 eV; H-H, 4.52 eV; Br-Br, 2.00 eV)
The above equation only calculates the difference in electronegativity between two elements. To make a scale from the equation, a reference point has to be chosen. Hydrogen was chosen as a reference point because it bonds covalently with many elements. Hydrogen's electronegativity was first fixed at 2.1, but was later changed to 2.20. Another thing that need to be known to make an electronegativity scale is which element is more electronegative than the reference point, which is hydrogen. This is often done with the so-called "chemical intuition": in the above example, hydrogen bromide (H-Br) dissolves in water and breaks into H cation and Br anion. So, it can be assumed that bromine is more electronegative than hydrogen.
To calculate Pauling electronegativity for an element, the data on the dissociation energies of at least two types of covalent bonds created by the element is needed. In 1961, A. L. Allred improved Pauling's original data to include the thermodynamic data that is much more available. These "revised Pauling" electronegativity values are used more often.
Electropositivity is a measure of an element's ability to donate electrons, and form positive ions. 
Mainly, this is an attribute of metals. The alkali metals have a single electron in their outer shell and it is easily lost. These metals have low ionization energies.

</doc>
<doc id="131081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131081" title="Linus Pauling">
Linus Pauling

Linus Carl Pauling (February 28, 1901 – August 19, 1994) was an American scientist, peace activist, author and educator. He was one of the most important chemists in history.
Pauling was one the first scientists to work in quantum chemistry, molecular biology and orthomolecular medicine. He is one of a small group of people to have been given more than one Nobel Prize. He is one of only two people to receive them in different fields (the other person was Marie Curie) and the only person in that group to have been awarded each of his prizes without having to share it with another winner. 
Pauling was born and grew-up in Oregon, USA. He went to Oregon Agricultural College and graduated in 1922 with a degree in chemical engineering. Pauling then went to the California Institute of Technology (Caltech), where he received his Ph. D in physical chemistry and mathematical physics in 1925. Two years later, he became an assistant professor at Caltech, and he completed his academic career there after many decades on the faculty. He was a Unitarian.
In 1932, Pauling came up with the idea of electronegativity and made a scale that would help the chemical bonding. Pauling kept doing this work while he also did work on the structure of the atomic . 
In 1954, Pauling was given the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for work that he did on the structure of DNA. This work led scientists in the UK to come up with the double helix of DNA. 
During the Second World War, Pauling worked on military research and development. But, after the war had ended he became worried about the making and future use of atomic weapons and with the destruction forced on the world by war. Ava Helen Pauling, Linus's wife, was a and in time he came to share her beliefs. Pauling then began to talk about his worries with the effects of nuclear fallout and in 1962, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for his work against above ground nuclear testing.
Pauling was also an author and a teacher. His first book, "The Nature of the Chemical Bond" (1939), is still used today. his introductory textbook, "General Chemistry" (1949). Later in life, he became an advocate for greatly increased consumption of vitamin C and other nutrients. He generalized his ideas to define orthomolecular medicine, which is still regarded as unorthodox by conventional medicine. He popularized his concepts, analyses, research and insights in several successful but controversial books, such as "How to Live Longer and Feel Better" in 1986.
Pauling died of prostate cancer on August 19, 1994, at 7:20 PM at home in Big Sur, California. He was 93 years old. A grave marker for him is in Oswego Pioneer Cemetery in Lake Oswego, Oregon.
Pauling received numerous awards and honors during his career. Following are awards and honors he has received.

</doc>
<doc id="131088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131088" title="Wikipedia:Whacking with a Wet Trout">
Wikipedia:Whacking with a Wet Trout


</doc>
<doc id="131104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131104" title="Category:Government of Oklahoma">
Category:Government of Oklahoma


</doc>
<doc id="131106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131106" title="Category:Government of the United States">
Category:Government of the United States


</doc>
<doc id="131108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131108" title="Category:Geography of Massachusetts">
Category:Geography of Massachusetts


</doc>
<doc id="131114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131114" title="Category:United States House of Representatives">
Category:United States House of Representatives


</doc>
<doc id="131122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131122" title="Strabo">
Strabo

Strabo (Greek: Στράβων; 63/64 BC – ca. AD 24) was a Greek historian, geographer and philosopher. 
Strabo was born in a rich family from Pontus which had become part of the Roman Empire a short time before. His mother was Georgian. He studied under several geographers and philosophers. Later he made long travels to Egypt and Kush, among others. It is not known when his "Geography" was written, though comments within the work itself place the finished version within the reign of Emperor Tiberius. 
Strabo's "History" is nearly completely lost. Although Strabo quotes it himself, and other classical authors mention that it existed, the only surviving document is a fragment of papyrus now in possession of the University of Milan (renumbered [Papyrus] 46).
Several different dates have been proposed for Strabo's death, but most of them place it shortly after 23.
Strabo is mostly famous for his 17-volume work "Geographica", which presented a descriptive history of people and places from different regions of the world known to his era. It is an important source of information on the ancient world.

</doc>
<doc id="131123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131123" title="Category:Geographers">
Category:Geographers


</doc>
<doc id="131129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131129" title="Chris Waddle">
Chris Waddle

Chris Waddle is a former football player. He has played for England national team.
489||96
107||22
4||1
600||119
!Total||62||6

</doc>
<doc id="131131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131131" title="Ray Ozzie">
Ray Ozzie

Ray Ozzie (born November 20, 1955) is an American computer programmer. He is the "Chief Software Architect" (the person in charge of programming) at Microsoft.

</doc>
<doc id="131134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131134" title="Category:Companies listed on NASDAQ">
Category:Companies listed on NASDAQ


</doc>
<doc id="131135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131135" title="Ian Ure">
Ian Ure

Ian Ure is a former football player. He has played for Scotland national team.
110||0
215||3
325||3
!Total||11||0

</doc>
<doc id="131137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131137" title="Skating rink">
Skating rink

A skating rink may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="131141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131141" title="Identity theft">
Identity theft

Identity theft is a type of fraud that involves using personal details of someone else. See also Identity fraud. A person who has his or her identity stolen can end up owing money when the thief spends the person's money or uses the person's credit. In some cases, laws limit the amount that the victim will lose. In other cases, the loss is not limited.
Identity theft can involve these risks:

</doc>
<doc id="131145" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131145" title="Sensor">
Sensor

A sensor is a device that measures a physical quantity and converts it into a 'signal' which can be read by an observer or by an instrument. For example, a mercury thermometer converts the measured temperature into the expansion and contraction of a liquid which can be read on a calibrated glass tube. Video cameras and a digital cameras have an image sensor.
There are many different types of sensors. Some are used in everyday objects, and some are separate.
A sensor that detects temperature. Thermal sensors are in many laptops and computers in order to sound an alarm when a certain temperature has been exceeded. 
An electronic device used to measure a physical quantity such as pressure or loudness and convert it into an electronic signal of some kind (e.g. a voltage).
This is any thing that can be used to find things like photons, electrons, etc. It can be as simple as a white wall, a sheet of white paper, etc., or as new as a charge-coupled device. When a laser is aimed at a detection screen, a bright spot can be seen on the screen, or when an electron hits the phosphors on another kind of screen, it makes that screen glow.
A motion sensor detects physical movement in a given area.

</doc>
<doc id="131154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131154" title="Victory">
Victory

Victory is when you win an argument, war or test. Many songs have been made called "victory songs". Victory often comes with a lot of emotion. Victory is usually celebrated after winning, although there are many times not to, like after a war. The term began to be used in Roman antiquity.
In terms of human emotion, being victorious usually brings strong feelings of gladness, and in human behaviour often has movements and victory poses.
Victory dances and victory cries are quite similar to war dances and war cries that are done before the violence.

</doc>
<doc id="131155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131155" title="Illegal immigrant">
Illegal immigrant

An illegal immigrant is an immigrant who lives in a country without permission or in a way that is not allowed, or illegal.
Many of these people migrate to a country in secret. Many others come to the country legally as a visitor, then stay in the country when they should go home. Many of them work illegally and live in bad conditions. They move for pretty much the same reasons as other immigrants, but they don't legally have the right to be there.

</doc>
<doc id="131158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131158" title="Francisco Castro">
Francisco Castro

Francisco Castro is a football player. He plays for Aves.

</doc>
<doc id="131159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131159" title="Stuart Murdoch">
Stuart Murdoch

Stuart Murdoch is a former football manager.

</doc>
<doc id="131197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131197" title="Chris Cornell">
Chris Cornell

Chris Cornell (born Christopher John Boyle on July 20, 1964) is an American singer. He is best known as the singer in the grunge band Soundgarden.
He started the band in 1984 with lead guitarist Kim Thayil, and bassist Hiro Yamamoto. 
He released his debut album in September 1999, "Euphoria Morning". Later, in 2001, he began the supergroup Audioslave with the former members of Rage Against the Machine. Cornell recorded three albums as Audioslave's singer until the band's breakup in early 2007. His second solo album "Carry On" was released to mixed commercial success in June 2007.
Cornell was also the singer in a band, Temple of the Dog, that was formed as a tribute to a musician, Andrew Wood, who had died. 
Cornell was first married to Susan Silver, the manager of Alice in Chains and Soundgarden. They had a daughter, Lillian Jean, in June 2000. He and Silver divorced in 2004. In December 2008, Cornell said that he had finally won back his collection of 15 guitars after a four-year court battle with Silver.
He is now married to Vicky Karayiannis. She is an American publicist of Greek heritage. She gave birth to his second daughter, Toni, in September 2004, and his third child, Christopher Nicholas, in December 2005. Cornell converted to the Greek Orthodox Church because of her faith in the church.

</doc>
<doc id="131199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131199" title="Curse tablet">
Curse tablet

A curse tablet or binding spell ("defixio" in Latin, κατάδεσμος "katadesmos" in Greek) is a type of curse. It could be found in all of Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome. Curse tablets were used to influence other people, often the gods were asked to influence someone else, or to do harm to them. This would involve magic.
Usually, texts were scratched on very thin sheets of lead using a small writing. These sheets would then be rolled up, folded, or pierced with nails.They would then be moved under ground, placed in graves, or thrown into wells, pools or lakes. Sometimes they were put on temple walls. Like an analogy the treatment done to the material should also be done to the target of the spell. 
Some of the tablets contained love spells. If they were used this way, they had to be placed in the home of the desired person, so that the spell could work. 
About 1600 tablets have been found, distributed over all the known lands in Antiquity. About 600 of them were found in Greece. 
Some of the spells were discovered together with small figures, which have falsely been described as voodoo dolls. The dolls or figurines were sometimes also pierced with nails. The figurines looked like the target and often had both their feet and hands bound. Not all curse tablets were made with lead. Curses were also written on papyrus, wax, wood or other perishable materials, but these are less likely to show up in the archaeological record.
The texts on curse tablets are typically addressed to infernal or liminal gods such as Hermes, Charon, Hecate, and Persephone. Sometimes, a sometimes a dead person (probably the corpse in whose grave the tablet was placed) had to mediate. Some texts do not invoke the gods, but merely list the targets of the curse, the crimes or conditions when the curse is valid, and/or the intended ill to befall them. Some tablets are inscribed with nothing more than the names of the targets. Some people think that an oral spell may have accompanied the making of the curse.
The text on the tablets were not always curses, sometimes tablets wereused to help the dead. Those whose grave sites these were placed at usually died at a very young age or in a violent manner, and the tablet was supposed to help lay their souls to rest in spite of their untimely deaths. The language of those texts that do give context is often concerned with justice, either listing the target's crimes in great detail, handing over responsibility for their punishment to the gods, using indefinite grammar ("whoever committed this crime"), or conditional ("if he is guilty"), or even future conditional ("if he ever breaks his word").. Frequently, such curse tablets are also inscribed with additional, otherwise meaningless "curse" words such as Bazagra, Bescu, or Berebescu, seemingly in order to lend them a kind of supernatural efficacy.
Many of those discovered at Athens refer to court cases and curse the opposing litigant, asking ("May he...") that he botch his performance in court, forget his words, become dizzy and so forth. Others include erotic binding-spells, spells ranged against thieves, and business and sporting rivals. Those curse tablets targeted at thieves or other criminals may have been more public, more acceptable; some scholars even refuse to use the word "curse" of such "positive" texts, preferring expressions such as "judicial prayers".
About 130 curse tablets have been found at "Aquae Sulis" (now Bath in England), where many of the curses related to thefts of clothes whilst the victim was bathing. Over 80 more have similarly been discovered in and about the remains of a temple to Mercury nearby, at West Hill, Uley, making south-western Britain one of the major centres for finds of Latin "defixiones".
In Ancient Egypt, so-called "Execration Texts" appear around the time of the 12th Dynasty, listing the names of enemies written on clay figurines or pottery which were then smashed and buried beneath a building under construction (so that they were symbolically "smothered"), or in a cemetery.

</doc>
<doc id="131203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131203" title="Kim Thayil">
Kim Thayil

Kim Thayil (born September 4, 1960 in Seattle, Washington) best known as the lead guitarist in Soundgarden.

</doc>
<doc id="131204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131204" title="Matt Cameron">
Matt Cameron

Matthew David Cameron (born November 28, 1962 in San Diego, California) is an American drummer best known as the drummer in Soundgarden and Pearl Jam.
In September 1986, Matt Cameron had become so popular in the local Seattle music scene that he was chosen to play for Soundgarden. He replaced drummer Scott Sundquist. Cornell said, "When I first met Matt, he was already the best drummer in town...He just seemed very confident and well-adjusted."
He also worked briefly with The Smashing Pumpkins. In 1998, he played drums for Pearl Jam's Yield Tour. Later he joined the band as a permanent member.

</doc>
<doc id="131205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131205" title="Ben Shepherd">
Ben Shepherd

Ben Shepherd (born Hunter Benedict Shepherd on September 20, 1968) is an American musician, best known as the bass player in the grunge band Soundgarden from 1990 until the band's 1997 break-up.
Ben Shepherd first auditioned for the role of bassist in Soundgarden in 1989, to replace Hiro Yamamoto, who had left the band. He was turned down because he could not play the songs well enough. But after Jason Everman was let go, Shepherd was then hired. 
Chris Cornell said that Shepherd brought a "fresh and creative" approach to the "Badmotorfinger" recording sessions. All the band members said that his knowledge of music and writing skills would be a help to the band. 
Before joining, Soundgarden had been Shepherd's favorite band.

</doc>
<doc id="131210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131210" title="A-Sides">
A-Sides

A-Sides is a best-of album by Soundgarden with songs spanning the band's thirteen-year career. It was released on November 4, 1997 through A&M Records.
All songs written by Chris Cornell, except where noted:

</doc>
<doc id="131211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131211" title="Greatest hits album">
Greatest hits album

A greatest hits album (sometimes referred to as a "best of" album) is a compilation album of successful, previously released songs by a particular music artist or band. To increase the appeal of the album – especially to people who already own the previously released material – it is common to include remixes or alternate takes of popular songs or new material, with new songs often being released as singles (and themselves sometimes becoming successful).

</doc>
<doc id="131212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131212" title="Down on the Upside">
Down on the Upside

Down on the Upside is the fifth and final studio album by Soundgarden.

</doc>
<doc id="131213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131213" title="Alternative metal">
Alternative metal

Alternative metal is a type of heavy metal in the alternative music genre. Alternative metal became popular during the 1990s.
Characteristics of alternative metal music are heavy guitar riffs, syncopation, uncommon time signatures, and unusual techniques. Alternative metal is like regular heavy music, but it can be more experimental. This is what makes it "alternative". 
Popular alternative metal bands are Jane's Addiction, Faith No More, Primus, Helmet, Alice in Chains, Nine Inch Nails, Tool, Rage Against the Machine and System of a Down.

</doc>
<doc id="131220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131220" title="Category:Vandalism and warning templates">
Category:Vandalism and warning templates


</doc>
<doc id="131232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131232" title="Halloween (series)">
Halloween (series)

The Halloween movie series are a series of horror movies created by Moustapha Akkad in 1978. The series is about Michael Myers, who was committed to a sanitarium as a child for killing of his older sister, Judith Myers. Fifteen years later, he escapes to continue his killing spree. Dr. Loomis is a psychiatrists who helps all of Michael's victims to escape death from Myers. Only Dr. Loomis and Michael Myers appear in all movies except "".

</doc>
<doc id="131240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131240" title="Turkish diaspora">
Turkish diaspora

The Turkish diaspora is a term used to describe the communities of Turkish people living outside of Turkey. There is an estimated 90 million Turkish people in total. There are 76 million Turkish people living in Turkey and large Turkish communities which have been established in Europe (particularly in Germany, France, and the Netherlands), as well as North America, and Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="131252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131252" title="Anemoi">
Anemoi

In Greek mythology, the Anemoi (in Greek, Άνεμοι – "winds") were wind gods. Boreas was the Greek god of the cold north wind and the bringer of winter. Notus was the Greek god of the south wind. He was had hot wind and was thought to bring the storms of late summer and autumn. He was feared as a destroyer of crops. Eurus was the Greek god of the unlucky east wind. Zephyrus, or just Zephyr, is the Greek god of the west wind. This is the gentlest of the winds.

</doc>
<doc id="131263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131263" title="Category:Rosids">
Category:Rosids

This category is for the classification the Rosids.

</doc>
<doc id="131268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131268" title="Hit (baseball)">
Hit (baseball)

In baseball, a hit is when a player (called the "batter" or "batsman") who is trying to hit the ball that is thrown (or "pitched") by the thrower (called the "pitcher") hits the ball in such a way as to let him move forward at least one base.
The pitcher throws the ball towards the batter standing at home plate "(or home base)", who tries to hit the ball and score a run. After the batter hits the ball he runs as fast as he can around the bases and tries to get to a base before he is called out by an umpire. If he gets to a base before he is called out he is safe and the next batter comes forward and tries to hit a ball from the pitcher. The old batter who is "on base" becomes a runner.
There are other kinds of hits, but these are the major ones. These hits can be made by many ways. For example; a single can come from a hit that travelled along the ground (called a "grounder") or that travelled in the air (a "fly ball"). A grounder can often be harder for the other team to stop than a fly ball. This is because when it moves along the ground it has more chance of hitting bumps and the glove or foot of the other teams player than it does if it moves in the air. There are also more ways in which hits can happen but these are the two major ways. 
A no-hitter is a baseball game in which the other team does not get any hits during the whole game. The winning pitcher who has stopped the losing team from getting a hit is said to have "thrown a no-hitter". Because of the skill of the players, a no-hitter does not happen very often.

</doc>
<doc id="131269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131269" title="Shutout (baseball)">
Shutout (baseball)

A shutout is a baseball game where at least one team does not score any runs. This is not always the same as a no-hitter in which the team does not get any hits. 

</doc>
<doc id="131274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131274" title="MediaWiki:Newuserloglog">
MediaWiki:Newuserloglog

New user ( | | )

</doc>
<doc id="131276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131276" title="Fried rice">
Fried rice

Fried rice is a popular item in Chinese cuisine.

</doc>
<doc id="131281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131281" title="Uniform number (American football)">
Uniform number (American football)

In American football, uniform numbers are special numbers added to jerseys or other types of clothing to tell players from each other. They are shown in more places on the uniform than in those of other sports.

</doc>
<doc id="131312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131312" title="Flag of Pakistan">
Flag of Pakistan

The national flag of Pakistan was designed by Syed Amir uddin Kedwaii and was based on the original flag of the Muslim League. It was adopted by the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan on August 11, 1947, just days before independence. The flag is referred to in the national anthem as "" in Urdu (lit. Flag of the Crescent and Star). The flag comprises a dark green field, representing the Muslim majority of Pakistan, with a vertical white stripe in the hoist, that represents the Christians and other multi-faith communities of the country. In the centre is a white crescent moon, representing progress, and a white five-pointed star, representing light and knowledge. Some analists say if Kashmir goes to the Republic of India or declares itself independent then the colour should be changed to black.
<br>
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="131314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131314" title="Coat of Arms of Pakistan">
Coat of Arms of Pakistan

The State Emblem of Pakistan was adopted in 1954. The emblem's green colour and the star and crescent at the top are symbols of Islam, the religion with which most Pakistani citizens identify. In the center is a quartered shield, with each quarter containing a major crop of Pakistan at the time of its adoption: cotton, jute, tea, and wheat. The floral wreath around the shield is the Jasminum officinale (the national flower) represents the Mughal era cultural heritage of Pakistan. The scroll at the bottom contains the national motto in Urdu, coined by Muhammad Ali Jinnah, which reads from right to left: () "Iman, Ittehad, Nazm" translated as "Faith, Unity, Discipline". Pakistan is located in Asia. It is A near relative of India. The crescent moon is the same as the one on the flag of Pakistan. It is also the sign of symbol of Islam
<br>
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="131315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131315" title="Qaumī Tarāna">
Qaumī Tarāna

The Qaumī Tarāna () is the national anthem of Pakistan. At independence, on August 14, 1947, Pakistan did not have a national anthem. When the flag was hoisted at the independence ceremony it was accompanied by the song, "Pakistan Zindabad, Azadi Paendabad". The flag itself had only been approved by the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan three days earlier. The national anthem of Pakistan was written some time later by the Urdu poet Abu-Al-Asar Hafeez Jullundhri.

</doc>
<doc id="131316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131316" title="Gloydius himalayanus">
Gloydius himalayanus

The Himalayan Pit Viper (Gloydius himalayanus) is a medium-sized gray-brown snake found in caverns and rocky crevices of forested hill sides, where it feeds on skinks and lizards. The scale pattern consists of medial dark brown blotches, alternating with lateral rows of spots.
It occurs along the southern slopes of the Himalayas from Kashmir to Nepal as far as Sikkim between 1500–3000 m altitude.
The Himalayan Pit Viper is a habitually sluggish snake that basks in sunlight and hibernates in winter.

</doc>
<doc id="131321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131321" title="Green turtle">
Green turtle

Chelonia mydas, commonly known as the green turtle, is a large sea turtle belonging to the family Cheloniidae. It is the only species in its genus. It is one of the seven marine turtles, which are all endangered.
Although it might have some green on its carapace (shell), the green turtle is not green. It gets its name from the fact that its body fat is green. It can grow up to long and weigh up to . They are an endangered species, especially in Florida and the Pacific coast of Mexico. They can also be found in warm waters around the world and are found along the coast of 140 countries.
The female turtle lays eggs in nests she builds in the sand on the beaches. She uses the same beach that she was born on. During the nesting season in summer she can make up to five nests. She can lay as many as 135 eggs in a nest. The eggs take about two months to hatch. The baby turtles are about in length.
Green turtles are omnivorous when they are young, eating plants, algae, plankton and other small animals. As they get older, they become herbivorous, eating only plants such as sea grass. Their body fat is green from the chlorophyll of the plants they eat. The edges of their jaws have many points, like the edge of a saw. Their jaws can rip off pieces of plants and the turtles swallows the pieces whole.
The numbers of green turtles around the world has dropped by more than half over the last 150 years. The main reasons are hunting of turtles and the taking of their eggs. Many turtles are killed when they get caught in fishing nets. There is also a disease called fibropapillomatosis which is affecting them. This disease which causes tumors to grow on the turtle's face is probably caused by damage and pollution of their nesting beaches.

</doc>
<doc id="131322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131322" title="Hardella thurjii">
Hardella thurjii

The Brahminy River Turtle or Crowned River Turtle ("Hardella thurjii") is a species of turtle found in northern India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh (in the watersheds of the Ganges, Brahmaputra, and Indus rivers).

</doc>
<doc id="131325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131325" title="Hydrophis ornatus">
Hydrophis ornatus

Ornate Reef seasnake (Hydrophis ornatus) is a species of sea snake.

</doc>
<doc id="131327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131327" title="Category:Pop punk bands">
Category:Pop punk bands

Bands in the pop punk genre of music

</doc>
<doc id="131328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131328" title="Soundgarden discography">
Soundgarden discography

The discography of Soundgarden, an American rock band, consists of six studio albums, one live album, four compilation albums, seven extended plays, twenty-four singles and eighteen music videos.
This list does not include material recorded by Soundgarden band members with Skin Yard, Temple of the Dog, Pearl Jam, Hater, Wellwater Conspiracy, or Audioslave.
Soundgarden was formed in 1984 by vocalist Chris Cornell, guitarist Kim Thayil, and bassist Hiro Yamamoto. The band signed with the independent label Sub Pop and released the "Screaming Life" EP in 1987 and the "Fopp" EP in 1988. In 1988, the band signed with legendary punk record label SST Records and released its debut full-length album "Ultramega OK". The band subsequently signed with A&M Records, becoming the first grunge band to sign with a major label. In 1989, the band released its first album for a major label, "Louder Than Love".
In 1990, the band was joined by a new bass player, Ben Shepherd. They released "Badmotorfinger" in 1991. The album brought the band to a new level of commercial success, and Soundgarden found itself amidst the sudden popularity and attention being paid to the Seattle music scene. The band's next album was to be its breakthrough. "Superunknown", released in 1994, debuted at number one on the "Billboard" 200 and launched several successful singles, including "Spoonman" and "Black Hole Sun". In 1996, the band released its fifth studio album, "Down on the Upside"; while successful, the album could not emulate the precedent set by "Superunknown". 
In 1997, the band broke up because they could no longer agree on how their music sounded. The members worked on other projects for more than ten years. Soundgarden got back together in 2010. Two years later, they released their sixth studio album, "King Animal".

</doc>
<doc id="131332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131332" title="Louder Than Love">
Louder Than Love

Louder Than Love is the second full-length album by the American grunge band Soundgarden. It was released on September 5, 1989 through A&M Records. After touring in support of its first full-length studio album, "Ultramega OK", released in 1988, the band signed with A&M and began work on its first album for a major label. The songs on the album featured a heavy rock sound with some songs featuring unusual or unorthodox time signatures.
Because of some of the song lyrics the band faced various retail and distribution problems upon the album's release, including the addition of a Parental Advisory sticker on the album packaging. "Louder Than Love" would become the band's first album to chart on the "Billboard" 200. The band supported the album with tours of North America and Europe. It was the last Soundgarden album to feature the band's original bassist, Hiro Yamamoto.
All songs written by Chris Cornell, except where noted:

</doc>
<doc id="131333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131333" title="Ultramega OK">
Ultramega OK

Ultramega OK is the first album by the American grunge band Soundgarden. It was released on October 31, 1988 through SST Records. Following the release of the EPs "Screaming Life", released in 1987, and "Fopp", released in 1988, for the Sub Pop record label, the band signed with the independent record label SST and went to work on its first full-length studio album.
The resulting album contained elements of psychedelic rock, classic rock, and hardcore punk. The band supported the album with a tour of the United States as well as its first overseas tour. In 1990, the album earned a Grammy Award nomination for Best Metal Performance.

</doc>
<doc id="131334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131334" title="List of Soundgarden band members">
List of Soundgarden band members

Soundgarden is an American rock band. They began in Seattle, Washington in 1984. They first had three members: singer and drummer Chris Cornell, lead guitarist Kim Thayil, and bassist Hiro Yamamoto. 
At first, Cornell, played the drums while singing. In 1985 the band chose Scott Sundquist to be drummer, so Cornell could just be the singer. 
In 1986, Sundquist left the band to spend time with his wife and child. He was replaced by Matt Cameron, the drummer for Skin Yard, who became Soundgarden's permanent drummer. 
Yamamoto left the band in 1989, after recording the latest album. He went back to college to finish his Master's degree in physical chemistry. He was replaced by former Nirvana guitarist Jason Everman. Everman was fired right after Soundgarden's tour to promote the "Louder Than Love" album. His only contribution for Soundgarden was the band's cover of The Beatles song "Come Together".
In 1990, the band was joined by a new bassist, Ben Shepherd. After this, Soundgarden's line-up would not change until their break-up. In 1996, the group became unhappy while recording "Down on the Upside". Thayil and Cornell seemed to not agree on a change from the heavy guitar riffs that had become the band's trademark. In 1997, the band broke up. They had not been getting along during the past half year.
In January 2010, Cornell announced that Soundgarden would be getting back together. Two years later, they released their sixth studio album, "King Animal".
Current members
Former members
Touring members

</doc>
<doc id="131337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131337" title="List of Soundgarden awards">
List of Soundgarden awards

Soundgarden was an American rock band formed in Seattle, Washington in 1984 by lead singer and drummer Chris Cornell, lead guitarist Kim Thayil, and bassist Hiro Yamamoto. Matt Cameron became the band's permanent drummer in 1986 and bassist Ben Shepherd replaced Yamamoto permanently in 1990. Soundgarden released its debut album, "Ultramega OK", in 1988 through SST Records. The album earned the band its first major award nomination, a Grammy Award, in 1990. In 1989, the band released its first album for a major label, "Louder Than Love". The band's third studio album, "Badmotorfinger", released in 1991, was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Metal Performance in 1992.
Soundgarden released its follow-up and breakthrough album, "Superunknown", in 1994. The album was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Rock Album in 1995. Two singles from "Superunknown", "Black Hole Sun" and "Spoonman", won Grammy Awards, and the music video for "Black Hole Sun" won a MTV Video Music Award and a Clio Award. "Superunknown" was ranked number 336 on "Rolling Stone" magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time, and "Black Hole Sun" was ranked number 25 on VH1's list of the 100 greatest songs of the '90s. The band released its fifth and final studio album, "Down on the Upside", in 1996. In 1997, Soundgarden received another Grammy nomination, for the lead single "Pretty Noose". Soundgarden officially broke up in 1997. The band was placed at number 14 on VH1's list of the 100 greatest artists of hard rock.
The Clio Awards are awarded annually. Soundgarden has received one award from one nomination.
The Grammy Awards are awarded annually by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences. Soundgarden has received two awards from eight nominations.
The MTV Video Music Awards are awarded annually by MTV. Soundgarden has received one award from one nomination.

</doc>
<doc id="131343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131343" title="James Milner">
James Milner

James Milner (born 4 January 1986) is an English football player. He plays for Aston Villa and the England national team.
211||17||19||5||10||3||45||3||285||28
211||17||19||5||10||3||45||3||285||28
!Total||6||0

</doc>
<doc id="131344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131344" title="Peter Osgood">
Peter Osgood

Peter Osgood was a former football player. He has played four times for the England national team.
418||133
22||1
440||134
!Total||4||0

</doc>
<doc id="131345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131345" title="Trevor Francis">
Trevor Francis

Trevor Francis is a former football player. He has played for England national team.
483||175
33||36
89||18
18||0
623||229
!Total||52||12

</doc>
<doc id="131356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131356" title="Sub Pop">
Sub Pop

Sub Pop is an independent record label founded by Bruce Pavitt and Jonathan Poneman in Seattle, Washington in 1986.

</doc>
<doc id="131359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131359" title="SST Records">
SST Records

SST Records is an American independent record label formed in 1978 in Long Beach, California by musician Greg Ginn. The company was initially called Solid State Transmitters through which Ginn sold electronics equipment. Ginn repurposed the company as a record label to release material by his band Black Flag.

</doc>
<doc id="131360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131360" title="A&amp;M Records">
A&amp;M Records

A&M Records is an American record label owned by Universal Music Group which operates through the Interscope-Geffen-A&M division. It was set up in 1962.
A&M Records was started by Herb Alpert and Jerry Moss. They made 2 records under the name “Carnival Records.” Finding the name "Carnival" was already being used, they changed the name to "A&M", after their names, Alpert and Moss. From 1966 to 1999, the company's office was on the grounds of the historic Charlie Chaplin Studio at 1416 N. La Brea Avenue, near Sunset Boulevard in Hollywood. 
In 1960s and 1970s, A&M was among the leading labels for ‘light’ pop music. Acts they recorded included:
In 1971 piano player Billy Preston who joined the label and brought success in R&B and funk music. The Carpenters are label's most successful act of the 1970s having sold more than 100 million albums worldwide.
At the end of the 1960s, A&M added British musicians to the label. These included:
In the 1970s, A&M made an agreement with Ode Records. They released albums for:
Other famous acts with A&M reords in the 1970s included: 
A&M records were first sold in the United Kingdom by EMI's Stateside Records label. It then sold records under the A&M name with Pye Records until 1967. A&M Records, Ltd. was started in 1970. A&M Records of Canada, Ltd. was also formed in 1970, and A&M Records of Europe in 1977.
In the 1970s, A&M saw potential in English punk music and on March 10 1977 signed the Sex Pistols after the band had been dropped by EMI. However, A&M themselves sacked the band within a week.
Within 10 years of starting, A&M became the world's largest independent record company. In 1979, A&M made an agreement with RCA Records (which later became BMG) to distribute its records in the US, and with CBS Records in many other countries. 
A&M's success continued in the 1980s with acts that included:
Over the years, A&M has a made its own special labels: 

</doc>
<doc id="131361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131361" title="Skin Yard">
Skin Yard

Skin Yard was a rock band from Seattle, Washington, who were active from 1985 to 1992. The group never gained any mainstream audience, but were an influence on their contemporaries – most notably Soundgarden, The Melvins, and Green River – alongside whom they are considered the early pioneers of the sound that would later be called grunge.

</doc>
<doc id="131362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131362" title="Hater (band)">
Hater (band)

Hater was an American rock band from the 1990s, a side project mostly under the direction of Soundgarden bassist Ben Shepherd. Additional members included Soundgarden drummer Matt Cameron, John McBain (ex-Monster Magnet and, later, partner of Cameron and Shepherd in Wellwater Conspiracy), bassist John Waterman for the title album, Alan Davis on bass for The 2nd, and Brian Wood, brother of Mother Love Bone vocalist Andrew Wood.
The band released two albums of their brand of Stooges-tinged psychedelic garage rock: their self-titled debut in 1993, and their follow-up, "The 2nd", which was recorded in 1995 but released in 2005.
The band also contributed a song for the 1995 compilation album "" called "Convicted", which does not appear on either album. The musicians for the track were Shepherd, McBain, Davis, & Cameron (the same lineup for "The 2nd").

</doc>
<doc id="131363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131363" title="Wellwater Conspiracy">
Wellwater Conspiracy

Wellwater Conspiracy was a rock band featuring Matt Cameron and John McBain. The band originally featured ex-Soundgarden bassist Ben Shepherd, who left the band in 1998.

</doc>
<doc id="131364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131364" title="Temple of the Dog">
Temple of the Dog

Temple of the Dog was an American rock band that was formed in 1990 by Chris Cornell of Soundgarden. He started the band as a tribute to his friend, Andrew Wood. Wood died on March 19, 1990 of a heroin overdose, the day Cornell got back from a tour. 
Before he died, Andrew had been the lead singer of Malfunkshun and Mother Love Bone.
Members of the band included Stone Gossard on rhythm guitar, Jeff Ament on bass guitar (both ex-members of Mother Love Bone), Mike McCready on lead guitar, Matt Cameron on drums and Eddie Vedder, providing backing vocals.
The band only released one album, which was also named "Temple of the Dog". The album was released in 1991 and had two hit songs, "Say Hello 2 Heaven" and "Hunger Strike". Cornell sang the lead vocals on "Say Hello 2 Heaven" and Vedder sang the lead vocals on "Hunger Strike".

</doc>
<doc id="131365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131365" title="Bruce Pavitt">
Bruce Pavitt

Bruce Pavitt (born March 7, 1959) is the Chicago-born founder of record label Sub Pop.
Pavitt started a fanzine entitled "Subterranean Pop" in Olympia, Washington in 1980, about American independent rock bands. A total of three cassette compilations were released through the fanzine. In 1983 Pavitt moved to Seattle and started a record store, Fallout, as well as write a Sub Pop column for The Rocket, and host an independent-label specialty show on KCMU. The year 1986 saw the release of Sub Pop's (the "-terranean" was dropped earlier from the name) first LP: the "Sub Pop 100". Green River's "Dry As a Bone" EP followed in 1987.
Pavitt first met Jonathan Poneman in 1986, when Poneman invited Pavitt for an on-air interview on KCMU, to promote Sub Pop 100. In 1987, Kim Thayil of Soundgarden, said that the two should join forces. Pavitt and Thayil had attended Rich East High School in Park Forest, Illinois together in the mid-1970s. Subsequently Soundgarden's "Screaming Life" EP was released and the grunge phenomenon quickly followed.
In 1996, Bruce Pavitt resigned from Sub Pop to raise a family.

</doc>
<doc id="131366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131366" title="A Sound Garden">
A Sound Garden

A Sound Garden is a public art work on NOAA property adjacent to Magnuson Park in Seattle, Washington. It was created in 1982 by Doug Hollis. It is constructed with a number of metal tubes on weathervane-like apparatus that catch the wind and moan eerily.
The Seattle grunge band Soundgarden took their name from this art work.
Since 9/11, the facility, including the art installation, is on restricted access under threat level Yellow. Visitors may check in with the guards and walk onto the facility, but their vehicles are not allowed. Photo identification is required in order to view the Sound Garden and access to the "Art Walk".

</doc>
<doc id="131367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131367" title="Fopp (EP)">
Fopp (EP)

Fopp is the second EP by the grunge band Soundgarden, released in August 1988 on Sub Pop Records. In 1990 it was combined with the band's first EP "Screaming Life" (1987) and released as "Screaming Life/Fopp".

</doc>
<doc id="131369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131369" title="Screaming Life">
Screaming Life

Screaming Life is the debut EP by the Seattle grunge band Soundgarden, released in October 1987 on Sub Pop Records. "Screaming Life" was later combined with the band's next EP, "Fopp" (1988) and released as "Screaming Life/Fopp" in 1990.
The EP was recorded in 1987 in Seattle's Reciprocal Studios with producer Jack Endino, who also produced albums for Nirvana and Mudhoney.
Drummer Matt Cameron described the sound on the EP as "pretty raw." "Hunted Down", Soundgarden's first single, is representative of the early "grunge" sound — with its dirty guitar, dissonant atmosphere and lyrics concerning entrapment and escape. "Nothing to Say" features drop D tuning, which would become a signature of Soundgarden's sound on later albums. Guitarist Kim Thayil said he learned about the tuning from the Melvins's Buzz Osborne. The original version of "Tears to Forget" appeared on the 1985 "Deep Six" compilation album, which featured some of the first recordings by the earliest Seattle grunge bands, including Soundgarden. That version was recorded with drummer Scott Sundquist, but the version on "Screaming Life" was recorded with Cameron.
Some time prior to recording, producer Jack Endino found old rolls of quarter-inch tape at a garage sale, and some contained recordings of a Christian preacher giving sermons in the early 1950s. Soundgarden vocalist Chris Cornell had the idea to have the preacher's voice on "Hand of God". The recording was synched with the eight-track machine, copied to an empty track and by coincidence (or because, as Endino says, "God smiled upon us") the tape rolls matched perfectly with the song. Cornell also added his own sarcastic preacher-style vocals, with the lines "let it be known today that if you've got two hands you're supposed to pray!". However, according to Endino, the labels on the rolls of tape were near-illegible and thus the name of the preacher remains unknown.
Cornell said that the EP was met with rave reviews and that "everybody loved it." "Hunted Down" was Soundgarden's first single and also the first song on Sub Pop's "hold music" tape. According to Thayil, "you would call them up, and when they put you on hold you heard 'Hunted Down'". It was the only single released from the EP. "Nothing to Say" was Soundgarden's first B-side, released on the "Hunted Down" single. The song also appeared on the KCMU compilation tape "Bands That Will Make Money", which was distributed to record companies. Upon hearing the song, record labels began contacting the band, which eventually led to the band signing with A&M Records.
The cover of "Screaming Life" was taken by grunge photographer Charles Peterson, and features Cornell singing and Thayil playing guitar in the background. The album cover was an attempt by Sub Pop to capitalize on Cornell's image. The first 500 copies of the EP were pressed on orange vinyl; after that, they were released on standard black vinyl.
The title of the EP inspired the title of a book of photography by Peterson, named "Screaming Life: A Chronicle of the Seattle Music Scene". Published in 1995, it is composed mainly of live photos taken by Peterson from the mid 1980s though the mid 1990s. Many of Peterson's photographs were used as album artwork for grunge bands. The book is accompanied by a CD, with 9 songs selected by Peterson from bands of the era – Soundgarden's "Entering" is one of these songs.
All songs written by Chris Cornell and Kim Thayil, except where noted:

</doc>
<doc id="131370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131370" title="Loudest Love">
Loudest Love

Loudest Love is an EP by the grunge band Soundgarden. It was released in October 1990 through A&M Records.
The EP was first released in Japan, and later released in the United States. The track listing is the same as that for the "Loud Love" single, but with the addition of "Hands All Over", "Heretic" and "Come Together".

</doc>
<doc id="131371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131371" title="Screaming Life/Fopp">
Screaming Life/Fopp

Screaming Life/Fopp is a compilation album by the grunge band Soundgarden. It was released on May 11, 1990 through Sub Pop Records.
The album combines the band's first two EPs: "Screaming Life" (1987) and "Fopp" (1988). It was released in 1990 (see 1990 in music) by Sub Pop. There are two cover songs on the album; "Swallow My Pride" is a Green River cover and "Fopp" is an Ohio Players cover.
All songs written by Chris Cornell and Kim Thayil, except where noted:

</doc>
<doc id="131372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131372" title="Louder Than Live">
Louder Than Live

Louder Than Live is a home video released by the Seattle grunge band Soundgarden. It has songs performed live at the Whisky a Go Go in Los Angeles, California on December 7, 1989 and December 10, 1989. It was released on May 22, 1990.
It features five live tracks filmed during the "Louder Than Love" tour. The live tracks are "Get on the Snake", "Gun", "I Awake", "Big Dumb Sex", and a medley of Spinal Tap's "Big Bottom" and Cheech & Chong's "Earache My Eye", with footage from both concerts mixed together. It also features footage of the band performing two songs in the studio. The studio clips are "Loud Love" and "Hands All Over". It is on this video that frontman Chris Cornell is seen wearing his infamous silver duct-tape shorts. The bassist for these performances was Jason Everman. "Louder Than Live" was released on VHS only, with no official DVD version available.
In addition to the home video, A&M released a promo 12" (on blue vinyl, July 1990) and CD (May 1990) with the same title, "Louder Than Live". The vinyl includes the 5 live tracks from the video in addition to "Beyond the Wheel". The center label features a close-up picture of guitarist Kim Thayil's face. The CD came wrapped in brown paper, duct-taped closed with a yellow and black sticker that reads "Soundgarden: "Louder Than Live"". In addition to the 6 other live tracks, it includes "Hunted Down". This album has been bootlegged on black vinyl; genuine copies can be distinguished by the A&M logo.
"Concert footage:"
"Studio clips:"

</doc>
<doc id="131373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131373" title="Motorvision">
Motorvision

Motorvision is a home video released by the Seattle grunge band Soundgarden. It was released on November 17, 1992.
It features eight songs performed live at the Paramount Theatre in Seattle, Washington on March 5, 1992 and March 6, 1992 during the "Badmotorfinger" tour. "Motorvision" was released on VHS only, with no official DVD version available.
The video features candid footage of the band and people associated with it, including Sub Pop co-founders Bruce Pavitt and Jonathan Poneman. Before the first song begins, the band is introduced on stage by a clown, J. P. Patches.

</doc>
<doc id="131375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131375" title="Songs from the Superunknown">
Songs from the Superunknown

Songs from the Superunknown is an EP by the grunge band Soundgarden. It was released on November 21, 1995 through A&M Records. It was released on the same day as the CD-ROM "Alive in the Superunknown".
The EP is the audio-only counterpart to "Alive in the Superunknown". "Jerry Garcia's Finger" is featured exclusively on "Songs from the Superunknown".
The CD-ROM "Alive in the Superunknown" contains the first four tracks from "Songs from the Superunknown" plus a multimedia portion featuring photos of the band, a video game, four music videos ("My Wave", "Fell on Black Days", "Black Hole Sun", and "The Day I Tried to Live"), and a live video of "Kickstand", among other things.
All songs written by Chris Cornell, except where noted:

</doc>
<doc id="131376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131376" title="Jason Everman">
Jason Everman

Jason Everman (born August 16, 1967 in Kodiak, Alaska) is an American guitarist who played with Nirvana and Soundgarden.
Everman joined Nirvana in February 1989 as a second guitarist. He is listed as being second guitarist on Nirvana's "Bleach", but did not actually play on any of the tracks. Nirvana founder Kurt Cobain said the credit was a token of thanks to Everman for paying a fee of US $606.17 to record the album. The cash was never repaid. Everman toured with Nirvana in summer of 1989 in support of "Bleach". During his time with Nirvana, he can sometimes be seen using Fender guitars, generally the Fender Telecaster. 
A two-song Nirvana session featuring Everman on guitar is available, albeit in separate releases. A Kiss cover called "Do You Love Me?" was released on a tribute album and "Dive" was released on 2004's "With the Lights Out". Both tracks were recorded at Evergreen State College's 24-track studio in June 1989.
Everman left Nirvana in July 1989 following a stressful tour and joined Soundgarden the following year as Hiro Yamamoto's temporary successor on bass. In April 1990, he played on the band's cover of The Beatles' "Come Together", which appeared on an EP called "Loudest Love". Everman appeared in Soundgarden's "Louder Than Live" home video. Later in 1990, Everman left the band and Soundgarden found Yamamoto's ultimate successor, bassist Ben Shepherd. 
The "Come Together" cover remains the only recorded Soundgarden material to feature Everman.
Everman's subsequent projects included a stint on guitar in Mind Funk. In September 1994, he left Mind Funk to join the Army 2nd Ranger Battalion and the Special Forces, serving tours in Afghanistan and Iraq. After his military service he appeared in the documentary "Lemmy", said he was a member of the Rangers and Special Forces and that "Motorhead is good go to war music." He also said that "war is a function of the human condition".

</doc>
<doc id="131377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131377" title="Hiro Yamamoto">
Hiro Yamamoto

Chris Cornell said about the recording of the album, "At the time Hiro had excommunicated himself from the band and there wasn't a free-flowing system as far as music went, so I ended up writing a lot of it." Yamamoto was becoming frustrated that he wasn't contributing much, and opted to go back to college. Cornell also said, "It seems an odd time to quit. We're doing real well. We've got a touring budget now. We don't haul amps or do such long van rides any more."
One year later, he started the independent rock band Truly with Screaming Trees drummer Mark Pickerel and Robert Roth from The Storybook Krooks.

</doc>
<doc id="131378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131378" title="Applied mathematics">
Applied mathematics

Applied mathematics is a field of mathematics which uses mathematics to solve problems of other branches of science. There are many fields:

</doc>
<doc id="131379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131379" title="Scott Sundquist">
Scott Sundquist

Scott Sundquist is an American musician. He was a drummer for the grunge band Soundgarden during the mid-1980s.
In 1985, Soundgarden was a recently formed three-piece band with Chris Cornell on vocals and drums, Kim Thayil on guitar, and Hiro Yamamoto on bass. The band chose Sundquist to be their drummer so Cornell could do the singing. They traveled around playing various gigs with this lineup for about a year. Then they recorded three songs for a C/Z Records compilation album of grunge music by Soundgarden and five other bands, which was called Deep Six and was released in March 1986. This album contains the only recorded Soundgarden material with Sundquist.
Sundquist, who prior to joining the band had been friends with Cornell, was asked to join the band so that Cornell could focus on singing. In 1986, Sundquist left the band to spend time with his family, He stayed friends with Cornell and Thayil after he left the band.

</doc>
<doc id="131380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131380" title="A-ha">
A-ha

a-ha were a Norwegian band who were formed in Oslo. They initially rose to fame during the 1980s, but have had continued success in the 1990s and 2000s. They split in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="131381" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131381" title="Professional baseball">
Professional baseball

Baseball is a team sport which is played by several professional leagues all over the world. In these leagues, players are selected for their talents and are paid to play for a team. One of the most popular professional baseball leagues is Major League Baseball, which has teams in the United States and Canada. Another league is Nippon Professional Baseball, which is in Japan. MLB baseball is spilt into two leagues, the National and the American league.

</doc>
<doc id="131382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131382" title="Anglicisation">
Anglicisation

Anglicisation or anglicization is the act of changing of spoken or written elements of another language into a form that can more easily be understood by an English speaker.
For instance, the Italian name of the city of Rome, the capital of Italy, is "". English speakers call it "Rome" to make it sound more English. Another example is the city of Moscow in Russia, which sounds like "Moskva" in Russian, though it is written much differently because Russian uses the Cyrillic alphabet (it is written in that language as ). Still, English speakers call the city "Moscow" because it is easier to say.
Most of these changes were made a few centuries ago. In some cases the original language was different to the modern one. Turin in the Piedmont province of Italy was called ' in Piedmontese, the native language of the region, but is now officially known as ' after its Italian name. The English and French name for Florence, also in Italy, is closer to the original name in Latin (') than is the modern Italian name of '.
Anglicization has both a political and cultural dimension. Most Welsh and Scottish Gaelic place names were once anglicized when they were under English rule. Now that they have their own local parliaments, they changed the official names back again. In Scotland, however, few people speak Gaelic, so in most places the English versions are almost always used. On the other hand, in Wales, where there are plenty of Welsh speaking people, all road signs need to be in both English and Welsh.

</doc>
<doc id="131385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131385" title="Category:College Football Hall of Fame">
Category:College Football Hall of Fame


</doc>
<doc id="131386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131386" title="Offensive tackle">
Offensive tackle

In American and Canadian football, offensive tackles (OT, T) are a part of the offensive line. As is other offensive linemen, their job is to block the players on the defense from getting to the offensive player who has the football.

</doc>
<doc id="131394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131394" title="Jeanne Rij-Rousseau">
Jeanne Rij-Rousseau

Jeanne Rij-Rousseau (10 June 1870 – 22 October 1956) was a French Cubist painter and an art theoretician.
Rij-Rousseau was born in Candé. From 1890 on, she lived in Paris and moved in an artistic circle with painters of the "Ile de la Grande Jatte" in Montmartre. She was a student of Maurice Denis and Paul Sérusier. Sérusier's had ideas about the relationship of music and painting. She used these ideas to form the theory of vibrism, which is a combination of Synthetic Cubism of the pre-war period and Larionov and Goncharova's Rayonism.
Juan Gris was a close friend of hers. From 1911 on, Rij-Rousseau showed her works in Salon d'Automne, Salon des Indépendants and Salon Tuileries. In 1920, she was a member of the artist circle called Section d'Or. She often traveled to South France, especially to Céret, and also to Germany, Belgium and Switzerland. Her paintings were displayed in Zurich, Brussels, New York, and Boston.
In Aubusson and Beauvais' manufactories large-size tapestries designed by her were produced. In 1925, she was awarded a gold medal for one of them in the first Arts Décoratifs' exhibition.
Guillaume Apollinaire named her a "searcher", and her colour choices were admired by Florent Fels and André Salmon.
Also in 1925, Rij-Rousseau founded the Association of Modern-Age Female Painters. She exhibited with Suzanne Duchamp and Marie Laurencin, among others. Aside from Colette, Rij-Rousseau's biography was published in the book, "Führende Frauen Europas" by Elga Kern as a representative of French art.
Her fame did not last long, and in 1956 she died lonely, impoverished and forgotten in her great-niece's house in Savigny-sur-Braye. Her final exhibition in Château de Blois in 1959 attracted little notice, and the whereabouts of the 70 exhibited paintings are still unknown. Her estate has been scattered throughout the world. Paintings are trafficked in N.Y., Chicago, London, and Paris. Some works are in Parisan museums, in Blois, and in Grenoble, but especially in private collectors' homes.
Research on this painter of the French Modern Age is still in its beginnings.

</doc>
<doc id="131399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131399" title="Category:1990 albums">
Category:1990 albums

This category is for albums which were first sold in 1990

</doc>
<doc id="131400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131400" title="Wikipedia:Editor review/Tharnton345">
Wikipedia:Editor review/Tharnton345

 Hi, I want to have my edits reviewed. Thanks. I haven't been on here for long, but never mind. () 17:12, 25 September 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="131409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131409" title="Big Ten Conference football champions">
Big Ten Conference football champions

"*" Chicago stopped its football program in 1939 and withdrew from the conference in 1946.<br>

</doc>
<doc id="131421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131421" title="Napalm Death">
Napalm Death

Napalm Death are a heavy metal band from Meriden, West Midlands, England. They play a very loud and angry kind of heavy metal called Grindcore - a subgenre which they pioneered. The band made the shortest song in the world: 'You Suffer', which is only 1.316 seconds long - characteristic of grindcore. Their debut album, 'Scum', was revolutionary in the metal underground and was made up of songs, which on average, were about 20-60 seconds long.

</doc>
<doc id="131423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131423" title="Chuck Schuldiner">
Chuck Schuldiner

Charles Michael "Chuck" Schuldiner (May 13, 1967 – December 13, 2001) was an American singer, songwriter and guitarist. He was a key member of the death metal band, Death. The band were a major influence on other death metal bands. He is often called " 'the Father of Death metal' " He died of pneumonia in 2001, after a long battle with brain cancer. 

</doc>
<doc id="131438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131438" title="Randy Orton">
Randy Orton

Randall Keith "Randy" Orton (born on April 1, 1980) is an American professional wrestler. He is currently signed to the WWE.
In 1998, Orton decided to enlist with the United States Marine Corps. While he was at the base, he received a bad conduct discharge a year later after he went AWOL on two different occasions and disobeyed an order from a commanding officer. Orton was tried and convicted under a special court-martial and he spent 38 days in a military prison.
In November 2005, Orton announced that he was engaged to his girlfriend Samantha. They got married on September 21, 2007. In December 2007, Orton announced that his wife was pregnant, a daughter due on July 15, 2008. His daughter, Alanna Marie Orton, was born on July 12, 2008.
Orton broke his collarbone in a Last Man Standing match at the One Night Stand event in 2008 against Triple H, and hurt it again in a motorcycle accident.
Randy Orton debuted in a 2002 edition of Smackdown against Hardcore Holly. He won the match by rolling up him. In the WWE Draft he was then drafted to Raw. Randy Orton, along with Triple H, Batista and Ric Flair formed the group Evolution. Randy Orton won the World Heavyweight Title from Chris Benoit at Summerslam 2004, but the night after Randy Orton was kicked out of Evolution. At Unforgiven, he lost the World Heavyweight Title to Triple H in a No Disqualification match. At Wrestlemania 21, he was unsuccessful in defeating the Undertaker. 
The next night on Raw, he stated that his match with the Undertaker had made a shoulder injury worse. When sidelined, he appeared on RAW and stated that he could not get drafted due to injury. He was informed by Vince McMahon that he was indeed eligible for the draft. He returned to Smackdown!. He started his feud with the Undertaker again defeating him at Summerslam in a Casket Match. The following 2 months, he was in the Elimination match at Survivor Series, getting the victory for Team Smackdown. At the event The Undertaker appeared from a flaming casket after Randy Orton "killed" him on an episode of Smackdown. The feud was finally finished in a Hell In A Cell match at Armageddon, where the Undertaker won.
After Armageddeon Randy Orton entered thirtieth and last in the Royal Rumble match. He was eliminated by Rey Mysterio who won the match. Randy Orton asked Mysterio to put his title shot on the line in a match at No Way Out. In the weeks before No Way Out Randy Orton made comments about Mysterios late friend, Eddie Guerrero who had recently died in November. Randy won at No Way Out therefore getting him the title shot. General Manager Thedore Long set up a Triple Threat match at Wrestlemania 22 between him, Mysterio and Kurt Angle. Mysterio pinned Angle and won the World Heavyweight Title.
On the July 23rd RAW it was announced that Orton would face Cena in a title match at Summerslam. Orton lost to Cena at Summerslam. The next night on RAW he demanded that the RAW GM William Regal would give him a WWE Title rematch. At No Mercy Mr.McMahon awarded Orton the WWE Title as Cena was injured the previous week. However in the opening match Triple H defeated him for the title. 
Later in the night Orton defeated Triple H in a Last Man Standing match to become a 2 time WWE Champion in 1 night. On the October 8th RAW, Shawn Micheals returned and preformed Sweet Chin Music on Orton. The 2 met in a title match at Cyber Sunday. In the match Orton gave Shawn Micheals a low blow and retained his title. At Survivor Series, they met in a rematch and the stipulation was that if Micheals hit Sweet Chin Music he would never get another title shot and if Orton got disqualified he would lose the tile. Orton preformed the RKO on Micheals and pinned him to defend the title.
He defeated Jeff Hardy to again retain the WWE Title at the Royal Rumble. John Cena returned and won the 2008 Royal Rumble. Instead of facing the champ at Wrestlemania Orton faced Cena for the title at No Way Out. Orton intententionally got himself disqualifed thus retained the title. At Wrestlemania 24 Orton faced John Cena and Triple H. He won the match. The next month at Backlash, Orton faced Triple H, John Cena and JBL in a Fatal 4 Way Elimination Match for the title. He was pinned by Triple H. After losing at Judgement Day Orton faced Triple H at One Night Stand and broke his collarbone.
Just before he made his return Orton reinjured himself in a motorcycle accident. At Unforgiven Orton, Cody Rhodes, Ted Dibiase and Manu cost World Heavyweight Champion CM Punk his title in a title match. He made his in ring return by losing to CM Punk by Disqualification when Ted Dibiase interfered. On the December 1st episode of RAW he made an alliance with Cody Rhodes Ted DiBiase and Manu called Legacy He began 2009 off with winning the 2009 Royal Rumble. At the 25th Anniversary of Wrestlemania Orton lost to Triple H in a title match. He punted each member of the McMahon family before beating Triple H in a 6 man tag team match for the title. He intetionally disqualified himself at Judgement Day to retain the WWE Title. At Extreme Rules he was beaten by Batista for the title. The next night on RAW Batista vacated the WWE Title due to an injury and Orton won it in the main event. He challenged John Cena to a title match and the stip was if he won he gets the title and if he loses he must quit RAW for good. He lost to John Cena in a I Quit Match at the Breaking Point pay per view. The next month at Hell In A Cell Orton defeated Cena in a Hell In A Cell match to win the title back. At Bragging Rights Orton and Cena were tied 5-5 in an Ironman match with only few seconds remaining. Suddenly John Cena locked Orton in the STFU and Orton tapped and lost the title. 
On the January 11th episode of RAW he won a Triple Threat Match with the help of Rhodes and DiBiase to get a Title shot at the Royal Rumble. At the Royal Rumble Rhodes disqualified Orton by interfering. Orton responded by attacking them. He got disqualified in a rematch. He won a spot in the Elimination Chamber. In that match Rhodes passed DiBiase a pipe and he hit Orton with it and eliminated him. At Wrestlemania XXVI he defeated Rhodes and Dibiase in a Triple Threat Match.
Orton was chosen to face Jack Swagger for the World Heavyweight Title in an Extreme Rules match at the Extreme Rules ppv. He lost. On the special RAW draft show Orton was in a Triple Threat match to determine the #1 contender to John Cenas title and his opponett at Over the Limit. Orton lost when Edge speared him. Orton and Edge fought to a double countout at Over the Limit. Orton was supposed to face Batista for a spot in the fatal 4 way match for the WWE Title at Fatal 4 Way PPV but Batista quit and Orton was automaticlly qualified. The season 1 NXT Rookies interfered in the Fatal 4 Way and cost Orton the match. At the Money In The Bank pay per view he was in the RAW money in the bank match but came up short. On RAW he won a chance to challenge Sheamus for the WWE Title at Summerslam. He lost to Edge on RAW. The next week he beat the Miz on RAW.
At Night of Champions he won the WWE Championship after beating Sheamus, Wade Barrett, John Cena, Edge and Chris Jericho in a six pack challenge. At Hell in a Cell he retained the title to Sheamus.

</doc>
<doc id="131439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131439" title="Atonement">
Atonement

Atonement is an idea found in both Christianity and Judaism that describes how sin can be forgiven by God. In Judaism, this was done by rituals performed by the High Priest on the holiest day of the Jewish year: Yom Kippur (Day of Atonement). In Christian theology the atonement refers to the forgiving or pardoning of sins through the death of Jesus Christ.

</doc>
<doc id="131442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131442" title="Mark Henry">
Mark Henry

Mark Henry (born June 12, 1971) is an American professional wrestler. He currently works for World Wrestling Entertainment on its SmackDown brand. Henry is also a 1992 Olympian and winner of the Arnold Classic strongman competition. He had the nickname Sexual Chocolate.

</doc>
<doc id="131443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131443" title="Cold War Kids">
Cold War Kids

The Cold War Kids are an indie rock band. The members are Nathan Willett (lead vocalist, piano, guitar), Jonnie Russel (guitar, vocal, percussion), Matt Maust (bass guitar), and Matt Aveiro (drums). They met and formed the band in Long Beach, California, US.
They released their first album, "Robbers and Cowards", in 2006. Their second album, "Loyalty to Loyalty", was released in September 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="131448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131448" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Portal:Medicine/welcome">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Portal:Medicine/welcome

"-- has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"
"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Thursday, 2 October 2008 at 9:45 pm, although it may be closed quicker due to .<br><br>

</doc>
<doc id="131450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131450" title="Of Mice and Men">
Of Mice and Men

Of Mice and Men is a novella (short novel) written by John Steinbeck. It was published in 1937. The story is a tragedy about two ranch workers called George Milton and Lennie Small. It takes place in the 1930s, in California, United States.
The book is based on Steinbeck's experiences of being a ranch worker. The title of the book is taken from a poem by Robert Burns called "To a Mouse". When the novella was published, it was very popular and it became a best seller. It was chosen by the Book-of-the-Month Club. "Of Mice and Men" is often banned in schools because of the bad language, racism, questionable morality and violence. It is on the American Library Association's list of the "Most Challenged Books of the 21st Century".
"Of Mice and Men" is a story about friendship and loneliness. It also talks about the American Dream: the hope that in America, anyone can become rich or famous if they work hard.
"Of Mice and Men" was made into a movie several times, the first in 1939, only two years after the publication of the novel. This version of "Of Mice and Men" stars Lon Chaney Jr. as Lennie, Burgess Meredith as George, and was directed by Lewis Milestone. It was nominated for four Oscars. In 1981 it was made into a TV movie. This version stars Randy Quaid as Lennie, Robert Blake as George, Ted Neeley as Curley, and was directed by Reza Badiyi. The most recent movie version of "Of Mice and Men" (1992) was directed by Gary Sinise (who also played the part of George). He was nominated for the Palme d'Or at Cannes. The role of Lennie, was played by John Malkovich. Both men had played these roles on stage in the 1980 Steppenwolf Theatre Company production.

</doc>
<doc id="131463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131463" title="Europe (band)">
Europe (band)

Europe is a Swedish rock band. The band was started by Joey Tempest and John Norum in 1979. Their song "The Final Countdown" was a big hit in 1986.
Europe took a break in 1992, but came back in 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="131469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131469" title="Samuel Goldwyn">
Samuel Goldwyn

Samuel Goldwyn (1879-1974) was a Polish-American movie producer who made a lot of movies in America.
He was born in Warsaw, Poland. His parents died when we was young. He first moved to London, then New York. In New York he worked in a glove factory, then as a glove salesman. After this, he helped his brother-in-law to make movies.
He started the Goldwyn Pictures Corporation in 1917. This became part of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in 1924.
Some of his famous movies are Wuthering Heights (1939), The Best Years of Our Lives (1946) and Porgy and Bess (1959).
He often said things that people remembered, such as:
His sayings are called "Goldwynisms".

</doc>
<doc id="131470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131470" title="Edge (wrestler)">
Edge (wrestler)

Adam Joseph Copeland (born October 30, 1973 in Orangeville, Ontario) is a Canadian actor and retired professional wrestler. He is best known for his time in WWE where he wrestled under the ring name Edge. 
He was forced into early retirement from professional wrestling due to a injury to his neck. Copeland was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame on March 31, 2012 by his best friend and tag team partner Christian.
Since retiring, Copeland has regularly appeared on the Syfy series "Haven" where he plays the character Dwight Hendrickson.

</doc>
<doc id="131471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131471" title="Book of Tobit">
Book of Tobit

The Book of Tobit (or Book of Tobias) is a book of biblical scripture that is part of the Catholic and Orthodox biblical canon, put forward by the Council of Carthage of 397 and confirmed for Roman Catholics by the Council of Trent (1546). It's listed in "Article VI" of the Thirty-Nine Articles of the Church of England. 
Tobit is regarded by Protestants as apocryphal. Also, it has never been included within the Tanakh as canonical by ancient Judaism. However, it is found in the Greek Old Testament (the Septuagint), and Aramaic and Hebrew fragments of the book were discovered in Cave IV at Qumran in 1952.
Tobit goes blind, but recovers his sight through the advice of an Angel.

</doc>
<doc id="131474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131474" title="Forbidden City">
Forbidden City

The Forbidden City, now known as the Palace Museum, is a large historical palace and an art museum in the historical center of Beijing, China. The site is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It is very important to the history and architecture of China. The Forbidden City was the palace of the Emperor of China from the Ming Dynasty to the end of the Qing Dynasty. For almost 500 years, it was as the home of emperors and their houses, as well as the ceremonial and political center of Chinese government. 

</doc>
<doc id="131475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131475" title="List of rivers of Pakistan">
List of rivers of Pakistan

This is a list of rivers in Pakistan
The following rivers are tributaries of the Indus River:

</doc>
<doc id="131476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131476" title="Book of Zechariah">
Book of Zechariah

The Book of Zechariah is a book of the Bible found in the Old Testament and the Jewish Tanakh thought to be written by the prophet Zechariah.

</doc>
<doc id="131477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131477" title="Book of Zephaniah">
Book of Zephaniah

The Book of Zephaniah is a book of the Bible and is thought to be written by “Zephaniah son of Cushi son of Gedaliah son of Amariah son of Hezekiah, in the days of King Josiah son of Amon of Judah”.

</doc>
<doc id="131478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131478" title="Song of Songs">
Song of Songs

The Song of Songs is a book of the Hebrew Bible or Tanakh, and also in the Old Testament of the Christian Bible. It is one of the five "megillot" (scrolls). The Song of Songs is also known as the Song of Solomon or as Canticle of Canticles. It is known as "Aisma" in the Septuagint, which is short for ῏Αισμα ᾀσμάτων, "Aisma aismatôn", "Song of Songs" in Greek.
Verse 1 seems to show that the author is Solomon, since it says that it is "Solomon's Song of Songs", but this could also just mean a song "for" or "about" Solomon. So, who the author of Song of Songs was is still an often-discussed question.
If Solomon wrote it, it was probable that it was written in around the tenth century B.C. when Solomon was king. In fact, the mention of the cities of Tirzah and Jerusalem so close together (6:4) has been used to say that it was written before King Omri (885-874 B.C.), even though people still do not know exactly why Tirzah was talked about. However, many have also said that the language in the Song of Songs is proof of it being written much later.
Most people think that the similarity of language, style, tone (mood), perspective, and repeated words show that it was written by one author. But others who do not think the Song was written by one person, or even from one time or place, say that this was because all of the Song's parts came from the same literary tradition.

</doc>
<doc id="131479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131479" title="Book of Isaiah">
Book of Isaiah

The Book of Isaiah (, "Sefer Y'sha'yah") is a book of the Bible thought to be written by the Prophet Isaiah, who lived in the second half of the 8th century BC. The Book of Isaiah contains many prophecies about ancient Israel, its people, and its enemies. Tradition says that all 66 chapters of the book were written by Isaiah, but other theories say that some chapters were written by one or more other people.
(Isaiah chapter 40 verse 28 Good News)

</doc>
<doc id="131480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131480" title="Category:Books of the Hebrew Bible">
Category:Books of the Hebrew Bible

Articles about the Hebrew Bible.

</doc>
<doc id="131481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131481" title="Book of Nehemiah">
Book of Nehemiah

The Book of Nehemiah is a book of the Hebrew Bible, thought to be a continuation of the Book of Ezra, and is sometimes called the second book of Ezra. It is thought to be written by Nehemiah. It is about the return from exile and the rebuilding of Jerusalem.
(Nehemiah 1:1-2)

</doc>
<doc id="131482" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131482" title="Book of Obadiah">
Book of Obadiah

The Book of Obadiah is found in the Hebrew Bible and the Old Testament of the Christian Bible where it is the shortest book, only one chapter long. It is thought to have been written by a person named Obadiah, which means “servant (or worshipper) of the Lord”. 

</doc>
<doc id="131483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131483" title="Book of Nahum">
Book of Nahum

The Book of Nahum is a book in the Bible's Old Testament and Jewish Tanakh.

</doc>
<doc id="131485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131485" title="Book of Micah">
Book of Micah

The Book of Micah (Hebrew: ספר מיכה) is one of the books of the Hebrew Bible and the Christian Old Testament. 
Scholars believe it was written by Micah the prophet, about 700 years before Jesus was born. 
(chapter 5 verse 2, Good News version).

</doc>
<doc id="131486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131486" title="Book of Joel">
Book of Joel

The Book of Joel is part of the Jewish Tanakh, and also the Old Testament of the Christian Bible. Joel describes a plague of locusts in Palestine.
The great army of locusts advances like darkness spreading over the mountains (2:2)

</doc>
<doc id="131487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131487" title="Book of Hosea">
Book of Hosea

The Book of Hosea is one of the books of the Hebrew Bible and of the Christian Old Testament.

</doc>
<doc id="131488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131488" title="Book of Haggai">
Book of Haggai

The Book of Haggai is a book of the Tanakh (Hebrew Bible) and of the Old Testament, written by the prophet Haggai. It was written in 520 BCE.

</doc>
<doc id="131489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131489" title="Book of Habakkuk">
Book of Habakkuk

The Book of Habakkuk is the eighth book of the 12 minor prophets of the Hebrew Bible. It is thought to be written by the prophet Habakkuk, and was probably composed in the late 7th century BC.

</doc>
<doc id="131490" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131490" title="Book of Ezra">
Book of Ezra

The Book of Ezra is a book of the Bible in the Old Testament and Hebrew Tanakh. 
The words that start Nehemiah 1:1, "The words of Nehemiah son of Hacaliah", shows that Ezra and Nehemiah were at first two different works. However, they were put together as one in the earliest Hebrew manuscripts. Josephus and the Jewish Talmud talk about the book of Ezra but not a different book of Nehemiah. The oldest manuscripts of the Septuagint also treat Ezra and Nehemiah as one book.
Origen (A.D. 185–253) is the first writer to treat the books as different works. He called them I Ezra and II Ezra. In translating the Latin Vulgate, Jerome called Nehemiah the second book of Esdrae (Ezra). The English translations by Wycliffe (1382) and Coverdale (1535) also called Ezra "I Esdras" and Nehemiah "II Esdras". The same separation first came out in a Hebrew manuscript in 1448.

</doc>
<doc id="131495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131495" title="Aberdeen railway station">
Aberdeen railway station

Aberdeen railway station is a railway station in Aberdeen, Scotland, UK. It first opened in 1867.

</doc>
<doc id="131498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131498" title="Railway stations of Aberdeen">
Railway stations of Aberdeen

Aberdeen railway station can mean one of the railway stations in the city of Aberdeen, Scotland — only the one now named simply Aberdeen railway station is still in existence:

</doc>
<doc id="131499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131499" title="Thomas Friedman">
Thomas Friedman

Thomas Lauren Friedman (born July 20, 1953) is an American journalist.
Friedman is known for supporting a compromise resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, modernization of the Arab world, environmentalism and globalization. Although an early supporter of the invasion of Iraq, he later became an outspoken critic of the war and the Bush administration.

</doc>
<doc id="131505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131505" title="Mark Bosnich">
Mark Bosnich

Mark Bosnich is a football player. He plays for Central Coast Mariners.
210||0
5||0
215||0
!Total||17||1

</doc>
<doc id="131506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131506" title="Dario Gradi">
Dario Gradi

Dario Gradi is a football manager. He manages Crewe Alexandra.

</doc>
<doc id="131507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131507" title="Rio Ferdinand">
Rio Ferdinand

Rio Ferdinand (born 7 November 1978) is an English football player. He plays for Manchester United and England national team.
399||10||34||0||24||0||85||1||542||11
399||10||34||0||24||0||85||1||542||11
!Total||76||3

</doc>
<doc id="131508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131508" title="Jack Charlton">
Jack Charlton

Jack Charlton is an English retired footballer. He has played for England national team.
His younger brother is Bobby Charlton.
629||70
629||70
!Total||35||6

</doc>
<doc id="131529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131529" title="Billy Wright">
Billy Wright

Billy Wright was a football player. He has played for Wolverhampton Wanderers and England national team.
490||13
490||13
!Total||105||3

</doc>
<doc id="131530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131530" title="Mick McCarthy">
Mick McCarthy

Mick McCarthy (born 7 February 1959) is a former Irish football player. He has played for Republic of Ireland national team. He currently manages Ipswich Town Football Club, having brought them out of relegation in his first season there in 2012.
447||11
48||8
10||1
505||20
!Total||57||2

</doc>
<doc id="131531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131531" title="Ali Daei">
Ali Daei

Ali Daei (born 21 March 1969) is a former Iranian football player. He has played for Iran national team.
143||72
16||10
107||19
25||11
291||112
!Total||149||109

</doc>
<doc id="131532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131532" title="Carsten Ramelow">
Carsten Ramelow

Carsten Ramelow (born 20 March, 1974) is a former German football player. He has played for Germany national team.
413||28||25||0||65||6||503||33
413||28||25||0||65||6||503||33
!Total||46||3

</doc>
<doc id="131550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131550" title="Geysir">
Geysir

Geysir (sometimes known as The Great Geysir) is a geyser in Iceland. It is in the Haukadalur valley, Iceland. It is the oldest known geyser and one of the world's most impressive ones. The English word "geyser" comes from Geysir. Geysir is on the slopes of Laugarfjall hill at . The Strokkur geyser is about 400 metres south of Geysir.
Eruptions at Geysir can send boiling water up to 60 metres in the air. However, eruptions may be infrequent. In the past, they have in the past stopped altogether for years at a time.

</doc>
<doc id="131555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131555" title="Lens, Pas-de-Calais">
Lens, Pas-de-Calais

Lens is a city in the Pas-de-Calais department of France. Today, about 36.000 people live there. The city has an important history of mining. There is also the Racing Club de Lens, a well-known French soccer team. Paris is 200 km to the south, Lille is 40 km to the north, Douai is 15 km to the east, and Arras is 20 km to the south.
The city is very old, though no one knows exactly how old. Ruins of Ancient Roman settlements have been found.

</doc>
<doc id="131561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131561" title="Music recording sales certification">
Music recording sales certification

A music recording sales certification is the award system that a country uses for music sales.
Almost all countries have a type of sales certification, often using RIAA certification categories (such as gold, platinum and diamond). The number of sales that an album needs before it gets an award is different in each country, depending on the population of the country. In some sales certifications, there may be different awards for the type of music recording sold, such as albums, singles, or videos.
United Kingdom

</doc>
<doc id="131562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131562" title="List of music recording sales certifications">
List of music recording sales certifications

The global music industry typically awards recordings with certification awards based on the total units sold. These awards and their sales requirements are defined by the various certifying bodies representing the music industry in various countries and territories worldwide. The standard certification awards given consist of various combinations of Silver, Gold, Platinum, and Diamond awards, in ascending order of sales requirements. In most cases, a "Multi-Platinum" or "Multi-Diamond" award is given for sales in multiples of the Platinum or Diamond sales requirements.
"—" denotes that an award is not given by the certifying body.
"—" denotes that an award is not given by the certifying body.
"—" denotes that an award is not given by the certifying body.
"—" denotes that an award is not given by the certifying body.
"—" denotes that an award is not given by the certifying body.
"—" denotes that an award is not given by the certifying body.

</doc>
<doc id="131565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131565" title="Canadian Recording Industry Association">
Canadian Recording Industry Association

The Canadian Recording Industry Association is a non-profit trade organization that was founded in 1964 to represent the interests of Canadian companies that create, manufacture and market sound recordings in Canada. The organization is based in Toronto.
CRIA is governed by a board of directors who are elected annually by CRIA members. To be eligible for election a candidate for the board must be among the chief executive officers of member companies of the organization. Graham Henderson (Universal Music Canada) is the current president of the CRIA.
The CRIA certifications for albums are:
Note: Multi-Platinum refers to how many times the album has reached 100,000 units sold.

</doc>
<doc id="131566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131566" title="British Phonographic Industry">
British Phonographic Industry

The British Phonographic Industry (BPI) is the British record industry's trade association. Its membership comprises hundreds of music companies including all four 'major' record companies (Warner Music Group, EMI, Sony BMG, and Universal Music Group), associate members such as manufacturers and distributors, and hundreds of independent music companies representing literally thousands of labels.
It has represented the interests of British record companies since being formally incorporated in 1973 when the principal aim was to fight copyright infringement.
It founded the annual BRIT Awards for the British music industry, as well as the Mercury Prize for the Album of the Year.
The British Phonographic Industry awards certificates for music releases in Britain. The level of the award varies depending on the format of the release and the amount sold. BPI certificates are not automatic; the record company must pay a fee to the BPI and they carry out an audit into the release in question. Certificates are usually awarded on the basis of the amount of units the release has shipped, rather than the amount it has sold.

</doc>
<doc id="131567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131567" title="Gramophone record">
Gramophone record

A gramophone record (or just record) is a type of analog storage medium. It stores recorded music (or other sounds). It was popular during most of the 20th century. Gramophone records are played on a phonograph ("record player").
A gramophone record is a flat disk that is usually made of plastic. The sound is recorded on a very fine line or groove which goes around and around in a spiral from the outside edge of the disk to the center. The phonograph plays the sound with a needle that touches the groove. A record usually has different music on each side. When made of vinyl they were also known as vinyl records. Most music made in the 20th century used this format.
Thomas Edison made early phonographs in the 1870s. He originally used tin foil to record the sound. Soon wax cylinders were used in place of the tin foil. The cylinders could be taken off the machine and put back on without destroying the recording. Although discs were made as early as 1888, it was not until 1902 that discs became more popular than cylinder records. Discs were first made out of a shellac mixture, and then vinyl. Singles usually carried only one or two songs or recordings. EPs (extended play records) carried from three to five songs. Albums carried many more recordings; a dozen was normal, or from 30 to 45 minutes of playing time. These formats are still used today, with digital recordings, and playing time for singles and albums has grown considerably.
Vinyl records lost popularity but never went out of production. Now, in recent years vinyl is gaining popularity, while CD record shops have gone out of business, more and more vinyl only record shops are opening. Many argue the higher sound quality of vinyl compared to newer formats.

</doc>
<doc id="131568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131568" title="Hot Mainstream Rock Tracks">
Hot Mainstream Rock Tracks

Hot Mainstream Rock Tracks (originally called Mainstream Rock Tracks) is a ranking in "Billboard" of the most-played songs on mainstream rock radio stations, a category that includes stations that play primarily rock music but are not modern rock (that is, "alternative") stations, which are counted in the Hot Modern Rock Tracks chart.

</doc>
<doc id="131574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131574" title="1959-60 NHL season">
1959-60 NHL season

The 1959–60 NHL season was the 43rd season of the National Hockey League. The Montreal Canadiens were the Stanley Cup winners as they defeated the Toronto Maple Leafs four games to none for their fifth straight Stanley Cup.
"Note: GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points"
"Note: GP = Games played; MIN = Minutes played; GA = Goals against; SO = Shut outs; AVG = Goals against average"
"All dates in 1960"
Chicago Black Hawks vs. Montreal Canadiens
"Montreal wins best-of-seven series 4 games to 0"
Detroit Red Wings vs. Toronto Maple Leafs
"Toronto wins best-of-seven series 4 games to 2"
Toronto Maple Leafs vs. Montreal Canadiens
"Montreal wins best-of-seven series 4 games to 0"
"Note: GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points"

</doc>
<doc id="131575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131575" title="Category:1959 in ice hockey">
Category:1959 in ice hockey


</doc>
<doc id="131576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131576" title="Category:1959 in sports">
Category:1959 in sports


</doc>
<doc id="131577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131577" title="Category:1960 in ice hockey">
Category:1960 in ice hockey


</doc>
<doc id="131578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131578" title="Category:1960 in sports">
Category:1960 in sports


</doc>
<doc id="131582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131582" title="Sabellianism">
Sabellianism

Sabelianism is a position in Christian theology. It is against to the idea of the trinity, but embraces Morpheus. Sabellianism is also known as modalism, modalistic monarchianism, or modal monarchism. Basically, the teaching says that God has three masks, and humans see him in three different ways, but he is in fact only one. 
Historic Sabellianism taught that God the Father was the only person of the Godhead, a belief known as Monarchianism. One author has described Sabellius' teaching thus: "The true question, therefore, turns on this, viz., what is it which constitutes what we name ‘person’ in the Godhead? Is it original, substantial, essential to divinity itself? Or does it belong to and arise from the exhibitions and developments which the divine Being has made of himself to his creatures? The former Sabellius denied; the latter he fully admitted." 
Modalists say that the only number given to God in the Holy Bible is "One". Christian texts do not explicitley talk about God being "three". The number three is never mentioned in texts talking about God. The number three is the number that is central to the word "Trinity". There is one text known as Comma Johanneum which may be an exception to this. The comma Johanneum is a disputed text passage in First John. The text is mainly known from the King James Version of the Bible and some versions of the Textus Receptus. It is usually not included in modern critical texts. Modalism has been mainly associated with Sabellius, who taught a form of it in Rome in the third century. 
Hippolytus of Rome knew Sabellius personally and mentioned him in the "Philosophumena". He knew Sabellius disliked Trinitarian theology, but he said Modal Monarchism was the heresy of Noetos, not that of Sabellius. 
Christians in Cyrenaica liked Sabellianism, and converted to it. Demetrius, Patriarch of Alexandria, wrote many letters to them arguing against this belief.
The primary critic was Tertullian, who said that they crucified the Father. 
It is important to note that our only sources available for our understanding of Sabellianism are from people who opposed it. Scholars today do not agree what exactly Sabellius or Praxeus taught. It is easy to think Tertullian and Hippolytus misrepresented the opinions of their opponents.
Tertullian seems to suggest that the majority of believers at that time favoured the Sabellian view of the oneness of God. Epiphanius (Haeres 62) about 375 AD notes that Sabellius still had many followers, both in Mesopotamia and at Rome. The second general council at Constantinople in 533 AD declared the baptism of Sabellius to be invalid, which indicates that Sabellianism was still around.
Sabellianism has been rejected by the majority of Christian churches in favour of Trinitarianism. This was done through the Athanasian Creed, which says that God is three distinct persons. Each one of the three is equal to the others, and eternal in the same way than the other two.
Michael Servetus and Emanuel Swedenborg were scientists of the 16th and 17th century. Some of the tests thy have written seem to suggest that they were in favor of Modalism. Neither of the two describes God as appearing in three modes. Both describe him as the One Divine Person, Jesus Christ, who has a Divine Soul of Love, Divine Mind of Truth, and Divine Body of Activity. Jesus merged his human form with the divine. By doing this, he became entirely One with His Divine Soul from the Father in such a way that the persons could no longer be kept apart. 
Oneness Pentecostalism teaches that the Father (a spirit) is united with Jesus (a man) as the Son of God. However, Oneness Pentecostalism is very different from Sabellianism, because it rejects sequential modalism. They teach that God was fully God and fully man. 
Oneness Pentecostalism and Sabellianism can be compared to each other, because they are both Notrinitarian. There may be several differences between both positions though.
It is difficult to find out what Sabellianism really taught, because all that is left today are the texts of those who were against it. All of his original works were burned. The following excerpts which demonstrate some of the known doctrinal characteristics of ancient Sabellians may be seen to compare with the doctrines in the modern Oneness movement:

</doc>
<doc id="131583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131583" title="Tritheism">
Tritheism

Tritheism is the belief that there are three distinct, powerful gods, who form a triad. Generally three gods are believed to have separate powers and separate supreme beings or spheres of influence but working together. In this respect tritheism differs from dualism, which typically envisages two opposed Divine powers in conflict with one another.
Ironically, there is no group that claims to believe in or teach tritheism; the term is solely used as an accusation against others, somewhat similar to the usage of the word "cult", in accusing a group of holding an alternate or distorted view of the Christian doctrine of Trinity. The main branches consider tritheism heretical.

</doc>
<doc id="131585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131585" title="Category:Football League of Ireland">
Category:Football League of Ireland


</doc>
<doc id="131589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131589" title="Category:Slipknot albums">
Category:Slipknot albums

Albums by Slipknot

</doc>
<doc id="131591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131591" title="Category:Slipknot songs">
Category:Slipknot songs

Songs by Slipknot

</doc>
<doc id="131594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131594" title="Book of Jeremiah">
Book of Jeremiah

The Book of Jeremiah, or Jeremiah (, Yirməyāhū), is part of the Hebrew Bible, Judaism's Tanakh, and later became a part of Christianity's Old Testament.

</doc>
<doc id="131595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131595" title="Book of Lamentations">
Book of Lamentations

The Book of Lamentations ("Eikha", ʾēḫā(h)) is a book of the Bible Old Testament and Jewish Tanakh. It is traditionally read by the Jewish people on Tisha B'Av, the fast day that commemorates the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem.

</doc>
<doc id="131596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131596" title="Book of Ezekiel">
Book of Ezekiel

The Book of Ezekiel is a book of the Hebrew Bible (of the Books of the Bible) named after the prophet Ezekiel.

</doc>
<doc id="131597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131597" title="Book of Daniel">
Book of Daniel

The Book of Daniel (דניאל), originally written in Hebrew and Aramaic, is a book in both the Hebrew Bible (Tanakh) and the Christian Old Testament.
The book says that Daniel is its writer in several places, such as 9:2 and 10:2. Jesus agreed when he spoke about " 'the abomination that causes desolation', spoken of through the prophet Daniel". The book was probably completed around 200 BCE.. This was shortly after Cyrus captured Babylon in 539.

</doc>
<doc id="131598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131598" title="Book of Amos">
Book of Amos

The Book of Amos is one of the books of the Nevi'im (Hebrew: "prophets") and of the Christian Old Testament. Amos is one of the minor prophets.

</doc>
<doc id="131606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131606" title="Washington Mutual">
Washington Mutual

Washington Mutual (abbreviated to WaMu) () was the United States' largest savings and loan association. Despite its name, it ceased being a mutual company in 1983 when it began to be publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
On September 25, 2008, the 119th anniversary of WaMu's founding, the United States Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) announced that it was seizing the bank and would sell most of its functional assets to JPMorgan Chase. WaMu's collapse is the largest U.S. bank failure in history. At the time of the collapse, it was the sixth-largest bank in the United States. According to Washington Mutual's 2007 SEC filing, it held assets valued at $327.9/Billion Dollars.

</doc>
<doc id="131607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131607" title="Gray's Anatomy">
Gray's Anatomy

Henry Gray's Anatomy of the Human Body (or "Gray's Anatomy") is an English-language human anatomy textbook.
It was first called Gray's Anatomy: Descriptive and Surgical in the United Kingdom in 1858, and in the United States in 1859.

</doc>
<doc id="131620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131620" title="Gray's Anatomy for Students">
Gray's Anatomy for Students

Gray's Anatomy for Students is an anatomy textbook following the same idea as the famous Gray's Anatomy for medical students. The book is famous for its detailed drawings and style.
The first edition was published in 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="131626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131626" title="Killing Joke">
Killing Joke

Killing Joke are an industrial rock band from England. They have been called a key influence on the industrial rock genre.

</doc>
<doc id="131632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131632" title="Category:Districts of Northern Areas">
Category:Districts of Northern Areas


</doc>
<doc id="131636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131636" title="Dave Finlay">
Dave Finlay

David Finlay (born January 20, 1958) is a professional wrestler and road agent from Belfast, Northern Ireland. He is best known for his time in World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) under the ring name Finlay. He has held both the WCW World Television Championship and the WWE United States Championship.

</doc>
<doc id="131637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131637" title="Chris Jericho">
Chris Jericho

Christopher Keith Irvine (born November 9, 1970), better known by his ring name Chris Jericho, is a Canadian professional wrestler, rock musician,actor, author, and radio host. He is currently signed to WWE.
Jericho is also known for his appearances with World Championship Wrestling (WCW) and Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) and internationally in Canadian, Mexican and Japanese promotions.
As a part of WWE, he is credited as being the first-ever Undisputed Champion in professional wrestling history. Also, he has won the Intercontinental Championship a record nine times. Jericho is a six-time world champion, having won the WCW World Heavyweight Championship twice, the aforementioned Undisputed Championship, and the World Heavyweight Championship three times. He is also the Ninth Triple Crown Champion and Third Grand Slam Champion.
Jericho is also the frontman of Fozzy, an American heavy metal band. Jericho uses the theme song "Break The Walls Down" as his entrance theme.
On May 24, 2012, during a match against CM Punk in São Paulo, Brazil, Jericho dropped and kicked the flag of Brazil which is a crime in that country. The police went to the ring and threatened to arrest Jericho. Jericho apologized to the crowd and was suspended by the WWE for 30 days. Jericho returned on June 25 episode of "Raw", his disappearance was explained by a European tour with his band Fozzy which happened to coincide with his suspension.
On the June 30, 2014 episode of "Raw", Jericho made a surprise return to the WWE and attacked The Miz who had also returned minutes earlier. Jericho was then attack by The Wyatt Family.
He currently hosts weekly podcast called "Talk Is Jericho" on PodcastOne.com.
He is best friends with Kevin Owens.
<br><br><br><br>

</doc>
<doc id="131638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131638" title="Charles Curtis">
Charles Curtis

Charles Curtis (January 25, 1860 – February 8, 1936) was a Representative and a Senator from Kansas as well as the thirty-first Vice President of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="131639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131639" title="Big Show">
Big Show

Paul Donald Wight (born February 8, 1972) is an American professional wrestler and actor. He is currently signed to WWE. He is better known by his ring name, Big Show.
He is also known for his career in World Championship Wrestling (WCW), where he wrestled as The Giant from June 1995 to December 1998. He is the first man in the history of wrestling to win the WWE Championship, WCW World Heavyweight Championship and the ECW World Championship, even though his ECW Title win was after the company became a WWE property. Kane is the second wrestler.

</doc>
<doc id="131641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131641" title="Robert Guiscard">
Robert Guiscard

Robert Guiscard (Hauteville-la-Guichard, France, 1015 - Kefalonia, Greece, July 15, 1085), was a Norman adventurer. 
Robert de Hauteville, dubbed "Guiscard", was born at Hauteville, near Coutances (Normandy). He was the sixth son of Tancred of Hauteville and eldest by his second wife Fressenda (or Fredesenda), daughter of Duke Richard I of Normandy. 
Like many other impoverished Norman knights (Rainulf Drengot, William Ironarm, and more), Robert de Hauteville went to Italy, arriving there about 1046. After serving in the forces of the prince lombard of Capua, Pandulf, he organized an army to secure possessions for himself in Calabria. In 1053, when the Pope Leo IX attempted to expel the Normans from the South Italy, Robert Guiscard played an important role in defeating the papal forces at Civitate, near the modern city of San Severo (Province of Foggia). 
After the death in 1057 of his older brother Humphrey, count of Apulia, Guiscard became leader of the Normans in Italy. The pope, seeking independence from the Holy Roman Empire, decided to enlist the Normans as allies. In 1059 the French Pope Nicholas II created Robert "by the Grace of God and Saint Peter, duke of Apulia and Calabria and, with their help, hereafter of Sicily" ("Robertus Guiscardus, Normannus Dux Apuliae, Calabriae et Siciliae"). In return, Robert acknowledged the pope as his feudal overlord. Sicily was in Muslim hands at the time and so Robert and his brother Roger Bosso embarked on a series of campaigns, capturing Messina in 1061 and Palermo in 1072. 
Turning his attention to the Balkans in 1081, Guiscard gained a great victory over the Byzantine emperor Alexius I Comnenus at Durazzo (Albania). In Greece, his campaigns at Macedonia and Thessalia were being carried on, meanwhile, by his son Bohamund. Robert was recalled from his victorious campaigns in 1084 to go to the aid of Pope Gregory VII, who was besieged in the castle of Sant'Angelo by Holy Roman Emperor Henry IV. Robert drove Henry from Rome, and reduced one-third of the city to ashes. Because of the unpopularity of Gregory VII in Rome, he took the pope to Monte Cassino. Robert then went to the support of Bohamund in the Greek campaign but died of fever at Kefalonia a few weeks later (July 1085). He was buried in the Hauteville family mausoleum of the Trinity Abbey (SS. Trinità) at Venosa. The town of Fiscardo on Kefalonia is named after him.

</doc>
<doc id="131643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131643" title="William A. Wheeler">
William A. Wheeler

William Almon Wheeler (June 30, 1819 – June 4, 1887) was a Representative from New York and the nineteenth Vice President of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="131644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131644" title="Schuyler Colfax">
Schuyler Colfax

Schuyler (pronounced "Sky-ler") Colfax, Jr. (March 23, 1823 – January 13, 1885) was a U.S. Representative from Indiana, Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the seventeenth Vice President of the United States.
The towns of Colfax, California, Colfax, Washington, and Colfax, Louisiana, are named for Schuyler Colfax. The "Jewel of the Midwest," Schuyler, Nebraska, named after Colfax, is the county seat of Colfax County, Nebraska. The now ghost town of Colfax, Colorado was named after him. Colfax County, New Mexico is named after the Speaker as well. In addition, the "main street" traversing Aurora, Denver, and Lakewood, Colorado and abutting the Colorado State Capitol is named "Colfax Avenue" in the politician's honor. 

</doc>
<doc id="131645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131645" title="Henry Wilson">
Henry Wilson

Henry Wilson (February 16, 1812 – November 22, 1875) was a Senator from Massachusetts and the eighteenth Vice President of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="131646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131646" title="Hubert Humphrey">
Hubert Humphrey

Hubert Horatio Humphrey, Jr. (May 27, 1911 – January 13, 1978) was an American politician. He was the thirty-eighth Vice President of the United States from 1965 to 1969, under Lyndon B. Johnson.
Humphrey was born in a room over his father's drugstore in Wallace, South Dakota. He was the son of Ragnild Kristine Sannes (1883–1973), a Norwegian immigrant, and Hubert Humphrey, Sr. (1882–1949). Humphrey spent most of his childhood in Doland, South Dakota, on the Dakota prairie; the town's population was about 600 people when he lived there. His father was a licensed pharmacist who served as mayor and a town council member. In the late 1920s a severe economic decline hit Doland; both of the town's banks closed and Humphrey's father fought to keep his drugstore business open.
After his son graduated from Doland's high school, Hubert Humphrey, Sr. left Doland and opened a new drugstore in the larger town of Huron, South Dakota; a population of 11,000 people, where he hoped to improve his fortunes. Because of the family's financial struggles, Humphrey had to leave the University of Minnesota after just one year. He earned a pharmacist's license from the Capitol College of Pharmacy in Denver, Colorado (completing a two-year licensure program in just six months), and spent years from 1931 to 1937 helping his father run the family drugstore. Over time the Humphrey Drug Company became a financial gain business and the family again succeded.
Humphrey did not enjoy working as a pharmacist, and his dream was to earn a doctorate in political science and become a college professor. In 1937 he returned to the University of Minnesota and earned a bachelor's degree in 1939. He was a member of Phi Delta Chi Fraternity. He also earned a master's degree from Louisiana State University in 1940, serving as an assistant instructor of political science. One of his classmates was Russell B. Long, who would become a U.S. Senator from Louisiana. He then became an instructor and doctoral student at the University of Minnesota from 1940 to 1941 (joining the American Federation of Teachers), and was a supervisor for the Works Progress Administration (WPA). Humphrey soon became active in Minneapolis politics, and as a result he never finished his PhD.
Humphrey twice served as a United States Senator from Minnesota, and served as Democratic Majority Whip. He was a founder of the Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party and Americans for Democratic Action. He also served as mayor of Minneapolis, Minnesota, 1945–1949. 
In 1968, Humphrey was the nominee of the Democratic Party in the United States presidential election but narrowly lost to the Republican nominee, Richard Nixon.

</doc>
<doc id="131647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131647" title="Alben W. Barkley">
Alben W. Barkley

Alben William Barkley (November 24, 1877 – April 30, 1956) was a Democratic member of the U.S. House of Representatives and the United States Senate from Paducah, Kentucky, majority leader of the Senate, and the thirty-fifth Vice President of the United States. He was the oldest Vice President of the United States at the age of . He ran for president in 1952, however the Democratic Party primaries had nominated Adlai Stevenson II instead and labor union leaders rejected him to run because of old age (74).

</doc>
<doc id="131648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131648" title="John Nance Garner">
John Nance Garner

John Nance Garner IV nicknamed "Cactus Jack" (November 22, 1868 – November 7, 1967) was the forty-fourth Speaker of the United States House of Representatives (1931-33) and the thirty-second Vice President of the United States (1933-41). Garner once described the Vice-Presidency as being "not worth a bucket of warm spit." Garner was from Texas. He lived to be 98 years old making him the oldest former Vice President of the United States. 
Garner was born near the village of Detroit in Red River County in eastern Texas. His parents were John Nance Garner III and his wife, the former Sarah Jane Guest. Garner studied at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee, for one semester before dropping out and returning home. He was a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. He eventually studied law, was admitted to the bar in 1890, and began practice in Uvalde, Uvalde County, Texas.
On the morning of Garner's 95th birthday on November 22, 1963, President John F. Kennedy called to wish the former Vice President a happy birthday, just hours before his assassination in Dallas.
Garner died on November 7, 1967, at the age of 98 years and 350 days, 15 days before his 99th birthday, making him the longest-living Vice President in United States history, a record which was previously held by Benjamin Harrison's Vice President, Levi P. Morton (who died in 1920, on his 96th birthday). He is interred in Uvalde Cemetery.

</doc>
<doc id="131650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131650" title="Thomas A. Hendricks">
Thomas A. Hendricks

Thomas Andrews Hendricks (September 7, 1819 – November 25, 1885) was a U.S. Representative and a Senator from Indiana, a Governor of Indiana, and the twenty-first Vice President of the United States (serving with Grover Cleveland).

</doc>
<doc id="131651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131651" title="Levi P. Morton">
Levi P. Morton

Levi Parsons Morton (May 16, 1824 – May 16, 1920) was a Representative from New York and the twenty-second Vice President of the United States. He also later served as Governor of New York.

</doc>
<doc id="131652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131652" title="Garret Hobart">
Garret Hobart

Garret Augustus Hobart (June 3, 1844 – November 21, 1899) was the twenty-fourth Vice President of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="131653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131653" title="Charles W. Fairbanks">
Charles W. Fairbanks

Charles Warren Fairbanks (May 11, 1852 – June 4, 1918) was a Senator from Indiana and the twenty-sixth Vice President of the United States. 

</doc>
<doc id="131654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131654" title="Thomas R. Marshall">
Thomas R. Marshall

Thomas Riley Marshall (March 14, 1854 – June 1, 1925) was an American politician who served as the twenty-eighth Vice President of the United States of America under Woodrow Wilson from 1913 to 1921.

</doc>
<doc id="131655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131655" title="Charles G. Dawes">
Charles G. Dawes

Charles Gates Dawes (August 27, 1865 – April 23, 1951) was an American banker and politician who was the thirtieth Vice President of the United States. For his work on the Dawes Plan for World War I reparations he was a co-recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize. He served in the First World War, was U.S. Comptroller of the Currency and the first director of the Bureau of the Budget, and in later life the U.S. ambassador to the United Kingdom.

</doc>
<doc id="131656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131656" title="Rainulf Drengot">
Rainulf Drengot

Rainulf Drengot (dead in 1045) was a Norman adventurer. 
In 1016, Rainulf went in the South Italy where he was a mercenary. In 1030, Drengot was the first count of Aversa (near Naples) and was married to the duke of Naples’s daughter. 

</doc>
<doc id="131668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131668" title="Gregg Gillis">
Gregg Gillis

Gregg Gillis, better known by his stage name Girl Talk, is an American musian who remixes music. Gillis, who lives in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, has released four LPs on Illegal Art and EPs on 333 and 12 Apostles record labels. He began making music while studying Biomedical Engineering at Case Western Reserve University. He specializes in mash-up style remixes, in which he uses often a dozen or more unauthorized samples from different songs to create a new song; "The New York Times Magazine" has called his music "a lawsuit waiting to happen."
In 2007, Gillis was the winner of Wired Magazine's Rave Award.

</doc>
<doc id="131669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131669" title="A∴A∴">
A∴A∴

The A∴A∴ (Latin: "Argenteum Astrum" or Greek: "Άστρον Αργόν", "Astron Argon", both literally; "Silver star", alternately, Latin: "Arcanum Arcanorum", is a magical order created by Aleister Crowley in 1907 after leaving the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn. It is a Thelemic magical fraternity in which the holy book of the order is "The Book of the Law". Its motto is: "The method of science, the aim of religion." While the A∴A∴ was not part of Ordo Templi Orientis, the O.T.O. did consider the A∴A∴ to be a close ally.
Various lineages of the A∴A∴ survive today that can be traced back to the founders Aleister Crowley and George Cecil Jones.

</doc>
<doc id="131670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131670" title="The Book of the Law">
The Book of the Law

The Book of the Law is the central sacred text of Thelema, written by Aleister Crowley in Cairo, Egypt in the year 1904. Its full title is "Liber AL vel Legis, sub figura CCXX, as delivered by XCIII=418 to DCLXVI", and it is commonly referred to as Liber AL vel Legis or just "Liber Al". It contains three chapters, each of which was written down in one hour, beginning at noon, on April 8, April 9, and April 10.

</doc>
<doc id="131671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131671" title="Ordo Templi Orientis">
Ordo Templi Orientis

Ordo Templi Orientis (O.T.O.) ("Order of the Temple of the East", or the "Order of Oriental Templars") is an international fraternal and religious organization founded at the beginning of the 20th century. Originally it was intended to be modelled after and associated with Freemasonry, but under the leadership of Aleister Crowley was reorganized based on the Law of Thelema as its central religious principle along with "The Book of the Law". Similar to many secret societies, O.T.O. membership is based on an initiatory system with a series of degree ceremonies that use ritual drama to establish fraternal bonds and impart spiritual and philosophical teachings. 
O.T.O. also includes the Ecclesia Gnostica Catholica (EGC) or Gnostic Catholic Church, which is the ecclesiastical arm of the Order. Its central rite, which is public, is the Gnostic Mass. 

</doc>
<doc id="131683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131683" title="Luther Bible">
Luther Bible

The Luther Bible is a German Bible translation by Martin Luther, first printed with both testaments in 1534. 

</doc>
<doc id="131691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131691" title="Wycliffe's Bible">
Wycliffe's Bible

Wycliffe's Bible is the name now given to a group of Bible translations into Middle English, that were made under the guidance of John Wycliffe. They appeared over a period from about 1382 to 1395. Although unauthorized, the work was popular. Wycliffite Bible texts are the most common manuscript literature in Middle English. More than 250 manuscripts of the Wycliffite Bible survive.
These Bible translations were the chief inspiration and chief cause of the Lollard movement, a pre-Reformation movement that rejected many of the distinctive teachings of the Roman Catholic Church.
The Catholic Church started a campaign to suppress it. In the early 15th century, Henry IV, Archbishop Thomas Arundel, and Henry Knighton put into law some of the severest religious censorship laws in Europe at that time. Manuscripts of the Wycliffe Bible, if inscribed with a date before 1409 (the date of the ban) circulated freely and were widely used by clergy and laity.
Wycliffe's Bible was edited later in stages to bring it closer to spoken English of the day. His translation followed the Latin word order very closely, which is different from English word order:
Wyclif's Bible was followed later by William Tyndale, who translated the Bible into a more modern form of English, and used Greek manuscript sources for the first time. He was pursued for many years by Thomas More, whose agents finally caught him near Brussels in 1535. He was arrested, tried, convicted and executed by garrotte. His body was burnt at the stake. 

</doc>
<doc id="131692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131692" title="Jens Jeremies">
Jens Jeremies

Jens Jeremies (born 5 March, 1974) is a former German football player. He has played for Germany national team.
251||9
251||9
!Total||55||1

</doc>
<doc id="131703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131703" title="Ferenc Puskás">
Ferenc Puskás

Ferenc Puskás (born April 2 1927 - November 17, 2006) was a Hungarian-Spanish footballer. He played for Hungary national team and Spain national team. He died of pneumonia.
341||352
182||157
523||509
!Total||85||84
!Total||4||0

</doc>
<doc id="131704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131704" title="Michel Platini">
Michel Platini

Michel Platini (born 21 June 1955) is a former French football player. He has played for France national team.
285||156||57||44||16||9||358||209
147||68||39||16||36||19||222||103
432||224||96||60||52||28||580||312
!Total||72||41

</doc>
<doc id="131705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131705" title="Hidetoshi Nakata">
Hidetoshi Nakata

Nakata played for the Japanese team in three FIFA World Cup tournaments,
He was part of the team which competed in the 1996 Summer Olympics at Atlanta and in the 2000 Summer Olympics) at Sydney.
85||16||8||1||18||3||colspan="2"|-||111||20
182||24||18||3||colspan="2"|-||23||3||223||30
21||1||3||0||2||0||6||0||26||1
288||41||29||4||20||3||29||3||366||51
!Total||77||11

</doc>
<doc id="131718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131718" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Division 1 1972-73">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Division 1 1972-73

"- has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"
"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Saturday, 4 October 2008 at 11:08 am, although it may be closed quicker due to .<br>

</doc>
<doc id="131721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131721" title="Relient K">
Relient K

Relient K is an American band from Ohio. Their music has been considered Pop punk and Christian rock. They have released five studio albums and several EPs. Their album "The Bird and the Bee Sides" was released in July 2 2008.
There has been criticism about whether the band are in the Christian music genre. Not all the songs mention God or focus on Christian faith. Matt Theiseen has said "we really don't care, you can call us rock 'n roll or Christian rock or whatever, and we can tour with this band or that band, but at the end of the day, we're doing what we want, and writing from our hearts".
Relient K formed as a four member band back in 1998. At the time they were still attending high school. The members have changed a little since then, but the two Matthews are still there.
The song "Hoopes I did It Again", from their third album, may remind one of Britney Spears, but it's referring to Matt Hoopes' last name. In the song, during the first verse, the two Matts sing back to each other as if in a phone conversation.
For their fourth album, titled "Mmhmm", they added instruments like a banjo and another guitar player, because they wanted more piano in their music, and the addition of another guitar player made this possible for Matt. It can be pronounced different ways, and can also be written as "MMHMM" or "MmHmm".
Relient K is known for their brand of tongue-in cheek humor. Tongue-in-cheek meaning when words are said only half seriously. They used this in many of their earlier songs such as "Marilyn Manson Ate My Girlfriend" "Nancy Drew" (a song about the fictional character) and "May the Horse Be With You" (which clearly plays on the popular Star Wars phrase).
Their second album was indeed titled "The Anatomy of the Tongue in Cheek" although you could argue the third album used more humor.

</doc>
<doc id="131723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131723" title="Hieronymus Bosch">
Hieronymus Bosch

Hieronymus Bosch, (born Jeroen Anthonissen van Aken, c. 1450 – 9 August 1516) was an early Dutch painter. He lived, worked and died in 's-Hertogenbosch, a Dutch town. This was then the capital of the Duchy of Brabant, a region which included much of modern Belgium and Holland.
Many of his works depict temptation, sin and punishment in hell. The paintings have a dreamlike surreal quality, with sexual and sadistic images. The intent was probably serious, to warn of the punishment which awaited sinners in hell.
The paintings often look like, and certainly did influence, the modern art movement known as surrealism. Bosch used images of demons, half-human animals and machines, to evoke fear and confusion, and to portray the evil of man. His works contain complex, highly original, imaginative, and dense use of symbolic figures and iconography, some of which was obscure even in his own time.
Today only 25 paintings are known to be by him; Philip II of Spain collected some of the best, which are now in the Prado Museum, Madrid.

</doc>
<doc id="131725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131725" title="Bush (band)">
Bush (band)

Bush were a British post-grunge band, formed in London in 1992. Their debut album was the self-released "Sixteen Stone" in 1994. They have sold well over 10 million records in the United States. The band, while hugely successful in the United States, was less well known in their native UK and enjoyed only marginal success there. 

</doc>
<doc id="131726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131726" title="Fell on Black Days">
Fell on Black Days

"Fell on Black Days" is a song by the American rock band Soundgarden, released in 1994 as the fifth single from the band's fourth studio album, "Superunknown" (1994). The song peaked at number four on the "Billboard" Mainstream Rock Tracks chart. It would later appear on the band's greatest hits album "A-Sides" and the 2007 Chris Cornell compilation "The Roads We Choose - A Retrospective".
The song was written by frontman Chris Cornell. The time signature of the song is in 6/4.
Cornell on the song:
"Fell on Black Days" was like this ongoing fear I've had for years...It's a feeling that everyone gets. You're happy with your life, everything's going well, things are exciting - when all of a sudden you realise you're unhappy in the extreme, to the point of being really, really scared. There's no particular event you can pin the feeling down to, it's just that you realise one day that everything in your life is FUCKED!
It was released as a single in a large number of different versions, each with different B-sides. Several of the singles featured an original demo version of the song. This demo is completely different from the more familiar version. It features different lyrics and music, with considerably heavier drop-D guitar. Only the chorus contains lyrical similarities to the final version. Soundgarden performed this version live on Pearl Jam's "Self-Pollution" radio broadcast in early 1995.
It appeared on "Billboard" magazine's Hot 100 Airplay chart, peaking at number 54 in its tenth week and remaining on the chart until its twentieth week. The song peaked at number four on the "Billboard" Mainstream Rock Tracks chart and number 13 on the "Billboard" Modern Rock Tracks chart.
Outside of the United States, the single was released in Australia and the United Kingdom. In Canada, the song reached the top 70 on the Canadian Singles Chart and remained in the top 70 for two weeks. "Fell on Black Days" reached the top 50 in the Netherlands and in Ireland it was a moderate top 20 success.
After the September 11, 2001 attacks, Clear Channel included the song on its list of possibly inappropriate songs.
In the music video, the band was filmed performing the song in-studio, with Brendan O'Brien producing the recording. The video was directed by Jake Scott. The video was released in November 1994. It is available on the CD-ROM "Alive in the Superunknown". The video version of the track can be found on the "Fell on Black Days" single and "Songs from the Superunknown".
A live version of the song appears on the "Black Hole Sun" and "Fell on Black Days" singles.
In 2005, when Audioslave toured with Seether, Cornell sang "Fell on Black Days" with Shaun Morgan, Seether's lead vocalist.
In 2006, Classic Case did a cover of "Fell on Black Days" on the band's "Black Unicorn" Split EP with "He is Legend".

</doc>
<doc id="131738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131738" title="Pallas' cat">
Pallas' cat

Pallas' Cat ("Felis manul"), also known as the manul, is a small wild cat of Central Asia.

</doc>
<doc id="131745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131745" title="Scarborough railway station">
Scarborough railway station

Scarborough railway station is a railway station in Scarborough, North Yorkshire, England. It opened in 1845. It is one of the eastern termini (end stations) of the North TransPennine route operated by First TransPennine Express. It is also at the northern end of the Yorkshire Coast Line. It also has the longest station seat in the world at in length.
Until 1950 it served a line to Pickering. Until 1965 it served a line from Whitby.
From Monday to Saturdays there is normally an hourly First TransPennine Express service to York, Leeds, Manchester Piccadilly and Liverpool Lime Street. There is a two-hourly service to Bridlington and Hull on the Yorkshire Coast Line.
On Sundays there is a two-hourly service to York and beyond. There is also a summer only two-hourly service to Hull.
East Midlands Trains provide a limited direct summertime service to St Pancras International along the Midland Main Line. It goes via Sheffield and Leicester.

</doc>
<doc id="131747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131747" title="Methil">
Methil

Methil is a town in Fife, Scotland. There used to be a power station there.

</doc>
<doc id="131748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131748" title="Chris Brown (album)">
Chris Brown (album)

Chris Brown is the self-titled debut album by American R&B recording artist Chris Brown. It was released on November 29, 2005 by Jive Records. The album also earned Brown his first two Grammy nominations for Best New Artist and Best Contemporary R&B Album at the 52nd Grammy Awards in 2006. The album is mainly a hip hop and R&B album.
Through the winter, Brown joined the Scream V Encore Tour, featuring Ciara, Bow Wow, Omarion and Marques Houston, as a supporting act. Later, he headlined the Xbox 360 Presents: Chris Brown Tour, supported by T-Pain.

</doc>
<doc id="131761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131761" title="Economy of Pakistan">
Economy of Pakistan

Pakistan is a nation with a diverse economy that include textiles, chemicals, food processing, agriculture and other industries. It is the 25th largest economy in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="131763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131763" title="National Stock Exchange of Pakistan">
National Stock Exchange of Pakistan

The Karachi Stock Exchange or KSE (founded 1947) is a stock exchange in Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan. It is Pakistan's largest and oldest stock exchange and also South Asia's second oldest stock exchange.

</doc>
<doc id="131765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131765" title="Alexandra">
Alexandra

Alexandra can refer to

</doc>
<doc id="131791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131791" title="Flora and fauna of Pakistan">
Flora and fauna of Pakistan

Vast Indus plains have had vegetation taken away to grow crops. Very little wildlife lives there and only animals like the jackal, mongoose, jungle cat, civet cat, scaly anteater, desert cat and the wild hare live in these areas.
Parts of Thal desert and Cholistan desert are now being irrigated. The Chinkara is the only animal living there now. The blackbuck, who lived there once in big numbers, is now extinct. However, efforts are being made to reintroduce them back into the country.
Irrigated forest plantations are now being made. These give very good conditions for chinkara, hog deer and blue bull to live in.
The striped hyena and the wolf are found almost everywhere in the country. However, little is known about the black bear and brown bear populations.
Birds of prey like the peregrine, cherrug or saker falcons, tawny eagle, imperial and greater spotted eagles, osprey, awesome
shikra, and the black-winged kite live throughout Pakistan but their population statuses are unknown.

</doc>
<doc id="131805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131805" title="Resurrection of Jesus">
Resurrection of Jesus

In the New Testament, Jesus is crucified, dies, is buried within a tomb, and resurrected three days later. (See Gospel of Matthew chapters 27-28) Jesus is the son of God.(Gospel of Mark 1:1)

</doc>
<doc id="131807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131807" title="Crucifixion of Jesus">
Crucifixion of Jesus

The crucifixion of Jesus is an event recorded in all four Gospels in the Bible. The crucifixion happens after Jesus' arrest at Gethsemane and trial before Pontius Pilate. It includes his scourging, crucifixion on the cross, and burial. In Christian theology, the death of Jesus by crucifixion is a major event. (See salvation).
Christians believe that Jesus was God in human form. They believe that after he died on the Cross on Friday, he went down to Hell to free the souls of the people who had died before Jesus' coming. On Sunday, Christians believe that Jesus came back to life and left the tomb where he was buried. This is called the "resurrection". 
The crucifixion is, according to the Bible, necessary to Christianity. Christians believe that Jesus suffered very much on the cross as a way of paying for all of mankind's sins (bad actions, thoughts, and deeds). By taking on all of this suffering, mankind was freed from the punishment that God should have given to man (because of man's weakness and bad choices in life). 
The crucifixion itself is a very sad event as Jesus had to suffer horribly. His friends and his own mother had to see it. However, Christians believe this was necessary for him to come back to life and to show that death had no power over him. Through the crucifixion, Christians believe that God has set us free and shown to the world that Jesus is God and that life is forever. According to the Bible, Jesus sacrificed himself for all of mankind to show his love.
A "passion play" is a play that tells this story of Jesus' trial and then his crucifixion. A recent version, The Passion of the Christ, was produced and released by Mel Gibson. It was and still is very popular with Christians and non-Christians alike.

</doc>
<doc id="131808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131808" title="Jim Ross">
Jim Ross

James William "Jim" Ross (born January 3, 1952 in Fort Bragg, California) is a professional wrestling commentator. He is also known by his nicknames Good Ol' J.R. or simply J.R.. Ross is a restaurateur, former professional wrestling commentator and former company executive. He is most well known for working for World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) as a play-by-play commentator. 
He was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2007 and is widely regarded as one of the greatest commentators in wrestling history.

</doc>
<doc id="131809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131809" title="King of the Ring">
King of the Ring

King of the Ring is a professional wrestling single-elimination tournament held by World Wrestling Entertainment. The tournament was held annually from 1985 to 2002 (except for 1992), and from 1993 until 2002, the tournament was produced as a pay-per-view event.

</doc>
<doc id="131810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131810" title="John Layfield">
John Layfield

John Charles Layfield (born November 29, 1966) known by his ring name's John "Bradshaw" Layfield and JBL, is a retired American professional wrestler that is currently working for the WWE as a color commentator and host. 
Outside of wrestling, he works as a financial analyst for Fox News and has also commentated and hosted for the mixed martial arts promotion Vyper Fight League. He is the longest reigning World Champion in SmackDown history longest reigning WWE Champion in SmackDown history which he held for 280 days.

</doc>
<doc id="131811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131811" title="Mary J. Blige">
Mary J. Blige

Mary Jane Blige (or simply Mary J Blige, born January 11, 1971) is an American R&B, hip hop and soul singer. She released 11 studio albums, 82 singles, and 8 other albums.
In 1988, just for fun, Blige recorded an cover of Anita Baker's "Caught Up in the Rapture" at a recording booth in a local mall. Her mother's boyfriend at the time later played the cassette for Jeff Redd, a recording artist and A&R runner for Uptown Records. Redd then sent it to the president and CEO of the label, Andre Harrell. Harrell met with Blige and, in 1989, she joined the label, becoming the company's youngest and first female artist.
Production for Blige's first album, "Whats the 411?", began in 1991. Sean "Puffy" Combs (at the time a beginning A&R executive at Uptown) organised the project. Also enlisted were some of the top R&B and hip hop producers of the time, among them Tony Dofat, Mark Morales and Cory Rooney, Dave "Jam" Hall, and DeVante Swing.
In 2014 Blige will tour with R. Kelly called "The King and Queen Tour".
Blige is a Democrat.

</doc>
<doc id="131814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131814" title="Dancing Beijing">
Dancing Beijing

Dancing Beijing is the name of the symbol of the 2008 Summer Olympics, in Beijing in China. It was shown in August 2003 in a ceremony attended by 2,008 people in Beijing.
The symbol draws on Chinese culture, showing a red Chinese seal above the words "Beijing 2008" and the Olympic rings. The seal is written with a calligraphic rendition of the Chinese character 京 ("jīng", meaning 'capital', from the name of the host city) in the form of a dancing figure. The curves are also claimed to show the body of a wriggling dragon. The open arms of the figure show China inviting the world to share in its culture. The figure also looks like that of a runner. Red, is an important colour in Chinese society, often meaning good luck.
The logo was created by Guo Chunning. There was only one picture among the 1,985 entries givin by designers from China and others. Other entries included a lot Great Walls, pandas and dragons. Other designers include Chang Wu (張武).

</doc>
<doc id="131815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131815" title="Exploration">
Exploration

Exploration is the act of searching an unfamiliar area in order to learn about it. It involves the discovery of new information. Human beings explore even when they have everything they need where they are. They are the only mammal that does this. 
Neanderthals existed for hundreds of thousands of years in Eurasia. But their range was limited compared to modern humans. In less than 50,000 years humans have explored and spread out to all the continents. Exploration had its most dramatic rise during the Age of Discovery. This is when European explorers sailed and charted much of the rest of the world. Humans have explored geographically even into outer space. They explore ideas, art, even the very nature of life.
The Phoenicians were a culture that existed in the coastal region of the Levant as early as the 3rd millennium BC. They were not a significant culture until about 1100 bc. By the 9th century BC the Phoenicians had became the dominant culture in the Mediterranean Sea. They grew wealthy through trade. Instead of war they used trade agreements and alliances to expand their colonies. The Phoenicians developed advanced navigational skills and had the best ships in the Mediterranean. They explored over land routes and developed caravan routes to trade with distant places. Carthage got its start as a Phoenician colony on the north coast of Africa. It grew to be their largest and most successful colony. 
Gradually the western Mediterranean Phoenician colonies all came under the control of Carthage. The Carthaginians were explorers too. Two major explorations are are mentioned by early writers. Both took place around 500 BC. Pliny the Elder wrote that Carthage sent an explorer named Himilco to explore the remote parts of Europe. The report, or "periplus" (sailing record), has not survived but other early writers have seen it. He had as many as 60 ships in his fleet. He would have traveled along the Iberian Peninsula up the coast of Gaul. Avienus, a Roman writer of the 4th century AD, wrote about the expedition. Himilco moved north from Brittany to the British Isles. It is likely he was looking for tin, a rare metal at the time. He reached a land called , “The Holy Island”, generally believed to be Ireland.
About the same time, Hanno the Navigator was sent to explore the western coast of Africa. His periplus has survived and is one of the earliest surviving manuscripts. The periplus records landmarks, ports and sailing distance between them. It is a guide for other ship captains to follow. Hanno's 60 ships moved south along the African coast. He may have reached as far as as an island off the coast of Sierra Leone. There is no record of any other explorations of the west Africa coast until the time of Henry the Navigator, the Portuguese explorer.
One of the first scientific explorers was Pytheas of Massalia. He was an ancient Greek from the then Greek colony of Massalia (now Marseille). He made a voyage to northwestern Europe in about 325 BC. He circumnavigated Great Britain. Pytheas was the first person on record to describe the Midnight Sun. He is the first known scientific visitor and reporter of the Arctic polar ice. His account of the tides is the earliest known to suggest the moon as their cause.
During the 2nd century BC, the Han dynasty explored much of the eastern part of the Northern Hemisphere. In 139 BC, the Han diplomat Zhang Qian traveled west in an unsuccessful attempt to secure an alliance with the Da Yuezhi. He discovered countries the Chinese did not even know existed. He had traveled as far as the Indus River in northwestern India.
During the Viking Age Three different groups of Vikings can be identified from different parts of Scandinavia. The Danes, Swedes (also called the "Rus") and Norwegian vikings. The 'Rus', founded the settlement of Kiev. Named for themselves they called it Russland (later known as Russia). Swedish Viking explorer Garðar Svavarsson was the first to circumnavigate Iceland in 870 and establish that it was an island. About 890 CE Vikings, led by Ohthere of Norway, traveled north above the Arctic Circle to the White Sea. 
About 982, the Norwegian Erik the Red explored Greenland. In 986 he returned to Iceland, from where he sailed. He convinced others to follow him and founded the first settlement there. By the year 1000 there were a thousand settlers living there. Erik's second of three sons, Leif Erikson was probably the first European to set foot on North America. He landed at a place he called "Vinland".
Marco Polo (1254-1324) was a Venetian merchant and explorer. He traveled across Asia during the height of the Mongol Empire. He was one of the first Europeans to explore Eastern Asia. He left Venice at age 17 with his father and uncle. They traveled what later became the Silk Road. They reached Cathay (China) where Marco Polo entered the court of Kublai Khan. He traveled and explored China for 24 years. He brought back ivory, jade, jewels, porcelain and silk. He brought back many other things including noodles from China which the Italians called pasta.
This was a period in European history from the early 15th century to the early 17th century. During this relatively short period of time, the way Europeans saw the world was completely changed. The European powers sent ships around the world to search for new trading routes. They were in search of trading goods such as gold, silver and spices. In the process, Europeans discovered new people and lands completely unknown to them. Some of the explorers of this age are:
There are many reasons humans explore outer space. It was first explored with human eyes. Ancient men mapped the universe they could see. Then came the invention of telescopes. In the mid-twentieth century man actually began exploring space with rockets and Spacecraft. The most important reasons are scientific research and the interest of humans to learn more about the universe. Space exploration has developed new technologies. It has created new products and new industries.
In scientific research, exploration is one of three purposes of empirical research. The other two are description and explanation. The term is commonly used metaphorically. For example, a person may speak of exploring the Internet, exploring sexuality, or concepts one cannot physically explore.

</doc>
<doc id="131822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131822" title="Lactobacillus">
Lactobacillus

Lactobacillus is a genus of bacteria. Most "Lactobacillus" species are non-spore-forming and ferment glucose into lactose. This genus also contains several bacteria that make up part of the natural flora of the human vagina.

</doc>
<doc id="131826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131826" title="Waterford United F.C.">
Waterford United F.C.

Waterford United F.C. is a football club which plays in Republic of Ireland.

</doc>
<doc id="131827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131827" title="Montpellier H.S.C.">
Montpellier H.S.C.

Montpellier H.S.C. is a football club which plays in France.

</doc>
<doc id="131828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131828" title="A.S. Monaco F.C.">
A.S. Monaco F.C.

A.S. Monaco F.C. is a football club which plays in Monaco.

</doc>
<doc id="131829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131829" title="Olympique de Marseille">
Olympique de Marseille

Olympique de Marseille is a football club from France. The club competes in Ligue 1. It was founded in 1899. Its home stadium is Stade Vélodrome in Marseille.
Olympique de Marseille has won the Ligue 1 9 times, the French Cup 10 times and 2 League Cups. It has also won the UEFA Champions League in 1993.

</doc>
<doc id="131830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131830" title="Arsène Wenger">
Arsène Wenger

Arsène Wenger (born 22 October 1949) is a French football manager. He manages for Arsenal. He has won lots of trophies with them, including the Premier League and FA Cup.
11||0||2||0||13||0
11||0||2||0||13||0

</doc>
<doc id="131831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131831" title="John Arne Riise">
John Arne Riise

John Arne Riise (born 24 September 1980) is a Norwegian football player. He plays for Roma and the Norwegian national football team.
25||5||colspan="2"|-||colspan="2"|-||colspan="2"|-||25||5
44||4||0||0||2||0||9||1||55||5
234||21||15||3||14||2||76||4||339||30
31||2||2||0||colspan="2"|-||8||0||41||2
334||32||17||3||16||2||93||5||460||42
!Total||85||12

</doc>
<doc id="131832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131832" title="Patrick Vieira">
Patrick Vieira

Patrick Vieira (born 23 June 1976) is a Senegalese-French football player. He plays for Manchester City and France national team.
49||2||colspan="2"|-||4||1||53||3
100||11||20||2||21||1||141||14
279||29||79||4||68||2||426||35
428||42||99||6||93||4||620||52
!Total||107||6

</doc>
<doc id="131833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131833" title="David Seaman">
David Seaman

David Seaman (born 19 September 1963) is anEnglish retired football player. He has played for England national team as well as many other league teams.
Seaman was a contestant on the first series of "Dancing on Ice" in 2006.
731||0||25||0||5||0||48||0||809||0
731||0||25||0||5||0||48||0||809||0
!Total||75||0

</doc>
<doc id="131834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131834" title="Luther Blissett">
Luther Blissett

Luther Blissett is a Jamaican-born former English football player. He has played for England national team.
554||208
30||5
584||213
!Total||14||3

</doc>
<doc id="131842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131842" title="Chinese architecture">
Chinese architecture

Chinese architecture refers to the architecture of China. Sometimes it might also mean architecture outside of China but built in the same style. Chinese architecture is very influential in East Asia where many other countries and cultures' architecture also modeled upon it. Well known example of Chinese architecture are the Great Wall of China and the Forbidden City.

</doc>
<doc id="131846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131846" title="Jimmy Greaves">
Jimmy Greaves

Jimmy Greaves (born 20 February 1940) is a former English football player. He has played for England national team. In May 2015, he experienced a stroke.
516||357||44||35||11||7||17||12||588||411
14||9||0||0||colspan="2"|-||colspan="2"|-||14||9
530||366||44||35||11||7||17||12||602||420
!Total||57||44

</doc>
<doc id="131847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131847" title="Eugenio Corini">
Eugenio Corini

Eugenio Corini (born 30 July 1970) is a former Italian football player.
574||71
574||71

</doc>
<doc id="131848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131848" title="Vasile Miriuţă">
Vasile Miriuţă

Vasile Miriuţă is a former football player. He has played for Hungary national team.
29||4
165||40
27||3
133||23
354||70
!Total||9||1

</doc>
<doc id="131849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131849" title="Jerzy Dudek">
Jerzy Dudek

Jerzy Dudek (born 23 March 1973) is a Polish football player. He plays for Real Madrid.
15||0||colspan="2"|-||colspan="2"|-||colspan="2"|-||15||0
139||0||colspan="2"|-||colspan="2"|-||16||0||155||0
126||0||9||0||11||0||38||0||184||0
1||0||6||0||0||0||1||0||8||0
281||0||15||0||11||0||55||0||362||0
!Total||60||0

</doc>
<doc id="131851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131851" title="Henrik Larsson">
Henrik Larsson

Henrik Larsson (born 20 September, 1971) is a former Swedish football player. He has played for the Sweden national team.
209||113||13||5||15||12||237||130
101||26||29||7||19||9||149||42
221||174||38||18||49||34||299||226
40||13||colspan="2"|-||14||2||54||14
7||1||4||1||2||1||13||3
578||327||84||31||99||58||761||416
!Total||105||37

</doc>
<doc id="131863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131863" title="Ian Wright">
Ian Wright

Ian Wright is a footballer turned television personality. He has played for England national team. He is the adopted father of Shaun Wright-Phillips and the father of Bradley Wright-Phillips.
493||241||||||||
8||3||||||||
501||244||||||||
!Total||33||9

</doc>
<doc id="131864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131864" title="Clyde Best">
Clyde Best

Clyde Best is a former football player. He has played for Bermuda national team.

</doc>
<doc id="131865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131865" title="Edgar Davids">
Edgar Davids

Edgar Davids (born 13 March 1973) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.
136||21||12||0||11||1||159||22
192||8||38||5||56||2||286||15
18||1||0||0||colspan="2"|-||18||1
40||1||0||0||1||0||41||1
386||31||50||5||68||3||504||39
!Total||74||6

</doc>
<doc id="131866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131866" title="Marc-Vivien Foé">
Marc-Vivien Foé

Marc-Vivien Foé (1 May 1975 – 26 June 2003) is a former Cameroonian football player. He has played for the Cameroonian national team.
128||14||||||||||128||14
73||10||1||0||5||0||79||10
201||24||1||0||5||0||207||24
!Total||||

</doc>
<doc id="131867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131867" title="Ian Hamilton">
Ian Hamilton

Ian Hamilton is a former football player.

</doc>
<doc id="131877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131877" title="Wikipedia:Editor review/Ionas68224">
Wikipedia:Editor review/Ionas68224

 Hello, I'd like some criticism and I want to know what I should be doing more of and less of, what I need to tone down or work on. Feedback is appreciated. —  · 05:32, 28 September 2008 (UTC)
Archer7's big explanation that probably needs it's own little section
OK, I guess I'd better clear this whole thing up by explaining my classification system for rulebreakers on Wikipedia. Each person is assigned a number along a scale between 1 and 10. The labels by each of them show you what I'd do to them if I met them in real life.
Ionas, you are a Level 2 and I don't see you moving from there in the near future. No-one I have ever dealt with has ever managed to get past Level 4, and I've seen some pretty shocking people. I really don't hold anything against you, but when I think something is wrong, I will say it, like I do for anyone else. - 08:22, 28 September 2008 (UTC)
What I'm talking about is when Archer7 finds socks so well, and it doesn't seem that others suspect that it's me (Nobodyhome – ChristianMan16 and Microchip08 thought that it was Benniguy). It seems that he has some kind of program that tracks me and identifies my writing style. How is it that you can identify my writing style?
Kennedy: I sometimes get paranoid, and an incident in my past perpetrated by a SEW administrator may have sparked it. I am afraid that someone will notify my school staff, and then I will be in trouble for certain things. This especially might happen if a name I used only for a specific unfavorable site where I have said unfavorable things is connected with my real name, which has been done before excessively by a troll from that website (although to my knowledge, no school staff have been notified about this). I assume bad faith many's the time, and I am informed that it needs to change, and that I need to work on that. I am skeptical a lot, especially when anonymous administrators can pretty much do what they want, including get me in trouble in real life. Such is the risk of being a dissident and critic who reveals their real name on a website filled with people who have the ability to remain completely anonymous and have no standards to which they are held accountable. 
As far as your concerns raised in the e-mail thread, you said that something worried you. The something was a link to when Gwib said I had trouble with administrators. I do not. In the past, I have been immature when criticizing certain administrators, on and off wikipedia, but I regret and retract the immature comments. I still am critical of some admins, but Gwib was completely incorrerct in thinking that I don't like administrators. The vocation of Wiki-Police-Officer is not what bothers me, but when those people are exempt from the rules of Wikipedia, it is quite troubling. My userpage is merely illustrating this double standard in the inner structure of Wikipedia. And, for your information, Archer7 is a man. —  · 21:49, 28 September 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="131881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131881" title="Wikipedia:Main Page talk archives">
Wikipedia:Main Page talk archives


</doc>
<doc id="131884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131884" title="Olympique Lyonnais">
Olympique Lyonnais

Olympique Lyonnais is a football club which plays in France.

</doc>
<doc id="131885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131885" title="F.C. Girondins de Bordeaux">
F.C. Girondins de Bordeaux

F.C. Girondins de Bordeaux is a football club which plays in France.

</doc>
<doc id="131886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131886" title="Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Tharnton345">
Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Tharnton345

Closed – . – () 09:45, 28 September 2008 (UTC)
"End date: October 5, 2008" 
"Candidate's acceptance:"
Yes, I do support my RfA, and hopefully I will become an admin. 

</doc>
<doc id="131888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131888" title="Glasgow Central station">
Glasgow Central station

Glasgow Central station is a railway station in Glasgow, Scotland. It first opened in 1879.

</doc>
<doc id="131898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131898" title="Mary of Teck">
Mary of Teck

Mary of Teck (Victoria Mary Augusta Louise Olga Pauline Claudine Agnes; 26 May 1867 – 24 March 1953) was the queen consort of King George V of the United Kingdom, who was also Emperor of India. By birth, she was a member of the House of Teck in Germany, and through her mother, she was a distant member of the British Royal Family. Within her family, she was given the nickname "May". 
Princess Mary was born at Kensington Palace in London on 26 May 1867. Her mother was Princess Mary Adelaide, a daughter of Prince Adolphus, Duke of Cambridge, and a granddaughter of King George III. Her father was Francis, Duke of Teck. Due to her parent's financial troubles, Princess Mary spent much of her early life abroad in order to economise, and in 1883, the Tecks returned to London in 1883, living at White Lodge in Richmond Park. 
In 1891, Princess Mary, who was liked by Queen Victoria, became engaged to her double second cousin once removed Prince Albert Victor, the eldest son of Prince Albert Edward, Prince of Wales. Prince Albert Victor was the heir to the throne after his father, bringing Princess Mary and her family to the senior end of the Royal Family. However, a few weeks before the wedding, Prince Albert Victor died of influenza. Nevertheless, Queen Victoria still favoured Mary as a royal bride, and therefore arranged for her to marry Albert Victor's brother, Prince George, created Duke of York. They were married at St. James's Palace, London, on 6 July 1893. 
Princess Mary was devoted to her children and to her public duties. She left her children in the care of a nanny, Charlotte "Lalla" Bill, and taught her children history and music. With her public duties, she was equally devoted, becoming Patron of a number of charities. When her father-in-law became King Edward VII, Prince George and Princess Mary undertook an eight month tour of the British Empire. No royal had undertaken such a big tour before. Princess Mary broke down in tears at the thought of leaving her children, though they were in the care of their doting grandparents. 
In 1910, Edward VII died, and Prince George ascended the throne as George V. Mary thus became Queen. During the First World War, Queen Mary was criticised for her German heritage. The conflict with Germany forced George V to change the name of the Royal House from Saxe-Coburg and Gotha to Windsor. He also stripped all titles from those members of the Royal Family who fought for Germany. Following the war, Queen Mary continued her public duties, and suffered family tragedy when she lost her youngest son, Prince John. In 1935, King George celebrated his Silver Jubilee, commemorating 25 years of his reign, and Queen Mary accompanied him during the official tours and visits that took place. Queen Mary used her extensive knowledge of history and royal protocol to advise and support her husband on matters of state. 
In 1936, King George V died. His death was shortened by an injection of morphine and cocaine, administered by his doctor. Queen Mary supported her son, now King Edward VIII, during his reign. In December, however, the King abdicated the throne because he wished to marry a divorced American commoner, Wallis Simpson. This put his brother, Prince Albert, Duke of York, in his place as King George VI. King George VI was shy, and was at first reluctant to take on his new duties and responsibilities. Queen Mary and his wife, Queen Elizabeth, supported him in his new role. The former King Edward VIII became the Duke of Windsor, went to live in France, and maintained a cool relationship with his family in England. No member of the family attended his wedding to Wallis in 1937, and she was never received by Queen Mary. 
During the Second World War, Queen Mary lived at Badminton House, owned by her niece's husband, the Duke of Beaufort. She continued her duties and supported the war effort. Following the war, she returned to her pre-war home, Marlborough House. She continued her public duties in old age, surviving to see her granddaughter, Elizabeth, ascend the throne as Queen Elizabeth II. After suffering with lung cancer (described publically as "gastric problems"), Queen Mary died of the disease at Marlborough House on 24 March 1953. She lay in state at Westminster Hall before being buried beside her husband at St. George's Chapel at Windsor Castle.

</doc>
<doc id="131901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131901" title="Marlborough House">
Marlborough House

Marlborough House is a mansion in Westminster, London, England. It was built for a royal favourite, Sarah Churchill, Duchess of Marlborough, in 1711. Following her death, it passed to the hands of successive Dukes of Marlborough. 
In 1817, it became Crown property. It was used by members of the royal family, including Queen Adelaide. It served as a base for the predecessor of the Royal College of Art, the "National Art Training School". In 1861, Marlborough House was made the Prince of Wales's London residence. It was used by him for the next 40 years, until he became king in 1901. It continued as a royal residence, and was last used by Queen Mary until 1953. After her death, her granddaughter, Queen Elizabeth II, gave the house to the Commonwealth Secretariat, which continues to use it today.

</doc>
<doc id="131903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131903" title="Richmond Park">
Richmond Park

Richmond Park is a 955 hectare (2,360 acre) urban park near central London, UK. It is the largest of the eight royal parks in London, and is famous for Red and Fallow Deer.
Notable features in the park include Pembroke Lodge, once the home of the British Prime Minister Lord John Russell. Also in the park is White Lodge, home of the Royal Ballet School and once a royal residence. One house in the park, Thatched House Lodge, the residence of Princess Alexandra. 
The park is fully open to the public, with access by road, bicycles and pedestrians. It is a parliamentary constituency comprising the electoral wards of Barnes, East Sheen, Ham & Petersham, Kew, Mortlake, North Richmond and South Richmond in the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames. It also covers the wards of Canbury, Coombe Hill, Coombe Vale and Tudor in the Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames. The present MP is Zac Goldsmith.

</doc>
<doc id="131906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131906" title="Brantridge Park">
Brantridge Park

Brantridge Park is a former royal residence in Balcombe, West Sussex, England. It was owned by Princess Alice, and her husband Alexander Cambridge, the first Earl of Athlone. Following the Athlone's departure to Canada as viceroy and viceregal consort, it was occupied by Princess Beatrice, the youngest daughter of Queen Victoria. Beatrice died there in 1945. It is now a hotel operated by Timeshare.

</doc>
<doc id="131909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131909" title="Osborne House">
Osborne House

Osborne House is a former royal residence East Cowes on the Isle of Wight, England. It was in purchased by Queen Victoria and Prince Albert in 1845. The solent reminded by Prince Albert of the Gulf of Naples, but the old house was too small for their needs, and the house was demolished and rebuilt by Thomas Cubitt. 
The house became a family home, as Queen Victoria and Prince Albert were determined to bring their children up in a natural and loving environment. Within the grounds was a smaller structure, Swiss Cottage, which was where the royal children played and learned practical skills, such as cooking and farming. The children often entertained their parents here, and Queen Victoria used the simplicity of the cottage to deal with personal correspondence. 
Following Prince Albert's death in 1861, Osborne became an effective mausoleum in his memory. Queen Victoria used the house as a retreat away from public life. She died there on 22 January 1901, and her son, King Edward VII, gave the house to the nation. It was used as a naval training school, and then a convalescent home for officers. During the Second World War, Adolf Hitler ordered that the estate was not to be bombed because he wanted to use it as a post-war retreat. 

</doc>
<doc id="131910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131910" title="Docetism">
Docetism

Docetism is an early Christian teaching that says that Jesus only appeared to have a human body. The term comes from "dokein": "to seem". 
Early Gnostics, whose teachings began to threaten Christian doctrine and theology, believed all matter was unclean. For this reason, Christ could not have a physical body, as he was seen as the eternal Logos. 
Today, it is unclear where this teaching came from. It might have been influenced by the teachings of Plato. Plato taught that only ideas mattered and that matter itself was inferior. 
Many Gnostic teachings are docetic. For a long time, people believed that docetism and Gnosticism were developed together. This is however not the case, there are also some Gnostic systems that are not docetic, as well as some docetic systems that are not gnostic. 
Today, most Christian theologians see docetism as a heresy. 

</doc>
<doc id="131911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131911" title="List of British Royal Residences">
List of British Royal Residences

This is a list of residences occupied by the British Royal family, noting the seasons of the year they are traditionally occupied.
Members of the British Royal Family inhabit a range of residences around the United Kingdom. Some are royal palaces, owned by the state and held in trust by the monarch; others are privately owned. Balmoral Castle and Sandringham House have been inherited as private property for several generations. Other royal palaces are no longer residences (e.g. the Palace of Westminster, the Palace of Whitehall). Some remain in irregular use for royal occasions. The Royal Palaces enjoy certain legal privileges, for example there is an exemption from levying duty on alcoholic beverages sold in the bars at the Palace of Westminster and there are exemptions from Health and Safety legislation.
The occupied royal residences of are cared for and maintained by the Royal Household Property Section. The unoccupied royal palaces of England are now within the responsibility of the Historic Royal Palaces Agency.

</doc>
<doc id="131912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131912" title="Category:Royal residences in the United Kingdom">
Category:Royal residences in the United Kingdom

Royal residences and former royal residences in the United Kingdom.

</doc>
<doc id="131913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131913" title="Tazz">
Tazz

Peter Senerchia (born October 11 1967) is an American retired professional wrestler and current color commentator best known by his ring name Tazz, (originally Tazmaniac and later shortened to simply Taz). He is currently under contract to Total Nonstop Action Wrestling. On the 3rd April, 2009 he was dismissed by WWE.

</doc>
<doc id="131914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131914" title="Lille O.S.C.">
Lille O.S.C.

Lille O.S.C. is a football club which plays in France.
Based in the northern city of Lille founded in 1944 from the merger of the Olympique Lillois (founded in 1902) and the S.C. Fives (founded in 1901).

</doc>
<doc id="131920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131920" title="Prince Andrew, Duke of York">
Prince Andrew, Duke of York

The Prince Andrew, Duke of York (Andrew Albert Christian Edward; born 19 February 1960) is a member of the British Royal Family, the second son of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. He has been titled Duke of York since 1986, and is sixth in line to the succession to the throne of the United Kingdom. 
Prince Andrew was born at Buckingham Palace in London. He went to Heatherdown Preparatory School in Berkshire, England, and Gordonstoun in Scotland. Prince Andrew did not go to university, he went to Britannia Royal Naval College instead. In the Navy, he served in the Falklands War, and continued his career, becoming a commander in 1999 and an honorary captain in 2001. 
In 1986, Prince Andrew married Sarah Ferguson, the younger daughter of Ronald Ferguson, the polo manager for the Prince of Wales. They have two daughters from the marriage: Princess Beatrice and Princess Eugenie. Andrew and Sarah separated in 1992, and divorced in May 1996. Prince Andrew is an active member of the Royal Family. 
Prince Andrew's current full style is "His Royal Highness" "The Prince Andrew Albert Christian Edward, Duke of York, Earl of Inverness, Baron Killyleagh, Knight Companion of the Most Noble Order of the Garter, Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order, Personal Aide-de-Camp to The Queen."
He holds the following military appointments:
The Duke's personal coat of arms are those of the Royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom with a label for difference: "Quarterly (by quarters):
The whole differenced by a Label of three points Argent the central point charged with an "Anchor Azure". The anchor is in reference to his naval career.
The arms are identical to those his grandfather George VI used when still Duke of York.

</doc>
<doc id="131929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131929" title="Jinnah International Airport">
Jinnah International Airport

Jinnah International Airport previously Quaid-e-Azam International Airport (IATA: KHI, ICAO: OPKC) is Pakistan's largest international and domestic airport. It is located in Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan, and is also commonly known as the Jinnah Terminal.

</doc>
<doc id="131931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131931" title="Category:Buildings and structures in Pakistan">
Category:Buildings and structures in Pakistan


</doc>
<doc id="131932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131932" title="Category:Islands of Pakistan">
Category:Islands of Pakistan


</doc>
<doc id="131951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131951" title="Category:Cinema of Pakistan">
Category:Cinema of Pakistan


</doc>
<doc id="131952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131952" title="Category:Religion in Pakistan">
Category:Religion in Pakistan


</doc>
<doc id="131953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131953" title="Demi Lovato">
Demi Lovato


</doc>
<doc id="131954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131954" title="Category:Archaeological sites in Pakistan">
Category:Archaeological sites in Pakistan


</doc>
<doc id="131958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131958" title="Road (sports)">
Road (sports)

Road game (short for on the road), better known as an away game, is a reference to all cities and stadia/arenas/fields/venues where an athletic team plays games for which they are not the host. 

</doc>
<doc id="131960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131960" title="Parqués">
Parqués

Parqués is the Colombian board game. The game is similar to those in the Cross and Circle family (the category that includes Pachisi). The game is described as a "random thinking" one: the moves depend on the roll of the dice but players must consider possible strategies before executing their move. The objective of the game is to advance all the pieces to the end.
Parqués is the Colombian version of Pachisi, which originated in India. Although it could be argued that the game comes from Spain (exactly as a derivation from Parchís) due to the similarity between both games, there is wide agreement in Colombia that the game is completely Colombian. Parqués stems directly from Pachisi in the same way as Parcheesi, Parchís or Ludo. There is no proof to the claim that it stems from a country other than India. Moreover, no Parqués game is played in any other Latin American countries, neither the world.
Parqués is a mixture of the original Indian game and the influences of local Colombian culture. Other Colombian variations also exist.
In Colombia, people from all parts of the country play the game; it is very popular, played by both children and adults. Adults usually play the game by betting money on the first piece, on capturing pieces, or on winning the game, to make gameplay more interesting. There are boards for 4, 6 and 8 players. The boards usually contain pictures of soccer teams, singers, actors, or other cultural figures on the jail boxes.
The board itself is usually placed on a box covered by glass. The use of glass is to allow dice to be thrown more easily. There are versions of the board that are made from paper to make it portable.
Parqués is played with two dice; two to eight players can compete in the same match, depending on what type of game board is used. Each player is given four pieces and uses a specific colour. The most common colours are red, blue, yellow and green, usually arranged in that order. The game can also be played with fewer than four pieces
The jail box is where the pieces are placed at the beginning of the match and is where they go whenever an opponent "captures" them. The player throws the dice three times and attempts to get a pair in order to "free" the pieces. Rolling different pairs or "doubles" allows more pieces to be "freed": 
When the pieces are freed, they are placed in a special box next to the jail. This box is called "Home", or "Salida" (literally, "exit" in Spanish). 
If a player does not roll any pairs during his turn, he passes the dice to the player on his right. Otherwise, he frees the pieces and wins an extra turn to move them. He throws again and must move the values of the dice with his pieces. 
For example:
The player rolls 5-3
After he makes his move, he must pass his turn to the player on the right.
The pieces cannot advance backwards and they cannot be in any of the four boxes before their "Home" box. 
Each player can throw the dice once. There are some exceptions to this rule:
The player can capture an opponent’s piece by placing his own piece on the same box as the other player’s piece. However, he cannot capture a piece that is on a SAFE or a HOME box. Capturing in Colombia is called “eating” (“comer” in Spanish).
However, the player can capture pieces on his HOME box. When he frees any piece from jail, the pieces placed on his HOME are captured, that is, sent to its jail, losing all their advances.
The player can avoid capturing the piece. On that case, an opponent has to accuse him and the piece that did not capture must go to jail. If nobody notices, nothing happens.
There are three types of special boxes.

</doc>
<doc id="131962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131962" title="Home (sports)">
Home (sports)

In sports, home is the city and stadium, arena, or field where an athletic team plays games at their own venue, not visiting other teams.

</doc>
<doc id="131969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131969" title="Hurricane Hugo">
Hurricane Hugo

Hurricane Hugo was a powerful Category 5 hurricane that struck Guadeloupe, Montserrat, Puerto Rico, St. Croix, South Carolina and North Carolina in September of the 1989 Atlantic hurricane season, killing 82 people and leaving 100,000 homeless. At the time, Hurricane Hugo left the most damage for a hurricane in the Atlantic Ocean, although other storms have since caused more destruction. Hugo is currently the tenth costliest hurricane in the United States.
The name Hugo was retired. The name Humberto has been used every six years since 1995 instead.

</doc>
<doc id="131978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131978" title="Wichita (disambiguation)">
Wichita (disambiguation)

Wichita is the name of:

</doc>
<doc id="131983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131983" title="Jerry Lawler">
Jerry Lawler

Jerry Lawler (born November 29, 1949) is an American professional wrestler and wrestling commentator, known also by his nickname "The King". He has won more championship belts than any other wrestler.
Lawler's home city Memphis is where he is most famous and had the biggest moments of his career including a steel cage match against Randy Savage and his famous clashes with Andy Kaufman. He also had a memorable "Empty Arena Match" against Terry Funk and some classic matches facing Ric Flair.
Lawler joined WWE in 1993, feuding with Bret Hart.
Jerry became a commentator for WWF Raw and WWF SmackDown but changed to just Raw in the Brand Extension in 2002. In 2005, he entered a feud with Muhammed Hassan his first main wrestling rivalry, losing to Hassan at New Years Revolution with Jim Ross in his corner. He called the Royal Rumble 2006 match alongside SmackDown announcer Michael Cole. Lawler was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame at WrestleMania 23 in 2007. In the summer of 2007 he entered a feud with King Booker over who was the real 'King' which resulted in Booker beating down Jerry on an episode of Raw and an episode of Saturday Night's Main Event. At the Great American Bash 2007, Booker demanded that Jerry give him his crown but Jerry told him to get it himself which Booker refused. In June 2008, his long commentary team with Jim Ross came to an end when Ross was drafted to SmackDown and Michael Cole was drafted to Raw. The following week they were attacked by Kane. On the March 30, 2009 episode of Raw he lost to Chris Jericho after challenging him to a match. On the July 20th episode of Raw he managed to defeat Brian Kendrick. On the November 16th episode of Raw he was attacked by Sheamus. In June 2010, he was attacked by The Nexus during their invasion on Raw while Michael Cole escaped. He teamed with other Nexus victims in a losing effort against The Nexus. On the November 29th episode of Raw he challenged The Miz for the WWE Championship in a TLC match but lost when Michael Cole and Alex Riley attacked him. He won a battle royal to challenge Miz again at Elimination Chamber 2011 for the title but lost. The following night on Raw, Cole mocked him and his deceased mother resulting in a match between the two at WrestleMania 27. Jim Ross returned to show his support for Lawler and at the event lost to Cole via disqualification after guest ref Steve Austin pushed Cole. He and Ross then began feuding with Cole and his trainer, Jack Swagger. At Extreme Rules they lost to them in a Country Whipping match. At Over The Limit, Lawler beat Cole in a Kiss My Foot match. Had Cole won, Lawler would have been forced to give him his Hall of Fame ring. The following week on Raw, Cole apologised and they went back to being a commentary team. 
Jerry Lawler participated in the 2012 Royal Rumble match but was eliminated by Cody Rhodes after just 43 seconds. Fellow commentators, Michael Cole and Booker T also competed with Rhodes eliminating Booker and them both eliminating Cole. On the April 30th episode of Raw, Lawler competed in a Beat The Clock challenge but was beaten in the finals by Daniel Bryan who earned a WWE Championship match at Over The Limit. On the July 9th episode of Raw he was granted his rematch with Cole and won but the GM overuled the decision and Santino Marella revealed the Anonymous GM to be Hornswoggle. On July 23rd during Raw 1000, CM Punk attacked The Rock and Lawler proclaiméd that Punk had turned his back on the WWE Universe. The following week, Punk defended this and was involved in a confrontation with Lawler and Jerry apologised. On the August 30th episode of Raw after John Cena refused to say that Punk was the 'Best in the World' seeing as Punk had been WWE Champion for almost a year, Punk told Jerry to come in the ring and say it. When Jerry refused, Punk attacked him. On the September 3rd episode of Raw, Lawler asked Punk for an apology but after Punk mocked him, they faced off in a steel cage match that night with Punk winning and beating Jerry down after the match until John Cena made the save. The following week on Raw, Jerry teamed with Randy Orton to face CM Punk and Dolph Ziggler and won. However, later in the show Jerry suffered a legit heart attack on commentary during a tag team match between Kane and Daniel Bryan and Darren Young and Titus O'Neill. He was taken to hospital and his life was saved. He returned to WWE on the November 12th episode of Raw but his return was interrupted by CM Punk and Paul Heyman who mocked his heart attack.
At Wrestlemania XXVII, he faced Michael Cole with "Stone Cold" Steve Austin as the special guest referee. Lawler won the match by submission but the anonymous Raw General Manager reversed the decision because Stone Cole had pushed Cole in the match earlier on which made Cole the victor.
Lawler was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2007 by William Shatner.

</doc>
<doc id="131984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131984" title="We Rock (Camp Rock song)">
We Rock (Camp Rock song)

We Rock is a song off the soundtrack of Camp Rock. The song also featured on the Disney Channel Original Movie "Camp Rock". "We Rock is also the first track on the "Camp Rock Soundtrack". The song was sung by Demi Lavoto and other cast members of the movie "Camp Rock". The song was released in May 2008. The song was also the on the pre-release version of the Soundtrack.

</doc>
<doc id="131986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131986" title="Turkish alphabet">
Turkish alphabet

The Turkish alphabet is used for writing, speaking and reading in Turkish. This alphabet is modified from the Latin alphabet.
There are 29 letters in the Turkish alphabet of Turkey. The English letters, "Q", "W" and "X" are not in Turkish alphabet. Seven Turkish letters (Ç, Ğ, I, İ, Ö, Ş, and Ü) are in the Turkish alphabet.
There are 8 vowels in Turkish alphabet : A,E,I,İ,O,Ö,U,Ü
There are 21 consonants in Turkish alphabet : B, C, Ç, D, F, G, Ğ, H, J, K, L, M, N, P, R, S, Ş, T, V, Y, Z.

</doc>
<doc id="131988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131988" title="This Is Me">
This Is Me

"This Is Me" is a single by Demi Lovato on "The Camp Rock Soundtrack". The song was released the same day the soundtrack appeared in stores. The song was also remixed on the pre-release CD of "Camp Rock" and the "Camp Rock Soundtrack" pre-release version. 
This is the first song that Demi Lovato's character, Mitchie Torres, sang in "Camp Rock" with Joe Jonas's character, Shane Gray. Mitchie wrote the song in the beginning of the movie. She was later heard (in an acoustic version on piano), but not seen, by Shane. He started to search for the girl behind the amazing voice. After most people performed already in the "Final Jam" session, Mitchie sang the song (original version), and Shane saw her and sang part of the song he wrote, "Gotta Find You". The two songs are combined to make the original version, as featured on the Camp Rock soundtrack CD.

</doc>
<doc id="131991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131991" title="Play My Music">
Play My Music

"Play My Music" is a 2008 song performed and recorded by The Jonas Brothers. The song was featured on the Disney Channel Original Movie "Camp Rock". "Play My Music" is also on the original version of The Camp Rock Soundtrack and the pre-release album ("Camp Rock Soundtrack (Pre-release)").

</doc>
<doc id="132011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132011" title="Michael">
Michael

Michael is a male Hebrew name, popular in English. It is from the angel Michael in the Bible. (See for example Book of Revelation 12:7) Michael is also popular in English speaking countries, and in modified forms, many other countries.

</doc>
<doc id="132023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132023" title="Panda (disambiguation)">
Panda (disambiguation)

Panda may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="132028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132028" title="Rivaldo">
Rivaldo

Rivaldo (born 19 April 1972) is a Brazilian football player as a midfielder. He plays for Bunyodkor.
156||56||||||||||156||56
198||107||34||22||53||31||285||160
22||5||colspan="2"|-||13||2||35||7
99||44||colspan="2"|-||25||6||124||50
6||2||0||0||4||2||10||4
481||214||34||22||95||41||610||277
!Total||74||34

</doc>
<doc id="132029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132029" title="Peter Reid">
Peter Reid

Peter Reid is a football manager. He manages for Plymouth Argyle.
529||33
529||33
!Total||13||0

</doc>
<doc id="132030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132030" title="Mehdi Mahdavikia">
Mehdi Mahdavikia

Mehdi Mahdavikia (born 24 July 1977) is an Iranian football player. He plays for Steel Azin and Iran national team.
54||18||2||2||11||4||67||24
252||29||4||1||19||0||275||30
306||47||6||3||30||4||342||54
!Total||111||13

</doc>
<doc id="132031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132031" title="Ali Karimi">
Ali Karimi

Ali Karimi (born 8 November 1978) is an Iranian football player. He plays for Steel Azin and Iran national team.
64||16||29||0||19||7||112||23
60||57||||||||||60||57
33||3||2||0||5||1||40||4
27||5||2||0||colspan="2"|-||29||5
184||81||33||0||24||8||241||89
!Total||111||36

</doc>
<doc id="132032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132032" title="Ray Harford">
Ray Harford

Raymond Thomas (Ray) Harford (1 June 1945 — 9 August 2003) is a former English football player.

</doc>
<doc id="132044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132044" title="John Welsh">
John Welsh

John Welsh is a football player. He plays for Hull City.
54||3||1||0||7||0||2||0||64||3
54||3||1||0||7||0||2||0||64||3

</doc>
<doc id="132045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132045" title="José Luis Chilavert">
José Luis Chilavert

José Luis Chilavert (born 27 July 1965) is a former Paraguayan football player. He has played for Paraguay national team.
394||35
79||0
50||0
14||4
537||39
!Total||74||8

</doc>
<doc id="132046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132046" title="Erik Nevland">
Erik Nevland

Erik Nevland is a football player. He plays for Fulham and Norway national team.
135||62
8||2
4||0
88||43
235||107
!Total||4||0

</doc>
<doc id="132047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132047" title="Bill Shankly">
Bill Shankly

Bill Shankly is a former football player. He has played for Scotland national team.
He was brought up in the mining village of Glenbuck. His dad was a miner, but Bill would not go down the mine so he went to football training instead. Glenbuck Cherrypickers were the start of his playing job. He then went to Scotland for a year (1938-1939). After that he went to Preston North End.

</doc>
<doc id="132048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132048" title="Billy McNeill">
Billy McNeill

Billy McNeill is a former football player. He has played for Celtic and Scotland national team.
486||22||94||7||137||4||69||3||786||36
486||22||94||7||137||4||69||3||786||36
!Total||29||3

</doc>
<doc id="132059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132059" title="Edmundo Alves de Souza Neto">
Edmundo Alves de Souza Neto

Edmundo (born 2 April, 1971) is a Brazilian football player. He has played for the Brazil national team.
316||154||||||||||316||154
54||16||||||||||54||16
31||18||3||2||8||5||42||25
401||188||3||2||8||5||412||195
!Total||37||10

</doc>
<doc id="132061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132061" title="Adrian Mutu">
Adrian Mutu

Adrian Mutu (born 8 January 1979) is a Romanian football player. He plays for Fiorentina and the Romania national team.
74||35||colspan="2"|-||9||7||83||42
209||86||10||3||25||13||244||102
27||6||4||3||7||1||38||10
310||125||14||6||42||22||366||153
!Total||67||30

</doc>
<doc id="132062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132062" title="David Moyes">
David Moyes

David Moyes is a Scottish footballer turned manager. He was the manager of Everton until half way into 2013, when he moved to Manchester United to become manager there. He left the club on 22 April 14 because Manchester United were not winning enough games. 

</doc>
<doc id="132063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132063" title="Gérard Houllier">
Gérard Houllier

Gérard Houllier (born 3 September 1947) is a French football manager and former player.

</doc>
<doc id="132083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132083" title="Waggle dance">
Waggle dance

The waggle dance is a special 'figure-of-eight' dance that is done by the honey bee in its hive. By this, a worker tells the others where it has found nectar. This was shown by the Austrian ethologist Karl von Frisch.
The dance is a type of communication for bees. It is done to give other bees information about the direction and distance to flowers that have nectar or pollen, or both. It is also used to tell the bees where water can be found.
The dance is used for bees to get others to help them collect resources for the hive. It used to be thought that bees have two distinct "recruitment" dances. There were the "round dances" and waggle dances. Round dances were thought to be used for things that were close by and wiggle dances were for things farther away. It is now known that a round dance is only a waggle dance with a very short "waggle run" (see below). 
A waggle dance is made up of one to 100 or more circuits. Each circuit has two phases. These phases are the waggle phase and the return phase. When a bee returns to the hive after finding a good food source, it performs the dance. The bee will run through a small wave-like pattern (a waggle run or waggle phase). After this, it will turn to the right and circle back to the starting point (the return phase). It will then do another waggle run and then turn to the left and circle back to the beginning. The waggle phase of the dance is the most notable and informative part of the dance. 
The direction and duration of waggle runs show the direction and distance to flowers. Flowers that are located directly in line with the sun are shown by waggle runs in an upward direction on the vertical combs. If the flowers are at an angle to the right or left of the sun, the waggle run is done at the same angle to the upward direction. The distance between hive and flowers is shown in the duration of the waggle runs. The farther the flowers are from the hive, the longer the waggle phase. For every 100 meters the flowers are distant from the hive, the waggle phase lasts about 75 milliseconds.
People study the swarm intelligence of social insects and animals such as fish, birds, and ants. Recently, there has been research on using bee waggle dance behavior for fault-tolerant routing. From the abstract of Wedde, Farooq, and Zhang (2004)
Another technique based on bees is called bee colony optimization. It is used help Internet servers communicate better.

</doc>
<doc id="132087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132087" title="Category:French football clubs">
Category:French football clubs


</doc>
<doc id="132088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132088" title="Category:Football in France">
Category:Football in France


</doc>
<doc id="132090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132090" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Black cat">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Black cat

" () has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"
"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Monday, 6 October 2008 at 10:46 am, although it may be closed quicker due to .<br><br>

</doc>
<doc id="132092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132092" title="Jim McLean">
Jim McLean

James (Jim) Yuille McLean (born 1937) is a former Scottish football player and manager. He is best known for being the manager of Dundee United F.C. for 22 years between 1971 and 1993. While he was at Dundee United, the team won the 1982/83 Scottish Football League Championship and made it to many cup finals including the 1987 UEFA Cup Final against IFK Gothenburg.

</doc>
<doc id="132101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132101" title="German Grand Prix">
German Grand Prix

Active drivers are in bold.
"Embolded constructors are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season."
Active constructors are in bold.

</doc>
<doc id="132102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132102" title="Hockenheimring">
Hockenheimring

The Hockenheimring Baden-Württemberg is an automobile racing track near the town of Hockenheim in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. Amongst other motor racing events, it holds the annual Formula One German Grand Prix in turns with the Nürburgring. Being in the Rhine valley, the circuit is almost completely flat, with very little change in height.

</doc>
<doc id="132106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132106" title="Singapore Grand Prix">
Singapore Grand Prix

The Singapore Grand Prix is a Formula One race staged in the Marina Bay area of Singapore, the race is Formula One's first night race. The first race was won by Spanish driver Fernando Alonso of the Renault F1 team on 28 September 2008. {The next race is on the 18 Sep 16)
Active drivers are in bold
"Event that were not part of the Formula One World Championship have a" pink background.
No team has won the grand prix more than once.
"Event that were not part of the Formula One World Championship have a" pink background.

</doc>
<doc id="132107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132107" title="Category:Events in Singapore">
Category:Events in Singapore


</doc>
<doc id="132110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132110" title="Morrissey">
Morrissey

Steven Patrick Morrissey (born 22 May 1959), known by the stage name of Morrissey from his surname, is an English musician, singer and songwriter. He helped form and sang lead for the English band The Smiths from 1982 to 1987. After the band's break up he went on to become a successful solo artist. Morrissey has had many Top 10 hits. In 2013 Morrissey released his autobiography. Morrissey is known for his support of animal rights.
Born at Park Hospital in Davyhulme, Morrissey grew up as a Catholic as his parents were Irish Catholic immigrants. His parents had emigrated to England just before Morrissey's birth and, along with his only sibling (elder sister Jackie) they created a new life for themselves within the Manchester district of Hulme.
The Smiths were formed in early 1982 by Steven Morrissey and John Maher, a guitarist and songwriter, Maher later changed his surname to Marr to avoid confusion with the Buzzcocks drummer. During the five years of The Smiths Marr and Morrissey produced four studio albums, one live album as well as nineteen singles, along with the two other band members, bass player Andy Rourke and drummer Mike Joyce. 
Each of their four albums The Smiths, Meat Is Murder, The Queen Is Dead and Strangeways, Here We Come charted in the top two of the UK Albums Chart, with Meat Is Murder charting at number one. Their live album Rank also peaked at number two in the album charts. To date seven compilation albums have been produced with an eighth due for release in November of this year.
Following the split of The Smiths, Morrissey has produced and released nine studio albums under five different music labels. His ninth album, Years of Refusal, was released on 16 February 2009. The album got good reviews from music critics.
Morrissey has been vegetarian since he was 11 years old.
Morrissey said in a statement posted on his website in October 2013, "Unfortunately, I am not homosexual. In technical fact, I am humasexual. I am attracted to humans. But, of course ... not many".
In early 2013, Morrissey was diagnosed with a bleeding ulcer. In March 2013, he had double pneumonia. In June 2014, he had a respiratory infection. In October 2014, he said that he has had treatment for cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="132113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132113" title="Hernando de Soto (economist)">
Hernando de Soto (economist)

Hernando de Soto (born June 2, 1941 in Lima) is an economist from Peru. He has become known for what he wrote and said on the Informal economy and property rights.
In his books, de Soto says that an economy cannot go past the stage of a subsistence economy if there is not a formal system of owning property (land or goods). Developing countries have "informal ownership" since no formal certificate says that land or goods really belong to a certain person.
De Soto thinks the capitalist economies of the United States developed because they had a clear system of owning property. For the United States, the formal system of owning property came from it being a colony of England. Japan's formal system came after the Second World War.
Because formal ownership systems do not exist in developing countries, the poor people in these nations cannot develop. They cannot use their land as a guarantee to the bank to get money to build something, for example. De Soto argues that this is the basis for enterpreneurship. In much of the developing world,famers therefore are left with subsistence agriculture. As such, he argues that this informal ownership should be made formal, for example by giving squatters in shanty towns land titles to the land they now live on.
De Soto also argues that government bureaucracy greatly hinders the ability for people to hold private property, for example:
Thus entrepreneurs are driven to form "underground" economies, but de Soto points out the serious disadvantages:
Thomas Sowell writes:

</doc>
<doc id="132114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132114" title="Belgian Grand Prix">
Belgian Grand Prix

The Belgian Grand Prix is an motor race, part of the Formula One World Championship.
The first national race of Belgium was held in 1925 at the Spa region's race course, an area of the country that had been associated with motor sport since the very early years of racing before the turn of the century. To accommodate Grand Prix racing, the Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps race course was built in 1921 but it was only used for motorcycle racing until 1924. After the 1923 success of the new 24 hours of Le Mans in France, the Spa 24 Hours, a similar 24 hour endurance race, was run at the Spa track.
Active drivers are in bold.
Active constructors are in bold.

</doc>
<doc id="132116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132116" title="Hernando de Soto">
Hernando de Soto

Hernando de Soto (Jerez de los Caballeros, Badajoz, Spain, c.1496/1497–May 21, 1542) was a Spanish explorer and conquistador. He lead the first European expedition deep into the territory of the modern-day United States and was probably the first European to discover the Mississippi River.
The expedition was looking for gold and for a way to China. They explored the southern United States. De Soto died in 1542 on the banks of the Mississippi River at present-day Lake Village, Arkansas. Hernando de Soto was born to parents who were hidalgos in Extremadura, a region of poverty and hardship from which many young people looked for ways to seek their fortune elsewhere. His parents were poor, too. Two towns, Badajoz and Jerez de los Caballeros, claim to be his birthplace. All that is known with certainty is that he spent time as a child at both places. In his will, he wanted to be buried at Jerez de los Caballeros, where other members of his family were also buried. The age of the Conquerors came on the heels of the Spanish reconquest of the Iberian peninsula from Islamic forces. Spain and Portugal were filled with young men begging for a chance to find military fame after the Moors were defeated. With discovery of new lands to the West (which seemed at the time to be far East Asia), the whispers of glory and wealth were too compelling for the poor.
De Soto sailed to the New World in 1514 with the first Governor of Panama, Pedrarias Dávila. Brave leadership, unwavering loyalty, and clever schemes for the extortion of native villages for their captured chiefs, became De Soto's hallmark during the Conquest of Central America. He gained fame as an excellent horseman, fighter, and tactician, but was notorious for the extreme brutality with which he wielded these gifts.
During that time, Juan Ponce de León, who discovered Florida, Vasco Núñez de Balboa, who discovered the Pacific (he called it the "South Sea" below Panama), and Ferdinand Magellan, who first sailed that ocean to the Orient, profoundly influenced De Soto's ambitions.

</doc>
<doc id="132122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132122" title="Circuit de Monaco">
Circuit de Monaco

Circuit de Monaco is the name given to a motor racing circuit laid out on the city streets of Monte Carlo and La Condamine around the harbor of the principality of Monaco. It is commonly referred to as "Monte Carlo" because it is largely inside the Monte Carlo neighborhood of Monaco.

</doc>
<doc id="132123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132123" title="Dutch Grand Prix">
Dutch Grand Prix

The Dutch Grand Prix was a Formula One motor race held at Circuit Zandvoort, from 1952 to 1985.
In 1985 the company that ran the circuit (CENAV) went out of business. This marked the end of Circuit Zandvoort. The municipality of Zandvoort took over ownership. Part of the grounds and track were sold in 1987 to Vendorado, a Bungalow park developer.
"Events that were not part of the Formula One World Championship have a" pink background.
"Events that were not part of the Formula One World Championship have a" pink background.
"Active constructors are in bold".
"Events that were not part of the Formula One World Championship have a" pink background.

</doc>
<doc id="132124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132124" title="United States Grand Prix">
United States Grand Prix

The United States Grand Prix is a motor race which has been run on and off since 1908, when it was known as the "American Grand Prize". The race later became part of the Formula One World Championship. From 2000 to 2007, the race was held at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway road course. the United States Grand Prix was dropped from the Formula One calendar starting in 2008.
In 2010, the FIA announced that the race would return to the United States at a new circuit near Austin, Texas. The new track, known as the Circuit of the Americas, hosted its first U.S. Grand Prix in .
Formula One returned to the United States in . The race was held at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. A road course was built for the Formula one race. Part of the oval track was used, including the main straightaway and turn 4. The remaining part of the road course was built in the infield portion of the track. Even thought most American races run counter-clockwise, including the Indianapolis 500, the Formula One course was built to run clockwise. 
A new race track is being built in the Austin area. This track is being designed and built for the use of Formula One racing and MotoGP, and will also host a round of V8 Supercars, an Australia-based touring car racing series. The track will be located southeast of Austin next to state highway 130. The track will be located on a 900 acre site. The location used to known as the Wandering Creek property.
"Events which were not part of the Formula One World Championship are indicated by a pink background."
Notes:

</doc>
<doc id="132125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132125" title="Spanish Grand Prix">
Spanish Grand Prix

"Only races that are a part of the Formula One World Championship are included."
Active drivers are in bold.
"Only races that are a part of the Formula One World Championship are included."
Active constructors are in bold.

</doc>
