<doc id="63107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63107" title="Energy conservation">
Energy conservation

Energy conservation means to reduce the quantity of energy that is used for different purposes. This practice may result in increase of financial capital, environmental value, national and personal security, and human comfort.
Individuals and organizations that are direct consumers of energy may want to conserve energy in order to reduce energy costs and promote economic, political and environmental sustainability. Industrial and commercial users may want to increase efficiency and thus maximize profit.
On a larger scale, energy conservation is an important element of energy policy. In general, energy conservation reduces the energy consumption and energy demand per capita. This reduces the rise in energy costs, and can reduce the need for new power plants, and energy imports. The reduced energy demand can provide more flexibility in choosing the most preferred methods of energy production.
By reducing emissions, energy conservation is an important method to prevent climate change. Energy conservation makes it easier to replace non-renewable resources with renewable energy. Energy conservation is often the most economical solution to energy shortages.
The U.S. is currently the largest consumer of energy, although at current levels of growth, it is possible that in the future China could become the leading energy consumer. The U.S. Department of Energy categorizes national energy use in four broad sectors: transportation, residential, commercial, and industrial.
Energy usage in the transportation and residential sectors (about half of U.S. energy consumption) is largely controlled by individual domestic consumers. Commercial and industrial energy usage are controlled by businesses. National energy policy has a significant effect on energy usage across all four sectors.
The transportation sector includes all vehicles used for personal or freight transportation. Of the energy used in this sector, approximately 65% is consumed by gasoline-powered vehicles, primarily personally owned. Diesel-powered transport (trains, merchant ships, heavy trucks, etc.) consumes about 20%, and air traffic consumes most of the remaining 15%.
The oil supply crises of the 1970s spurred the creation, in 1975, of the federal Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) program, which required auto manufacturers to meet progressively higher fleet fuel economy targets. The next decade saw dramatic improvements in fuel economy, mostly the result of reductions in vehicle size and weight. These gains eroded somewhat after 1990 due to the growing popularity of sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks and minivans, which fall under the more lenient "light truck" CAFE standard. 
In addition to the CAFE program, the U.S. government has tried to encourage better vehicle efficiency through tax policy. Since 2002, taxpayers have been eligible for income tax credits for gas/electric hybrid vehicles. A "gas-guzzler" tax has been assessed on manufacturers since 1978 for cars with exceptionally poor fuel economy. While this tax remains in effect, it currently generates very little revenue as overall fuel economy has improved.
Another focus in gasoline conservation is reducing the number of miles driven. An estimated 40% of American automobile use is associated with daily commuting. Many urban areas offer subsidized public transportation to reduce commuting traffic, and encourage carpooling by providing designated high-occupancy vehicle lanes and lower tolls for cars with multiple riders.
In recent years telecommuting has also become a viable alternative to commuting for some jobs, but as of 2003 only 3.5% of workers were telecommuters. Ironically, hundreds of thousands of American and European workers have been replaced by workers in Asia who telecommute from thousands of miles away.
A vehicle's gas mileage normally decreases rapidly at speeds above 55 miles per hour. A car or truck moving at 55 miles an hour can get about 15 percent better fuel economy than the same car going 65 mph. According to the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), as a rule of thumb, each 5 mph you drive over 60 mph is similar to paying an additional $0.21 per gallon for gas (at $3.00 per gallon).
The residential sector refers to all private residences, including single-family homes, apartments, manufactured homes and dormitories. Energy use in this sector varies significantly across the country, due to regional climate differences and different regulation. On average, about half of the energy used in the U.S. homes is expended on space conditioning (i.e. heating and cooling). 
The efficiency of furnaces and air conditioners has increased steadily since the energy crises of the 1970s. The 1987 National Appliance Energy Conservation Act authorized the Department of Energy to set minimum efficiency standards for space conditioning equipment and other appliances each year, based on what is "technologically feasible and economically justified". 
Despite technological improvements, many American lifestyle changes have put higher demands on heating and cooling resources. The average size of homes built in the United States has increased significantly, from 1500 ft² in 1970 to 2300 ft² in 2005. The single-person household has become more common, as has central air conditioning: 23% of households had central air conditioning in 1978, that figure rose to 55% by 2001. 
As a cheaper alternative to the purchase of a new furnace or air conditioner, most public utilities encourage smaller changes the consumer can make to lessen space conditioning usage. Consumers have also been asked to adopt a wider indoor temperature range (e.g. 65 °F in the winter, 80 °F in the summer).
Energy usage in some homes may vary widely from these averages. In most residences no single appliance dominates, and any conservation efforts must be directed to numerous areas in order to achieve substantial energy savings. However, Ground Source Heat Pump systems are the more energy efficient, environmentally clean, and cost-effective space conditioning systems available (Environmental Protection Agency), and can achieve reductions in energy consumptions of up to 70%.
Current best practices in building design and construction result in homes that are much more energy conserving than average new homes. See Passive house, Superinsulation, Self-sufficient homes, Zero_energy_building, Earthship, Straw-bale construction, MIT Design Advisor, Energy Conservation Code for Indian Commercial Buildings.
Smart ways to construct homes such that minimal resources are used to cooling and heating the house in summer and winter respectively can significantly reduce energy costs!
The commercial sector consists of retail stores, offices (business and government), restaurants, schools and other workplaces. Energy in this sector has the same basic end uses as the residential sector, in slightly different proportions. Space conditioning is again the single biggest consumption area, but it represents only about 30% of the energy use of commercial buildings. Lighting, at 25%, plays a much larger role than it does in the residential sector. Lighting is also generally the most wasteful component of commercial use. A number of case studies indicate that more efficient lighting and elimination of over-illumination can reduce lighting energy by approximately fifty percent in many commercial buildings.
Commercial buildings can greatly increase energy efficiency by thoughtful design, with today's building stock being very poor examples of the potential of systematic (not expensive) energy efficient design (Steffy, 1997). Commercial buildings often have professional management, allowing centralized control and coordination of energy conservation efforts. 
Solar heat loading through standard window designs usually leads to high demand for air conditioning in summer months. An example of building design overcoming this excessive heat loading is the Dakin Building in Brisbane, California, where fenestration was designed to achieve an angle with respect to sun incidence to allow maximum reflection of solar heat; this design also assisted in reducing interior over-illumination to enhance worker efficiency and comfort.
The industrial sector represents all production and processing of goods, including manufacturing, construction, farming, water management and mining. Increasing costs have forced energy-intensive industries to make substantial efficiency improvements in the past 30 years. For example, the energy used to produce steel and paper products has been cut 40% in that time frame, while petroleum/aluminum refining and cement production have reduced their usage by about 25%. These reductions are largely the result of recycling waste material and the use of cogeneration equipment for electricity and heating.
The energy required for delivery and treatment of fresh water often constitutes a significant percentage of a region's electricity and natural gas usage (an estimated 20% of California's total energy use is water-related.) In light of this, some local governments have worked toward a more integrated approach to energy and water conservation efforts. 
Unlike the other sectors, total energy use in the industrial sector has declined in the last decade. While this is partly due to conservation efforts, it's also a reflection of the growing trend for U.S. companies to move manufacturing operations offshore.
The usage of telecommuting by major corporations is a significant opportunity to conserve energy, as many Americans now work in service jobs that enable them to work from home instead of commuting to work each day. 

</doc>
<doc id="63108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63108" title="Cogeneration">
Cogeneration

Cogeneration (also combined heat and power, CHP) is the use of a heat engine or a power station to make both electricity and useful heat at the same time.
Conventional power plants emit the heat created as a byproduct of electricity generation into the environment through cooling towers, as flue gas, or by other means. Combined heat and power captures the byproduct heat for domestic or industrial heating purposes, either very close to the plant, or - especially in Scandinavia and eastern Europe - for distribution through pipes to heat local housing. 
Byproduct heat at moderate temperatures (100 to 180°C) can also be used in absorption chillers for cooling. A plant producing electricity, heat and cold is sometimes called regeneration or more generally: polygene ration plant. 
Cogeneration is a thermodynamically efficient use of fuel. In separate production of electricity some energy is lost as waste heat, but in cogeneration this energy performs useful work (see energy).
Thermal power plants (including those that use fissile elements or burn coal, petroleum, or natural gas), and heat engines in general, do not convert all of their available energy into electricity. In most heat engines, a bit more than half is wasted as excess heat (see: Second law of thermodynamics). By capturing the excess heat, CHP uses heat that would be wasted in a conventional power plant, potentially reaching an efficiency of up to 70%, compared with at most 40% for the conventional plants. This means that less fuel needs to be consumed to produce the same amount of useful energy. Also, less pollution is produced for a given economic benefit.
An exact match between the heat and electricity needs rarely exists. A CHP plant can either meet the need for heat ("heat driven operation") or be run as a power plant with some use of its waste heat.
CHP is most efficient when the heat can be used on site or very close to it. Overall efficiency is reduced when the heat must be transported over longer distances. This requires heavily insulated pipes, which are expensive and inefficient; whereas electricity can be transmitted along a comparatively simple wire, and over much longer distances for the same energy loss.
A car motor becomes a CHP plant in winter, when the reject heat is useful for warming the interior of the vehicle. This example scores the point that deployment of CHP depends on heat uses in the neighbourhood of the heat engine.
Cogeneration plants are commonly found in district heating systems of big towns, hospitals, prisons, oil refineries, paper mills, wastewater treatment plants, thermal enhanced oil recovery wells and industrial plants with large heating needs. 

</doc>
<doc id="63109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63109" title="Quakenbrück">
Quakenbrück

Quakenbrück is a small town in Lower Saxony. It has about 13,000 inhabitants.

</doc>
<doc id="63110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63110" title="Dew point">
Dew point

The dew point is the temperature where water vapour condenses into liquid water.
All air holds different amounts of water vapour. The dew point shows the amount of moisture in the air. The higher the dew point is, the higher the level of moisture in the air at a given temperature. The dew point of humid air will be higher than the dew point of dry air.
Condensation of water vapour starts when the temperature of air is lowered to its dew point and beyond. The dew point, like other measures of humidity, can be found from measurement taken by a hygrometer.

</doc>
<doc id="63112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63112" title="Podgorica">
Podgorica

Podgorica is the capital of Montenegro. It has about 135,000 inhabitants.

</doc>
<doc id="63113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63113" title="Región Autónoma del Atlántico Sur">
Región Autónoma del Atlántico Sur

The Región Autónoma del Atlántico Sur is an independent part of Nicaragua. It is often simply known as RAAS. Its capital is Bluefields. It was made when new regions were formed in Nicaragua in 1989. The old region was turned into Atlántico Sur and Atlántico Norte. The capital of Atlántico Norte is Puerto Cabezas. There is also a popular tourist place called Corn Island, which is about 45 km from the capital Bluefields

</doc>
<doc id="63117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63117" title="Región Autónoma del Atlántico Norte">
Región Autónoma del Atlántico Norte

Región Autónoma del Atlántico Norte is an autonomous region of Nicaragua. It was created in 1989. Its capital is Puerto Cabezas. Often the name is shotened to RAAN.

</doc>
<doc id="63121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63121" title="Compressor">
Compressor

Compressor could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="63122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63122" title="Gas compressor">
Gas compressor

A gas compressor is a mechanical device that increases the pressure of a gas by reducing its volume. Compression of a gas naturally increases its temperature. 
Compressors are similar to pumps: both increase the pressure on a fluid and both can transport the fluid through a pipe. As gases are compressible, the compressor also reduces the volume of a gas. Liquids are relatively incompressible, so the main action of a pump is to transport liquids.
There are many different types of gas compressors. The two primary categories are:
The more important types in each of the four sub-categories are discussed below.
Centrifugal compressors use a vaned rotating disk or impeller in a shaped housing to force the gas to the rim of the impeller, increasing the velocity of the gas. A diffuser (divergent duct) section converts the velocity energy to pressure energy. They are primarily used for continuous, stationary service in industries such as oil refineries, chemical and petrochemical plants and natural gas processing plants. Their application can be from 100 hp (75 kW) to thousands of horsepower. With multiple staging, they can achieve extremely high output pressures greater than 10,000 psi (69 MPa). 
Many large snow-making operations (like a ski resort) use this type of compressor. They are also used in internal combustion engines as superchargers and turbochargers. Centrifugal compressors are used in small gas turbine engines or as the final compression stage of medium sized gas turbines.
Diagonal or mixed-flow compressors are similar to centrifugal compressors, but have a radial and axial velocity component at the exit from the rotor. The diffuser is often used to turn diagonal flow to the axial direction. The diagonal compressor has a lower diameter diffuser than the equivalent centrifugal compressor.
Axial-flow compressors use a series of fan-like rotating rotor blades to progressively compress the gasflow. Stationary stator vanes, located downstream of each rotor, redirect the flow onto the next set of rotor blades. The area of the gas passage diminishes through the compressor to maintain a roughly constant axial Mach number. Axial-flow compressors are normally used in high flow applications, such as medium to large gas turbine engines. They are almost always multi-staged. Beyond about 4:1 design pressure ratio, variable geometry is often used to improve operation.
Reciprocating compressors use pistons driven by a crankshaft. They can be either stationary or portable, can be single or multi-staged, and can be driven by electric motors or internal combustion engines. Small reciprocating compressors from 5 to 30 horsepower (hp) are commonly seen in automotive applications and are typically for intermittent duty. Larger reciprocating compressors up to 1000 hp are still commonly found in large industrial applications, but their numbers are declining as they are replaced by various other types of compressors. Discharge pressures can range from low pressure to very high pressure (>5000 psi or 35 MPa). In certain applications, such as air compression, multi-stage double-acting compressors are said to be the most efficient compressors available, and are typically larger, noisier, and more costly than comparable rotary units.
Rotary screw compressors use two meshed rotating positive-displacement helical screws to force the gas into a smaller space. These are usually used for continuous operation in commercial and industrial applications and may be either stationary or portable. Their application can be from 3 hp (2.24 kW) to over 500 hp (375 kW) and from low pressure to very high pressure (>1200 psi or 8.3 MPa). They are commonly seen with roadside repair crews powering air-tools. This type is also used for many automobile engine superchargers because it is easily matched to the induction capacity of a piston engine.
A scroll compressor, also known as scroll pump and scroll vacuum pump, uses two interleaved spiral-like vanes to pump or compress fluids such as liquids and gases. The vane geometry may be involute, archimedean spiral, or hybrid curves. They operate more smoothly, quietly, and reliably than other types of compressors.
Often, one of the scrolls is fixed, while the other orbits eccentrically without rotating, thereby trapping and pumping or compressing pockets of fluid between the scrolls.
A diaphragm compressor (also known as a membrane compressor) is a variant of the conventional reciprocating compressor. The compression of gas occurs by the movement of a flexible membrane, instead of an intake element. The back and forth movement of the membrane is driven by a rod and a crankshaft mechanism. Only the membrane and the compressor box come in touch with the gas being compressed.
Diaphragm compressors are used for hydrogen and compressed natural gas (CNG) as well as in a number of other applications.
Air compressors sold to and used by the general public are often attached on top of a tank for holding the pressurized air. Oil-lubricated and oil-free compressors are available. Oil-free compressors are desirable because without a properly designed separator, oil can make its way into the air stream. For some purposes, for example as a diving air compressor, even a little oil in the air stream may be unacceptable.
Charles's law says "when a gas is compressed, temperature is raised". There are three possible relationships between temperature and pressure in a volume of gas undergoing compression:
Since compression generates heat, the compressed gas is to be cooled between stages making the compression less adiabatic and more isothermal. The inter-stage coolers cause condensation meaning water separators with drain valves are present. The compressor flywheel may drive a cooling fan.
For instance in a typical diving compressor, the air is compressed in three stages. If each stage has a compression ratio of 7 to 1, the compressor can output 343 times atmospheric pressure (7 x 7 x 7 = 343 Atmospheres).
Gas compressors are used in various applications where either higher pressures or lower volumes of gas are needed: 

</doc>
<doc id="63123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63123" title="Cash">
Cash

In bookkeeping and finance, "cash" can also refer to checks, money orders, cashier's checks, bank drafts, or traveler's checks. In all these forms, the term indicates the most liquid form of assets, which have a fixed value and can be easily converted to currency: "ready money". For example, wages or salaries paid as "cash" (as opposed to, e.g., stock options) would in most countries normally be paid with checks or direct bank deposits, which are trivially convertible to currency.

</doc>
<doc id="63124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63124" title="Hemer">
Hemer

Hemer is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 35,000 people live there.

</doc>
<doc id="63127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63127" title="Heating">
Heating

Heating is making something warm. It could mean:
HVACR "R" stand for Refrigeration
Heating devices, or systems:

</doc>
<doc id="63129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63129" title="Heat engine">
Heat engine

In engineering and thermodynamics, a heat engine converts heat energy to mechanical work by using the temperature difference between a hot "source" and a cold "sink". Heat is transferred from the source, through the "working body" of the engine, to the "sink", and in this process some of the heat changes into work by using the qualities of the gas or liquid inside the engine.
There are many kinds of Heat engines. Each has a thermodynamic cycle. Heat engines are often named after the thermodynamic cycle they use, like the Carnot cycle. They often pick up everyday names, such as gasoline/petrol, turbine, or steam engines.
Some heat engines may generate heat inside the engine itself. Others may absorb heat from an external source. Heat engines can be open to the air or sealed and closed off to the outside (This is called an Open or Closed cycle).
When scientists study heat engines they come up with ideas for engines that cannot actually be built . These are called ideal engines or cycles. Real heat engines are often confused with the ideal engines or cycles they attempt to mimic.
Typically when describing the physical device the term 'engine' is used. When describing the ideal the term 'cycle' is used.
One could say that the thermodynamic cycle is an ideal case of the mechanical engine. One could equally say that the model does not quite perfectly match the mechanical engine. However, much benefit is gained from the simplified models, and ideal cases they may represent.
In general terms, the larger the difference in temperature between the hot source and the cold sink, the more efficient the cycle or engine. On Earth, the cold side of any heat engine is limited to the air temperature of the place where the engine is.
Most efforts to improve the efficiency of heat engines goes into increasing the temperature of the heat source, but at very high temperatures the metal of the engine begins to go soft.
The efficiency of various heat engines proposed or used today ranges from 3 percent (97 percent waste heat) for the OTEC ocean power proposal through 25 percent for most automotive engines, to 45 percent for a supercritical coal plant, to about 60 percent for a steam-cooled combined cycle gas turbine. All of these processes gain their efficiency (or lack thereof) due to the temperature drop across them.
The least efficient, OTEC, uses the temperature difference of ocean water on the surface and ocean water from the depths, a small difference of perhaps 25 degrees Celsius, and so the efficiency must be low.
The most efficient, the combined cycle gas turbine burns natural-gas to heat air to nearly 1530 degrees Celsius, a large temperature difference of 1500 degrees Celsius, and so the efficiency can be very large when the steam-cooling cycle is added.
Examples of everyday heat engines include: the steam engine, the diesel engine, and the gasoline (petrol) engine in an automobile.
The stirling engine is less common but is found in small models which can run off the heat of a hand.
A common toy that is also a heat engine is the drinking bird.
All of these familiar heat engines are powered by the expansion of heated gases.
A bimetallic strip is a device that converts temperature into mechanical movement and is used in thermostats to control temperature. It is a heat engine that does not use a liquid or gas.

</doc>
<doc id="63133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63133" title="Thermodynamic cycle">
Thermodynamic cycle

A thermodynamic cycle is a series of thermodynamic processes which returns a system to its initial state. Properties depend only on the thermodynamic state and thus do not change over a cycle. Variables such as heat and work are not zero over a cycle, but rather depend on the process. The first law of thermodynamics dictates that the net heat input is equal to the net work output over any cycle. The repeating nature of the process path allows for continuous operation, making the cycle an important concept in thermodynamics. 
If the cyclic process moves clockwise around the loop, then it represents a heat engine, and W will be positive. If it moves counterclockwise then it represents a heat pump, and W will be negative.
Two primary classes of thermodynamic cycles are power cycles and heat pump cycles. Power cycles are cycles which convert some heat input into a mechanical work output, while heat pump cycles transfer heat from low to high temperatures using mechanical work input. 
Thermodynamic power cycles are the basis for the operation of heat engines, which supply most of the world's electric power and run almost all motor vehicles. Power cycles can be divided according to the type of heat engine they seek to model. The most common cycles that model internal combustion engines are the Otto cycle, which models gasoline engines and the Diesel cycle, which models diesel engines. Cycles that model external combustion engines include the Brayton cycle, which models gas turbines, and the Rankine cycle, which models steam turbines.
Educational software links:

</doc>
<doc id="63137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63137" title="Christoph Metzelder">
Christoph Metzelder

Christoph Metzelder (born 5 November 1980 in Haltern, Germany) is a German football player. He plays for Real Madrid In the Germany national team he has played in 47 matches and scored no goal.
158||6||5||0||21||0||184||6
21||0||3||0||4||0||28||0
179||6||8||0||25||0||212||6
!Total||47||0

</doc>
<doc id="63138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63138" title="Thermodynamic system">
Thermodynamic system

In thermodynamics, a thermodynamic system, originally called a "working substance", is defined as that part of the universe that is under consideration. A real or imaginary boundary separates the system from the rest of the universe, which is referred to as the environment or surroundings (sometimes called a reservoir.) A useful classification of thermodynamic systems is based on the nature of the boundary and the quantities flowing through it, such as matter, energy, work, heat, and entropy. A system can be anything, for example a cylinder, a solution in a test tube, a living organism, or a planet, etc. 

</doc>
<doc id="63139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63139" title="Treat">
Treat

Treat could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="63140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63140" title="Piston">
Piston

In general, a piston is a lubricated sliding shaft that fits tightly inside the opening of a cylinder. Its purpose is to change the volume enclosed by the cylinder, to exert a force on a fluid inside the cylinder, to cover and uncover ports, or some combination of these. A rubber seal is sometimes used to keep the lubricate within the shaft. Due to the constant motion of the machine this seal wears quickly and should be replaced with every servicing. If the seal should break during usage there can be disastrous long lasting consequences for the machine. 
There are two ways that a piston engine can transform combustion into motive power. These are two-stroke and four-stroke.
A single cylinder two-stroke engine produces power every crankshaft revolution, while a single cylinder four-stroke engine produces power once every two revolutions. Older designs of small two-stroke engines produced more pollution than four stroke engines. However, modern two-stroke designs, like the Vespa ET2 Injection utilise fuel-injection and are as clean as four-strokes. Large diesel two-stroke engines, as used in ships and locomotives, have always used fuel injection and produce low emissions. One of the biggest internal combustion engines in the world, the Wärtsilä-Sulzer RTA96-C is a two-stroke; it is bigger than most two-story houses, has pistons nearly 1 metre in diameter and is one of the most efficient mobile engines in existence. In theory, a four stroke engine has to be larger than a two stroke engine to produce an equivalent amount of power. Two stroke engines are becoming less common in developed countries these days, mainly due to manufacturer reluctance to invest in reducing two-stroke emissions. Traditionally, two stroke engines were reputed to need more maintenance. Even though the simplest two stroke engines have fewer moving parts, they could wear out faster than four stroke engines. However fuel-injected two-strokes achieve better engine lubrication, and cooling and reliability should improve considerably.
A steam engine is another type of piston engine. In most steam engines, the pistons are "double acting": steam is alternately admitted to either end of the cylinder, so that every piston stroke produces power.

</doc>
<doc id="63142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63142" title="Pinyin">
Pinyin

Pinyin is the Mandarin word for "spelling", writing letters showing the sound of a word in place of a Chinese character. Today, it almost always has the sense of Hanyu Pinyin, the way of writing Mandarin sounds which has been used by the People's Republic of China from the 1950s. Other countries like the United States and Taiwan used other ways of spelling Chinese (such as the Wade-Giles way) for a long time, but in the late 20th century started to use Hanyu Pinyin as well. It is the standard of China as well as the United Nations. It is the most popular romanized Chinese system in the world nowadays.
Pinyin uses Roman letters in a special way for certain Chinese sounds. For example, the pinyin letter C is pronounced as /ts/ as in the English word "cats" or the Japanese word "tsunami", and does not sound at all like /k/ or /s/ by itself. Pinyin uses special marks to show the four Chinese tones, which are very important to using Mandarin clearly.
b p m f w
d t n l
g k ng h
j q x y
z c s
a e i o u ü
ai ei ao ou
an en ang eng ong
There are five kinds of tone in Pinyin:
ā, á, ǎ, à, a
"Geyin fuhao" is used after the syllables starting with vowels "a, o, e", for example: pi'ao.
We should divide Pinyin text by words and write syllables connectedly, such as "I am a foreigner" should be written as "Wo shi waiguoren" in Pinyin. 

</doc>
<doc id="63145" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63145" title="Susianna Kentikian">
Susianna Kentikian

Susianna "Susi" Kentikian (born September 11, 1987) is a woman boxer from Germany. She was born in Yerevan, Armenian SSR, but she left the country together with her family when she was five years old, because of the Nagorno-Karabakh War. Kentikian has lived in Hamburg since 1996 and has signed a contract with the Hamburg boxing promoter Spotlight Boxing. Kentikian is the current world champion with the boxing organizations WBA and WIBF in the flyweight weight class. 

</doc>
<doc id="63150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63150" title="Banknote">
Banknote

A banknote (more commonly known as a bill in the United States and Canada) is a paper by which a bank promises to pay to the bearer on demand. Together with coins, banknotes make up the cash forms of all modern money. 
Coins are generally used for lower valued monetary units, and banknotes for higher values.
Originally, the value of money was determined by the value of the material the money was made of, such as silver or gold. However, carrying around a lot of precious metal was cumbersome and often dangerous. As an alternative, banknotes would be issued. In financial terms, a note is a promise to pay someone money. Banknotes were originally a promise to give an amount of precious metal to anyone who presented the paper. People could pay for things by giving the banknote, and thus the stored value (usually in gold or silver coins kept in the bank's vault) that the banknote promised. 
In Europe the first paper money consisted of paper 'coins' issued in Protestant Leyden (today, Leiden) in the Netherlands during the Spanish siege of 1574. Over 5000 of the estimated 14,000 residents of Leyden died, mostly due to starvation. Even leather (often used to create emergency currency) was boiled and used to feed the people. So to create currency, the residents took covers and paper from hymnals and church missives and created paper planchets, which were struck using the same dies that were previously used to mint coins. 
The first proper European banknotes were issued by Stockholms Banco, a predecessor of the Bank of Sweden, in 1660, although the bank ran out of coins to redeem its notes in 1664 and ceased operating in that year.
Emergency paper money hand-written on playing cards was used in French Canada from 1685.
In the early 1690s, the Massachusetts Bay Colony was the first of the colonies to issue the permanently circulating banknotes. The use of fixed denominations and printed banknotes came into use in the 18th century. 
In the United States, public acceptance of banknotes in replacement of precious metals was hastened in part by Executive Order 6102. This order carried the threat of a maximum $10,000 fine and a maximum of ten years in prison for anyone who kept more than $100 of gold in preference to bank notes. Similar measures were taken worldwide, with similar results.

</doc>
<doc id="63151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63151" title="Common cold">
Common cold

The common cold (also known as nasopharyngitis, rhinopharyngitis, acute coryza, or a cold) is an easily spread infectious disease of the upper respiratory system. It damages mostly the nose and throat. The symptoms include cough, painful throat, runny nose (rhinorrhea), and fever. These symptoms usually last seven to ten days, but sometimes up to three weeks. Over two hundred different viruses can cause the common cold, but rhinoviruses are the most common cause.
Acute infections of the nose, sinuses, throat or larynx (upper respiratory tract infections, URI or URTI) are sorted by the areas of the body that are mostly hurt. The common cold mostly hurts the nose, pharyngitis the throat, and sinusitis the sinuses. The symptoms come from the immune system's response to the infection, not from direct destruction by the viruses themselves. Hand washing is the main way to keep the common cold from happening. Wearing face masks might also help.
There is no cure for the common cold, but the symptoms can be treated. It is the most frequent infectious disease in humans. The average person gets two to three colds every year. The average child gets between six and twelve colds every year. These colds have been with humans for thousands of years.
The most common symptoms of a cold are a cough, runny nose, a stuffy nose, and a sore throat. Other issues are sore muscles, feeling tired, headache, and not wanting to eat. Around 40% of people with colds have a sore throat, while around 50% have a cough. Muscle ache happens in about half of the cases. A fever is an uncommon symptom in adults, but it is common in infants and young children. The cough caused by a cold is usually mild compared to a cough caused by influenza (the flu). A cough and a fever indicate a higher likelihood of the flu in adults. A number of the viruses that cause the common cold may also result in no symptoms. The color of the mucus that is coughed up from the lower airways (sputum) may vary in color from clear to yellow to green. This color does not indicate if an infection is caused by viruses or bacteria.
A cold usually begins with feeling tired, a feeling of being chilled, sneezing, and a headache. Additional symptoms such as runny nose and cough follow within two or more days. Symptoms typically reach their worst two to three days after the infection begins. Symptoms usually end after seven to ten days, but can last up to three weeks. The cough lasts for more than ten days in 35% to 40% of cases involving children. It lasts for more than 25 days in 10% of cases involving children.
The common cold is an easily spread infection of the upper respiratory tract. The rhinovirus is the most common cause of the common cold. It accounts for 30% to 80% of all cases. A rhinovirus is an RNA-containing virus of the family Picornaviridae. There are 99 known types of viruses in this family of viruses.
Other viruses can also cause the common cold. The "Coronavirus" causes 10% to 15% of cases. The flu causes 5% to 15% of cases. Other cases may be caused by human parainfluenza viruses, human respiratory syncytial virus, adenoviruses, "Enteroviruses", and metapneumovirus. Frequently, more than one virus is present and causing the infection. In total, over two hundred different viruses[k2] are associated with colds.
The common cold virus is usually spread in one of two main ways. By breathing or swallowing droplets in the air containing the virus; or by contacting infected nasal mucus or contaminated objects. The most common method of transmitting the cold virus has not been determined. The viruses may survive for a long time in the environment. Viruses may then be transmitted from the hands to the eyes or nose where infection occurs. People sitting close together appear at greater risk of becoming infected. Transmission is common in day cares and at schools, due to the closeness of many children with little immunity and frequently poor hygiene. These infections are then brought home to other members of the family. There is no evidence that the air on commercial flights transmits cold viruses. Rhinoviruses are most infectious in the first three days of cold symptoms. They are much less infectious afterwards.
The traditional theory was that the disease spread to someone staying too long in cold weather, rain, or winter conditions. This is how the disease got its name. The role of body cooling as a risk factor for the common cold is controversial. Some common cold viruses are seasonal, found more often in cold or wet weather. This is believed to mostly be due to more time spent indoors, close to each other; specifically children returning to school. Still, changes in the respiratory system may result in easier infections. Dry air may increase transmission rates by allowing small easily spread droplets to spread farther and stay in the air longer.
Herd immunity, immunity that occurs when an entire group of people become immune to a particular infection, occurs from previous exposure to cold viruses. Thus younger populations have greater rates of respiratory infections and older populations have lower rates of respiratory infections. Poor immune function is also a risk factor for disease. Lack of sleep and poor nutrition have also been associated with a greater risk of developing infection following rhinovirus exposure. This is believed to be due to their effects on immune function.
The symptoms of the common cold are believed to be mostly related to the immune response to the virus. The mechanism of this immune response is virus-specific. For example, the rhinovirus is typically acquired by direct contact. It binds to human ICAM-1 receptors through unknown methods to trigger the release of inflammatory mediators. These inflammatory mediators then produce the symptoms. It does not generally cause damage to the nasal epithelium.
In contrast, the respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is contacted by both direct contact and airborne droplets. It then replicates in the nose and throat before frequently spreading to the lower respiratory tract. RSV does cause epithelium damage.
Human parainfluenza virus typically results in inflammation of the nose, throat, and airways. In young children, when it affects the trachea it may produce croup, a hoarse cough and difficulty breathing. This is due to the small size of the airway in children.
The distinction between different upper respiratory tract infections (URTIs) is loosely based on the location of the symptoms. The common cold primarily affects the nose, pharyngitis primarily affects the throat, and bronchitis primarily affects the lungs. The common cold is frequently defined as inflammation of the nose and may include varying amounts of throat inflammation. Self-diagnosis is common. Isolation of the actual viral agent involved is rarely performed. It is generally not possible to identify the specific virus through symptoms.
The only effective way to prevent the common cold is by physically preventing the spread of the viruses. This primarily includes hand washing and wearing face masks. In the health care environment, gowns and disposable gloves are also worn. Isolating infected individuals is not possible because the disease is so widespread and symptoms are not specific. Vaccination has proved difficult because there are so many viruses involved and the viruses undergo rapid change. Developing a broadly effective vaccine is very unlikely.
Regular hand washing reduces the spread of cold viruses. It is most effective and is especially recommended for use in children, due to a lack of evidence supporting the effectiveness of over-the-counter cold medicines for children, and due to the risk for harm from those medicines. In 2009, Canada restricted the use of over-the-counter cough and cold medication in children six years old and younger due to concerns regarding risks and unproven benefits. The misuse of dextromethorphan (an over-the-counter cough medicine) has led to its ban in a number of countries.
In adults, the symptoms of a runny nose can be reduced by first-generation antihistamines. However, first-generation antihistamines are associated with adverse side effects such as drowsiness. Other decongestants such as pseudoephedrine are also effective in adults. Ipratropium nasal spray may reduce the symptoms of a runny nose, but there is little effect on stuffiness. Second-generation antihistamines do not appear to be effective.
Due to the lack of studies, it is not known whether drinking more fluids improves symptoms or shortens respiratory illness. A similar lack of data exists for the use of heated humidified air. One study found chest vapor rub to be effective in providing some symptomatic relief of night-time cough, congestion, and sleep difficulty.
Antibiotics have no effect against viral infections and thus have no effect against the common cold. Antibiotics are often prescribed even though antibiotic side effects cause overall harm. Antibiotics are commonly prescribed because people expect doctors to prescribe them, and doctors want to help people. Prescribing antibiotics also happens because it is difficult to exclude causes of infection that may be managed by antibiotics. There are no effective antiviral drugs for the common cold, even though some preliminary research has shown benefit.
While there are many alternative treatments used for the common cold, there is not enough scientific evidence to support the use of most treatments. As of 2010, there is not enough evidence to recommend for or against either honey or nasal irrigation. Zinc supplements may reduce the severity and duration of symptoms when taken within 24 hours of their onset. The effect of vitamin C on the common cold, while extensively researched, is disappointing. Evidence about the usefulness of echinacea is inconsistent. Different types of echinacea supplements may vary in their effectiveness.
The common cold is generally mild and goes away on its own with most symptoms improving in one week. Severe complications, if they occur, are usually in the very old, the very young, or those who are immunosuppressed (have a weakened immune system). Secondary bacterial infections may occur resulting in sinusitis, pharyngitis, or an ear infection. It is estimated that sinusitis occurs in 8% of cases. Ear infections occur in 30% of cases.
The common cold is the most common human disease and people are affected all around the world. Adults typically have two to five infections per year. Children may have six to ten colds per year (and up to twelve colds per year for school children). Rates of symptomatic infections increase in the elderly due to a weakening immune system.
While the cause of the common cold has been known since only the 1950s, the disease has been with humanity since ancient times. Its symptoms and treatment are described in the Egyptian Ebers papyrus, the oldest existing medical text, written before the 16th century BC. The name "common cold" came into use in the 16th century, due to the similarity between its symptoms and those of exposure to cold weather.
In the United Kingdom, the Common Cold Unit (CCU) was set up by the Medical Research Council in 1946, and it was here that the rhinovirus was discovered in 1956. In the 1970s, the CCU demonstrated that treatment with interferon during the incubation phase of rhinovirus infection provided some protection against the disease. No practical treatment could be developed. The unit was closed in 1989, two years after it completed research of zinc gluconate lozenges in the prevention and treatment of rhinovirus colds. Zinc was the only successful treatment developed in the history of the CCU.
The economic impact of the common cold is poorly understood in much of the world. In the United States, the common cold leads to 75 million to 100 million physician visits annually, costing at least $7.7 billion per year (by conservative cost estimates). Americans spend $2.9 billion on over-the-counter (OTC) drugs. Americans spend an additional $400 million on prescription medicines for symptomatic relief. More than one-third of people who saw a doctor received an antibiotic prescription. The use of antibiotic prescriptions has implications for antibiotic resistance. An estimated 22 million to 189 million school days are missed each year due to a cold. As a result, parents missed 126 million workdays to stay home to care for their children. When added to the 150 million workdays missed by employees suffering from a cold, the total economic impact of cold-related work loss exceeds $20 billion per year. This accounts for 40% of time lost from work in the United States.
A number of antivirals have been tested for effectiveness in the common cold. As of 2009, none have been both found effective and licensed for use. There are ongoing trials of the antiviral drug pleconaril. It shows promise against picornaviruses. There are also ongoing trials of BTA-798. The oral form of pleconaril had safety issues and an aerosol form is being studied.
Researchers from the University of Maryland, College Park and the University of Wisconsin–Madison have mapped the genome for all known virus strains that cause the common cold.

</doc>
<doc id="63152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63152" title="Qajar dynasty">
Qajar dynasty

The Qajar dynasty (, - or دودمان قاجار - "Qâjâr") was a ruling Turkic dynasty of Iran from 1781 to 1925.
Soltan Ahmad Shah Qajar (1909-1925) was the last ruling Shah. Among many other members of the Qajar family are

</doc>
<doc id="63157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63157" title="Zenwalk Linux">
Zenwalk Linux

Zenwalk (formerly Minislack), or Zenwalk Linux, is a Linux distribution started by Jean-Philippe Guillemin. It was at first based on Slackware. Since its creation, the distribution has become very different from Slackware while still still being able to use its binary packages. Zenwalk aims to be a Linux distribution with many uses by focusing on Internet applications, multimedia and programming tools.
The Zenwalk Project aims to create a Linux operating system that can be used on old and slow computers through the use of the latest software available for a stable release, optimization for a specific processor architecture to increase execution speed, and introduces a very powerful package management system with dependency resolution.
There are four main versions of Zenwalk:
Zenwalk (full version ~ 420 MB iso download) is a distribution aimed at mainstream desktop use. Designed to be a stand-alone operating system, it installs to the hard drive by way of a ncurses-based installer. It includes all of the officially released software packages that are deemed most useful for their tasks. This collection may change with every release.
Zenwalk Core (~ 230 MB iso download) is a Zenwalk system built with customization in mind. Released with no X Window System binaries, its aim is to allow a skilled user to build a system fit for his or her needs. The project's lead developer is Emmanuel Bailleul.
ZenLive (~ 476 MB iso download) is a Zenwalk system built on a Live CD design. ZenLive follows the progress made by the full Zenwalk system closely, thus mirroring the version number, and attempts to stay true to the original distribution's goals. In addition, it includes all of the necessary libraries and applications to develop and compile software, a particularly rare feature in Live CD distributions. Project members include Pierrick Le Brun, creator, Mauricio Tricoli, project lead, and Michael Verret, artwork.
Zenserver (~ 263 MB iso download) is a Zenwalk Core-derived system specifically designed for servers. The main goals are to create a secure, reliable, easy to use, easy to configure, expandable and dependable server operating system, in the best Zenwalk tradition. The distribution development team is led by Teran McKinney.
There are currently four Zenwalk-based distributions:

</doc>
<doc id="63161" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63161" title="Thermodynamic equilibrium">
Thermodynamic equilibrium

In thermodynamics, a thermodynamic system is said to be in thermodynamic equilibrium when it is in thermal equilibrium, mechanical equilibrium, radiative equilibrium, and chemical equilibrium. The local state of a system at thermodynamic equilibrium is determined by the values of its intensive parameters, as pressure, temperature, etc. Specifically, thermodynamic equilibrium is characterized by the minimum of a thermodynamic potential.[1]

</doc>
<doc id="63162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63162" title="Thermodynamic potential">
Thermodynamic potential

In thermodynamics, thermodynamic potentials are parameters associated with a thermodynamic system and have the dimensions of energy. They are called "potentials" because in a sense, they describe the amount of potential energy in a thermodynamic system when it is subjected to certain constraints. The different potentials correspond to different constraints to which the system may be subjected. The four most common thermodynamic potentials are:
where "T" = temperature, "S" = entropy, "p" = pressure, "V" = volume. The Helmholtz free energy is often denoted by the symbol "F", but the use of "A" is preferred by IUPAC (See Alberty, 2001). formula_1 is the number of particles of type "i" in the system. For the sake of completeness, the set of all formula_1 are also included as natural variables, although they are sometimes ignored.
Thermodynamic potentials are very useful when calculating the equilibrium results of a chemical reaction, or when measuring the properties of materials in a chemical reaction. The chemical reactions usually take place under some simple constraints such as constant pressure and temperature, or constant entropy and volume, and when this is true, there is a corresponding thermodynamic potential which comes into play. Just as in mechanics, the system will tend towards lower values of potential and at equilibrium, under these constraints, the potential will take on an unchanging minimum value. The thermodynamic potentials can also be used to estimate the total amount of energy available from a thermodynamic system under the appropriate constraint.

</doc>
<doc id="63163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63163" title="Thermal efficiency">
Thermal efficiency

The thermal efficiency (formula_1) is a dimensionless performance measure of a thermal device such as an internal combustion engine, a boiler, or a furnace, for example.
The input, formula_2, to the device is heat, or the heat-content of a fuel that is consumed. The desired output is mechanical work, formula_3, or heat, formula_4, or possibly both. Because the input heat normally has a real financial cost, a memorable, generic definition of thermal efficiency is
formula_5
From the first and second law of thermodynamics, the output can not exceed what is input, so
formula_6
When expressed as a percentage, the thermal efficiency must be between 0% and 100%. Due to inefficiencies such as friction, heat loss, and other factors, thermal efficiencies are typically much less than 100%. For example, a typical gasoline automobile engine operates at around 25% thermal efficiency, and a large coal-fueled electrical generating plant peaks at about 36%. In a combined cycle plant thermal efficiencies are approaching 60%.
When transforming thermal energy into mechanical energy, the thermal efficiency of a heat engine is the percentage of energy that is transformed into work. Thermal efficiency is defined as
formula_7,
or via the first law of thermodynamics to substitute waste heat rejection for the work produced,
formula_8.
For example, when 1000 joules of thermal energy is transformed into 300 joules of mechanical energy (with the remaining 700 joules dissipated as waste heat), the thermal efficiency is 30%.
For an energy conversion device like a boiler or furnace, the thermal efficiency is
formula_9.
So, for a boiler that produces 210 kW (or 700,000 BTU/h) output for each 300 kW (or 1,000,000 BTU/h) heat-equivalent input, its thermal efficiency is 210/300 = 0.70, or 70%. This means that the 30% of the energy is lost to the environment.
An electric resistance heater has a thermal efficiency of at or very near 100%, so, for example, 1500W of heat are produced for 1500W of electrical input. When comparing heating units, such as a 100% efficient electric resistance heater to an 80% efficient natural gas-fueled furnace, an economic analysis is needed to determine the most cost-effective choice.
Heat pumps, refrigerators, and air conditioners, for example, move heat, rather than convert it, so other measures are needed to describe their thermal performance. The common measures are the coefficient-of-performance (COP), energy-efficiency ratio (EER), and seasonal-energy-efficiency ratio (SEER).
The Efficiency of a Heat pump (HP) and Refrigerators (R)*:
formula_10
formula_11
formula_12
If temperatures at both ends of the Heat Pump or Refrigerator are constant and their processes reversible:
formula_13
formula_14
The 'thermal efficiency' is sometimes called the energy efficiency. In the United States, in everyday usage the SEER is the more common measure of energy efficiency for cooling devices, as well as for heat pumps when in their heating mode. For energy-conversion heating devices their peak steady-state thermal efficiency is often stated, e.g., 'this furnace is 90% efficient', but a more detailed measure of seasonal energy effectiveness is the Annual Fuel Utilization Efficiency (AFUE).

</doc>
<doc id="63165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63165" title="Thermodynamic state">
Thermodynamic state

A thermodynamic state is the macroscopic condition of a thermodynamic system as described by its particular thermodynamic parameters. The state of any thermodynamic system can be described by a set of thermodynamic parameters, such as temperature, pressure, density, composition, independently of its surroundings or history.
The parameters required to specify the state depend on the characteristics of the system. There is an optimal ensemble of parameters that uniquely specify the state, and all other parameters can be derived from these. The "state postulate" says that the state of a simple compressible system is completely specified by two independent, intensive properties.

</doc>
<doc id="63166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63166" title="Thermal physics">
Thermal physics

Thermal physics is the combined study of thermodynamics, statistical mechanics, and kinetic theory. This umbrella-subject is typically designed for physics students and functions to provide a general introduction to each of three core heat-related subjects. Other authors, however, define thermal physics loosely as a summation of only thermodynamics and statistical mechanics.
Thermal physics, generally speaking, is the study of the statistical nature of physical systems from an energetic perspective. Starting with the basics of heat and temperature, thermal physics analyzes the first law of thermodynamics and second law of thermodynamics from the statistical perspective, in terms of the number of microstates corresponding to a given macrostate. In addition, the concept of entropy is studied via quantum theory.
A central topic in thermal physics is the canonical probability distribution. The electromagnetic nature of photons and phonons are studied which show that the oscillations of electromagnetic fields and of crystal lattices have much in common. Waves form a basis for both, provided one incorporates quantum theory.
Other topics studied in thermal physics include: chemical potential, the quantum nature of an ideal gas, i.e. in terms of fermions and bosons, Bose-Einstein condensation, Gibbs free energy, Helmholtz free energy, chemical equilibrium, phase equilibrium, the equipartition theorem, entropy at absolute zero, and transport processes as mean free path, viscosity, and conduction.
There are two types of thermodynamic instruments, the meter and the reservoir. A thermodynamic meter is any device which measures any parameter of a thermodynamic system. In some cases, the thermodynamic parameter is actually defined in terms of an idealized measuring instrument. For example, the zeroth law states that if two bodies are in thermodynamic equilibrium with a third body, they are also in thermodynamic equilibrium with each other. This principle, as noted by James Maxwell in 1872, asserts that it is possible to measure temperature. An idealized thermometer is a sample of an ideal gas at constant pressure. 
A thermodynamic reservoir is a system which is so large that it does not appreciably alter its state parameters when brought into contact with the test system. 
It is important that these two types of instruments are distinct. A meter does not perform its task accurately if it behaves like a reservoir of the state variable it is trying to measure. If, for example, a thermometer, were to act as a temperature reservoir it would alter the temperature of the system being measured, and the reading would be incorrect. Ideal meters have no effect on the state variables of the system they are measuring.

</doc>
<doc id="63167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63167" title="Statistical mechanics">
Statistical mechanics

Statistical mechanics is the application of probability theory, which includes mathematical tools for dealing with large populations, to the field of mechanics, which is concerned with the motion of particles or objects when subjected to a force.
It provides a framework for relating the microscopic properties of individual atoms and molecules to the macroscopic or bulk properties of materials that can be observed in everyday life, therefore explaining thermodynamics as a natural result of statistics and mechanics (classical and quantum) at the microscopic level. In particular, it can be used to calculate the thermodynamic properties of bulk materials from the spectroscopic data of individual molecules.
This ability to make macroscopic predictions based on microscopic properties is the main asset of statistical mechanics over thermodynamics. Both theories are governed by the second law of thermodynamics through the medium of entropy. However, entropy in thermodynamics can only be known empirically, whereas in statistical mechanics, it is a function of the distribution of the system on its micro-states.

</doc>
<doc id="63168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63168" title="Kinetic theory">
Kinetic theory

Kinetic theory or "kinetic theory of gases" attempts to explain overall properties of gases, such as pressure, temperature, or volume, by considering their molecular composition and motion. The theory basically states that pressure is not caused by molecules pushing each other away, like earlier scientists thought. Instead, pressure is caused by the molecules colliding with each other and their container. Kinetic theory is also known as "kinetic-molecular theory" or "collision theory".
There are three main components to kinetic theory:

</doc>
<doc id="63169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63169" title="Category:Armenian poets">
Category:Armenian poets


</doc>
<doc id="63170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63170" title="Frik">
Frik

Frik was an Armenian poet who lived in the 13th and 14th centuries, at the time of Mongolian control over Armenia.

</doc>
<doc id="63171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63171" title="Mongolian">
Mongolian

Mongolian might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="63174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63174" title="Yeghishe Charents">
Yeghishe Charents

Yeghishe Charents (born Yeghishe Soghomonian, ) (13 March 1897, Kars - 29 November 1937, Yerevan) was an Armenian poet killed in Stalin's purges.
From 1904 to 1912 Yeghishe Soghomonian he was at school in Kars. Amid the upheavals of the First World War and the Armenian Genocide in the Ottoman Empire, he volunteered in 1915 for the Caucasian Front. In 1917-1918 he was in Karin Erzurum during the bitter fighting. Some of his experiences would later appear in his poetry.
Yeghishe Charents (Soghomonian), one of the nation's favourite poets - a famous philanderer who apparently sought the USSR Kremlin's favours - produced a now famous poem called "The Message". Its praise of Uncle Joe might grind the average set of teeth down to the gum; it included the following: "A new light shone on the world... It is only this sunlight/Which for centuries will stay alive." And more of the same. 
Undiscovered by the USSR Kremlin's censors for many months, however, Charents (1897 - 1937) had used the first letter of each line to frame a quite different "message", which read: "O Armenian people, your only salvation is in the power of your unity." Whoops! Like the distant Mount Ararat, it was a brave, hopeless symbol, as doomed as it was impressive. Yeghishe Charents was "disappeared" by the NKVD (KGB) in 1937 after being denounced by the architect Alexsandr Tamanyan - now hard at work building Yerevan's new Stalinist opera house - the moment Yeghishe Charents' schoolboy prank was spotted. Then Alexsandr Tamanyan fell from the roof of his still unfinished opera house, and even today Armenians - with their Arab-like desire to believe in "заговор" the plot - ask the obvious questions. 
"Three songs to the sad and pale girl", poems (1914) 
"Blue-eyed Homeland", poem (1915) 
"Soma", poem (1918) Yerevan
"Charents-Name", poem (1922) 
"Uncle Lenin", poem (1924) 
"Country of Nayiri" (Yerkir Nayiri) (1926) 
"Epical Sunrise", poems (1930) 
"Book of the Way", poems (1934) 

</doc>
<doc id="63175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63175" title="Kars">
Kars

Kars (, ) is a city in northeast Turkey and is the capital of the Kars Province, before at the head of a sanjak in the Turkish vilayet of Erzurum. Population: 8,672 (1878); 20,891 (1897); 54,000 (1970); 142,145 (1990); 130,361 (2000).
The early history of Kars is little known, beyond that it had its own dynasty of Armenian rulers and was the capital of a region known as Vanand. At some point in the 9th century (at least by 888) it became part of the territory of the Armenian Bagratids. For a short time (from 928 to 961) Kars became the capital of their kingdom. It was during this period that the Cathedral, later known as the Church of the Apostles, was built.

</doc>
<doc id="63176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63176" title="Kars Province">
Kars Province

Kars is a province of Turkey. It is in the northeastern part of the country. It shares part of its border with the Republic of Armenia. 
From 1878 until 1917 most of the present-day Turkish province of Kars was part of the Russian oblast of Kars. 
In 1919 and 1920 the province came under the control of the Democratic Republic of Armenia as the Vanand province (with the city of Kars as its capital). Its territory was ceded to Turkey by the Soviet Union in the Treaty of Kars. 
Kars province is divided into 8 districts ("ilçe"), each named after the administrative center of the district:
There are 383 villages in Kars.

</doc>
<doc id="63181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63181" title="Manny Gamburyan">
Manny Gamburyan

Manvel Gamburyan (was born in 1981) is a mixed martial artist with a history in judo. Manvel was chosen as a participant on the reality show "The Ultimate Fighter 5". He fights on Jens Pulver's team. Manny defeated Noah Thomas in the preliminary round.
In May, 1991, Manvel's family relocated from Armenia to United States. Shortly after his arrival, Manvel began training in judo at Gokor Chivichyan's Hayastan MMA Academy and quickly became one of the top judokas in the country, winning junior nationals less than two years later. He went on to win junior nationals eight times, the junior Olympics once, and was a member of the 2000 judo junior world team.

</doc>
<doc id="63201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63201" title="The Mickey Mouse Club">
The Mickey Mouse Club

The Mickey Mouse Club was an American variety television series that began in 1955, ran intermittently, and left the air in 1996. It was directed by Walt Disney Productions.
Over the years, the series featured many stellar teenage performers including Annette Funicello, Britney Spears, and Justin Timberlake. The original series ran newsreels, cartoons, talent segments, and Disney produced serials such as The Hardy Boys with Tommy Kirk and Tim Considine.
"Mickey Mouse Club" was hosted by Jimmie Dodd, a songwriter and the Head Mouseketeer. He provided leadership both on and off screen. In addition to his other contributions, he often provided short segments encouraging young viewers to make the right moral choices. These little sermons became known as "Doddisms".

</doc>
<doc id="63203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63203" title="Fanta">
Fanta

Fanta is a yellow lemonade. It was introduced in Germany in 1940. Fanta was created during World War II in Nazi Germany by the German Coca Cola (GmbH) bottling company. Because of the war, there was no shipping between Nazi Germany and the United States. Therefore, the German bottling plant could no longer get Coca Cola syrup. The CEO of the plant, Max Keith, needed to do something to keep the plant going. He came up with a fruit flavored drink made from whatever he could find. Using apple fiber left over from cider presses and whey, a byproduct from cheese manufacture, Fanta was created and became quite popular. The original German Fanta had a yellow color and a different flavor from that of Fanta Orange; the exact flavor varied throughout the war, depending on what ingredients were available.
The name 'Fanta' came during an employee contest to name the new beverage. Keith told them to let their Fantasie (German for imagination) run wild. On hearing that, salesman Joe Knipp spontaneously arrived upon the name "Fanta".
After the war, Fanta was introduced to the United States by Coca-Cola, and in 1960 they bought the trademark. Fanta Orange is the most popular Fanta flavor. It is available in 180 countries. In terms of volume, Brazil is the largest consumer of Fanta in the world. Fanta is more popular in Europe and South America than in the United States.
There are over 70 different flavors worldwide. Most of them are only available by region in some countries. For example, in Romania (and some other countries), there is "Fanta Shokata" based on the traditional Romanian drink "Socată". This drink is made from elderflower. In Switzerland and previously the Netherlands the local fruit, blackcurrant is used to produce Fanta as well. Some identical flavors have different names in different markets. The classic orange, for example, was renamed "Fanta Funky Orange" in 2003 for the Nordic countries and Belgium, while other countries retain the older "Fanta Orange" brand. As of the year 2005, the Fanta brand has been connected with the word "Bambaacha" (or "Bamboocha"), which is often seen in the Fanta commercials. TaB diet Cola was originally produced by the Fanta division of Coca-cola. It was available in a variety of non-cola flavors as well. Later in 2005, Fanta branched out into new Fanta Zero (diet versions) varieties in Great Britain.

</doc>
<doc id="63215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63215" title="Parameter">
Parameter

In some non-technical contexts or in jargon, "parameter" may simply be a synonym for criterion.
In mathematics, statistics, and the mathematical sciences, parameters (L: "auxiliary measure") are quantities that define certain relatively constant characteristics of systems or functions.
Most commonly represented θ in general form, other symbols carry standard, specific meanings. When evaluating the function over a domain or determining the response of the system over a period of time, the independent variables are modulated, while the parameters are held constant. The function or system may then be reevaluated or reprocessed with different parameters, to give a function or system with different behavior.
Loosely speaking, the term parameter is used for an argument which is intermediate in status between a variable and a constant.
Suppose that you and a friend are both working for the same boss making the same money working the same hours, that the formula would become:
In engineering (especially involving data acquisition) the term "parameter" sometimes loosely refers to an individual measured item. For example, an airliner flight data recorder may record 88 different items, each termed a parameter. This usage is not consistent, as sometimes the term "channel" refers to an individual measured item, with "parameter" referring to the setup information about that channel.
"Speaking generally, properties are those physical quantities which directly describe the physical attributes of the system; parameters are those combinations of the properties which suffice to determine the response of the system. Properties can have all sorts of dimensions, depending upon the system being considered; parameters are dimensionless, or have the dimension of time or its reciprocal." John D. Trimmer, 1950, Response of Physical Systems (New York: Wiley), p. 13.
The term can also be used in engineering contexts, however, as it is typically used in the physical sciences. The data that one computer program gives to another are sometimes called parameters.

</doc>
<doc id="63219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63219" title="Agavaceae">
Agavaceae

Agavaceae is a family of plants. Many of these plants grow in dry, hot climates. Some grow in the desert. Well-known plants of this family are the agave, yucca, and Joshua tree. The family includes about 550-600 species in around 18 genera. It is widespread in the tropical, subtropical and warm temperate regions of the world.
It is not quite clear how large the family really is. There are genera which some biologists leave out of the family. This includes for example "Cordyline" and "Dracaena", which are sometimes separated off into a separate family, Dracaenaceae. Recent research has tended to incorporate these into a larger family Ruscaceae, though. "Nolina", "Beaucarnea", and "Dasylirion" are sometimes recognized as Nolinaceae or placed in Ruscaceae. Conversely, data from molecular systematics now suggest that Agavaceae should be broadened to include a number of genera previously classified elsewhere. Among them are "Chlorogalum", "Camassia" and the family Anthericaceae. This would enlarge the family with anything up to 22 genera. The Angiosperm Phylogeny Group's APG II classification places Agavaceae, along with a number of other families (including Ruscaceae) in an expanded family Asparagaceae. However, APG II allows the alternative of keeping some of these families, including Agavaceae, separate. In this case, it recommends expanding the family to include the genera currently classified in Anemarrhenaceae, Anthericaceae (with "Anthericum" and "Paradisea"), Behniaceae and Herreriaceae. Most references have retained Agavaceae (in varying circumscriptions) as a family distinct from Asparagaceae. "Hesperocallis", sometimes placed in its own family, Hesperocallideaceae, has recently been shown to be closely related and its inclusion in Agavaceae has been recommended (Pires et al. 2004).
Some species are succulent. In general, Agavaceae leaves occur as rosettes at the end of a woody stem, which may range from extremely short to tree-like heights, as in the Joshua tree. The leaves are parallel-veined, and usually appear long and pointed, often with a hardened spine on the end, and sometimes with additional spines along the margins.
"Agave" species are used to make pulque and mezcal, while others are valued for their fibres. They are quite popular for xeriscaping, many types having showy flowers.

</doc>
<doc id="63221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63221" title="Succulent plant">
Succulent plant

Succulent plants are plants that have adapted to very dry climates. They have adapted in such a way that they can store water, either in their leaves, stems or roots. Very often, they look different than plants that do not do this. Their leaves may look more fleshy. A very good example of succulents are the cacti. Almost all cacti are succulents. Not all succulents are cacti though. Other plant families with this property are the agavaceae (Agave family), Azioaceae and Crassulaceae. Other well-known succulents are the Aloe and the Bottle tree.

</doc>
<doc id="63230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63230" title="Lu Xun (Three Kingdoms)">
Lu Xun (Three Kingdoms)

Lu Xun (183-254) was a general in Eastern Wu during the Three Kingdoms period in ancient China.
He showed his skills by helping defeat Guan Yu with the Wei army. Sun Quan saw his potential and promoted him to main strategist in the Wu army after the death of Lu Meng. He showed his talents at Yiling where his tactics and fire attack lead Wu to victory. He soon developed a name for himself when at Hefei castle his tactics crushed Wei and Cao Pi leaving only Shu and Liu Bei's son Liu Chan alive, who retreated and Wu gained full control of the land.

</doc>
<doc id="63231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63231" title="List of Jupiter's moons">
List of Jupiter's moons

The planet Jupiter has 63 moons. 46 of these are less than 3 km wide and probably used to be asteroids before Jupiter's gravity pulled them in. The four biggest moons are called the Galilean moons because they were discovered by the Italian astronomer Galileo Galilei. These four are Io, Europa, Ganymede and Callisto They are roughly the same size as Earth's moon, some are a bit bigger, some are smaller.
Here is a list of all 63 of Jupiter's moons. It starts with those that go around Jupiter (orbit) the fastest, or have the shortest orbital period.

</doc>
<doc id="63233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63233" title="List of Saturn's moons">
List of Saturn's moons

The planet Saturn has 53 named moons, and another nine which are still being studied. Many of the moons are very small: 33 are less than in diameter and thirteen moons are less than . Many of the moons are named after Titans, giants, or minor Greek or Roman gods. Some of Saturn's moons are very large; the moon Titan is bigger than the planet Mercury.
This list of Saturn's moons is in order of how long they take to orbit or go around Saturn:

</doc>
<doc id="63234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63234" title="Vande Mataram">
Vande Mataram

Vande Mataram is the national song of India. It is not to be confused with the national anthem of India. The lyrics were written by Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay, in a mix of Sanskrit and Bengali. The song was written in 1876, but published in 1882. The title means "Long live the Mother[land]". The first version of the Flag of India had "वन्दे मातरम्" (Vande Mataram) written on it.
Jana Gana Mana was chosen over "Vande Mataram" as the National Anthem of independent India in January 24, 1950, although before this date, "Vande Mataram" was treated as such. Vande Mataram was rejected because it offended Muslims by calling India "Mother Durga" (a Hindu goddess), equating the nation with Hinduism, and by its origin as part of "Anandamatha", a book they felt had an anti-Muslim message.
Mother, I salute thee! 
Rich with thy hurrying streams,
bright with orchard gleams, 
Cool with thy winds of delight, 
Green fields waving Mother of might, 
Mother free.
Glory of moonlight dreams, 
Over thy branches and lordly streams, 
Clad in thy blossoming trees, 
Mother, giver of ease 
Laughing low and sweet! 
Mother I kiss thy feet, 
Speaker sweet and low! 
Mother, to thee I bow."
Who hath said thou art weak in thy lands 
When swords flash out in seventy million hands 
And seventy million voices roar 
Thy dreadful name from shore to shore? 
With many strengths who art mighty and stored, 
To thee I call Mother and Lord! 
Thou who saves, arise and save! 
To her I cry who ever her foe drove 
Back from plain and sea 
And shook herself free.
Thou art wisdom, thou art law, 
Thou art heart, our soul, our breath 
Though art love divine, the awe 
In our hearts that conquers death. 
Thine the strength that nerves the arm, 
Thine the beauty, thine the charm. 
Every image made divine 
In our temples is but thine.
Thou art Durga, Lady and Queen, 
With her hands that strike and her 
swords of sheen, 
Thou art Lakshmi lotus-throned, 
And the Muse a hundred-tone, 
Pure and perfect without peer, 
Mother lend thine ear, 
Rich with thy hurrying streams, 
Bright with thy orchard gleems, 
Dark of hue O candid-fair
In thy soul, with jewelled hair 
And thy glorious smile divine, 
Loveliest of all earthly lands, 
Showering wealth from well-stored hands! 
Mother, mother mine! 
Mother sweet, I bow to thee, 
Mother great and free!
वन्दे मातरम्
सुजलां सुफलां मलयजशीतलाम्
सस्य श्यामलां मातरम् |
शुभ्र ज्योत्स्ना पुलकित यामिनीम्
फुल्ल कुसुमित द्रुमदलशोभिनीम्,
सुहासिनीं सुमधुर भाषिणीम्
सुखदां वरदां मातरम् ||
Mother, I salute thee!
Rich with thy hurrying streams,
bright with orchard gleams,
Cool with thy winds of delight,
Green fields waving Mother of might,
Mother thee
বন্দে মাতরম্
সুজলাং সুফলাং মলযজশীতলাম্
শস্য শ্যামলাং মাতরম্ |
শুভ্র জ্যোত্স্ন পুলকিত যামিনীম্
ফুল্ল কুসুমিত দ্রুমদলশোভিনীম্,
সুহাসিনীং সুমধুর ভাষিণীম্
সুখদাং বরদাং মাতরম্ ||

</doc>
<doc id="63235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63235" title="List of Uranus' moons">
List of Uranus' moons

This is a list of the 27 moons of Uranus. They are listed by how long they take to orbit (go around once) Uranus. They are all named after characters created by William Shakespeare and Alexander Pope.

</doc>
<doc id="63236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63236" title="List of Neptune's moons">
List of Neptune's moons

Neptune has a total of 14 moons. The largest moon is Triton which was discovered by William Lassell just seventeen days after Neptune was found. Then it took one hundred years later to find the second moon, Nereid. The Hubble Telescope found the 14th moon in 2013.
Most of Neptune's moons are named after sea nymphs. 
Neptune has a lot of moons who have unusual orbits. Triton which is the largest moon of Neptune, orbits in a retrograde orbit (which means Triton orbits or moves the opposite way from how Neptune spins).
Two moons, Psamathe (discovered in 2002) and Neso (discovered in 2003), are also unusual because they have the largest orbits for any moons discovered in the solar system so far. They take about 25 years to make one orbit and are 125 times farther than how our Moon orbits away from Earth.
Many astronomers and scientists think that Neptune's inner moons were not original bodies that formed with Neptune, but were instead remains of debris from Triton that slowly built up together. Other scientists think that when Triton was captured by Neptune, Triton's mass and odd orbit caused Neptune's original moons to be destroyed by gravity, only to be reformed after Triton formed a stable orbit.
While many astronomers also agree that Triton was not an original moon of Neptune, some think that Triton was captured in a "three-body-encounter". What must have happened was that Triton was part of a binary pair with another unknown celestial body. The pair was then captured by Triton survived and the other object being affected by Neptune's gravity.
Another possible event had Halimede, which was discovered in 2002, was thought to been originally a piece of Nereid when the moon was possibly hit with another object, since both moons seemed to have the same gray colors. Also Halimede was also calculated that the moon had a high chance of colliding with Nereid in the past.
The Neptunian moons are listed here by its orbital period, from shortest to longest. Triton, which is not only massive enough for its surface to have collapsed into a sphere, but is comparable in size to our own moon, is highlighted in purple. Irregular (captured) moons are shown in grey; prograde in light grey and retrograde in dark grey. (Triton is also thought to be captured.)
The picture at the right shows the orbits of Neptune's irregular moons discovered so far. The eccentricity of the orbits is represented by the yellow segments (extending from the pericentre to the apocentre) with the inclination represented on Y axis. The satellites above the X axis are prograde, the satellites beneath are retrograde. The X axis is labelled in Gm (million km) and the fraction of the Hill sphere's (gravitational influence) radius (~116 Gm for Neptune).
Given the similarity of their orbits, it was suggested that Neso and Psamathe could have a common origin in the break-up of a larger moon.
Triton, the biggest moon following a retrograde but a quasi-circular orbit, also thought to be a captured satellite, is not shown. Nereid, on a prograde but very eccentric orbit is believed to be "scattered" during Triton's capture.
Some asteroids also have the same names as moons of Neptune: 74 Galatea, 1162 Larissa.
Note that Triton did not have an official name until the twentieth century. Although the name was suggested in 1880 by Camille Flammarion, it did not come into regular use until at least the 1930s. Usually, it was simply known as "the satellite of Neptune" (the second satellite, Nereid, was not discovered until 1949). One of the 14 moons is called Neptune.

</doc>
<doc id="63237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63237" title="King (chess)">
King (chess)

The king is the most valuable chess piece in a game of chess. It can move left, right, up, down or diagonally. It can only move one square at a time. When recording chess games, king is shortened to K.
The object of the game is to checkmate (capture the king). If a player's king is attacked by an opponent's piece, it is called check. The player with the attacked king must move so that the king is no longer in check. If the king cannot do this, it is in checkmate, and that side loses the game.
With a rook, the king may make a special move called 'castling'. This is when the king moves two squares toward one of its rooks and then the rook is placed on the other side of the king. Castling consists of moving the king two squares on its first rank toward either one of the first rooks, then moving the rook onto the square over which the king crossed. Castling is only allowed when the king nor the castling rook has moved already, when no squares between them are occupied, when the king is not in check, and when the king will not move across or end its movement on a square that puts the king in check.
If a player's move places the opponent's king under attack, that king is "in check", and the player in check is made to stop the attack. There are three possible ways to remove the king from check:
If none of these three ways are possible, the player's king has been "checkmated" and the player with the checkmated king loses the game.
A stalemate is when the player to move has no legal move, but is not in check. 
In the opening and middlegame, the king will mostly not play an active role in the development of an attacking or position. Instead, a player will usually castle and find safety on the edge of the board behind pawns. In the endgame, however, the king may comes out of hiding to play an active role as an offensive piece as well as helping in the promotion of their remaining pawns. 

</doc>
<doc id="63238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63238" title="Work (thermodynamics)">
Work (thermodynamics)

In thermodynamics, work is the quantity of energy transferred from one system to another without an accompanying transfer of entropy. It is a generalization of the concept of mechanical work in mechanics. In the SI system of measurement, work is measured in joules (symbol: J). The rate at which work is performed is power.
Work, i.e. "weight "lifted" through a height", was originally defined in 1824 by Sadi Carnot in his famous paper "Reflections on the Motive Power of Fire". Specifically, according to Carnot:
In 1845, the English physicist James Joule wrote a paper "On the mechanical equivalent of heat" for the British Association meeting in Cambridge. In this work, he reported his best-known experiment, in which the work released through the action of a "weight "falling" through a height" was used to turn a paddle-wheel in an insulated barrel of water.
In this experiment, the friction and agitation of the paddle-wheel on the body of water caused heat to be generated which, in turn, increased the temperature of water. Both the temperature change ∆T of the water and the height of the fall ∆h of the weight mg were recorded. Using these values, Joule was able to determine the mechanical equivalent of heat. Joule estimated a mechanical equivalent of heat to be 819 ft•lbf/Btu (4.41 J/cal). The modern day definitions of heat, work, temperature, and energy all have connection to this experiment.
According to the "First law of thermodynamics", it is useful to separate changes to the internal energy of a thermodynamic system into two sorts of energy transfers. Work refers to forms of energy transfer which can be accounted for in terms of changes in the "macroscopic" physical variables of the system, for example energy which goes into expanding the volume of a system against an external pressure, by driving a piston-head out of a cylinder against an external force. This is in contrast to heat energy, which is carried into or out of the system in the form of transfers in the "microscopic" thermal motions of particles.
The concept of thermodynamic work is slightly more general than that of mechanical work because it includes other types of energy transfers as well. The electrical work required to move a charge against an external electrical field can be measured, as can the work required to move heat against a temperature gradient. Thermodynamic work need not have any mechanical component to be considered such.

</doc>
<doc id="63239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63239" title="Internal energy">
Internal energy

In thermodynamics, the internal energy of a thermodynamic system, or a body with well-defined boundaries, denoted by "U", or sometimes "E", is the total of the kinetic energy due to the motion of molecules (translational, rotational, vibrational) and the potential energy associated with the vibrational and electric energy of atoms within molecules or crystals. It includes the energy in all the chemical bonds, and the energy of the free, conduction electrons in metals. 
The internal energy is a thermodynamic potential and for a closed thermodynamic system held at constant entropy, it will be minimized.
One can also calculate the internal energy of electromagnetic or blackbody radiation. It is a state function of a system, an extensive quantity. The SI unit of energy is the joule although other historical, conventional units are still in use, such as the (small and large) calorie for heat. (Calories that are on classic food labels are actually kilo-calories.)
"Internal" energy does not include the translational or rotational kinetic energy of a body "as a whole". It also does not include the relativistic mass-energy equivalent "E" = "mc". It excludes any potential energy a body may have because of its location in external gravitational or electrostatic field, although the potential energy it has in a field due to an induced electric or magnetic dipole moment does count, as does the energy of deformation of solids (stress-strain).
The principle of equipartition of energy in classical statistical mechanics states that each molecular degree of freedom receives 1/2 "kT" of energy, a result which was modified when quantum mechanics explained certain anomalies; e.g., in the observed specific heats of crystals (when "h"ν > "kT"). For monatomic helium and other noble gases, the internal energy consists only of the translational kinetic energy of the individual atoms. Monatomic particles, of course, do not (sensibly) rotate or vibrate, and are not electronically excited to higher energies except at very high temperatures.
From the standpoint of statistical mechanics, the internal energy is equal to the ensemble average of the total energy of the system.

</doc>
<doc id="63241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63241" title="Physical law">
Physical law

A physical law, scientific law, or a law of nature is a scientific generalization based on empirical observations of physical behavior. Empirical laws are typically conclusions based on repeated scientific experiments over many years, and which have become accepted universally within the scientific community. The production of a summary description of nature in the form of such laws is a fundamental aim of science.
Laws of nature are distinct from the law, either religious or civil, and should not be confused with the concept of natural law. 
Nor should 'physical law' be confused with 'law of physics' - the term 'physical law' usually covers laws in other sciences (e.g. biology) as well.
Some extremely important laws are simply definitions. For example, the central law of mechanics "F" = "dp"/"dt" (Newton's second "law" of mechanics) is often treated as a mathematical definition of force. Although the concept of force predates Newton's law, there was no mathematical definition of force before Newton. The principle of least action (or principle of stationary action), Schroedinger equation, Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, causality and a few other laws also fall into this category (of mathematical definitions).

</doc>
<doc id="63242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63242" title="Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney">
Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney

Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is a visual novel/adventure game developed and published by Capcom. The game was originally a Japan-only Game Boy Advance title called Gyakuten Saiban. However, the Nintendo DS remake Gyakuten Saiban Yomigaeru Gyakuten was translated and released in 2005 outside of Japan. The DS remake features a bonus case called Rise From The Ashes which was not in the original GBA version.
Phoenix Wright is the main protagonist of the game. He is a defense attorney who must prove that his falsely-accused clients are not guilty.
Mia Fey is Phoenix's boss and mentor. She is killed in the second case. However, her spirit can be channelled by Maya and sometimes she reappears to give Phoenix help or advice.
Maya is Mia's little sister. She is Phoenix's assistant. She is also a spirit medium and can sometimes channel Mia's spirit.
Miles Edgeworth is a prosecutor, and Phoenix Wright's rival. He is the prosecutor in every case in the game except for The First Turnabout and Turnabout Goodbyes.
Larry Butz is Phoenix's client in the first case of the game, where he is accused of murder. He is also a witness in the fourth case.
Winston Payne is the prosecutor of the first case. He has appeared in every Ace Attorney game except Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Dual Destinies. He is normally the prosecutor of the Tutorial cases of each game.
Dick Gumshoe is a detective who is usually in charge of investigating the cases that Phoenix takes on.
Manfred von Karma is the prosecutor in case 4 of the game, and is Edgeworth's mentor.
The game features 5 cases.
Phoenix defends Larry Butz, who is accused of murdering his girlfriend.
Phoenix's mentor, Mia Fey, is killed. Phoenix defends her sister, Maya Fey, who is accused of murdering her.
Will Powers, an actor who potrays the Steel Samurai, is accused of murdering Jack Hammer. Phoenix defends him in court.
A man is killed on a boat at Gourd Lake, and Miles Edgeworth is accused of the murder. Phoenix defends him.
Lana Skye is accused of the murder of Bruce Goodman. Her sister, Ema Skye, convinces Phoenix Wright to take her case.
The game is split into 2 segments, Investigation segments and Trial segments.
During Investigation sections Phoenix visits the crime scene, looks for evidence that might be useful in the trial, and talks to witnesses.
Phoenix has to defend his client, and Cross Examine witness testimonies.

</doc>
<doc id="63243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63243" title="Pipe (material)">
Pipe (material)

A pipe is a tube or hollow cylinder for the transport of fluid. The terms 'pipe' and 'tube' can be used for the same objects. 'Pipe' is generally specified by the internal diameter (ID) whereas 'tube' is usually defined by the outside diameter (OD) but may be specified by any combination of dimensions (OD, ID, wall thickness). 'Tube' is often made to custom sizes and may often have more specific sizes and tolerances than pipe. The terms 'tube' and 'tubing' are more widely used in the USA and 'pipe' elsewhere in the world.
Both "pipe" and "tube" imply a level of rigidity and permanence, whereas a " is usually portable and flexible. 

</doc>
<doc id="63247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63247" title="Cameron Diaz">
Cameron Diaz

Cameron Michelle Diaz (born August 30, 1972) is an American actress and former fashion model. She was nominated for four Golden Globe Awards in 1999, 2000, 2002 and 2003.
Cameron Diaz was born in San Diego, California. Her mother, Billie Joann (née Early), is an import-export agent. Her father, Emilio Luis Diaz (1949–2008), worked for the California oil company UNOCAL for more than 20 years as a field gauger. Diaz has an older sister, Chimene. Her father's family were Cubans (of Spanish ancestry), and settled in Tampa's Ybor City, later moving to California, where Emilio was born. Her mother has English, German, and Scots-Irish ancestry. Diaz was raised in Long Beach, California.
Diaz has had many notable roles in blockbuster movies including:

</doc>
<doc id="63248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63248" title="Bacon number">
Bacon number

The Bacon number of an actor or actress is the number of degrees of separation (see Six degrees of separation) they have from actor Kevin Bacon, as defined by the game known as Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon. It applies the Erdős number concept to the movie industry. The higher the Bacon number, the farther away from Kevin Bacon the actor is.
For example, Kevin Bacon's Bacon number is 0. If an actor works in a movie with Kevin Bacon, the actor's Bacon number is 1. If an actor works with an actor who worked with Kevin Bacon in a movie, the first actor's Bacon number is 2, and so forth.

</doc>
<doc id="63258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63258" title="Pondicherry">
Pondicherry

Pondicherry is the capital of Puducherry. It is also known as Puducherry since 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="63261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63261" title="Zanzibar">
Zanzibar

Zanzibar is the name of an archipelago in the Indian Ocean 25–50 km off the coast of East Africa. There are many small islands and two large ones: Unguja (the main island, sometimes informally referred to as 'Zanzibar'), and Pemba Island. 
The archipelago was once the separate state of Zanzibar, which united with Tanganyika to form Tanzania (derived from the two names). Zanzibar is a semi-autonomous within the union, with its own government. 
The capital of Zanzibar is Zanzibar City. It is on the island of Unguja. The city's old quarter, known as Stone Town, is a World Heritage Site.
The people are mostly African Bantu, with some Asians of Indian origin.
Zanzibar has its own government, known as the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar. It is made up of the Revolutionary Council and House of Representatives.
the main Parties are the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) and the Civic United Front (CUF). Since the early 1990s, the politics of the archipelago have been marked by repeated violent clashes between these two political parties.
In October 2009, Zanzibar President Amani Karume met with CUF Secretary Seif Shariff Hamad at the State House to discus how to save Zanzibar from future political turmoil and to end the backlash between them, a move which was welcomed by many people including the USA and political parties. It was the first time CUF agreed to recognize Karume as the legitimate president of Zanzibar.
The relationship between Zanzibar government and Tanzanian Mainland has not been good in recent years since Tanzania Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda's remark about the Isles' sovereignty. He said that Zanzibar is not an independent country outside the Union Government, within which it can only exercise its sovereignty.
Members from both the ruling party, Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM), and the opposition Civic United Front (CUF) disagreed with Mr Pinda's interpretation and stand firmly in recognizing Zanzibar as a fully autonomous and full state. The move was not recognized by the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania.
In 2008, Tanzanian president Jakaya Kikwete tried to silence the debate when he addressed the nation in a live conference by saying that "Zanzibar is a state internal but semi-state international". There the matter rests for the time being.
A proposal to amend Zanzibar’s laws to allow rival parties to form governments of national unity was adopted by 66.4 per cent of voters, after official results of a referendum which was held on July 31, 2010.
Zanzibar is 95% Islamic in religion, and has been so for hundreds of years. It was once part of the Persian Empire, then under the Caliphate of Oman. It was ruled by a Sultan. Zanzibar was conquered by the British in the late 19th century. The islands were involved in the Arab slave trade, and the British conquest was an attempt to stop this. They appointed puppet rulers, and Zanzibar became a 'protectorate', not a colony.
Zanzibar gained independence on 10th December 1963 from the British.
Zanzibar's main industries are spices (which include cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon and pepper), raffia, and tourism. Zanzibar is also the home of the endemic Zanzibar Red Colobus and the elusive Zanzibar Leopard.
The word "Zanzibar" probably derives from the Persian زنگبار, "Zangi-bar" ("coast of the blacks") and it is also known as Zanji-bar in Arabic. Zanzibar is sometimes referred to as the "Spice Islands," a term that is more often used for the Maluku Islands in Indonesia. Pemba Island is the only island apart from Zanzibar that still produces cloves on a major basis which is the primary source of spice income for the islands.
The islands are poor, and the economy is in trouble. Zanzibaris are living a hard life compare to the mainland. In 2000, the annual income per capita was US$220.
During May and June 2008, Zanzibar suffered a major failure of its electricity system, which left the island without electricity for nearly a month. Another blackout happened from December 2009 to March 2010, due to a problem with the submarine cables and the local plant. This led to a serious and ongoing shock to the island's fragile economy, which is heavily dependent on foreign tourism.
Zanzibar's economy is based primarily on the production of cloves (90% grown on the island of Pemba), the principal foreign exchange earner. Exports have suffered with the downturn in the clove market. 
The clove, originally from the Moluccan Islands (Indonesia), was introduced to Zanzibar by the Omani sultans in the first half of the XIX century. Zanzibar, mainly Pemba Island, was once the world's leading clove producer, but annual clove sales have plummeted by 80% since the 1970s. Zanzibar's clove industry has been crippled by a fast-moving global market, and international competition. 
Tanzania's failed experiment with socialism in the 1960s and 1970s, when the government controlled clove prices and exports, is also a factor. Zanzibar now ranks a distant third with Indonesia supplying 75% of the world's cloves compared to Zanzibar's 7%.
Zanzibar exports spices, seaweed and fine raffia. It also has a large fishing and dugout canoe production.
Tourism is a major foreign currency earner. A number of new hotels and resorts having been built in recent years.
The Government of Zanzibar legalized foreign exchange bureaux on the islands. The effect was to increase the availability of consumer commodities. The government has also established a free port area. This stimulates trade and support services. There is a management system for re-exportation of goods.
There is also a possibility of oil exploration in Zanzibar on the island of Pemba. Oil would help boost the economy of Zanzibar, but there have been disagreements about dividends between the Tanzanian mainland and Zanzibar, the latter claiming the oil should be excluded in Union matters. A Norwegian consultant has been sent to Zanzibar to investigate its oil potential.

</doc>
<doc id="63264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63264" title="Enya">
Enya

Enya (born Eithne Patricia Ní Bhraonáin on 17 May 1961 in Gweedore, County Donegal, Ireland) is an Irish singer. She is famous for hits such as "Orinoco Flow" (1988) and "Anywhere Is" (1995).
She has also won four Grammy Awards and has become one of the world's most successful female singers. Her vocal range is mezzo-soprano.
She grew up speaking the Irish language, and did not speak English until she attended primary school.
Her first works were soundtracks for "The Frog Prince" movie by David Puttman and "The Celts" documentary by BBC.
Enya is very popular and has sold more than 75 million albums worldwide. Her best selling album is "A Day Without Rain" (2000).
Enya has recorded the following albums:
She has also recorded music for the following movie soundtracks:

</doc>
<doc id="63265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63265" title="Downing Street">
Downing Street

Downing Street is a street in London, close to Whitehall and Buckingham Palace. The official residences of the two most senior Government ministers are here. These are the Prime Minister, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer. 
Downing Street is a few minutes' walk from the Houses of Parliament. The street was built in the 1680s by Sir George Downing, 1st Baronet (1632–1689) on the site of a mansion called Hampden House. The Prime Minister, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the Chief Whip all have official residences in buildings along one side of the street. The houses on the other side were all replaced by the Foreign Office in the nineteenth century.
10 Downing Street is the address of the London residence and office of the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. The residence was presented by George II in 1733 to Robert Walpole, the first official Prime Minister of the country.

</doc>
<doc id="63268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63268" title="Armenian illuminated manuscript">
Armenian illuminated manuscript

Armenian illuminated manuscripts make a different tradition, related to other forms of Medieval Armenian art, but also to the Byzantine tradition. The earliest surviving examples date from the Golden Age of Armenian art and literature in the 5th century. The Library at Yerevan, has the largest collection of Armenian manuscripts, including the Mugni Gospels and Echmiadzin Gospel.

</doc>
<doc id="63271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63271" title="Alcatraz Island">
Alcatraz Island

Alcatraz Island (sometimes just called Alcatraz or The Rock) is a small island in San Francisco Bay in California. It was first a lighthouse, then a military fort, then a military prison, and finally a federal prison. In 1963, it became a museum.
The name Alcatraz comes from the original Spanish name of the island, "Isla de los alcatraces" ("Island of the pelicans"). It was given that name when a Spanish explorer, Juan Manuel de Ayala, noticed the great amount of pelicans roosting on the island.
Alcatraz Island is one of many islands in the San Francisco Bay area.

</doc>
<doc id="63272" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63272" title="Category:Armenian culture">
Category:Armenian culture


</doc>
<doc id="63275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63275" title="Category:Illuminated manuscripts">
Category:Illuminated manuscripts


</doc>
<doc id="63280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63280" title="Illuminated manuscript">
Illuminated manuscript

An illuminated manuscript is a manuscript where text is supplemented by the addition of decoration, like decorated initials, borders and miniature illustrations.

</doc>
<doc id="63283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63283" title="Manuscript">
Manuscript

A manuscript is any document that is written by hand, not printed or made in some other way. The early history of writing is intimately connected with the history of writing materials, of which the manuscript is one. Early printing made use of many ideas which developed in the era of manuscripts.

</doc>
<doc id="63284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63284" title="Category:Manuscripts">
Category:Manuscripts


</doc>
<doc id="63285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63285" title="Matenadaran">
Matenadaran

Mesrop Mashtots' Matenadaran Institute of Ancient Manuscripts in Yerevan, Armenia, is one of the richest depositories of manuscripts and books in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="63286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63286" title="Category:Yerevan">
Category:Yerevan


</doc>
<doc id="63287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63287" title="Blue Mosque, Yerevan">
Blue Mosque, Yerevan

The Blue Mosque () is a mosque in Yerevan, Armenia. It was built in 1766 during the reign of Huseyn Ali.

</doc>
<doc id="63288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63288" title="Plainview">
Plainview

Plainview is the name of several places in the United States of America:

</doc>
<doc id="63290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63290" title="235 BC">
235 BC

Year 235 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. 

</doc>
<doc id="63292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63292" title="302 BC">
302 BC


</doc>
<doc id="63294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63294" title="San Marino City">
San Marino City

San Marino is the capital of the tiny nation of San Marino. It is the third largest city in the country, after Dogana and Borgo Maggiore.

</doc>
<doc id="63296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63296" title="Fort Worth, Texas">
Fort Worth, Texas

Fort Worth is the fifth largest city in Texas. It is the 16th largest city in the United States of America. It has gotten so big that it has overlapped the next biggest city next to it, Dallas, Texas. Because of this, the area is often referred to as Dallas/Ft. Worth, or DFW. 
Fort Worth is the county seat of Tarrant County. Texas Motor Speedway is also in Fort Worth.
There are a few interesting landmarks in Fort Worth. One is Sundance Square, a popular place to enjoy in downtown. Another is West 7th, an entertainment destination. At last, there is the Fort Worth Stockyards, where rodeos are held.

</doc>
<doc id="63297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63297" title="Akdamar Island">
Akdamar Island

Akdamar Island (also known as "Aghtamar", "Ahktamar", and "Aght'amar"; Armenian: "Աղթամար", Kurdish: "Axtamar") is a small island in Lake Van in Eastern Anatolia region of Turkey.

</doc>
<doc id="63298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63298" title="Category:Churches in Armenia">
Category:Churches in Armenia


</doc>
<doc id="63299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63299" title="Category:Armenian Apostolic Churches">
Category:Armenian Apostolic Churches


</doc>
<doc id="63300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63300" title="Gandzasar monastery">
Gandzasar monastery

The Gandzasar monastery (Armenian: Գանձասար) is an Armenian monastery in Nagorno-Karabakh, in the Mardakert region, near the village of Vank. Gandzasar means treasure mountain in Armenian.

</doc>
<doc id="63301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63301" title="Deportation">
Deportation

Deportation, means the removal of someone from a country. People may be deported from a country for many reasons. For example, one may be deported from a country if he has got into the country illegally, or without a visa (permission).
Deportation can also happen inside a country. A person or a group of people may be forced to move to a different part of the country, as a punishment.

</doc>
<doc id="63306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63306" title="912">
912

912 (CMXII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="63307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63307" title="Vahe">
Vahe

Vahe was a legendary king of Armenia (351 BC–331 BC). He was the last offspring of the Hyke dynasty. He revolted against Alexander the Great and fought a war for Darius the Great of Persia.

</doc>
<doc id="63308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63308" title="Rhadamistus">
Rhadamistus

Rhadamistus (other names Ghadam or Radamisto) was an Iberian prince who reigned in Armenia from 51 to 53 and 54 to 55 CE. 

</doc>
<doc id="63310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63310" title="Construction">
Construction

Construction is the process of erection or assembly of any building or infrastructure on a site. In general, there are three types of construction:
Building construction is the process of adding structure to real property. Industrial construction, though a relatively small part of the entire construction industry, is a very important component.
The first buildings were huts and shelters, constructed by hand or with simple tools. As cities grew during the Bronze Age, a class of professional craftsmen appeared. Occasionally, slaves were used for construction work. In the Middle Ages, these were organized into guilds. In the 19th century, steam-powered machinery appeared, and later diesel- and electric powered vehicles such as cranes, excavators and bulldozers.
Modern construction is consistently made of materials such as glass, steel, concrete and bricks. So it is easy to build simple forms like simple cubic forms. The new style of architecture is based on the economic basic principle:

</doc>
<doc id="63311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63311" title="Infrastructure">
Infrastructure

Infrastructure is the term used to describe the facilities which support modern human life.
These are the main items: water supply, sewage plants, housing, roads, cable networks, food supply facilities, schools, hospitals, airports, community meeting places, business and government buildings, bridges, railways. In fact, everything that modern life needs in the way of built facilities.
Infrastructure is closely connected with standard of living and overpopulation. Every time the population doubles, it follows that the infrastructure must at least double, often more than that. If a country is poor – and the highest population growth is in poor countries – then its government cannot provide the needed infrastructure. Standard of living drops and this may lead to other problems like worsening health, exposure to plague and difficult access of emergency units to those that need it.

</doc>
<doc id="63314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63314" title="Ceremony">
Ceremony

A ceremony is an activity performed at a special time usually with according seriousness. Ceremonies may be done to celebrate an event or rite of passage.
A ceremony may mark a rite of passage in a person's job or life, showing how important it is. Examples:
Sometimes, a ceremony may only be done by certain people. A wedding is done by a priest or a Civil Celebrant. The President of the United States is sworn in by the Chief Justice of the United States at his or her inauguration. The British monarch is usually made king or queen by the Archbishop of Canterbury at his or her coronation.
Other ceremonies may mark yearly events like:
In Asian cultures, ceremonies are also important, for example the tea ceremony.

</doc>
<doc id="63315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63315" title="Kirk Kerkorian">
Kirk Kerkorian

Kerkor "Kirk" Kerkorian (June 6, 1917 – June 15, 2015) was an Armenian-American 
billionaire, and president/CEO of Tracinda Corporation, his private holding company based in Beverly Hills, California. 
Kerkorian is known as one of the important figures in shaping the city of Las Vegas, Nevada.

</doc>
<doc id="63320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63320" title="Chemical property">
Chemical property

In chemistry, a property is any aspect of a substance which is only seen by means of a chemical reaction. Simply speaking, chemical properties cannot be determined just by viewing or touching the substance. This is different from a physical property, which can be discovered without changing the substance's chemical structure. 
Usually a chemical property is discovered by changing the substance's internal structure. When a substance goes under a chemical reaction, the properties will change drastically, resulting in chemical change. However, a catalytic property would also be a chemical property.
Chemical properties can be used for building chemical classifications. They can be used to identify an unknown substance or to separate or purify it from other substances.

</doc>
<doc id="63321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63321" title="Bass drum">
Bass drum

A bass drum is a type of musical instrument called a drum. It is a large drum, makes low sounds, and is frequently used in the common drum kit.

</doc>
<doc id="63322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63322" title="Drum kit">
Drum kit

A drum kit (or drum set or trap set) is a collection of drums, cymbals, and other percussion instruments that is used by a drummer in a musical group.
A drum kit is normally comprised of the following:
Other cymbals and drums can be added to the setup for a wider range of sounds like the Splash, a small cymbal around 10"/25 cm giving a distinct crash sound with a quick decay, or a China cymbal, that gives an "oriental feel" to beats, rhythms, solos and fills. The latter is much like a crash cymbal popped inside out with the screw and sponge holding it to the stand inside it, so it has a shallow bowl shape. 
The drummer can do other things to the kit, such as attach a tambourine to the spine of the hi-hat, so when he/she puts his/her foot down on the pedal or hits it with a drumstick, the drummer gets the tambourine sound at the same time. Cymbals can also have rivets inserted into them to give them a 'sizzling' sound, or a cowbell can be attached to the top of the bass drum between the snare and floor tom to use in fills, solos, grooves, etc.

</doc>
<doc id="63323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63323" title="Drum stick">
Drum stick

A drum stick or drumstick is a wooden stick that is used to hit percussion instruments to make sound. 
There are many kinds of drumsticks. Some sticks are made for certain instruments. For instance, a drum kit stick may look very different from a snare drum stick. Weight, length, and tip size are all altering factors in a stick.

</doc>
<doc id="63324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63324" title="Khachkar">
Khachkar

A Khachkar or Khatchkar ("Խաչքար" in Armenian, meaning "cross-stone", pronounced as ) is a carved memorial stone found in Armenia.
It has a crucifix or cross, with a rosette or sun circle below it. Other parts can be filled with patterns of leaves, grapes or knots. Sometimes it has a ledge at the top with saints' or characters from the bible.
Much of the time a khachkar is put up for religious reasons such as the salvation of the soul of a living or a dead person. They have also been removed for other reasons, such as to show a military win, building of a new church, or as a protection from natural disasters.
Most Khachkars are in graveyards. But Armenian gravestones take many other forms, and only a small are khatchkars.

</doc>
<doc id="63326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63326" title="Back Dorm Boys">
Back Dorm Boys

Back Dorm Boys () are two Chinese people who have made several well known spoof music videos in 2006. Their name comes from their lip sync video of the Backstreet Boys' song "As Long As You Love Me". They are often called the "Back Dormitory Boys". Their spoof music videos have been selected by Motorola China to promote mobile phones. The two members of the Back Dorm Boys are 韦炜 (Wei Wei) and 黄艺馨 (Huang Yi Xin). They were university students at Guangzhou Arts Institute (广州美术学院) majoring in sculpture. Their videos were very famous in China. The became very famous around the world after the videos were shown on YouTube.

</doc>
<doc id="63327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63327" title="Nattō">
Nattō

Natto ( (hiragana), 納豆 (kanji); "nattō" or "nattou") is a traditional Japanese food made by fermenting soybeans. Natto is known for its strong musky smell and unusual slimy texture, which yields mucous-like strings when stirred and eaten. Its taste has been described as being a 'bit funky.' In order to mediate some of the strong flavors it is usually eaten on top of rice with , a soy sauce-based condiment, and Japanese mustard. 
There are many kinds of Natto. First, Natto is classified under two types of Natto, Itohiki Natto and Ji Natto. Also Itohiki Natto has three kinds of Natto, Marudaizu Natto, Hikiwari Natto, and Goto Natto. We usually eat Marudaizu Natto tand Hikiwari Natto.
Natto may be bought in stores in Styrofoam boxes. Sometimes, they come with a mustard packet and a packet of "tsuyu" to eat with the natto. 
Although it is not customary to cook natto, natto may be prepared in food items like sushi or "donburi". "Donburi" is any Japanese dish served with rice in a bowl. Natto can be made into a donburi by adding natto and other items like tuna or egg to rice inside a bowl. "Nattojiru" is what people add natto to miso soup as a seasoning. Also Natto is used for topping when we eat Soba, Udon, Spaghetti, Okonomiyaki and so on.
In general, Soy sauce, tsuyu, mustard, but some people use egg, leek, Japanese ginger, Grated radish, Laver, Okra, and etc.

</doc>
<doc id="63328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63328" title="Kichijōji">
Kichijōji

Kichijōji also has some famous landmarks. Inokashira Park, for example, is in the south part of the district, and is a favorite place for springtime "hanami", or to see cherry-blossoms. The Kanda River (神田川) begins to flow from this park. The Seikei University (成蹊大学), one of Tokyo's biggest private universities, is in the northwestern area of the neighborhood.

</doc>
<doc id="63330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63330" title="Udon">
Udon

Udon is most often served hot as a noodle soup in a mild, salty broth. Its simplest form is called "kake udon". This consists only of dashi stock, soy sauce ("shōyu"), mirin, and "udon" noodles. Different things can be put on top of the soup as toppings. Often thinly cut scallions are used, along with other common toppings such as kamaboko, prawn or vegetable tempura, some spices, and wakame.
The flavor of the broth and toppings, as well as even noodle texture and thickness, vary from region to region. Usually, dark brown broth made from dark soy sauce ("koikuchi shōyu") is common in eastern Japan. Light brown broth made from light soy sauce ("usukuchi shōyu") is common in western Japan. However, many other regional types exist outside of just broth color and mainly vary in toppings used.
Kagawa Prefecture is famous for using udon as a staple food.
According to JAS (Japanese Agricultural Standard), to be udon, a round noodle's diameter has to be over 1.7 mm and a flat noodle's width over 1.7 mm. Udon dough is made from wheat flour and salt.

</doc>
<doc id="63332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63332" title="Hachiōji, Tokyo">
Hachiōji, Tokyo

The city is the 8th biggest city around the Tokyo metropolitan area. It is the 24th largest city in Japan. 
Hachiōji officially became a city on September 1, 1917, but it has been an important point on the Kōshū Highway, the main road that connected Edo (the old name of Tokyo) with Western Japan since before modern times, especially during the Edo period. For a short period of time, a castle, Hachiōji Castle (八王子城; Hachiōji-jō) was in the area. It was made in 1584 by Hōjō Ujiteru (北条氏照), but was soon broken in war by Toyotomi Hideyoshi in 1590. In the Meiji period, Hachiōji grew larger because of silk and silk textiles. However, the industry became less popular in the 1960s. Today, Hachiōji is home for many Tokyo workers.
In Hachioji, there are about 20 colleges and universities, including Takushoku University.
There are 3 mountains around Hachioji. 

</doc>
<doc id="63335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63335" title="Nerima, Tokyo">
Nerima, Tokyo

Nerima is one of the 23 special wards in Tokyo, Japan.
The municipality calls itself "Nerima City" in English.
Nerima is called "the town of animation" because the earliest anime businesses started up in the area. 
Nerima is a western ward. It borders Nakano and Suginami on the south. Musashino and Nishitokyo are on the ward's western border. Saitamo Prefecture is on the northern border. Itabashi and Toshima are on the west.
There is a long river in Nerima.

</doc>
<doc id="63338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63338" title="Suginami, Tokyo">
Suginami, Tokyo

is one of the 23 special wards of Tokyo, Japan.
The municipality calls itself "Suginami City" in English.
Suginami is in the western part of Tokyo's special wards. It is next to Setagaya to the south. Its western neighbors are the cities of Mitaka and Musashino. Nerima is on the northern border. Nakano is to the east. 
The Kanda river runs through the ward.

</doc>
<doc id="63341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63341" title="Higashi-Nagasaki Station">
Higashi-Nagasaki Station

Higashi-Nagasaki Station is the railway station of the Seibu-Ikebukuro line in Toshima Ward, Tokyo, Japan.
The station is near the "Ikebukuro" station that is center of Tokyo. Only local train stops this station. Limited express, rapid express, semi express and rapid train pass this station. The next station of this station to east is "Shinamachi". The next station of this station to west is "Ekoda".
The area near the Higashi-nagasaki station is named "Nagasaki", but Nagasaki and Nagasaki Prefecture in Kyushu are not related. "Nagasaki" in Toshima Ward is located in east Japan. So this station's name have "Higashi"(means "east") to distinguish between this station and Nagasaki station in Kyushu.

</doc>
<doc id="63345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63345" title="Sagamihara, Kanagawa">
Sagamihara, Kanagawa

Sagamihara (, Sagamihara-shi?) is a city in Japan. It is in north central Kanagawa Prefecture, bordering Tokyo, Japan. It is the third most populous city in the prefecture, after Yokohama and Kawasaki. 
The main areas of commercial activity in Sagamihara are around Hashimoto Station on the JR Yokohama Line and Keio Sagamihara Line, Sagamihara Station on the JR Yokohama Line, and Sagami-Ōno Station on the Odakyu Odawara Line.

</doc>
<doc id="63346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63346" title="Aomori, Aomori">
Aomori, Aomori

Aomori is the capital city of Aomori Prefecture. It is northest of the town of Honsyu.
It is a coastal city, and is nearby Tsugaru Bay.
It has been recognized as a core city since 2006.
The Nebuta festival is one of the most famous festivals in Japan. It takes place at the beginning of August. More than 300,000 people come and see this festival every year.
This festival is called both “Nebuta” and ”Neputa”. In Aomori city, they use the word “Nebuta”, and in Hirosaki city, they use the word “Neputa”.

</doc>
<doc id="63353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63353" title="Category:San Marino">
Category:San Marino


</doc>
<doc id="63356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63356" title="HM Land Registry">
HM Land Registry

Land Registry or Her Majesty's Land Registry is a United Kingdom government office which started in 1862. It publicly records interests in land in England and Wales. It answers to the Ministry of Justice.
The office records the owner of land and legal rights over land. It has recorded about half of the land in England and Wales, and they request owners to record the rest.
Persons make payments to the Land Registry to record land or for copies of the records. The British Government does not make payments to the Land Registry.
The Land Registry has 24 offices in England and Wales and a head office at Lincoln’s Inn Fields in London, England. It wants to shut the offices in York and Harrow.
The head of the Land Registry is called the Chief Land Registrar and Chief Executive.
In 1857 a government committee said there should be a record of land. The Land Registry started after the Land Registry Act 1862. The failure of this law led to a new law in 1875. But this law was also a failure because persons could decide if they wanted to record their land, and most persons decided not to. In 1897 a new law forced persons in London to record their land when they sold it. Step by step this law was applied to the rest of England and Wales by 1990. A new law – the Land Registration Act 2002 – modernised the law and made possible the electronic sale of land.

</doc>
<doc id="63360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63360" title="Yamuna">
Yamuna

The Yamuna (), sometimes called Jamuna (, , ) or Jumna, is a major river in North India. It is the largest branch of a bigger river called the Ganges. It is 1370 km long. It begins at the Yamunotri, which is in the Himalayas. It goes through the Indian states of Delhi, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh. At the end, it flows into the Ganges. Rivers that come out of the Yamuna include the Tons (the largest of the ones that come out of it), Chambal, Betwa, and Ken.

</doc>
<doc id="63361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63361" title="Ahmedabad">
Ahmedabad

Ahmedabad is a big city in West India. It is the largest city in the Indian state of Gujarat and the seventh-largest city in India. Its population (amount of people living in it) is almost 5.1 million (5,100,000). The river Sabarmati goes through it. Ahmedabad has a famous industry for textiles (clothes), which is why it is also called ""the Manchester of the East"." 

</doc>
<doc id="63362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63362" title="Dachau">
Dachau

Dachau is a city in the south of Germany, about north-west of Munich. It has about 40,000 inhabitants. The town contains a historic town centre with an 18th century castle.
Dachau was founded in the 8th century. In 1933, a concentration camp was built in Dachau. It was the first camp of the Nazis and became the prototype for all other camps. More than 30,000 prisoners died, or were killed.

</doc>
<doc id="63367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63367" title="Odonata">
Odonata

The Odonata are an order of flying insects, the dragonflies and damselflies. Like most of the flying insects (flies, beetles, Lepidoptera and Hymenoptera), they evolved in the early Mesozoic era. Their prototypes, the giant dragonflies of the Carboniferous are no longer put in the Odonata. They are now called Protodonata or Meganisoptera.
The two suborders are easily distinguished by their eyes:
There are other views on the classification of the Odonata, but this is as much as anyone needs to know in order to enjoy this beautiful group of insects.
All Odonata have aquatic larvae called 'nymphs', and all of them, larvae and adults, are carnivorous. The adults can land, but not walk. Their legs are specialised for catching prey.
These insects characteristically have large rounded heads covered mostly by big compound eyes, legs that catch prey (other insects) in flight, two pairs of long, transparent wings that move independently, and long abdomens. They have two ocelli (eye spots) and short antennae. The mouthparts are on the underside of the head and include simple chewing mandibles in the adult.

</doc>
<doc id="63371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63371" title="Chordophone">
Chordophone

A chordophone is any musical instrument which produces sound commonly by vibrating a string or strings stretched between two points.
What most westerners would call string instruments are classified as chordophones (for example, violins, guitars and harps).

</doc>
<doc id="63373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63373" title="Will Ferrell">
Will Ferrell

John William "Will" Ferrell (; born , 1967) is an American comedian, impressionist, actor, producer, and writer. He began his successful career as a cast member of the comedy television show "Saturday Night Live". He has since appeared in many different movies such as "Blades of Glory", "Elf", ', ', and "Old School".
Ferrell was born in Irvine, California. He is the son of Betty Kay (nee Overman), a teacher who taught at Old Mill School elementary school and Santa Ana College, and Roy Lee Ferrell Jr., a musician with The Righteous Brothers. His parents were both natives of Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina, and moved to California in 1964. He has a younger brother named Patrick. When he was 8, his parents divorced. Ferrell said of the divorce: "I was the type of kid who would say, 'Hey, look at the bright side! We'll have two Christmases'."

</doc>
<doc id="63374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63374" title="Tritium">
Tritium

Tritium is an isotope of hydrogen, the lightest element. Tritium has one proton and two neutrons, making it heavier than ordinary hydrogen or its isotope deuterium. Hydrogen does not have any neutrons, only a proton. The chemical symbol for Tritium is H or T.
In nature, tritium is made when cosmic rays hit nitrogen in the Earth's atmosphere. Tritium has a half-life of a little more than eight years, so there is not much in the atmosphere. People make much more tritium in nuclear reactors, so that they can make things from it.
Tritium is important for nuclear fusion power. Tritium is added to nuclear bombs to make them more powerful when they explode. 
Tritium is often used with phosphors to make glow in the dark key-rings, and sights on rifles. Tritium makes the phosphors glow because it is radioactively unstable and gives energy to the phosphor so it can make light. Before lots of tritium could be made, people used radium to make things light up but this gave people cancer.
Radioactive decay produces tritium. High levels of tritium were found in 2013 in the sea near the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant two years after the Fukushima nuclear disaster.

</doc>
<doc id="63385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63385" title="Wood fibre">
Wood fibre

Wood fibres are made of cellulose got from the xylem vessels in plants, especially trees. 
Products made from wood fibres include paper, straw, bamboo, cotton, hemp, sugar cane. Each product is got from a suitable plant or plants.

</doc>
<doc id="63386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63386" title="Christian theology">
Christian theology

Christian theology is reasoned commentary concerning Christianity. Christian theologians use rational analysis and argument to understand, explain, test, critique, defend or promote Christianity.
Christian theology starts with the New Testament. Saint Paul, in his letters, and in his speeches in Acts of the Apostles, draws upon his training as a rabbi and on his experience of Christ starting outside Damascus to explain to Jews and Gentiles alike the meaning of the crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus. Throughout the History of Christianity later writers such as Luther and John Calvin have stressed the Bible as the cornerstone of theological understanding, although the Biblical canon itself is not without controversy. Catholic and Orthodox theologians have also stressed the importance of Church tradition for the faith. Thomas Aquinas and Saint Augustine are among the most important writers within the Roman Catholic Church.
Differences in theology have led to the many denominations within Christianity, starting with the separation of Jesus' followers from Judaism, and then particularly in the Great Schism and during the Reformation. After Luther's quarrel with the Pope, Reformed churches like the Lutherans and Baptists are established. Calvinism is very important within Protestantism, although the followers of Jacob Arminius do not accept it. Attempts at compromise in England between the Catholics and Puritans lead to the establishment of the Church of England.
Later movements include Methodism, Liberal Christianity, Pentecostalism, and Liberation theology.

</doc>
<doc id="63387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63387" title="Professional wrestling">
Professional wrestling

Professional wrestling, pro wrestling or simply wrestling is a kind of sport. It is different from other sports because it is a fixed sport. It is also known as sports entertainment.
Most wrestlers are exceptional athletes who train for many hours each day to maintain their physical condition. They practice for years to learn both the moves and how to execute them safely while still making it look dangerous. They suffer many injuries, sometimes severe. Their schedules are grueling. There is certainly nothing fake about flying 20 feet through the air from the top rope. 
Professional wrestling is done as a show, like a play. Many wrestlers will wrestle in many fights, called matches. They wrestle inside a 'wrestling ring', which is a place with ropes around it. The best wrestlers can win belts, called 'championship titles', to show that they are the best.
The most famous pro wrestler is Dwayne Johnson, performing in the ring as 'The Rock'. In his relatively short career, The Rock quickly became an icon of the industry and his wrestling success has translated into a very successful movie career. Some other well known pro wrestlers are Ric Flair, Hulk Hogan, André the Giant, Sting, "Macho Man" Randy Savage, Bret "The Hitman" Hart, Shawn Michaels, The Undertaker, Triple H, Brock Lesnar, Goldberg, Mick Foley, Stone Cold Steve Austin and John Cena.
Many people like to watch professional wrestling on television or live in person while it happens. The United States, Canada, Mexico, and Japan are countries that have a lot of professional wrestling.
The biggest company of professional wrestling is WWE (World Wrestling Entertainment). Once a year, they have a big wrestling event called WrestleMania.

</doc>
<doc id="63393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63393" title="Monaco-Ville">
Monaco-Ville

Monaco-Ville is the original fortified town of Monaco.

</doc>
<doc id="63395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63395" title="Category:Fortification">
Category:Fortification


</doc>
<doc id="63396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63396" title="Hıdırlık Tower">
Hıdırlık Tower

Hıdırlık Tower is a landmark tower of tawny stone in Antalya, Turkey, where Kaleiçi meets Karaalioglu Park.
The tower is at the south side of the place, where the land walls of the city join the sea walls. The 14m high tower consists a circular tower rising on a quadratic pedestal. The tower's gate at the eastern side goes to a small room, from where a narrow staircase goes up. There are some restoration work on the upper part done in the Seljuk and Ottoman eras.
Around the Hıdırlık Tower is many cafés and restaurants also a view of the Gulf of Antalya.

</doc>
<doc id="63397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63397" title="Albuquerque, New Mexico">
Albuquerque, New Mexico

Albuquerque (also known as "Bee'eldííldahsinil" in Navajo) is the largest city in the state of New Mexico, United States. It is the 32nd largest city in the United States. The city was founded in 1706. It is notable because of its mix of European, Hispanic, and Native American populations. At the center of the city, Interstate 40 and Interstate 25 meet. The city is located on Historic Route 66.
Events held in Albuquerque include:

</doc>
<doc id="63398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63398" title="Mesa, Arizona">
Mesa, Arizona

Mesa is a city in Maricopa County, Arizona and part of the Phoenix-Mesa-Scottsdale Metropolitan Area. It is the 38th largest city in the United States of America. It was settled by members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in January 1878.

</doc>
<doc id="63399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63399" title="Category:Cities in New Mexico">
Category:Cities in New Mexico


</doc>
<doc id="63400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63400" title="Tucson, Arizona">
Tucson, Arizona

Tucson is a city in Arizona, United States. It is the seat of Pima County. It is 118 miles (188 km) southeast of Phoenix and 60 miles (98 km) north of the Mexican border. It is where the shooting of senator Gabrielle Giffords took place. Arizona has many deserts. It is visited by many people to escape cold weather.

</doc>
<doc id="63402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63402" title="Arlington, Texas">
Arlington, Texas

Arlington is a city in Tarrant County, Texas, United States. It is in the Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington metropolitan area.
Arlington has the United States Bowling Congress, AT&T Stadium, Nuclear Regulatory Commission Region IV and American Mensa.

</doc>
<doc id="63403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63403" title="Tarrant County, Texas">
Tarrant County, Texas

Tarrant County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas. In 2010, 1,809,034 people lived there. The county seat is Fort Worth, and in 2012, 777,992 people lived there, making it the largest city in the county. The second largest city in the county is Arlington, where 375,600 people live.

</doc>
<doc id="63405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63405" title="Spectrophotometer">
Spectrophotometer

Spectrophotometry is the quantity based study of electromagnetic spectra. A spectrophotometer measures either the amount of light reflected from a sample object or the amount of light that is absorbed by the sample object.
In short, the sequence of events in a modern spectrophotometer is as follows:
There are two kinds of spectrophotometers: single beam and double beam. A double beam spectrophotometer compares the light intensity between two light paths. One path containing a reference sample. The other the test sample. A single beam spectrophotometer measures the relative light intensity of the beam before and after a test sample is inserted. A double beam machine makes comparison readings easier and more stable. But a single beam machine can have measure a wider range of light frequencies. Single beam machines have simple optical systems and are more compact. When the spectrophotometer is built into another device (like microscopes or telescopes) only single beam machines will work.
Many older spectrophotometers must be calibrated by a procedure known as "zeroing." The absorbancy of a reference substance is set as a baseline value, so the absorbancies of all other substances are recorded relative to the initial "zeroed" substance. The spectrophotometer then displays % absorbancy (the amount of light absorbed relative to the initial substance).
Spectrophotometers can also measure luminescence. For example, the machine can shine ultraviolet light of one frequency on the sample. This will excite the sample and make it glow. The detectors can then measure the light glowing from the sample at a different frequency.

</doc>
<doc id="63406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63406" title="Category:Spectroscopy">
Category:Spectroscopy


</doc>
<doc id="63407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63407" title="Russian Orthodox Church">
Russian Orthodox Church

The Russian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate are Christians who are united under the Patriarch of Moscow, who in turn is in communion with the other patriarchs and primates of the Eastern Orthodox Church.

</doc>
<doc id="63408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63408" title="Form">
Form

Form (Lat. "forma" Eng. "mould"), refers to the external three-dimensional outline, appearance or configuration of some thing - in contrast to the matter or content or substance of which it is mainly composed (compare with shape).

</doc>
<doc id="63409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63409" title="Martiros Saryan">
Martiros Saryan

Martiros Saryan (, February 28, 1880 – 5 May 1972 ) was a Russian-born Armenian painter.
He was born into an Armenian family in Nor Nakhijevan (now part of Russia). In 1895, he was 15, he finished the Nakhichevan school and from 1897 to 1904 learned at the Moscow School of Arts, also in the workshops of Valentin Serov and Konstantin Korovin. He was heavily influenced by the work of Paul Gauguin and Henri Matisse. He showed his works in various shows.
"Nature's ways are wonderful and unfathomable. The grain swells in the soil, the sprout grows and flowers when the time comes and then it bears new fruit and so does not die. We are like grain. We never die because we are One with Nature. To understand this is to comprehend Immortality--the Apotheosis of the Human Race. It is with this conviction that I have lived my Life. My Life is a store of my experience, a Life of aspirations, sorrows, joys and triumphs." (M. Saryan)

</doc>
<doc id="63415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63415" title="Library of Congress">
Library of Congress

The Library of Congress is the "de facto" national library of the United States and the research arm of the United States Congress.
The head of the Library is the Librarian of Congress. David S. Mao is the current acting Librarian of Congress. 

</doc>
<doc id="63418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63418" title="Forest, Ontario">
Forest, Ontario

Forest, Ontario is a town in Lambton County, Ontario, Canada. About 3,000 people live in the town. It the biggest town in Lambton Shores. The town was an important lumber town. It even had its own train stop. Forest is now a tourist attraction. It has trails and camp facilities.
Forest is located on land that was once dense forest. When the Grand Trunk Railway was built, the station for the town was named for the dense forest. In 1859, the first post office was then named Forest.
The industry of the town was first based on the large amount of fruit growing in the area. There was once a canning factory and a basket factory in Forest. In more recent years, the town has become a dormitory community for the city of Sarnia and, to a lesser extent, London, Ontario. The large tourism area along the shores of nearby Lake Huron also helps local businesses. Several small manufacturing plants supporting the automobile industry have also opened in the past few years.
In 2001, the last year that Forest was a national census unit, the town had a population of 2,857. The average age of the people who live in Forest was about 42. This is five years older than the average for the entire province. The average earnings of the people living in Forest was $27,902 (CAD) in the year 2000. In 2006, the local census unit was changed to the town of Lambton Shores. Information for Forest itself is not available.
Forest has a high school, North Lambton Secondary School. The school has a large gymnasium and cafeteria. It also has access to washroom and meal preparation facilities. Forest has two separate school systems. It has a public school system, Kinnwood Central Public School, and a private school system, St. John Fisher. Both systems have elementary schools.
There are many recreational facilities in the town. These include an enclosed arena/community center with baseball and soccer fields, a lawn bowling club and public tennis courts. There is also an agricultural society with grounds used for a fall fair and campsites. A privately owned golf course is located in the town, Forest Golf and Country Hotel. There are also more than a dozen other golf courses within a drive.
Forest has a natural amphitheatre in the conservation area in the south part of the town. Each year the people of the town act in a religious play called "The Promise" in this amphitheatre. They have done the play since 1995. The stage of the amphitheatre is on a small island. The audience sits on the surrounding hillsides.

</doc>
<doc id="63419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63419" title="Soul music">
Soul music

Soul music is a kind of music that mixes rhythm and blues, gospel music and white pop music. It started in the 1960s in the United States. Features of Soul Music are call and response, hand claps, body movement and a tense vocal sound.
Ray Charles is said to be inventor of Soul with his song "I Got a Woman".
Soul is energetic music with main subjects of lyrics being love, dance and life.
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame states that soul is "music that arose out of the black experience in America through the transmutation of gospel and rhythm & blues into a form of funky, secular testifying."
Recently, singers like Christina Aguilera, Amy Winehouse and Adele are known as Blue Eyed Soul singers.
In some variations of soul brass and saxophones are used a lot.

</doc>
<doc id="63420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63420" title="Garni">
Garni

Garni ("Գառնի" in Armenian) is a village in the Armenian province of Kotayk'. 

</doc>
<doc id="63426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63426" title="Greater Armenia">
Greater Armenia

Greater Armenia could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="63428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63428" title="Irredentism">
Irredentism

Irredentism is the desire of a state, or of some people in a state, for annexation of land that another state has. The ones who want the land say it really belongs to them because the other state stole it, or because they wish to liberate people of the same ethnicity or other connection who live there. 

</doc>
<doc id="63430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63430" title="Greater Armenia (political concept)">
Greater Armenia (political concept)

Greater Armenia or United Armenia is an Armenian irredentist political goal aimed at uniting all territories perceived as "historically or ethnically Armenian" to the Republic of Armenia.

</doc>
<doc id="63431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63431" title="Fume hood">
Fume hood

A fume hood or fume cupboard is a large piece of scientific equipment common to chemistry laboratories. Fume hoods stop a person coming into contact with hazardous fumes. They contain an air pump that sucks fumes away from the person using them.
Fume hoods have a large glass window that is opened when a scientist needs to get inside. The window protects the scientist from splashes of chemicals or explosions that could harm them. Most chemical reactions are done inside a fume hood. 

</doc>
<doc id="63433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63433" title="Ghevont Alishan">
Ghevont Alishan

Father Ghevont Alishan () (1820–1901; also spelled Ghevond Alishan) was an ordained Armenian Catholic priest, historian and a poet.

</doc>
<doc id="63434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63434" title="Armenian Catholic Church">
Armenian Catholic Church

The Armenian Catholic Church is an Eastern Catholic church "sui juris" within the Catholic Church. Its headquarters are in Bzoummar, Lebanon. The union was established in the Council of Florence, in 1439. During the Armenian Genocide, 1915-1918, its followers were scattered, mainly to Syria and Lebanon. Many Armenians also fled to Georgia and Ukraine. In 1991, after the fall of the Iron Curtain, Pope John Paul II merged the churches in Georgia and Ukraine with those in Armenia. He created a new eparchy of Armenia and Eastern Europe. There is a seminary in Gyumri, the largest city in Armenia. At the same time Catholic Armenians in Georgia de facto entered this newly formed diocese.The city of Gymuri was chosen because most Catholic Armenians live in the north of the country.
Many Armenians emigrated to the United States and Canada, mainly in the 1970s. For this reason, Pope Benedict XVI created a diocese for these people. It is responsible for about 35.000 people in the US, and about 10.000 in Canada. 
The church uses the Armenian Rite and the Armenian language for its services. 
The current Patriarch of the church is Nerses Bedros XIX Tarmouni.

</doc>
<doc id="63435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63435" title="Armin T. Wegner">
Armin T. Wegner

Armin T. Wegner (October 16 1886 – May 17 1978) was a soldier in World War I, a writer and a co-creator of German Expressionism, a political activist for Armenian and Jewish human rights, and a victim of Nazi persecution.
He was a war reporter for several German newspapers at the same time. While staying in Turkey, he saw the genocide of Armenians with his own eyes.
After Hitler came to power, Wegner was against the fascists, and spoke against the treatment of Jews. After writing a letter to Hitler, he was arrested and tortured. Wegner survived and escaped and was based in England, and in Italy after the end of World War II.

</doc>
<doc id="63436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63436" title="Category:Armenian Genocide">
Category:Armenian Genocide


</doc>
<doc id="63438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63438" title="Activism">
Activism

Activism is action to bring about change in society. It can be trying to make a government change its laws, or trying to make people change what they do. There are many forms of activism. Activism is most associated with protests. More recently internet activism has become popular.
When activism is linked to art, the action, in street art is called artivism. Chinese artist and activist Ai Weiwei is a typical example.

</doc>
<doc id="63442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63442" title="Assyrian people">
Assyrian people

Assyrians, also known as Syriacs, Chaldeans, and Aramaeans, are an ethnic group whose origins remain in what is today Iraq, Iran, Turkey and Syria, but who have gone to the Caucasus, North America and Western Europe during the past century. Hundreds of thousands more live in Assyrian diaspora and Iraqi refugee communities in Europe, the former Soviet Union, the United States, Australia, New Zealand, Syria, Jordan, and Lebanon.

</doc>
<doc id="63443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63443" title="Uncertainty principle">
Uncertainty principle

The Uncertainty principle is also called the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. Werner Heisenberg stumbled on a secret of the universe: No thing has a definite position, a definite trajectory, or a definite momentum. Trying to pin a thing down to one definite position will make its momentum less well pinned down, and vice-versa. In everyday life we can successfully measure the position of an automobile at a definite time and then measure its direction and speed (assuming it is coasting along at a steady rate) in the next few moments. That is because the uncertainties in position and velocity are so small that we could not detect them. We assume, quite correctly, that the trajectory of the automobile will not be noticeably changed when we drop a marker on the ground and click a stopwatch at the same time to note the car's position in time and space. 
We may bring that experience to the world of atomic-sized phenomena and incorrectly assume that if we measure the position of something like an electron as it moves along its trajectory it will continue to move along that same trajectory, which we imagine we can then accurately detect in the next few moments. We need to learn that the electron did not have a definite position before we located it, and that it also did not have a definite momentum before we measured the trajectory. Moreover, we may justifiably assume that a photon produced by a laser aimed at a detection screen will hit very near to its target on that screen, and confirm this prediction by any number of experiments. Next we will discover that the more closely we try to pin down some location for the electron on its way toward the detection screen, the more it and all others like it will be likely to miss that target. So pinning down a location for an electron makes the trajectory more indefinite, indeterminate, or uncertain. If the trajectory were made more clear and then we were to try to locate that electron along an extension of the trajectory we just staked out, then we would find that the more precise we made our knowledge of the trajectory, the less likely we would be to find the electron where ordinary expectations would lead us to believe it to be. If pitchers threw electrons instead of baseballs, and an overhead camera and side-facing camera were placed somewhere between the pitcher's mound and home plate so that the exact position of the electron could be determined in mid flight, then without the cameras being turned on, the pitcher would throw straight balls, and with the cameras turned on his pitches would start out straight but gyrate wildly after their pictures were taken. The more clearly we know where the ball was halfway toward home place, the more trouble the batter will have in getting ready to hit it with his bat.
Unexpected consequences of the uncertainty feature of nature support our understanding of such things as nuclear fission, the control of which gave humans a new and very powerful source of energy, and quantum tunneling, which is an operating principle of the semiconductors that are so important to modern computer and other technologies.
In technical discussions one almost always talks about position and momentum. Momentum is the product of velocity and mass, and in physics the idea of velocity is the speed that something is going in a certain direction. So sometimes one can also talk about the velocity of the thing in question and ignore its mass, and sometimes it is easier to understand things if we talk about the trajectory or path that something follows. That idea also includes the ideas of speed and direction. In the following diagrams we will show the main features of uncertainty in concrete terms, in the world of real things. Later we will use a little math to be able to give a clear idea of how much wiggle room there is between position and momentum.
Very shortly after Werner Heisenberg created the new quantum physics something unexpected came right out of his mathematics, the expression:<br>
These symbols put into math form what you have already seen in the pictures above. The symbols say, in a clear way, that you cannot be perfectly certain about where something is and where it is going. If you get clearer on where it is at any time then you have less of an idea on where it is going and how fast. If you get clearer on where it is going and how fast at any time, then you have less of an idea of where it is right now. 
Scientists had already learned why certain substances give off characteristic colors of light when they are heated or otherwise excited. Heisenberg was trying to explain why these colors each have a characteristic brightness. It would not have been good enough if he and the other scientists had just said, "Well, that's just the way it is." They were sure that there had to be a good reason for these differences, and for the fact that the ratios among the bright line strengths were always the same for each sample of an element.
He had no idea that he was going to stumble over a hidden secret of nature when he set off to discover the explanation for the intensities of the colored lines characteristic of each of the elements. The study of quantum mechanics had already shown why hydrogen has four bright lines in the part of the spectrum that humans can see. It must have seemed that the next thing to learn would simply be how to calculate their brightness. Hydrogen seemed to be the obvious place to start since hydrogen has only one electron to deal with, and only four lines in the visible part of the spectrum. Surely there must be a good reason for their not being equally bright. The explanation for the brightness of the different-colored lines of neon and the other elements could wait.
<br>
Heisenberg started working on quantum physics by adapting the classical equations for electricity, which are very complicated to begin with, so the math behind his 1925 paper was very hard to follow.
He was trying to find the right way to calculate the intensity of bright lines in the hydrogen lamp spectrum. He had to find a related quantity called "amplitude" and multiply amplitude by amplitude (or in other words he had to square the amplitude) to get the intensity he wanted. He had to figure out how to express amplitude in a way that took account of the fact that hydrogen lamps do not radiate at all frequencies, and do not radiate across a continuous range of frequencies in the part of the spectrum that people can see. Heisenberg found a remarkable new way of calculating amplitude.
The strange equation|equation that Heisenberg discovered and used to do the multiplication of one quantum quantity (e.g., position) by another (e.g., momentum) was published in what has been called "Heisenberg's 'magical' paper of July 1925." <br>
The math above looks very hard, but the math leading up to it is very much harder and is extremely hard to understand. It is given here just to show what it looked like. Heisenberg's paper is a historical landmark. Many of the physicists who read his paper said that they could not disagree with his conclusions, but that they could not follow his explanation of how he got to those conclusions. The beginning equations that Heisenberg used involved Fourier series, and involved many factors. We will come back to the equation above because it is a kind of recipe for writing out and multiplying matrices.
The new equations had to be so strange and unusual because Heisenberg was describing a strange world in which some things, such as the orbits of electrons, do not slowly get larger or smaller. The new kinds of changes involve jumps and large gaps between jumps. Electrons can only jump between certain orbits, and the energy gained or lost in changing between orbits is produced when a photon of the right energy is absorbed or a new photon of the right energy is produced. If electrons in hydrogen atoms most frequently jump down (fall) between two particular orbits, then more photons will be emitted at that energy level, and so the light produced at that level will be the most intense.
It was difficult to make equations built for continuous spectra (what you see when you put the sun's light through a prism) fit spectra that just have a few peak frequencies between which there is nothing. Almost everything that had already been learned about light and energy had been done with large things like burning candles or suns, and those large objects all produce continuous spectra. Even though these ordinary-sized things were easy to do experiments with, it had still taken a long time to figure out the law (physics)laws that govern them. Now physicists were dealing with things too small to see, things that did not produce continuous spectra, and were trying to find a way to at least get clues from what they already knew that would help them find the laws of these small and gapped-out light sources.
The original equations dealt with a kind of vibrating body that would produce a wave, a little like the way a reed in an organ would produce a sound wave of a characteristic frequency. So there was motion back and forward (like the vibrating of a reed) and there was an emitted wave that could be graphed as a sine wave. Much of what had earlier been figured out about physics on the level had to do with electrons moving around nuclei. When a mass moves in an orbit, when it rotates around some kind of a hub, it has what is called "angular momentum." Angular momentum is the way that something like a merry-go-round will continue to rotate after people have stopped pushing it. The math used for phase calculations and angular momentum is complicated. On top of that, Heisenberg did not show all of his calculations in his 1925 paper, so even good mathematicians might have trouble filling out what he did not say.
Even though many physicists said they could not figure out the various math steps in Heisenberg's breakthrough paper, one recent article that tries to explain how Heisenberg got his result uses twenty math-filled pages. Even that article is not easy to understand. The math started with some really hard stuff and would eventually produce something relatively simply that is shown at the top of this article. Getting the simpler result was not easy, and we are not going to try to show the process of getting from an outdated picture of the universe to the new quantum physics. We need just enough detail to show that almost as soon as Heisenberg made his breakthrough a part of how the universe works that nobody had ever seen before came into view.
Heisenberg must have been very excited but also very tired when, late at night, he finally made his breakthrough and started proving to himself that it would work. Almost right away he noticed something strange, something that he thought was an annoying little problem that he could make go away somehow. But it turned out that this little nuisance was a big discovery.
Heisenberg had been working toward multiplying amplitudes by amplitudes, and now Heisenberg had a good way to express amplitude using his new equation. Naturally he was thinking about multiplication, and about how he would multiply things that were given in terms of complicated equations.
Heisenberg realized that besides squaring amplitude he would eventually want to multiply position by momentum, or multiply energy by time, and it looked like it would make a difference if he turned the order around in these new cases. Heisenberg did not think it should matter if one multiplied position by momentum or if you multiplied momentum by position. If they had been just simple numbers there would have been no problem. But they were both complicated equations, and how you got the numbers to plug into the equations turned out to be different depending on which way you got started. In nature you had to measure position and then measure momentum, or else you had to measure momentum and then measure position, and in math the same general situation prevailed. (See the English Wikipedia article if you want to learn the fussy details!) The tiny but pesky differences between results were going to remain, not matter how much Heisenberg wished they would go away.
At the time Heisenberg could not get rid of that one little problem, but he was exhausted, so he handed his work in to his immediate supervisor, Max Born, and went on vacation.
Max Born was a remarkable mathematician who soon saw that the equation that Heisenberg had given him was a sort of recipe for writing a matrix. Dr. Born was one of the few people at that time who was interested in this odd kind of math that most people figured was not good for very much. He knew that matrices could be multiplied, so doing all the calculations for accounting for one physics problem could be handled by multiplying one matrix by another. Just being able to put a complicated procedure into a standard and acceptable form made it easier to work with and also might make it easier for other people to accept.
Born was such a good mathematician that he almost immediately realized that switching the order of multiplying two matrices would produce a different result, and the results would differ by a small amount. That amount would be h/2πi. In everyday life, that difference would be so small that we could not even see it.
It took a couple of years, but Heisenberg was able to prove the Uncertainty Principle, which says that Δx × Δp = h/2, which is the number that comes out of the original equations but leaves out the π and the i that have to do with phase changes. Heisenberg explained that he derived his uncertainty principle from this earlier result when he wrote a paper in 1927 introducing this theory.
The constant written h, called the Planck constant, is a mysterious number that often occurs, so we need to understand what this tiny number is. Numerically, it is usually given as 6.62607×10^-34 J s (joule seconds). So it is a quantity that involves energy and time.
It was discovered when Planck realized that the energy of a perfect radiator (called a black-body radiator) is emitted in units of definite size called "quanta" (the singular of this word is "quantum"). Radiated energy is emitted as photons, and the frequency of a photon is proportional to the "punch" it delivers. We experience different frequencies of visible light as different colors. At the violet end of the spectrum, each photon has a relatively large amount of energy; at the red end of the spectrum each photon has a relatively small amount of energy. The way to calculate the amount of energy of a photon is given by the equation E = hν (energy equals the Planck constant times "nu" or frequency).
The Heisenberg uncertainty principle Δx × Δp ≥ h tells us that whenever we try to pin down certain pairs of numbers we can only get so close, and that if we try to get clearer on one of them, i.e., if we try to make Δx smaller so we have a better idea of the position of something, then we will have to get handed back a bigger number for the other number of the pair, and that the amount the two are off by is closely related to h.
Another pair of physical quantities goes according to the uncertainty relationship: ΔE × Δt ≥ h, and that pair indicates, among other things, that if we look in interstellar space, some place where we would not expect to find anything at all, and we reduce Δt closer and closer to 0, then to keep the balance shown in the equation ΔE has to get larger and larger — and suddenly something with momentum can pop into existence just for that brief period of time.
How is this indeterminacy (lack of certainty) to be explained? What is going on in the Universe? It is often said that a new theory that is successful can provide new information about the phenomena under investigation. Heisenberg created a math model that predicted the correct intensities for the bright-line spectrum of hydrogen, but without intending to do so he discovered that certain pairs of physical quantities disclose an unexpected uncertainty. Up until that moment nobody had any idea that measurements could not be forever made more and more precise and accurate. The fact that they could not be made more certain, more definite, was a stunning new discovery. Many people were not willing to accept it.
Bohr and his colleagues argued that photons, electrons, etc. do not have either position or momentum until they are measured. This theoretical position grew out of the discovery of uncertainty, and was not just some personal preference on what to believe. Bohr said that we know nothing about something like a photon or electron until we observe it. In order to observe such a small thing we need to interact with it somehow. In everyday life it is possible to do something like walking alongside an automobile while marking down the times it crosses points on a grid drawn on the pavement. Perhaps the weight of the automobile itself will depress little levers in the pavement that turn off clocks attached to each of them and record the automobile's weight. In the end we would have a clear record of where the car was at various times, and also could compute its direction of progress and weight. We could then know, at any time on the clock, both its position and its momentum (its velocity multiplied by its mass). We would not even imagine that the force required to move the little levers would have any influence on the progress of the car. We would also not imagine that the automobile had no location or trajectory between the points on the pavement where there are levers, or that the car exists in a kind of three-dimensional blur during those times and only settles down while it is depressing a lever. The world that we are familiar with does not reveal these strange kinds of interactions.
To locate a ship on the sea during the darkest night we could use a searchlight, and that light would not disturb the position or direction of travel of the ship, but locating an electron with light would require hitting it with one or more photons each having enough momentum to disturb the position and trajectory of the electron. Locating the electron with other means would involve holding it in some kind of physical restraint that would also terminate its forward movement.
To locate a photon, the best that can be done without terminating its forward movement is to make it go through a circular hole in a barrier. If one knows the time at which the photon was emitted (by a laser, for instance) and the time that the photon arrives at a detection screen such as a digital camera, then it is possible to compute the time required to travel that distance and the time at which the photon was passing through the hole. However, to permit the photon to pass through it, the circular hole must have a diameter greater than the size of the photon. The smaller the circular hole is made, the closer we come to knowing the exact position of the photon as it goes through it. However, we can never know whether the photon is off-center at that time. If the hole is exactly the same size as the photon it won't pass through. As the diameter of the hole is decreased, the momentum or the direction of the photon as it leaves the hole is more and more greatly changed.
Niels Bohr and his colleagues argued that we get into big trouble if we assume to be true of the things that are too small to be seen even with a microscope anything that we have proof for only on the scale of everyday life. In everyday life, things have a definite position at all times. On the atomic scale, we have no evidence to support that conclusion. In everyday life, things have a definite time at which they occur. On the atomic scale, we have no evidence to support that conclusion. In everyday life, if one observes a factory from the night shift of day one to the day shift of day two and one sees a finished automobile rolled out to the shipping dock it would make no sense to say that it is impossible to tell whether it was delivered during the night shift or during the day shift. But on the atomic scale, we can show instances when we have to count a single photon as having been produced at two times. (If that is not bad enough, we can also show instances where a single photon is produced from two adjacent lasers.)
Part of the difficulty with finding out what is happening on the atomic scale is that we would like to know both where something is and what its trajectory is, and to know both things for the same time, but we cannot measure both position and trajectory at the same time. We either measure the momentum of a photon or electron at one time and then without any more delay than necessary measure its position, or we switch things around and measure position first and momentum second. The problem is that in making the first one take on a pretty definite form (by squeezing down on it in some way) we increase the uncertainty involved in the next measurement. If our initial measurements were so crude that lots of error was introduced in each, then we could improve things by using a lighter touch to do each of them, but we could never get beyond a certain limit of accuracy.
We know from everyday life that trying to weigh something on a bathroom scale placed on a washing machine in spin cycle will produce inaccurate results because the needle on the scale will jiggle badly. We can turn off the washing machine. But for very accurate measurements we find that trucks going by in the neighborhood make the needle jiggle, so we can put the scale on a something to insulate it from the outside disturbances. We believe that we can eliminate vibrations enough to give us results just as accurate as we want. We never consider that the thing on the scale is itself vibrating or that it possesses an indefinite momentum.
Arguing backwards from the Uncertainty Principle, it looks as though there is in fact no definite position and no definite momentum for any atomic scale thing, and that experimenters can only force things into definiteness within the limit stated by the Uncertainty Principle. Bohr and his colleagues only argued that we could not know anything without making measurements, and when measurements were made we can push things in the direction of more definite position or more definite momentum, but that we can't get the absolute definiteness or certainty that we would like. But others took the possibility seriously, and argued that if the math is right then there cannot be definiteness or certainty in the world of the ultra small. The nature of science is that the math is only a model of reality, and there is no guarantee that it is a correct model.
The math and the practical consequences of the things that the math predicts are so reliable that they are very hard to disagree with, but what the math says about the real world has produced several different ideas. Among the scientists who worked with Niels Bohr in Copenhagen, the uncertainty principle was taken to mean that on an elementary level the physical universe does not exist in a deterministic form. Rather, it is a collection of probabilities or potentials.
Counter to the story woven around the math by the Copenhagen group, there are other stories such as the "multiple universes interpretation" that says that every time there are multiple possible outcomes according to quantum theory, each outcomes occurs in its own new universe. Einstein argued that there are no multiple possible outcomes, so there is only one universe and it is determinate, or, as he put it, "God does not play dice."
Albert Einstein saw that the new quantum mechanics implied a lack of position and momentum in the time prior to measurements being made, and he objected strongly. He firmly believed that things had definite positions and definite momentums before they were measured, and that the fact that measuring one of a pair of things and disturbing the possibility of accurately measuring the other does not argue for there being a lack of either of them beforehand. He and two of his colleagues wrote what has come to be known as the "EPR paper." That paper argues that there must be characteristics that do determine position and momentum, and that if we could see them, or if we can get information about them, then we can mathematically know and predict position and momentum. For a long time people thought that there was no way to prove or disprove what was for Einstein an article of faith. The argument was very productive because it led to all the modern developments in entanglement.
Mathematically, Einstein has been proven wrong. In 1964 John Stewart Bell developed a math method to distinguish between the behavior of two particles that have determinate states that are merely unknown to the two individuals that investigate them, and two particles that have entangled states that are indeterminate or uncertain until they are measured. His method shows that the probabilities for getting certain results are different under the two different assumptions. His work is called Bell's theorem or Bell's Inequality. Experiments have shown that nature behaves as Bell describes it.
 
The initial discussions of Heisenberg's uncertainty principle depended on a model that did not consider that particles of matter such as electrons, protons, etc. have a wavelength. In 1926 Louis de Broglie showed that all things, not just photons, have their own frequency. Things have a wave nature and a particle nature, just as photons do. If we try to make the wave of a thing like a proton narrower and taller, that would make its position clearer, but then the momentum would get less well defined. If we try to make the momentum part of a wave description clearer, i.e., make it stay within a narrower range of values, then the wave peak spreads out and its position becomes less definite.
The wave that is part of the description of a photon is, in quantum mechanics, not the same kind of thing as a wave on the surface of the ocean or the regions of compressed air and rarefied air that make up sound waves. Instead, these wave have peaks or high amplitude regions that have to do with probability of finding something at that point in space and time. More precisely, it is the square of the amplitude that gives the probability of some phenomenon showing up.
The wave that applies to a photon might be a pure sine wave. In that case, the square of the value of every peak would give the probability of observing the photon at that point. Since the amplitudes of the sine waves are everywhere the same, the probability for finding the photon at each of them would be the same. So, practically speaking, knowing the wave for one of these photons would not give a clue about where to look for it. On the other hand, the momentum of a photon is mathematically related to the amplitude of its wave. Since in this case we have a pure sine wave, the amplitude of every cycle of the wave is the same and therefore there is only one momentum value associated with this wave. We would not know where the photon would hit, but we would know exactly how hard it would hit.
In beams of light that focus on some point on a detection screen, the waves associated with the photons are not pure sine waves. Instead, they are waves with high amplitude at one point and much lower amplitudes on either side of that highest peak. Mathematically it is possible to analyze such a wave into a number of different sine waves of different wavelengths. It is a little easier to visualize the reverse of this process by looking at an initial sine wave of one frequency to which is added a second sine wave of a different wavelength, then a third, then a fourth, and so on. The result will be a complex wave showing one high peak and containing a large number of waves of different wavelengths and therefore of different momentums. In that case, the probability that the photon will appear at a certain point is extremely high, but the momentum it delivers can turn out to be related to the wavelength of any one of the component waves. In other words, the value of p = ħ/λ is no longer a single value because all the lengths of the assembled "waves of different wavelength" have to be taken into account.
The simulation shows how to mathematically model the sharpening up of the location of a particle: Superimpose many different wave forms over the original sine wave. The center will form a higher and higher peak, and the rest of the peaks will be increased in number but decreased in height because they will interfere with each other. So in the end there are many different waves in the superposition, each with a different wavelength and (by p = ħ/λ) a different momentum, but only one very high peak, one that grows higher and narrower and gives us something closer and closer to a determinate position.
To make momentum more and more definite, we would have to take away more and more of the superimposed sine waves until we had only a simple sine wave left. In so doing we would progressively diminish the height of the central peak and progressively increase the heights of the competing places where one might find the particle.
So when we start with a wave picture of subatomic particles we typically will always deal with cases with relatively tall central peaks and relatively many component wavelengths. There never will be an exact position or an exact momentum predicted under these circumstances. If the mathematical model is an accurate representation of the real world, then no photon or other subatomic particle has either an exact position or a definite momentum. When we measure such a particle we can choose a method that further squeezes the peak and makes it narrower, or we can choose a method that lowers the peak and evens out the component wavelengths. Depending on what we measure and how we measure it, we can make our location come out more definite or we can make our momentum range narrower. We can take care in designing the experiment to avoid various ways of jiggling the apparatus, but we cannot get rid of the fact that there was nothing completely definite to begin with.
The most important influence of the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle has been on arguments about freedom of the will. Under the theories of classical physics it is possible to argue that the laws of cause and effect are inexorable and that once the universe began in a certain way the interactions of all matter and energy to occur in the future could be calculated from that initial state. Since everything is absolutely the result of what came before it, they argued, every decision a human being makes and every situation into which that human being enters was predetermined since the beginning of time. We then have no choice in what we do.
People who believe in freedom of the will argue that the laws of quantum mechanics do not predict what will happen but only what is more and what is less likely to occur. Therefore every action is the result of a series of random "coin tosses" and no decision could be traced back to a set of necessary preconditions.
The expressions "quantum leap" and "quantum jump" have become ordinary ways of talking about things. Usually people intend to describe something as involving a huge change that occurs over a short period of time. The term actually applies to the way an electron behaves in an atom either when it absorbs a photon coming in from the outside and so jumps from one orbit around the atom's nucleus to a higher orbit, or when it emits a photon and so falls from a higher orbit to a lower orbit. The idea of Neils Bohr and his colleagues was that the electron does not move between orbits but instead it disappears from one orbit and instantaneously appears in another orbit. So a quantum jump is really not some earth shattering change, but a sudden little change from one domain to another.
When humans measure some process on the subatomic scale and the uncertainty principle manifests itself, then human action can be said to have influenced the thing that was being measured. Making a measurement intended to get a definite indication of a particle's location will inevitably influence its momentum and whatever is done to measure that momentum as soon as possible after measuring its position, the probabilities of what momentum will be discovered cannot fail to have been changed. So the uncertainty principle can explain some kinds of interference produced by investigators that influence the results of an experiment or an observation. However, not all observer effects are due to quantum effects or the uncertainty principle. The remainder are "observer effects" but not quantum uncertainty effects.
Observer effects include all kinds of things that operate at our ordinary human scale of events. If an anthropologist tries to get a clear idea of life in a primitive society but his or her presence upsets the community he or she is visiting, then the observations made may be very misleading. However, none of the relevant interactions occur at the level described by quantum mechanics or the uncertainty principle.
Sometimes the word "quantum" will be used for advertising purposes to indicate something new and powerful. For instance, the manufacturer of small gasoline motors, Briggs and Stratton, has one line of four-cylinder low horsepower motors for gasoline mowers and similar garden tools that it calls "Quantum."
Louis de Broglie, Noonday, 1958
Werner Heisenberg
Originally published in German, "Zs. Phys. 33 (1925) 879-893. English translation:
"Sources of Quantum Mechanics," pp. 261–276. B. L. Van Der Waerden, Dover.
Ian J. R. Aitchison, David A. MacManus, Thomas M. Snyder. http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404009
http://philsci-archive.pitt.edu/8590/1/Heis1935_EPR_Final_translation.pdf <br>
In translation, its title is: "Is a deterministic completion of quantum mechanics possible?" and the translators are Elise Crull and Guido Bacciagaluppi. The translation is dated 02 May 2011.
J.P. McEvoy and Oscar Zarate

</doc>
<doc id="63444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63444" title="Assyria">
Assyria

In the Middle Bronze Age Assyria was a city state on the Upper Tigris river, named after its capital, the ancient city of Assur. 
The Assyrians were just to the north of their rivals, the Babylonians. All the kingdoms of ancient Mesopotamia used the cuneiform writing system invented by the Sumerians.
Assyrians are an ethnic group whose descendents remain in what is today Iraq, Iran, Turkey and Syria, but who have gone to the Caucasus, North America and Western Europe during the past century. Hundreds of thousands more live in Assyrian diaspora and Iraqi refugee communities in Europe, the former Soviet Union, the United States, Australia, New Zealand, Syria, Jordan, and Lebanon. 

</doc>
<doc id="63447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63447" title="Category:Assyrian people">
Category:Assyrian people


</doc>
<doc id="63449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63449" title="Category:Assyria">
Category:Assyria


</doc>
<doc id="63451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63451" title="Forum">
Forum

Forum (plural "forums" or "fora") may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="63454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63454" title="Yuri Andropov">
Yuri Andropov

Yuri Vladimirovich Andropov (1914-1984) was a Soviet politician. He was born in Nagutskoye, Russian SFSR. 
Andropov was Director of the KGB for an unusually long time: 19671982 (Jan-May). He was General Secretary of the CPSU from November 12, 1982 until his death fifteen months later. He had diabetes mellitus and died of renal failure in Moscow, Russian SFSR.

</doc>
<doc id="63456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63456" title="Category:Cold War">
Category:Cold War


</doc>
<doc id="63457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63457" title="Category:Cold War leaders">
Category:Cold War leaders


</doc>
<doc id="63461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63461" title="Van (disambiguation)">
Van (disambiguation)

A van is a road vehicle used for transporting goods or groups of people.
Van or may also refer to:
In Turkey:

</doc>
<doc id="63464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63464" title="Van, Turkey">
Van, Turkey

Van (Armenian ) is a city in eastern Turkey and the seat of Van Province, and is on the eastern shore of Lake Van. The city's population in 2005 was 284,464. According to the "Encyclopedia of the Orient", Kurds form the majority though no census based on ethnicity was ever held in Turkey.

</doc>
<doc id="63467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63467" title="Van Province">
Van Province

Van () is a province in eastern Turkey, between Lake Van and the Iranian border. It is 19,069 km in area and has a population of 1,035,418 at the end of 2010. Kurds form the majority.
In the 9th century BC, the Van area was the center of the Urartian kingdom. For centuries after that, the area was a major Armenian population center. After World War I Armenian population was forced to leave and was cleansed during the Armenian Genocide.

</doc>
<doc id="63472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63472" title="Urartian language">
Urartian language

Urartian is the name for the language spoken by the people of the ancient kingdom of Urartu in northeast Anatolia (present-day Turkey), in the region of Lake Van.
Urartian was a language isolate, which was neither Semitic nor Indo-European, but a member of the Hurro-Urartian family.
There is a hypothesis that suggests that besides the cuneiform inscriptions of the Urartian language, Urartu had a native hieroglyphic writing system. Armenian scientist Artak Movsisyan published a partial attempt deciphering of Urartian hieroglyphs, saying that they were written in an early form of Armenian.

</doc>
<doc id="63473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63473" title="Category:Urartu">
Category:Urartu


</doc>
<doc id="63481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63481" title="Yamaha Corporation">
Yamaha Corporation

Yamaha is a Japanese company that makes different products, including musical instruments such as keyboards.
Yamaha was founded in 1887 by "Torakusu Yamaha". It was named Nippon Gakki Company, Limited and produced pianos and reed organs at that time. In October 1987, on the 100th anniversary, its name was changed to The Yamaha Corporation. Yamaha produces several musical instruments including keyboards, flutes, guitars and things in a band. Yamaha also produces motorbikes and vocaloid. Yamaha is a big corporation and was founded 125 years ago.
In 1989, Yamaha shipped the world's first CD recorder.

</doc>
<doc id="63485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63485" title="Grease (movie)">
Grease (movie)

Grease is a 1978 American musical movie directed by Randal Kleiser and produced by Robert Stigwood. The movie tells the story of high-schoolers Rizzo, Kenickie, Danny, Frenchy and Sandy.
Danny Zuko and Sandra Dee meet in Los Angeles, California in summer 1959 and they fall in love. When Sandy has to leave to go back to Australia, they believe it is the end of their romance. However, Sandy gets transferred to his school and they meet again. When Danny sees Sandy again he acts as if he does not care about her. He does this to keep up his reputation, but Sandy does not know this and wishes she has never met him. She and Danny date on and off, but Sandy becomes frustrated with him because of the way he treats her. At the end of the movie, Sandy transforms herself into the kind of woman Danny could truly love forever and they get back together.

</doc>
<doc id="63489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63489" title="Eastern Time Zone (North America)">
Eastern Time Zone (North America)

Eastern Time Zone (ET) is the time zone for the eastern part of the Americas including the United States, Canada and parts of South America and the Caribbean. ET is five hours behind UTC in winter, which is called Eastern Standard Time (EST). It is four hours behind UTC during summer Daylight saving time, when it is called Eastern Daylight Time (EDT).
In Canada, the following provinces and territories are part of the Eastern Time Zone:
In the United States, the following states are part of the Eastern Time Zone:
Parts of several other states use Eastern Time as well:
The following countries that use Eastern Time Zone include:
In South America this time zone is observed in: 

</doc>
<doc id="63496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63496" title="Wikipedia:WikiProject Military history/Military unit infobox">
Wikipedia:WikiProject Military history/Military unit infobox

A military unit infobox may be used to summarize information about an individual military unit or formation, such as a regiment or division.. 
The infobox should be added using the template, as shown below:
Commander parameters:
The infobox allows for up to three current commanders to be specified; the exact roles or titles of these individuals should be specified via the corresponding label parameters. 
Insignia parameters:
Aircraft parameters:
Note that the various codice_1 fields above are intended for overriding the default labels on these fields as needed for particular countries or services; in most cases, however, the default value is sufficient, and the fields need not be included.

</doc>
<doc id="63497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63497" title="Armenian Legion">
Armenian Legion

The Armenian Legion or Armenische Legion was the name given to the 812th Armenian Battalion which was a foreign unit comprised of several thousand men.
Leaders Kanayan and Garegin Njdeh counted the support of over 18,000 Armenians.
In addition to this exclusively Armenian unit, Nazi Armenians also served in the thirty eight other SS divisions, including the elite Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler.

</doc>
<doc id="63498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63498" title="Garegin Njdeh">
Garegin Njdeh

Garegin Njdeh (, real name: Garegin Ter-Harutiunian, 1 January 1886 - late 1955) was an Armenian statesman, military, and political thinker. He was a native of Nakhchivan.
Njdeh fled Armenia after the triumph of Bolsheviks, and was involved in patriotic activities in Iran, Bulgaria and the United States. A controversial person, he was expelled from Dashnak party. Njdeh was very much against communism. He worked with Nazi Germans during the World War II. He was arrested in Sofia, Bulgaria in 1944 and sent to Moscow, then to Yerevan. He spent the rest of his life in prison in the Russian city of Vladimir, where he dide in 1955.

</doc>
<doc id="63499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63499" title="Wehrmacht">
Wehrmacht

Wehrmacht was the name of the unified armed forces of Nazi Germany from 1935 to 1945. The "Wehrmacht" consisted of the "Heer" (army), the "Kriegsmarine" (navy) and the "Luftwaffe" (air force). 
The "Waffen-SS", an initially small armed section of Heinrich Himmler's Allgemeine SS that grew to nearly a million strong during World War II, was not part of the Wehrmacht, but subject to its Supreme Command.
Before the rise of the NSDAP, the term "Wehrmacht" was used in a generic sense to describe armed forces of any nation, being utilized as the "home defence" version of the more general "Streitmacht". For example, the term "Britische Wehrmacht" would identify the British armed forces. Article 47 of the Weimar Constitution of 1919 declared "Der Reichspräsident hat den Oberbefehl über die gesamte Wehrmacht des Reiches" (meaning: "The "Reichspräsident" holds supreme command of all armed forces of the "Reich""). To make a distinction, the term "Reichswehr" was commonly used to identify the German armed forces.
In 1935, the "Reichswehr" was renamed "Wehrmacht". After World War II and under the Allied occupation of Germany, the "Wehrmacht" was abolished.
Today the term "Wehrmacht" refers to Germany's armed forces during the Nazi Germany era and World War II, both in German and English. Note: The "Wehrmacht" was not only the army ("Wehrmacht Heer"). Wehrmacht vehicles used by "Heer", "Luftwaffe" or "Kriegsmarine" had license plates with WH, WL or WM.
World War I ended with the armistice (ceasefire) of 11 November 1918. The armed forces were called "Friedensheer" (peace army) in January 1919. In March 1919, the national assemby passed a law founding a 420,000 strong preliminary army as "Vorläufige Reichswehr". The terms of the Treaty of Versailles were announced in May and, in June, Germany was forced to sign the contract. Among other terms, the army was limited to one hundred thousand men with fifteen thousand more in the navy. Tanks and heavy artillery were forbidden and the air force was dissolved. A new post-war military (the Reichswehr) was established on 23 March 1921. 
Germany immediately found ways not to keep to these conditions. A secret collaboration with the Soviet Union began after the treaty of Rapallo. Germany helped the Soviet Union with industrialisation and Soviet officers were to be trained in Germany. German tank and air force specialists could exercise in the Soviet Union. German chemical weapons research and manufacture would be done there, plus other projects. Around three hundred German pilots received training at "Lipetsk", some tank training took place near "Kazan" and toxic gas was developed at "Saratov" for the German army.
After the death of President Paul von Hindenburg on 2 August 1934, Hitler assumed the office of Reichspräsident, and thus became commander in chief. All officers and soldiers of the German armed forces had to swear a personal oath of loyalty to the "Führer", as Adolf Hitler now was called. By 1935, Germany was openly breaking the military restrictions of the Versailles Treaty, and conscription was reintroduced on 16 March 1935. 
The size of the standing army remained at about the 100,000-man mark decreed by the treaty, but a new group of conscripts equal to this size would receive training each year. The conscription law formalized the name "Wehrmacht". The existence of the Wehrmacht was officially announced on 15 October 1935 under Nazi authority. The insignia was a simpler version of the Iron Cross (the straight-armed so-called "Balkenkreuz" or beamed cross). This had been used as an aircraft and tank marking late in World War I.
The Wehrmacht entered the war with a minority of its formations motorized; infantry remained approximately 90% foot-borne throughout the war, and artillery primarily horse-drawn. The motorized formations received much attention in the world press in the opening years of the war, and were cited as the reason for the success of the German invasions of Poland (September 1939), Norway (April 1940), Denmark, Belgium, France and Netherlands (May 1940), Yugoslavia (April 1941) and the early campaigns in the Soviet Union (June 1941).
With the entry of the United States in December 1941, the Wehrmacht found itself engaged in ground campaigns against two major industrial powers. At this critical juncture, Hitler assumed personal control of the Wehrmacht high command, and his personal failings as a military commander arguably contributed to major defeats in the spring of 1943, at Stalingrad and Tunis in North Africa.
The German Air Force, led by Hermann Göring, contributed many units of ground forces to the war in Russia as well as the Normandy front. In 1940, the Fallschirmjäger paratroops conquered the Belgian Fort Eben-Emael and took part in the airborne invasion of Norway, but after suffering heavy losses in the Battle of Crete, large scale airdrops were discontinued. Operating as ordinary infantry, the 1st Fallschirmjäger Division took part in the Battle of Monte Cassino. 
The German Navy (Kriegsmarine) played a major role in the Second World War as control over the commerce routes in the Atlantic was crucial for Germany, Britain and later the Soviet Union. In the Battle of the Atlantic, the initially successful German U-boat fleet arm was eventually defeated due to Allied technological advances like sonar, radar, and the breaking of the Enigma code. Large surface vessels were few in number due to construction limitations by international treaties prior to 1935. The "pocket battleships" Admiral Graf Spee and Admiral Scheer were important as commerce raiders only in the opening year of the war. No aircraft carrier was operational as German leadership lost interest in the Graf Zeppelin which had been launched in 1938. Following the loss of Bismarck in 1941, with Allied air superiority threatening the remaining battlecruisers in French Atlantic harbours, the ships were ordered to go back to German ports. 
Although the Waffen-SS was not technically a part of the Wehrmacht, they were under the control of the Wehrmacht High Command during World War 2. They were considered as elite troops, and suffered heavy losses (more than the normal army).
The Wehrmacht was used as a tool of state policy in the Second World War, for both military and political aims. There is considerable controversy over the allegations that the Wehrmacht was found to be significantly rather than incidentally involved in the Holocaust,especially because the elements of the SS involved in the Holocaust were not the Waffen-SS and not under the control of the OKW or field commanders. The Wehrmacht ordered and participated in massacres of civilians for reprisals, executions of prisoners of war, summary executions of Soviet political officers and executions of military and civilian hostages as punishment for partisan activities in occupied territories.However, the oft-repeeated claim of breaking the Geneva convention by its treatment of Russian prisoners of war is not correct. Common Clause 2 of the Geneva Convention states that the treatment requirements apply where both parties are signatories of the Conventions. The Germans were signatories, The Russians refused to sign.

</doc>
<doc id="63502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63502" title="Drastamat Kanayan">
Drastamat Kanayan

General Drastamat Kanayan (May 31, 1884 – March 8, 1956) was an Armenian politician, revolutionary, and general. He was the commander of the Armenian Legion of the Wehrmacht, the armed forces of Nazi Germany and part of Armenian national liberation movement.
Drastamat Kanayan was born in Iğdır, Surmalu, Russian Empire (present-day Turkey) in 1884.

</doc>
<doc id="63503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63503" title="Jack White">
Jack White

Jack White (born John Anthony Gillis, July 9, 1975 in Detroit, Michigan) is an American singer, guitarist, composer and actor. He is best known as one half of The White Stripes with his ex-wife Meg White.
Because of his successful career with The White Stripes, he has gotten the chance to work many other famous musicians, including Bob Dylan and Loretta Lynn. He has performed many different genres of music, including blues music, folk music, alternative rock, garage rock, and indie music, among other music, in his songs. 
He married model Karen Elson in 2005. They currently have two children, Scarlett Teresa White and Henry Lee White. As of today, they live in Nashville, Tennessee.

</doc>
<doc id="63506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63506" title="Meg White">
Meg White

Meg White was born on December 10, 1974 in Grosse Pointe Farms, Michigan. She is an American drummer and vocalist. She is one half of The White Stripes with her ex-husband Jack White.
Meg's playful yet simple style of drumming has drawn so much debate about her ability that is referenced in the movie "School of Rock". In reference to her simple approach to drumming, Meg said "That is my strength. A lot of drummers would feel weird about being that simplistic."

</doc>
<doc id="63519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63519" title="Adriatic Sea">
Adriatic Sea

The Adriatic Sea is a body of water and is a part of the Mediterranean Sea. The sea separates the Italian Peninsula from the Balkan Peninsula. Countries that have a coastline in the Adriatic Sea are Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Albania.
The average width of the sea is about 160 km. The Strait of Otranto joins the Adriatic Sea and the Ionian Sea and is only 85 to 100 km wide. The sea is very shallow. Its average depth is 240 m (133 fathoms). The sea is deepest east of Monte Gargano and south of Dubrovnik where it dips below 1,460 m (800 fathoms).

</doc>
<doc id="63520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63520" title="Australian time zones">
Australian time zones

Mainland Australia has three official time zones. The full names of the time zones are usually shortened by dropping the "Australian". Most Australian external territories are in different time zones. Many parts of Australia have daylight saving time.
The three official standard time zones were set up in February 1895.
Originally South Australia was nine hours ahead of Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) but in May 1899 they added another thirty minutes to that. Some people have disliked having this non-whole number of hours difference. In 1986 and 1994 they tried to take the thirty minutes away again or add another thirty minutes but they failed.
When the Australian Capital Territory separated from New South Wales they kept using Eastern Standard Time. When the Northern Territory separated from South Australia they kept using Central Standard Time.
There have been some other changes.
Australia's many outside territories follow their own time zones. None follow daylight saving time.
South Australia, New South Wales, the Australian Capital Territory, Victoria and Tasmania use daylight saving time every year. In these regions daylight saving time begins on the first Sunday in October at 2:00 am local standard time, and ends on the first Sunday in April at 3:00 am local daylight saving time. The starting and finishing times are sometimes changed when there are special events, such as the Olympic and Commonwealth Games, in Australia.
The Northern Territory, Queensland and Western Australia do not have daylight saving time. People living in the northern parts of Australia tend not to be in favour of daylight saving.

</doc>
<doc id="63521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63521" title="Human sacrifice">
Human sacrifice

Human sacrifice is the act of killing a human being as an offering to a deity or other, normally supernatural, power. 
It was practiced in many ancient cultures. The practice was different in different cultures.
Some like the Mayans and Aztecs are notorious for their ritual killings, others have looked down on the practice as primitive. 
Victims were ritually killed in a manner that was supposed to please or appease gods or spirits. Victims ranged from prisoners to infants to Vestal Virgins whose stomach's were cut open, with a dull,stone knife and their hearts were burned.
Over time human sacrifice has become less common around the world, and sacrifices are now very rare. Most religions condemn the practice and present-day laws generally treat it as a criminal matter. Nonetheless it is still occasionally seen today, especially in the least developed areas of the world where traditional beliefs persist.
The ancient Middle Eastern kingdom of Phoenicia practiced sacrifice of children to their god Moloch. It was believed to be evil by the Jewish authors of the Bible.
The Aztecs were particularly noted for practicing human sacrifice on a large scale; an offering to Huitzilopochtli would be made to restore the blood he lost, as the sun was engaged in a daily battle. Human sacrifices would prevent the end of the world that could happen on each cycle of 52 years. In the 1487 re-consecration of the Great Temple of Tenochtitlan many prisoners were sacrificed. 
Tlaloc would require weeping boys in the first months of the Aztec calendar to be ritually murdered.
A number of mummies of sacrificed children have been recovered in the Inca regions of South America.

</doc>
<doc id="63524" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63524" title="Tomomi Kahala">
Tomomi Kahala

Tomomi Kahala, sometimes spelled Kahara ( "Kahara Tomomi" born August 17, 1974 in Tokyo) is a Japanese female singer. Her nickname is "Tomochan", and special skill is Horse riding. Her most famous song is ""I'm Proud", "I Believe"".

</doc>
<doc id="63534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63534" title="Observer effect">
Observer effect

The observer effect, or observer bias, means several things in different situations, although there are similarities.
In science, the term observer effect means that the act of observing will influence the phenomenon being observed.
For example, for us to "see" an electron, a photon must first interact with it, and this interaction will change the path of that electron. It is also theoretically possible for other, less direct means of measurement to affect the electron; even if the electron is simply put into a position where observing it is "possible", without actual observation taking place, it will still (theoretically) alter its position.
In physics, a more mundane observer effect can be the result of instruments that by necessity alter the state of what they measure in some manner. For instance, in electronics, ammeters and voltmeters usually need to be connected to the circuit, and so by their very presence affect the current or the voltage they are measuring. Likewise, a standard mercury-in-glass thermometer must absorb some thermal energy to record a temperature, and therefore changes the temperature of the body which it is measuring.
A common lay misunderstanding of the term refers to quantum mechanics, where, if the outcome of an event has not been observed, it exists in a state of 'superposition', which is something like being in all possible states at once. In the famous thought experiment known as Schrödinger's cat, the cat is empirically neither alive nor dead until observed – until that time, the cat is theoretically "both" alive and dead (technically half-alive and half-dead in probability terms). However, most quantum physicists, in resolving Schrödinger's seeming paradox, now understand that the acts of 'observation' and 'measurement' must also be defined in quantum terms before the question makes sense. From this point of view, there is no 'observer effect', only one vastly entangled quantum system. A significant minority still find the equations point to an observer; Wheeler, who probably worked more deeply on this subject than any physicist thus far, devised a graphic in which the universe was represented by a "U" with an eye on one end, turned around and viewing itself, to describe his understanding.
The Heisenberg uncertainty principle is also frequently, confused with the "observer effect". The uncertainty principle actually describes how precisely we may measure the position and momentum of a particle at the same time – if we increase the precision in measuring one quantity, we are forced to lose precision in measuring the other. Thus, the uncertainty principle deals with "measurement", and not "observation". The idea that the Uncertainty Principle is caused by disturbance (and hence by observation) is not considered to be valid by some, although it was discussed in the early years of quantum mechanics, and is often repeated in popular treatments.
There is a related issue in quantum mechanics relating to whether systems have pre-existing – prior to measurement, that is – properties corresponding to measurements that could possibly be made on them. The assumption that they do is often referred to as "realism" in the literature, although it has been argued that the word "realism" is being used in a more restricted sense than philosophical realism. A recent experiment in the realm of quantum physics has been quoted as meaning that we have to "say goodbye" to realism, although the author of the paper states only that "we would [..] have to give up certain features of realism". These experiments demonstrate a puzzling relationship between the act of measurement and the system being measured, but it is unclear if they require a conscious observer or not.
In Information Technology, the observer effect refers to potential impact of the act of observing a process output while the process is running. For example: if a process uses a log file to record its progress, the act of viewing the file while the process is running could cause an I/O error in the process, which could, in turn, cause it to stop.
Another example would be observing the performance of a CPU by running both the observed and observing programs on the same CPU, which will lead to inaccurate results because the observer program itself affects the CPU performance (modern, heavily cached and pipelined CPUs are particularly affected by this kind of observation).
Observing (or rather, "debugging") a running program by modifying its source code (such as adding extra output or generating log files) or by running it in a debugger may sometimes cause certain bugs to diminish or change their behavior, creating extra difficulty for the person trying to isolate the bug (see Heisenbug).
In the social sciences and general usage, the effect refers to how people change their behavior when aware of being watched (see Hawthorne effect). For instance, in the armed forces, an announced inspection is used to see how well soldiers can do when they put their minds to it, while a surprise inspection is used to see how well prepared they generally are.
The related social-science term observer bias is error introduced into measurement when observers overemphasize behavior they expect to find and fail to notice behavior they do not expect. This is why medical trials are normally double-blind rather than single-blind. Observer bias can also be introduced because researchers see a behavior and interpret it according to what it means to them, whereas it may mean something else to the person showing the behavior. See subject-expectancy effect and observer-expectancy effect.

</doc>
<doc id="63535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63535" title="Canton Township, Michigan">
Canton Township, Michigan

Canton, Michigan is a township in Wayne County in the U.S. state of Michigan. About 85,539 people live in it according to an educated guess of the U.S. Census Bureau. The FBI decided that it is the 20th safest city in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="63537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63537" title="Probability theory">
Probability theory

Probability theory is the branch of mathematics concerned with analysis of random phenomena. The central objects of probability theory are random variables, stochastic processes, and events: mathematical abstractions of non-deterministic events or measured quantities that may either be single occurrences or happen over time in an apparently random fashion. 
As a mathematical foundation for statistics, probability theory is essential to many human activities that involve quantitative analysis of large sets of data. Methods of probability theory also apply to description of complex systems given only partial knowledge of their state, as in statistical mechanics. A great discovery of twentieth century physics was the probabilistic nature of physical phenomena at atomic scales, described in quantum mechanics.
The mathematical theory of probability has its roots in attempts to analyse games of chance by Gerolamo Cardano in the sixteenth century, and by Pierre de Fermat and Blaise Pascal in the seventeenth century (for example the "problem of points"). Although an individual coin toss or the roll of a die is random event, if repeated many times the sequence of random events will exhibit certain statistical patterns, which can be studied and predicted. Two representative mathematical results describing such patterns are the law of large numbers and the central limit theorem. 

</doc>
<doc id="63543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63543" title="The Raven">
The Raven

"The Raven" is a narrative poem by American writer Edgar Allan Poe, first published in January 1845. It tells the story of a mysterious talking raven who visits a lover; it shows how the lover is slowly going insane. It is often called Poe's most famous poem, its publication made him famous in his day, and today it is still one of the most recognized and respected poems in American literature. 

</doc>
<doc id="63545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63545" title="Mayan civilization">
Mayan civilization

The Maya civilization were people who lived in Central America. They lived there for a long time and some of the Maya people live there even today. 
The Maya lived there 4,000 years ago (about 2000 BC). At that date complex societies were living in the Maya region. The staple crops of the Maya diet were cultivated. Their food included including maize, beans, squashes, and chili peppers. The first Maya cities developed around 750 BC.
The Maya people used a written language before Columbus came to the Americas in 1492 AD. They were good at art, building, and math. They knew about stars and planets, which helped them make calendars.
The Maya civilization was biggest between the years of 420 AD and 900 AD. The Maya civilization spread all the way from central Mexico to Honduras, Guatemala, and northern El Salvador. The Maya people traded with other people in the Americas. Their art and buildings have lots of different styles. This shows they traded a lot. They made changes to their buildings to make them even better. The Maya civilization started getting smaller after 900 AD.
The Conquistadors arrived in the 15th century and took over Central America, even in the Mayan areas. However, the Mayan people still live there today. Their relatives can be found in the same areas the Mayan civilization used to live in. They even keep the old Mayan traditions and beliefs.
There are many Mayan languages still spoken today, including one called the Achi language. A play called "Rabinal Achi" is considered important.
The Maya civilization lived in three different areas: the southern Maya highlands, the central lowlands, and the northern lowlands. They had many different types of land, including mountains and dry plains. People living in the low plains by the sea were affected by hurricanes and tropical storms from the Caribbean.
The area covered what we now call the southern Mexican states of Chiapas and Tabasco, and the Yucatán Peninsula states of Quintana Roo, Campeche and Yucatán. They also included where we now call Guatemala, Belize, El Salvador and western Honduras.
The first Maya settlements started about 1800 BC. They lived in the Soconusco region, now the state of Chiapas in Mexico, on the Pacific Ocean. This is called the "early pre-classic period" in Mayan history'. People in Central America had been nomads who went from place to place to find food and shelter. Around this time they began to settle down.They started to farm animals and make pottery and small clay figures. They buried their dead in simple burial mounds. Later they started to make these mounds into step pyramids.
There were other people around at the time, especially in the north. The Olmec, the Mixe-Zoque, and Zapotec civilizations mostly lived in the area we now call Oaxaca. We don't know exactly where the borders of the Maya civilization were. Many of the most important early examples of writing and buildings appeared in north, so these cultures probably affected the Maya civilization.
From about 250 to 909, the Maya civilization built many monuments and cities, and made lots of important carvings. The "southern lowlands" were an important place at the time. The Maya civilization made lots of discoveries about art and thinking there.
Like Ancient Greece, their civilization was made up of lots of cities, which all worked in different ways. People gathered around these cities to farm. Well-known cities were Tikal, Palenque, Copán and Calakmul. Lesser-known cities were Dos Pilas, Uaxactun, Altun Ha, and Bonampak, among others. In general, we know more about where the cities were in the south than we do in the north. Some northern cities we do know about were Oxkintok, Chunchucmil, and Uxmal.
Their most famous monuments are the pyramids they built as part of their religious centers, and the palaces. The palace at Cancuén is the largest we know about in the Maya area. The Maya also made carved stone slabs which they called "tetun", or "tree-stones". These slabs show rulers along with hieroglyphic writing describing their family, military victories, and other things that they did well.
The Maya had trade routes that ran over long distances. They traded with many other Mesoamerican cultures, such as Teotihuacan, the Zapotec, and other groups in central and gulf-coast Mexico. They also traded with groups that were farther away. For example, people who study the Maya civilization found gold from Panama in the Sacred well at Chichen Itza.
Some important things they traded were cacao, salt, sea shells, jade and obsidian.
Between 900 AD and 1000 AD, the cities in the southern lowlands had more and more problems until all the people left. The Maya civilization there stopped making big monuments and carvings. People who study the Maya civilization are not sure why this happened. They have many different ideas - some people think there was a big environmental disaster, or a disease affected a lot of people, or there were just too many people for the amount of food they could grow.
In the north, the Maya civilization kept going. Other cultures started mixing with Mayan culture much more. Some of the important sites in this time were Chichen Itza, Uxmal, Edzná, and Coba. At some point, the families who ruled over Chichen and Uxmal got weaker and the rulers in the city of Mayapan ruled all of the Mayan civilization in the Yucatán peninsula until there was a revolt in 1450. After the revolt, the whole area broke up into different cities who fought against each other, until the Spanish conquest of Yucatán.
The Itza Maya, Ko'woj, and Yalain groups around what is now Guatamela were still around, but there weren't very many of them. By 1520, they had built themselves back up again and started to build cities. The Itza had their capital at Tayasal (also known as Noh Petén), and people who study the Maya civlisation think what's left of this city is below the modern city of Flores, Guatemala on Lake Petén Itzá. The Ko'woj had their capital at Zacpeten. Some Mayan cultures were still living in the southern highlands.
The Quiché kingdom produced the most famous Mayan work, the Popol Vuh. It talks about the creation of the world, the Mayan gods and goddesses, how humans and animals were created and why the Quiché kingdom was the best one in the Maya civilization.
The Spanish started to conquer Maya lands. It took them a long time (170 years) to finish doing this because the Mayans had no capital city and each city had a different culture. The last Mayan states, the Itza city of Tayasal and the Ko'woj city of Zacpeten, still had people living in them late into the 17th century. They were finally conquered in 1697.
There are still about 6 million Maya people living in Central America.

</doc>
<doc id="63547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63547" title="Mesoamerican chronology">
Mesoamerican chronology

Looking at the history of pre-Columbian Mesoamerica one can see some rather different periods between the first humans and the early Colonial period (which followed the Spanish colonization of the Americas) in the end. 
The Paleo-Indian (not so often Lithic) period or era is that which begins with the first signs of human presence in the region and leads to agriculture and other practices (e.g. pottery, permanent settlements) characteristic of proto-civilizations. In Mesoamerica, the end of this phase was at ca. 8,000 BC. It was a period of hunter-gatherers.
c. 8,000 BCE - 2,000 BCE
In this time agriculture and permanent villages developed in the region. Late in this era, people used pottery and started weaving with a .
c. 2,000 BCE - 200 CE
Nation-states developed and with them the first large scale ceremonial architecture and cities. That were the Olmec civilization, the early Zapotec, Monte Alto Culture in Guatemala's pacifc lowlands, and Maya civilization.
c. mid 2nd century - early 10th century 
Teotihuacan grows to a metropolis and its empire dominates Mesoamerica. During this time the cities of the Maya southern lowlands, such as Tikal, Palenque, and Copán have their greatest era.
The Classic Era ended earlier in Central Mexico, with the fall of Teotihuacan around the 7th century, than it did in the Maya area, which continued for centuries more. Around this time, many southern lowland sites (most notably in Tikal) experienced a short period of limited decline, called the Middle Classic Hiatus. The later period of Maya's continued growth is sometimes known as the Florescent Era.
In the early 20th century, the term Old Empire was sometimes given to this era of Maya civilization in an analogy to Ancient Egypt; the term is now considered inaccurate and has long been out of use by serious writers on the subject.
10th century - 16th century.
Many of the great nations and cities of the Classic Era collapsed, but some continue, such as in Oaxaca, Cholula, and the Maya of Yucatán, such as at Chichen Itza and Uxmal. This is sometimes seen as a period of increased chaos and warfare. The Toltec for a time dominate central Mexico in the 11th - 13th century, then collapse. The northern Maya are for a time united under Mayapan. The Aztec Empire rises in the early 15th century and seems on the path to gain a dominance over the whole region not seen since Teotihuacan, when Mesoamerica is discovered by Spain and conquered by the Conquistadores.
The late florescence of the northern Maya was sometimes called the New Empire in the early 20th century, but this term is no longer considered appropriate and is no longer used.
Arguably, the Post-Classic continued until the conquest of the last independent native state of Mesoamerica, Tayasal, in 1697.

</doc>
<doc id="63548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63548" title="Category:History of Mesoamerica">
Category:History of Mesoamerica


</doc>
<doc id="63549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63549" title="Beck">
Beck

Beck Hansen (better known as simply Beck) (born Bek David Campbell, July 8, 1970 in Los Angeles, California) is an American singer, musician, and multi-instrumentalist. He is known for folky rock music, unusual lyrics, and post-modern arrangements, which has made him one of the most outstanding in 1990s alternative rock.
He became extremely popular with his hit song "Loser" in 1994. Beck is known for including various styles of music into his songs, including folk music, electronica, indie music, techno, rock music, and alternative music, among others.
Hansen married actress Marissa Ribisi in 2004. They currently have two children: a son, Cosimo Henri, and a daughter, Tuesday.

</doc>
<doc id="63571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63571" title="Prime Meridian">
Prime Meridian

The Prime Meridian is the meridian (line of longitude) that goes through the Royal Observatory, Greenwich in London it is also known as the International Meridian or Greenwich Meridian.

</doc>
<doc id="63572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63572" title="Retirement">
Retirement

Retirement is when people stop working. People may retire when they reach a certain age, or if they get sick or have an accident, or even for their own choice. Some people may semi-retire and keep some sort of job.

</doc>
<doc id="63573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63573" title="Sophia">
Sophia

Sophia and sofia may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="63574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63574" title="Trdat the Architect">
Trdat the Architect

Trdat the Architect (c. 950-1020) (Armenian: Տրդատ ճարտարապետ), known in Latin as Tiridates, was chief architect of the Bagratuni Dynasty of Armenia.
After a great earthquake in 989 destroyed the dome of Hagia Sophia, the Byzantine officials sent Trdat to Byzantium to organize repairs. The restored dome was completed by 994.

</doc>
<doc id="63576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63576" title="Category:Byzantine Empire">
Category:Byzantine Empire


</doc>
<doc id="63578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63578" title="Byzantium">
Byzantium

Byzantium (Greek: Βυζάντιον) was an ancient Greek city. The name "Byzantium" is a Latinization of the original name Byzantion.
The city became the center of the Byzantine Empire, (the Greek-speaking Roman Empire of late Antiquity and the Middle Ages), but at that time it was already called Constantinople.
The origins of Byzantium are not clear. There is only a legend. It tells that a certain Byzas from Megara (a town near Athens), founded Byzantium, when he sailed northeast across the Aegean Sea. He had asked the Oracle at Delphi where he should found his new city. The Oracle told him to find it "opposite the blind." At the time, he did not know what this meant. But when he came upon the Bosporus he realized what it meant: on the Asiatic shore was a Greek city, Chalcedon. It was they who must have been blind because they had not seen that obviously superior land was just a half mile away on the other side of the Bosporus. Byzas founded his city here in this "superior" land and named it Byzantion after himself.
Byzantion was mainly a trading city due to its strategic location at the Black Sea's only entrance. Byzantion later conquered Chalcedon, across the Bosporus.
When it fought with Pescennius Niger against the victorious Septimius Severus, the city was besieged by Roman forces and suffered extensive damage in 196 AD. Byzantium was rebuilt by Septimius Severus, when he had become emperor, and quickly regained its earlier prosperity.
When Roman Emperor Constantine I decided to move his capital to the Eastern part of the Roman Empire he chose the place of Byzantion because of its strategical value. He refounded it, in 330 AD, as "Nova Roma". After his death the city was called Constantinople ('city of Constantine'). It remained the capital of the Eastern Roman Empire, which was later called the Byzantine Empire by historians.
Following the legend the citizens of Byzantium claimed the crescent moon as their state symbol, after an important victory in 670 BC. However, the origin of the crescent moon and star as a symbol dates back much earlier - to ancient Babylon and ancient Egypt. But Byzantium was the first city that used the crescent moon as its symbol. In 330 AD Constantine I added the Virgin Mary's star to the flag.

</doc>
<doc id="63580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63580" title="Coat of Arms of Armenia">
Coat of Arms of Armenia

The national coat of arms of Armenia consists of an eagle and a lion supporting a shield. The coat of arms combines new and old symbols. The eagle and lion are ancient Armenian symbols dating from the first Armenian kingdoms that existed prior to Christ.
The current coat of arms was adopted on 19 April 1992 by the Armenian Supreme Council decision. On 15 June 2006, the law on the state coat of arms of Armenia was passed by the Armenian Parliament.
The shield consists of many parts. In the center is an image of Mount Ararat with Noah's Ark sitting on top of it. According to tradition, the ark is said to have finally rested on the mountain after the great flood. Ararat is considered the national symbol of Armenia and so is of significant importance to the coat of arms. Surrounding Mount Ararat are symbols of old Armenian dynasties. In the lower left portion of the shield, there are two eagles looking at each other, symbolizing the length of the Armenian territory during the reign of the Artaxiad Dynasty that ruled in the 1st century BC. In the upper left portion, there is a lion with a cross, the emblem for the Bagratuni dynasty that ruled during the Middle Ages, between 7th and 11th centuries. Under this dynasty, Armenia blossomed culturally, making its capital, Ani, one of the most important cultural, social and commercial centers of its time. Bagratuni was destroyed by the Byzantine Empire's encroachment and by Seljuk invasions in the 11th century AD. In the upper right portion, there is a two-headed eagle, the emblem of the first dynasty to reign over a Christian Armenia, the Arsacid Dynasty of Armenia. Tiridates III of Arsacid Dynasty made Armenia the first Christian nation in 301 AD. This dynasty ruled from the 1st century AD to 428 AD. In the lower right portion, there is a lion with a cross, the emblem of the Rubenid dynasty. This dynasty reigned in Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia, a state that expanded and prospered during the 12th and 13th centuries, until the Mamelukes and Turks eventually conquered it.
The eagle supports the shield on the left side of the coat of arms, while the lion on the right side. The eagle was the symbol of the Artaxiad Dynasty and later on the symbol of the Arsacid Dynasty of Armenia. It holds the Artaxiad Dynasty's branch of the shield. Whereas, the lion was the symbol of the Bagratuni Dynasty and later on the symbol of the Rubenid Dynasty. It holds the Rubenid Dynasty's branch of the shield.
Both of these animals were chosen because of their power, courage, patience, wisdom, and nobility in animal kingdom.
The present-day Armenian coat of arms has its origins with the establishment of the Democratic Republic of Armenia (DRA) in 1918. In that year, an early variation of the coat of arms was adopted by the DRA. The symbols on this earlier version were placed in a slightly different order and the eagle and lion have their tongues out, giving them a more menacing look. It's also worthy to note that only Mount Ararat (along with Little Ararat) are depicted while Noah's Ark is absent. The coat of arms was designed by architect and member of the Russian Academy of Fine Arts Alexander Tamanian (best known for his work on Yerevan's city plan) and artist Hakob Kojoyan.
In 1922 Armenia was incorporated into Transcaucasian SFSR with Georgia and Azerbaijan. The coat of arms of the Transcaucasian SFSR was adopted by the government of the Transcaucasian SFSR. It is uncertain when exactly it was adopted. It incorporates designs from each of the three major groups that combined in the Transcaucasian SFSR, the Armenians, Azeri and Georgians, and unusually features Islamic art and communist elements side by side. The latticework in the star itself bespeaks the former coat of arms of Georgia from 1918-1921 and adopted again from 1991-2004; the crescent moon represents the Muslim Azeris, on a background depicting the national symbol of the Armenians, Mount Ararat.
In 1937, a new coat of arms was adopted. Like the DRA coat of arms, this coat showed Mount Ararat along with the Soviet hammer and sickle and red star behind it. The inclusion of Ararat brought objections from Turkey because the mountain is part of its territory. The Kremlin retorted that although the Turkish symbol was the crescent, it did not mean that they laid claim to the moon. The Soviet Union broke apart in 1991 and Armenia thus became an independent republic.

</doc>
<doc id="63582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63582" title="Arsacid Dynasty of Armenia">
Arsacid Dynasty of Armenia

The Arsacid Dynasty or (sometimes called the Arshakuni Dynasty) ruled the Kingdom of Armenia from 54 to 428. They used to be a branch of the Parthian Arsacids but became a distinctly Armenian dynasty later on. Arsacid Kings reigned intermittently throughout the chaotic years after the fall of the Artaxiad Dynasty until 62 when Tiridates I of Armenia secured Arsacid rule in Armenia. An independent line of Kings was established by Vologases II of Armenia (Valarses/Vagharshak) in 180. Two of the most notable events under Arsacid rule in Armenian history were the conversion of Armenia to Christianity by St. Gregory the Illuminator in 301 and the creation of the Armenian alphabet by Mesrop Mashtots in 405.

</doc>
<doc id="63584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63584" title="Hakob Kojoyan">
Hakob Kojoyan

Hakob Kojoyan (1883 - 1959) was an Armenian artist. He worked in genres of painting and applied art. Hakob Kojoyan helped Armenian architect Alexander Tamanian in creating the coat of arms for the Democratic Republic of Armenia.

</doc>
<doc id="63585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63585" title="Alexander Tamanian">
Alexander Tamanian

Alexander Tamanian (, March 4, 1878, Yekaterinodar - February 20, 1936, Yerevan) was an Armenian neoclassical architect, who is remembered today for his work in the city of Yerevan.

</doc>
<doc id="63586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63586" title="Ani">
Ani

"This article is about the city in Turkey. For the Etruscan god, see Ani"
Ani (, Latin: Abnicum) is a ruined and uninhabited medieval city-site in Turkey. It is in the province of Kars, beside the border with Armenia. It was once the capital of a medieval Armenian kingdom that covered much of present-day Armenia and eastern Turkey.
At the height of its great times, Ani had a population of 100,000 - 200,000 people and was the rival of Constantinople, Baghdad and Cairo. Long ago renowned for its splendor and magnificence, Ani has been abandoned and largely forgotten for centuries.
Armenian chroniclers first mention Ani in the 5th century AD. They describe it as a strong fortress built on a hilltop and a possession of the Armenian Kamsarakan dynasty.
By the early 9th century the former territories of the Kamsarakans in Arsharunik and Shirak (including Ani) had been incorporated into the territories of the Armenian Bagratuni dynasty. Their leader, Ashot "Msaker" (Ashot the Meateater) (806-827) was given the title of "ishkhan" (prince) of Armenia by the Caliphate in 804.
There are many other minor monuments at Ani. These include a convent known as the Virgins' chapel; a church used by Chalcedonian Armenians; the remains of a single-arched bridge over the Arpa river; the ruins of numerous oil-presses and several bath houses; the remains of a second mosque with a collapsed minaret; a palace that probably dates from the 13th century; the foundations of several other palaces and smaller residences; the recently excavated remains of several streets lined with shops; etc.

</doc>
<doc id="63588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63588" title="Category:Archaeological sites">
Category:Archaeological sites


</doc>
<doc id="63589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63589" title="Category:Ruins">
Category:Ruins


</doc>
<doc id="63590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63590" title="Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic">
Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic

The Armenian SSR (Armenian: Հայկական Սովետական
Սոցիալիստական Հանրապետություն, Haykakan Sovetakan Sotsialistakan Hanrapetutyun; Russian: Армянская Советская Социалистическая Республика) or Soviet Socialist Republic of Armenia came into being when the Communist Party of Armenia proclaimed control of Armenia on November 29, 1920. On December 1, 1920, Prime Minister Simon Vratsian ceded control of the country. It later changed its name to the Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic.

</doc>
<doc id="63594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63594" title="Extinct language">
Extinct language

An extinct language (or dead language) is a language which no longer has any native speakers. It is the opposite of a modern language. Because it is not spoken anymore, the language cannot develop or change. A well known extinct language is Latin. The first dead language in human history recordings is that of the Sumerians.
With last known speaker and/or date of death.

</doc>
<doc id="63595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63595" title="Category:Extinct languages">
Category:Extinct languages


</doc>
<doc id="63603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63603" title="Armenian American">
Armenian American

An Armenian American is an American whose ancestry is from Armenia. During the 2009 Census in the United States, 1,270,000 Americans indicated either full or partial Armenian ancestry.
The first Armenian known to have moved to America is nicknamed "Martin the Armenian". He was one of the settlers in the Jamestown Colony in Virginia. He arrived in Jamestown in 1618, when the colony was only 11 years old. Martin was invited to the colony to raise silk worms. Other Armenians were also brought to the colony but they went back to Europe.
Armenians began to arrive in the United States in high numbers in the late 19th century. However, the influx was intensified when over 100,000 Armenian refugees came after World War I to flee the Armenian Genocide in the Ottoman Empire. 

</doc>
<doc id="63604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63604" title="Thomas Cavendish">
Thomas Cavendish

Sir Thomas Cavendish (or Candish) (1560-1592) was an English sea explorer. He was known as "the Navigator" because he led the third expedition to travel around ("circumnavigate") the globe. Cavendish was the first who set sail to do this. Magellan and Francis Drake were the first two to circumnavigate the globe, but they did not intend to do so. Cavendish died at sea on his second voyage around the world.

</doc>
<doc id="63609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63609" title="William Saroyan">
William Saroyan

William Saroyan () (August 31, 1908 - May 18, 1981) was an American author who wrote many plays and short stories about growing up impoverished as the son of Armenian immigrants. These stories were popular during the Great Depression. Saroyan grew up in Fresno, the center of Armenian-Americans in California, where many of his works are set (although he sometimes gave the city a fictional name).
Asked how to say his name, he told "The Literary Digest" "In Armenian it is "sor-row'yan", accent on "row". In America it is mispronounced with... 'roy.'" 
Saroyan was born in Fresno, California, the son of an Armenian immigrant. His father moved to New Jersey in 1905 - he was a small vineyard owner, who had been educated as a Presbyterian minister. At a certain point his father was forced to take farm-laboring work, and he died in 1911. At the age of four, William Saroyan was placed in the Fred Finch Orphanage in Oakland, California, together with his brother and sister - an experience he later described in his writing. Five years later the family reunited in Fresno, where his mother, Takoohi, had obtained work in a cannery.

</doc>
<doc id="63611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63611" title="Raphael Lemkin">
Raphael Lemkin

Raphael Lemkin (June 24, 1900 – August 28, 1959) was a lawyer of Polish-Jewish descent. Before World War II, Lemkin was interested in the Armenian Genocide and campaigned in the League of Nations to ban what he called "barbarity" and "vandalism". He is best known for his work against genocide, a word he coined in 1943 from the root words "genos" (Greek for family, tribe or race) and "-cide" (Latin for killing).
Lemkin died of a heart attack at the public relations office of Milton H. Blow in New York City in 1959, at the age of 59. In an ironic final twist for a man whose life was dedicated to the remembrance of millions of victims of genocide, seven people attended his funeral.

</doc>
<doc id="63613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63613" title="Vakıflı">
Vakıflı

Vakıflı Köyü ( — Vakif) is the only ethnic Armenian village in Turkey. It is on the slopes of Musa Dagh in the Samandağ district of Hatay Province. It has a view of the Mediterranean Sea. From the village, people can see the Syrian border. There are about 130 Turkish-Armenians.

</doc>
<doc id="63614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63614" title="Spanish colonization of the Americas">
Spanish colonization of the Americas

The Spanish colonization of the Americas began with the arrival in America of Christopher Columbus (Cristóbal Colón) in 1492. This was the first part of the European colonization of the Americas. 
The Spanish expanded their territories in America over four centuries until it included Central America, most of South America, Mexico, the South of what today is Southern United States, the Western part of what today is Central United States, the Southwestern part of what today is British Columbia in Canada, and even reaching Alaska. At the beginning of the nineteenth century, the Spanish possessions in America began a series of independence movements, which lead to the complete separation from Spain by the mid 1820's of Mexico, and the colonies in Central and South American. The remaining Spanish colonies, Cuba and Puerto Rico, were lost in 1898 as a consequence of the Spanish-American War.

</doc>
<doc id="63615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63615" title="Conquistador">
Conquistador

A Conquistador (English: "Conqueror"; : "Conquistadores", or "Conquistadors") was a Spanish soldier, explorer and adventurer. The "Conquistadors" invaded and conquered much of the Americas and the Philippines Islands and other islands in Asia Pacific. Many of them were "hidalgos" (noblemen of low category).
Their conquests brought these lands under Spanish colonial rule between the 15th and 17th centuries, starting with the 1492 settlement by Christopher Columbus in what is now the Bahamas. They created what is now called Latin America.
The first immensely successful conquistador was Hernán Cortés. Between 1520 and 1521, Cortés, along with native enemies of the Aztecs, conquered the mighty Aztec Empire. Present day Mexico came under the dominion of the Spanish Empire, as New Spain. Francisco Pizarro later found and conquered the similarly large Inca Empire.

</doc>
<doc id="63616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63616" title="Shushanik Kurghinian">
Shushanik Kurghinian

Shushanik Kurghinian (Popoljian) (1876-1927) was an Armenian poet. Kurghinian received little or no recognition for her outstanding poems. Although a socialist with some stirring poems of labour's rebellion to her name, she remained a dim star even in the Soviet era. Today she is almost unknown, away from the literary canon in Armenia and the Diaspora.
Shushanik Kurghinian was born on August 18, 1876, in Alexandrapol, in the Yerevan province of Eastern Armenia, into a poor family of Popolji Harout. In her autobiography Shushanik writes of her childhood: “Sometimes father would bring his [shoe-repair] ‘workstation’ home, in order to save money, and I would work for him – demanding my wages, every single kopek (Coin). My mother, having been raised in a traditional household, would reprove my ‘ill behavior toward my parent,’and blamed those harmful books for corrupting me.”
`Whoever is without hope, dulled, without spirit,<br>
alone and lacking faith...<br>
bring them to me<br>
my spirit is free<br>
I will give them of my soul...'<br>

</doc>
<doc id="63618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63618" title="Gyumri">
Gyumri

Gyumri (Armenian:Գյումրի) is the capital and largest city of the Shirak province in northwest Armenia. It is located about 75 miles from the capital Yerevan, and, with a population of 150,917 (2001 census), is the second-largest city in Armenia.

</doc>
<doc id="63620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63620" title="Arminianism">
Arminianism

Arminianism is a school of soteriological thought in Protestant Christian theology founded by the Dutch theologian Jacobus Arminius.

</doc>
<doc id="63621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63621" title="Category:Christian theology">
Category:Christian theology


</doc>
<doc id="63622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63622" title="Ruben Sevak">
Ruben Sevak

Sevak Ruben or Ruben Sevak (February 15, 1885 - August 26, 1915) was an Armenian poet a prose-writer, and a doctor.
Among many others, he was arrested on April 24, 1915 and killed on August 26, 1915 during the Armenian Genocide.

</doc>
<doc id="63623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63623" title="National Gallery of Armenia">
National Gallery of Armenia

National Gallery of Armenia at Yerevan, Armenia.
The old Armenian subdivision owns works of famous Armenian artists of early medieval and succeeding periods.
Today its collection is over 19,000 specimens shown in the Russian, Armenian and West-European divisions of paintings, sculptures, graphic and applied arts.
The National Art Gallery of Armenia has a lot of branches in Yerevan and other towns of the republic. The memorial-houses of the artist Hakop Kojoyan and the sculptor Ara Sarkissian are in the capital. They exhibit the best works of the two far-famed men of arts.
In 1935 the art section was changed into Art Museum, in 1947 it was called State Museum of Armenia and from 1991 it was renamed as National Gallery of Armenia. In 1978 a new 8 storey building was put into exploitation. Now the collection of the NGA includes about 26.000 museum exhibits and the building has 56 exposition halls in which there are presented the museums treasures by temporary and permanent exhibitions.
Armenian art presents the considerable part of the exposition. It begins with ancient and Medieval Art: Urartu frescoes, with valuable documental copies of Garni temple’s mosaics and Medieval wall-paintings and miniatures, also Clerical paintings of XVII-XIX centuries, silver book-covers of manuscripts, crosses, etc.
The exposition is continued by the works of Armenian classics /H.Hovnatanian, H.Ayvazovski, G.Bashinjaghian, P.Terlemezian, V.Sureniants, V.Mahokian / by works of XX century artists /M.Saryan, H.Kojoyan, H.Gurdjian, E.Chahin, G.Khanjian, M.Avetisian and by works of other remarkable artists /.
Russian art is representative in the collection of NGA. Here you can see sacred images of XVI-XVII centuries and works of XVIII-XX centuries well known artists F. Rokotov, I.Argunov, F.Shubin, I.Repin,V.Serov,M.Goncharova,I.Mashkov,S.Konenkov,W.Kandinski,M.Chagal, etc.
In the halls of foreign art the exposition begins with the culture of Ancient World Egypt and Greece. Here there are presented works by well-known artists of Italian, Holland, Flemish and French art schools /F. Guerchino, Jan Van Goyen, P. Claesz, E. M. Falconet, J. B.Greuze, T.Rousseau, A. Monticelli/.
In 2008 there was opened pavilion of Hakob Gurjian’s works, also reopened and enlarged the permanent exposition of XVII-XIX centuries Armenian Clerical art.
The restoration and conservation studios operate in the gallery. There is a library, an archive, cafeteria, souvenir and book store, also operates film and lecturing hall.
The National Gallery of Armenia participates to international exhibitions with separate art works from his collection, organizes exhibitions of Armenian art in different countries greatly facilitating the recognition of national art.
The National Gallery has branch museums in Yerevan/ H.Kojoyan and A.Sargsian home-museum, Jotto /G. Grigorian studio/,in Echmiadzin/The Echmiadzin gallery,Mher Abeghian museum/in Hrazdan/Hrazdan gallery/,in Jermuk/The Jermuk gallery/,in Sisian/The Sisian gallery/, in Alaverdi/The Alaverdi gallery/in Eghegnadzor /The Eghjegnadzor gallery/, in Gavar/the Academician H.Buniatian Gavar gallery/, in Martuni/the Martuni gallery/and in Jajur the M. Avetissian museum/.
In different years the gallery directed R. Drambian /1925-1951/, R.Parsamian /1952-1962/, A.Chilingarian/1962-1967/, E.Isabekian/ 1967-1986/, A.TerGabrielian/ 1986-1990/, Sh.Khatchatrian/ 1991-2002/ and P.Mirzoyan/2002/ noted artists who has great contribution to the enlargement of the collection in the field of popularization and scientific research.

</doc>
<doc id="63625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63625" title="Armenian Evangelical Church">
Armenian Evangelical Church

The Armenian Evangelical Church (Armenian: Հայաստանեայց Աւետարանական Եկեղեցի) was established on July 1, 1846 by thirty-seven men and three women in Constantinople.
In the 19th century, there was intellectual and spiritual awakening in Constantinople. This awakening and enlightenment pushed the reformists to study the Bible. Under the patronage of the Armenian Patriarchate, a school was opened, headed by Krikor Peshdimaljian, one of the leading intellectuals of the time. The principal aim of this school was to train qualified clergy for the Armenian Apostolic Church.
Today, there are 88 Armenian Evangelical Churches in the following countries: Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Cyprus, Egypt, England, France, Georgia, Greece, Iran, Lebanon, Syria, Turkey, Uruguay, and the United States of America.

</doc>
<doc id="63628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63628" title="Armenian alphabet">
Armenian alphabet

The Armenian alphabet is an alphabet that has been used to write the Armenian language since the 5th century.
The Armenian word for "alphabet" is այբուբեն (CA, EA: , or WA: ), named after the first two letters of the Armenian alphabet.
Unicode Support for Armenian

</doc>
<doc id="63630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63630" title="Orontid Dynasty">
Orontid Dynasty

The Orontid Dynasty (in Armenian: Երվանդունիների թագավորություն) was the first Armenian dynasty. The Orontids established their supremacy over Armenia around the time of the invasions by the Scythians and Medes in the 6th century BC.

</doc>
<doc id="63631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63631" title="Armenian Highland">
Armenian Highland

The Armenian Highland (also known as the Armenian Upland or Armenian Plateau) is part of the Transcaucasian Highland and constitutes the continuation of the Caucasus mountains, also referred as eastern Armenia.
The apricot is native to China and spread to Europe through the Armenia Highlands. It came to be known throughout the ancient world as the Armenian fruit. Its botanical name Prunus armeniaca, derives from the Latin vernacular for apricot, armeniacum, which some scholars have linked to its Akkadian name "".
Many scholars place the Indo-European homeland in the Armenian Highlands and the plateau of Asia Minor to the southwest.
Others believe that it was in Eastern Europe or southern Russia.
Some scholars believe, for example, that the earliest mention of the Armenians is in the Akkadian inscriptions dating to the 28th-27th centuries BC, in which the Armenians are referred to as the sons of Haya, after the regional god of the Armenian Highlands.

</doc>
<doc id="63632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63632" title="Armenian Quarter">
Armenian Quarter

The Armenian Quarter is one of the four quarters of the Old City of Jerusalem. Although the Armenian people are Christians, the Armenian Quarter is distinct from the Christian Quarter.

</doc>
<doc id="63645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63645" title="Paulo César Fonseca do Nascimento">
Paulo César Fonseca do Nascimento

Paulo César Fonseca do Nascimento (born 13 January 1978) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Borussia Dortmund.
148||14
24||8
20||0
91||9
283||31
!Total||4||0

</doc>
<doc id="63646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63646" title="Lina Hahne">
Lina Hahne

Lina Hahne (born January 23, 1984) was crowned Miss Sweden on June 26. She represented the country in Miss Universe 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="63647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63647" title="Miss Universe">
Miss Universe

Miss Universe is an international beauty contest. It was started in 1952. About one billion people watch it on television every year. On January 25, 2015, Paulina Vega from Colombia became Miss Universe 2014.
Pia Alonzo Wurtzbach became Ms. Universe on December 20, 2015. She is from the Philippines.

</doc>
<doc id="63648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63648" title="Frank Thomas">
Frank Thomas

Frank Thomas (born May 27, 1968) is a former American Major League Baseball player who spent most of his career with the Chicago White Sox. Near the end of his career, he also played with the Oakland Athletics and Toronto Blue Jays. He hit his 500th career home run on June 28, 2007. He was the 21st person to hit 500 home runs.
Thomas was elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 2014, and will officially enter the Hall on July 27.

</doc>
<doc id="63651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63651" title="Northwest">
Northwest

Northwest or north west is the direction halfway between North and West on a compass. It is the opposite of Southeast.

</doc>
<doc id="63652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63652" title="Southeast">
Southeast

Southeast or south east is the direction halfway between south and east. It the opposite of northwest.

</doc>
<doc id="63653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63653" title="Silvia Night">
Silvia Night

Silvia Night is a fictional (not real) character played by Eva Augusta from Iceland. Silvia Night participated in Eurovision Song Contest 2006 in "Greece". She is famous for her larger than life and narcissistic persona.
Silvia Night homepage

</doc>
<doc id="63654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63654" title="Donald Trump">
Donald Trump

Donald John Trump (born June 14, 1946) is an American businessman. He is the 45th and current President of the United States. Trump was the chairman and president of The Trump Organization. Much of his money was made in real estate in New York City, Las Vegas, and Atlantic City. He used to own the Miss Universe pageant. He was the star in his own reality show "The Apprentice".
In June 2015, Trump announced that he would run for President of the United States in the 2016 presidential elections. Starting mid-July, polls showed that Trump was the front-runner in the Republican field. This was true even after much criticism from the party due to his comments on illegal immigration, Muslims, and ISIS. His campaign has gained support from mostly middle class families. It has gained opposition from Democrats, some Republicans, business people, some world leaders and the Pope.
On May 4, 2016, Trump became the presumptive nominee after his only remaining challengers, Texas United States senator Ted Cruz and Ohio Governor John Kasich, dropped out. He became the president-elect on November 9, 2016, after a close race with former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Each of them needed 270 electoral votes to win. Trump earned 304, but Clinton had 227. He was inaugurated the 45th president on January 20, 2017. At 70 years old, Trump is the oldest person to assume the presidency since Ronald Reagan in 1981 at the age of 69.
Trump was born Donald John Trump in Queens, New York City. He is the son of Fred Trump and his wife, Mary Anne (nee MacLeod), who married in 1936. His mother was born on the Isle of Lewis, off the west coast of Scotland. Donald was one of five children. Donald's oldest brother, Fred Jr., died in 1981 at the age of 43. Trump's sister, is Maryanne, is a judge in New York. Trump's father's parents were German immigrants. 
His grandfather, Frederick Trump, immigrated to the United States in 1885. He became a naturalized American citizen in 1892. Frederick married Elisabeth Christ (October 10, 1880 – June 6, 1966) at Kallstadt, Kingdom of Bavaria, Germany, on August 26, 1902. They had three children. He studied at Fordham University until transferring to the University of Pennsylvania.
Trump was not drafted during the Vietnam War. In an interview for a 2015 biography, he attributed his medical deferment to heel spurs.
Trump began his career at his father's real estate company, Elizabeth Trump and Son. the company focused on middle-class rental housing in Brooklyn, Queens, and Staten Island. One of Trump's first projects, while he was still in college, was the revitalization of the foreclosed Swifton Village apartment complex in Cincinnati, Ohio. His father had purchased it for $5.7 million in 1962. Trump became closely involved in the project. With a $500,000 investment, he turned the 1200-unit complex with a 66 percent vacancy rate to 100 percent occupancy within two years. In 1972, the Trump Organization sold Swifton Village for $6.75 million.
Trump has developed many real estate projects. They include Trump International Hotel and Tower in Honolulu, Trump International Hotel and Tower in Chicago, Trump International Hotel and Tower in Toronto, and Trump Tower in Tampa. In Fort Lauderdale, Florida, one Trump construction project was put on hold in favor of another (Trump International Hotel and Tower in Fort Lauderdale). Meanwhile, Trump Towers in Atlanta is being developed in a housing market having the nation's second-highest inventory of unsold homes.
In its October 7, 2007 "Forbes" 400 issue, "Acreage Aces", "Forbes" valued Trump's wealth at $3.0 billion. Since 2011, his net worth has been estimated from $2.9 billion to $7 billion.
From 1996 until 2015, Trump owned part or all of the Miss Universe, Miss USA, and Miss Teen USA beauty pageants.
Trump is a WWE (World Wrestling Entertainment) fan, and a friend of WWE owner Vince McMahon. In 1988–89 he hosted WrestleMania IV and V at Boardwalk Hall (dubbed "Trump Plaza" for storyline purposes) and has been an active participant in several of the shows. Trump was inducted into the celebrity wing of the WWE Hall of Fame in 2013 at Madison Square Garden for his contributions to the promotion. He made his sixth WrestleMania appearance the next night.
In 2003, Trump became the executive producer and host of the NBC reality show "The Apprentice", in which a group of competitors battled for a high-level management job in one of Trump's commercial enterprises. In 2004, Trump filed a trademark application for the catchphrase "You're fired!"
For the first year of the show, Trump earned $50,000 per episode (roughly $700,000 for the first season), but following the show's initial success, he was paid $1 million per episode. In a July 2015 press release, Trump's campaign manager said that NBCUniversal had paid him $213,606,575 for his 14 seasons hosting the show.
On February 16, 2015, NBC announced that they would be renewing "The Apprentice" for a 15th season. On February 27, Trump stated that he was "not ready" to sign on for another season because of the possibility of a presidential run. On June 29, after widespread negative reaction stemming from Trump's campaign announcement speech, NBC released a statement saying, "Due to the recent derogatory statements by Donald Trump regarding immigrants, NBCUniversal is ending its business relationship with Mr. Trump." Trump was replaced by former Governor of California and actor Arnold Schwarzenegger.
Trump made a formal announcement of his candidacy for president of the United States for the 2016 elections on June 16, 2015. He made the announcement at 11am EST from his headquarters in Trump Tower in New York City. Trump launched his campaign saying, "We are going to make our Country Great Again" with a commitment to become the "greatest jobs president." Trump's official campaign slogan is "Make America Great Again." That was Ronald Reagan's campaign slogan, but Trump trademarked it. 
On May 4, 2016, Trump became the presumptive nominee after his only challengers, Texas United States senator Ted Cruz and Governor of Ohio John Kasich, dropped out.
During his announcement speech he stated in part, "When Mexico sends its people, they're not sending their best. They're not sending you... They're sending people that have lots of problems, and they're bringing those problems... They're bringing drugs. They're bringing crime. They're rapists. And some, I assume, are good people." On July 6, 2015, Trump issued a written statement to clarify his position on illegal immigration which drew a reaction from critics.
Trump has described his political leanings and positions in many ways over time. "Politico" has called his positions as "eclectic, improvisational and often contradictory". He has listed several different party affiliations over the years, and has also run as a Reform Party candidate. The positions that he has revised or reversed include stances on progressive taxation, abortion, and government involvement in health care.
He has supported Christian groups in the U.S., claiming that he will reverse unfavorable tax treatments preventing them from expressing themselves in the political arena and promising to revive a more widespread use of the phrase "Merry Christmas" instead of "Happy Holidays" in department stores. Other issues he highlights include taking care of military veterans, making the military "strong", aggressive bombing of the Mideast terrorist group ISIS, surveillance of certain mosques in the U.S., and making trade agreements more favorable to American workers.
Trump entered a large field of candidates consisting of 16 other Republican candidates campaigning for the nomination, the largest presidential field in American history. By early 2016, the race had mostly centered on Donald Trump and U.S. Senator Ted Cruz. On , Trump won the majority of the delegates and remained the front-runner throughout the primaries. 
Finishing in June 2016 with nearly 14 million votes, Trump broke the all-time record for winning the most primary votes in the history of the Republican Party.
After becoming the presumptive Republican nominee, Trump's focus shifted to the general election, urging remaining primary voters to "save [their] vote for the general election." Trump began targeting Hillary Clinton, who became the presumptive Democratic nominee on June 6, 2016, and continued to campaign across the country. Clinton had established a significant lead in national polls over Trump throughout most of 2016. In early July, Clinton's lead narrowed in national polling averages following the FBI's conclusion of its investigation into her ongoing email controversy.
On September 26, 2016, Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton faced off in the first presidential debate at Hofstra University in Hempstead, New York. Lester Holt, an anchor with NBC News, was the moderator. This was the most watched presidential debate in United States history.
On November 8, 2016, Trump won the presidency with 304 electoral votes to Clinton's 227 votes. Trump won a smaller share of the popular vote than Clinton. He is the fifth person to become president without winning the popular vote. The final popular vote difference between Clinton and Trump is that Clinton finished ahead by 2.86 million or 2.1 percentage points, 48.04% to 45.95%, with neither candidate reaching a majority. Trump's victory was considered a big political upset, as nearly all national polls at the time showed Hillary Clinton with a modest lead over Trump, and state polls showed her with a modest lead to win the Electoral College. In the early hours of November 9, 2016, Trump received a phone call in which Clinton conceded the presidency to him. Trump then delivered his victory speech before hundreds of supporters in the Hilton Hotel in New York City.
Trump's transition team was led by Chris Christie until November 11, 2016, when Vice President-elect Mike Pence took over. His nominees for cabinet and other positions include:
On January 20, 2017, Trump was sworn in by Chief Justice John G. Roberts as President of the United States at his inauguration ceremony at the United States Capitol Building. Within his first hour as president, he signed several executive orders, including an order to minimize "the economic burden" of the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare.
On the Saturday following Trump's inauguration there were massive demonstrations protesting Trump in the United States and worldwide, including the 2017 Women's March.
On January 23, 2017 Trump signed the executive order withdrawing the United States from the the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) or Trans Pacific Partnership Agreement (TPPA), a trade agreement between the United States and eleven Pacific Rim nations—Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore, and Vietnam that would have created a "free-trade zone for about 40 percent of the world's economy." Two days later, he ordered the construction of the Mexico border wall. He reopened the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipeline construction projects.
On January 27, an order suspended admission of refugees for 120 days and denied entry to citizens of Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen for 90 days, citing security concerns about terrorism. Later, the administration seemed to reverse a portion of part of the order, effectively exempting visitors with a green card.
On January 30, 2017, Trump fired Acting Attorney General Sally Yates because of her criticisms of Trump's immigration suspension. On January 31, 2017, Trump nominated Judge Neil Gorsuch to the United States Supreme Court to replace the late Justice Antonin Scalia.
Trump has five children by three marriages, and has eight grandchildren. Trump is a Presbyterian. As a child, he began going to church at the First Presbyterian Church in Jamaica, Queens.
Trump married his first wife, Czech model Ivana Zelníčková, on April 7, 1977, at the Marble Collegiate Church in Manhattan. They had three children: son Donald Jr. (born December 31, 1977), daughter Ivanka (born October 30, 1981), and son Eric (born January 6, 1984). Ivana became a naturalized United States citizen in 1988. By early 1990, Trump's troubled marriage to Ivana and affair with actress Marla Maples had been reported in the tabloid press. They were divorced in 1992.
Trump married his second wife, actress Marla Maples in 1993. They had one daughter together, Tiffany (born October 13, 1993). The couple were separated in 1997 and later divorced in 1999. 
In 1998, Trump began a relationship with Slovene model Melania Knauss, who became his third wife. They were engaged in April 2004 and were married on January 22, 2005, at Bethesda-by-the-Sea Episcopal Church, on the island of Palm Beach, Florida. In 2006, Melania became a naturalized United States citizen. On March 20, 2006, she gave birth to their son, whom they named Barron Trump.
A medical report by his doctor, Harold Bornstein M.D., showed that Trump's blood pressure, liver and thyroid function were in normal range. Trump says that he has never smoked cigarettes or consumed other drugs, including marijuana. He also does not drink alcohol, a decision after his brother's death caused by alcoholism. His BMI, according to his December 2016 visit on Doctor Oz, is just under 30, which is "high".

</doc>
<doc id="63655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63655" title="Northeast">
Northeast

Northeast or north east is the direction halfway between north and east. It is the opposite of southwest.

</doc>
<doc id="63658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63658" title="Mona Sahlin">
Mona Sahlin

Mona Ingeborg Sahlin (born Andersson on March 9, 1957 in Sollefteå, Sweden) is a former leader for the Swedish Social Democratic Party, when she replaced Göran Persson after his ten years as leader, she was the first woman to do so. She was the minister responsible for the handling of the Heart 2 Art Exhibition in Stockholm 2002. Toblerone Scandal or Sahlin Scandal is the name of a Swedish scandal, in which there in October 1995 came to public attention that the Socialist politician Mona Sahlin during her time as Minister for Employment, 1990-1991, on several occasions used its credit cards for private expenses.

</doc>
<doc id="63659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63659" title="Swedish Social Democratic Party">
Swedish Social Democratic Party

The Swedish Social Democratic Party () was established on 23 April 1889, and is Sweden's biggest political partyof social democracy. The party has been in the lead with a Prime Minister for the longest and most amount of time in Sweden. Stefan Löfven is the current leader for the party. The party lost to the Moderate Party in the 2006 elections, but will have a new chance to take over the power again in 2014.
Olof Palme, one of Sweden's most famous politicians, was the party leader from October many years before he was murdereed in February 1986.

</doc>
<doc id="63660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63660" title="Olof Palme">
Olof Palme

Olof Palme (30 January 1927 – 28 February 1986) was a Swedish politician. He was the leader of the Social Democratic Party from 1969-1986 until his death and Prime Minister of Sweden from 1969-1976 and 1982-1986. 
He was shot to death in Stockholm after going to the cinema on 28 February 1986. The killer has never been identified, and the gun has never been found. His murder is still a mystery for Swedish police, even though people have been arrested in connection with it.
He was pacifist against "apartheid", Vietnam War, and nuclear weapon and made effort to improve welfare and economic, social and cultural rights for workers. 

</doc>
<doc id="63661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63661" title="Elena Paparizou">
Elena Paparizou

Elena Helena Paparizou (born January 31, 1982) in Borås, Sweden, is a Swedish-Greek singer and model who won the Eurovision Song Contest in 2005 for Greece, performing the song "My Number One" which won the entire contest.

</doc>
<doc id="63662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63662" title="Miss World">
Miss World

Miss World is a international beauty pageant that started in 1951. It is the oldest surviving major international beauty pageant. The contest was created in the United Kingdom by Eric Morley, and run as part of the Mecca Leisure Group. Since his death in 2000, Morley's wife, Julia Morley, co-chairs the pageant.
With its rivals Miss Universe and Miss Earth, this is one of the most publicised beauty contests in the world.
The winner spends a year travelling to represent the Miss World Organization and its various causes. The current Miss World is Yu Wenxia of China. Traditionally, Miss World lives in London during her reign.

</doc>
<doc id="63663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63663" title="Category:Beauty pageants">
Category:Beauty pageants


</doc>
<doc id="63666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63666" title="Gregory the Illuminator">
Gregory the Illuminator

Saint Gregory the Illuminator or Saint Gregory the Enlightener (Armenian: Գրիգոր Լուսաւորիչ translit. Grigor Lusavorich, Greek: Γρηγόριος Φωστήρ or Φωτιστής, Gregorios Phoster or Photistes), the founder and patron saint of the Armenian Apostolic Church, he was born about 257.
He belonged to the royal line of the Arsacid Dynasty, being the son of a Parthian named Anak, who assassinated Chosroes I of Armenia, and thus brought ruin on himself and his family.

</doc>
<doc id="63670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63670" title="Bow Wow">
Bow Wow

Shad Gregory Moss, better known as Bow Wow or formerly Lil' Bow Wow (born March 9, 1987, Columbus, Ohio) is an African-American rapper, actor, and music producer. He began his rap career when he was 13.

</doc>
<doc id="63672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63672" title="John Cage">
John Cage

John Milton Cage, Jr. usually known as just John Cage, (September 5, 1912 - August 12, 1992) was an American composer, writer, philosopher, and visual artist. He was one of the first composers (or "musicians") to introduce different styles of music to popular culture. He made mostly avant-garde music and electronic music, and was very well known for making the piece 4'33", which challenged what music is. He also wrote music for pianos that had been "prepared" by having screws and nails placed in them. He was gay. His life partner from 1943 until his death was choreographer Merce Cunningham (1919-2009). Cage died of a stroke in New York City.
This piece is in 3 movements (sections), and is special in that all of the movements are silent, the score having the Latin word for silence three times (tacit, tacit, tacit). Some people think that it is just a joke because of this, as there is nothing to listen to. It was written in 1952, and is 4 minutes and thirty three seconds long. Cage got the idea from being in a soundless chamber, but realising that even here there was no true silence because he could hear his heart beating.

</doc>
<doc id="63673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63673" title="4'33&quot;">
4'33&quot;

"4'33" (or Four minutes, 33 seconds) is a musical composition written by avant-garde (non-traditional) musician John Cage. It is his most famous work. It consists of no notes, only 4 minutes and thirty-three seconds of silence. The piece challenges the definition of music. The only thing the sheet music says is "tacet", or "it is silent". It was first played by David Tudor in Woodstock, New York.

</doc>
<doc id="63674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63674" title="McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet">
McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet


</doc>
<doc id="63676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63676" title="McDonnell Douglas F-15 Eagle">
McDonnell Douglas F-15 Eagle

The F-15 Eagle is a fighter jet that originally made by McDonnell-Douglas (later Boeing). It is known around the world for its toughness and "undefeated" record, meaning that it has never been shot down by an enemy plane. It is used primarily by the United States Air Force, but it is also used in Israel, Japan, Saudi Arabia and South Korea. It carries missiles to shoot down enemy fighter jet planes. More than a thousand have been made.
In 1981, the F-15 was redesigned to include the ability to carry bombs, allowing the F-15 to do the job of attack aircraft. This means it can also destroy things on the ground. This new variant of the aircraft was called the McDonnell Douglas F-15E Strike Eagle.

</doc>
<doc id="63681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63681" title="Dicotyledon">
Dicotyledon

The dicotyledons, also known as dicots, were one of the two groups of flowering plants or angiosperms. The name refers to one of the characteristics of the group, namely that the seed has two embryonic leaves or cotyledons. There are around 200,000 species in this group. The other group of flowering plants were called monocotyledons or monocots, with one cotyledon. Historically, these two groups formed the two divisions of the flowering plants.
From the 1990s onwards, molecular phylogeny showed what botanists already suspected: dicotyledons are not a monophyletic group. They are a number of lineages, such as the magnoliids. Groups now known as basal angiosperms diverged earlier than the monocots did. The traditional dicots are a paraphyletic group. The largest clade of the dicotyledons are known as the eudicots. They are definitely monophyletic. They are distinguished from all other flowering plants by the structure of their pollen. Other dicotyledons and monocotyledons have an older type of pollen, whereas eudicots have derived pollen.
Apart from cotyledon number, there are other differences between monocots and dicots. These are differences mainly between monocots and eudicots. Many early-diverging dicot groups have "monocot" characteristics such as scattered vascular bundles, trimerous flowers, and old-type pollen. Also, some monocots have dicot characteristics such as reticulated leaf veins.

</doc>
<doc id="63684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63684" title="James Clark Ross">
James Clark Ross

Sir James Clark Ross (April 15, 1800 – April 3, 1862), was a English naval officer and explorer. He explored the Arctic with his uncle Sir John Ross and Sir William Parry. He later led his own journey to Antarctica. He was born on April 15, 1800 in London, England and died on April 3, 1862 in Aylesbury, England.

</doc>
<doc id="63687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63687" title="Hrant Dink">
Hrant Dink

Hrant Dink (, IPA: [həɹɑnt diːnk]) (15 September 1954 – 19 January 2007) was a Turkish-Armenian editor, journalist and columnist.
As editor-in-chief of the bilingual Turkish-Armenian newspaper "Agos" (Ակօս), Dink was a prominent member of the Armenian minority in Turkey.
Hrant Dink was assassinated in Istanbul on 19 January 2007, by Ogün Samast, a 17 year old ultra-nationalist Turk.

</doc>
<doc id="63689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63689" title="Agos">
Agos

Agos (, "Furrow") established 5 April, 1996 is an Armenian weekly newspaper published in Turkey. It is published in Istanbul and has a circulation of around 5,000. It has both Armenian and Turkish pages as well as an on-line English edition. Hrant Dink was its chief editor from the newspaper's start until his assassination outside of the newspaper's offices in Istanbul in January 2007. 
Hrant Dink's son Arat Dink who worked as the executive editor of the weekly was named as a co-defendant in the dispute brought against Hrant Dink for insulting Turkishness. After Hrant Dink's murder, the editor-in-chief of the weekly became Etyen Mahçupyan and Arat Dink continued to work as the executive editor. The present editor-in-chief is Rober Koptaş.

</doc>
<doc id="63696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63696" title="Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 11">
Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 11

This is a copy of old messages from Simple Talk. They were moved here on July 5, 2007. It contains discussions which ended before July 2007.
In that article, first there is a quote and a simplified form. It is doubtful if this "simplified form" is an accurate interpretation of the Bill of Rights. Maybe simpler and more accurate interpretations of the Bill of Rights can be found in primary sources. It is possible that children's books and grade school textbooks have simpler and more accurate interpretations of the Bill of Rights than one person's opinion. 00:25, 1 June 2007 (UTC)
I made a page on shields but didn't have the imformation to complete it, could I ask of some smart people to enter the page and complete it, and try to place it all in ABC order, order based on time of invention [in history,] or some other order. Please add as many shields as possible. the site is HERE
My user name is Nikro, but i misspelled it Niko when creating an account. please change my name for me. for prove, check out my Wikipedia account is Here.
I thought I did sign my name, sorry. Thx :)
I think the message shown on the bottom of the anonymous users' talk pages (), can be made a little nicer in look, and a little more easy to distinguish from the content added to the page. Currently it shows as:
----"This is the user talk page for a user who is not using an account. Their IP address is used to identify them. IP addresses can be shared by more than one computer so anonymous users may get messages that are not meant for them. If you are an anonymous user and you are getting messages not meant for you, please ."
I suggest this to be changed to such (more or less like English Wikipedia):
The change should be applied by an administrator. Please comment here if there are objections. Otherwise, I believe we should assume "Silence equals consent" as described on . Thanks, 14:34, 1 June 2007 (UTC)
If you take a look at , you will see that (by the time of this writing) more than 20 articles have been created about Brazilian (correct me if I'm wrong) soccer teams. These are of unknown notability, and the articles are so short that they might even match with the criteria of speedy deletion of short articles. What do you think? 18:21, 2 June 2007 (UTC)
I find this article long and confusing. One reason is there is the Disneyland Resort which consists of two parks Disneyland Park and Disney's California Adventure. There is also Disneyland Paris, Toyko Disneyland and Hong Kong Disneyland. I would like to break the main article up into Disneyland Park, Disneyland Resort and Disney's California Adventure. Eventually the other Disneyland's could have their own articles written. However, being fairly new to Simple I wanted to run this by others. If the three articles are separated, should Disneyland be redirected to Disneyland Resort, Disneyland Park or another page that would list all of the parks with a common theme? I prefer Disneyland Resort. Thank you -- 20:41, 3 June 2007 (UTC)
I found quite a few articles that could use the link to Simple Wiktionary, but I don't know how to put that box on the page. What's the code for putting it on a page? 01:42, 4 June 2007 (UTC)
Simple English is also known as Sindish {Simple + English } . Books of this subject are found in every country . Advantages of Simple English are:
-- 09:18, 10 June 2007 (UTC)
Are articles on individual video games allowed? If not, why isn't there any info about the video games on the main article? Don't people want to find out info about the video games? 01:47, 12 June 2007 (UTC)
Could someone simplify this for me, please?
"Engrish refers to grammatically incorrect variations of English often found in East Asian countries." 21:07, 12 June 2007 (UTC)
Hello community,
I hereby announce that Caffeine and Japanese tea ceremony are the first two in this wikipedia. They meet all the for such articles (except the agreement of 3 editors). If you find other articles that have a similar standard of writing, you can nominate them . On that page you will also find other candidates that can be made into very good articles with little effort. Named editors can also vote on proposed very good articles. 
We got the process started 
-- 21:18, 12 June 2007 (UTC)
Japanese tea ceremony is an article related to Japan, and it's a very good article. Go Japan! 22:00, 16 June 2007 (UTC)
Good job. But for the next ones, I prefer to see articles with more than one source. - 13:27, 17 June 2007 (UTC)
How about this? 
"The term originates from the fact that Japanese (as well as several other East Asian languages) does not have separate sounds for R and L. In Japanese the R sound is pronounced as an alveolar lateral flap (ɺ), articulated with the tongue flapped against the hard palate behind the front teeth, so that it sounds like a Spanish soft R. Because Japanese does not have a separate equivalent for the English L, native Japanese speakers not fluent in English often mispronounce English words containing the letter L. While the term mocks the accent, it is used mainly without malice in reference to humorous misuses, puns, and double entendres within written English, not difficulties in pronunciation. For example, election might be pronounced erection." 
And this?
"Blender was developed as an in-house application by the Dutch animation studio NeoGeo (not to be confused with the Neo-Geo game console) and Not a Number Technologies (NaN). It was primarily authored by Ton Roosendaal, who had previously written a ray tracer called Traces for Amiga in 1989. The name "Blender" was inspired by a song by Yello, from the album Baby.
Roosendaal founded NaN in June 1998 to further develop and distribute the program. The program was initially distributed as shareware until NaN went bankrupt in 2002.
The creditors agreed to release Blender under the terms of the GNU General Public License, for a one-time payment of €100,000 (approximately US$102,000 as of September 2002). On July 18, 2002, a Blender funding campaign was started by Roosendaal in order to collect donations and on September 7, 2002 it was announced that enough funds had been collected and that the Blender source code would be released. Blender is now an open source program being actively developed under the supervision of the Blender Foundation.
The Blender Foundation initially reserved the right to use dual licensing, so that, in addition to GNU GPL, Blender would have been available also under the "Blender License", which did not require disclosing source code but required payments to the Blender Foundation. However, this option was never exercised and was suspended indefinitely in 2005. Currently, Blender is solely available under GNU GPL." 18:00, 13 June 2007 (UTC)
Hello, I have spent much of my time on getting more very good articles. For this, I have made a new template, "pvgood". It can be used for articles which meet at least half the needed, and which are listed on respective peer review page. The idea is that once all criteria are met, the article can be voted on, to be included in the category. At that time, the templare can be replaced by "vgood". So, if you find such an article which might qualify, please use the template, and list it . Thanks. -- 20:09, 16 June 2007 (UTC)
I copy-pasted the page "Egyptian Mythology" from en wikipedia (but hid the un-simplified content). It will take a long time for just one person to simplify it. If other people could help, the page could be finished a lot faster. , 
Could someone please go to and tell him about Simple English Wikipedia, please? Thanks. 22:58, 17 June 2007 (UTC)
I've got a feeling he knows about it already, since he was the founder of it. () 23:09, 17 June 2007 (UTC)
How much are people using lists here at the moment? I know in the past that lists were more or less frowned upon here (though I always thought that they had their value), but I'm trying to fix orphaned pages and can't figure out what other article might link to AIESEC except a list of business clubs (which can certainly be copied from EWP). This is, of course, an example of a larger problem, since I run into the same thing with several other of the first items on that list. Any thoughts? --|| 04:58, 18 June 2007 (UTC)
This is all very interesting, but we're missing my original question: Are lists used here now? Or perhaps better: Would it bother anyone if I started creating/importing lists here? --|| 18:38, 18 June 2007 (UTC)
Thank you for answering my question, Rimshot. I agree with you that categories are better than lists for a lot of things, though I do think that lists have their purposes (as I think you agree). The reason I would prefer to use a list with regard to the issue above is because any categories I put things in will likely stay almost empty for a very long time (depending on the cat), while a list that has only one blue link isn't much of a problem, and is even an invitation for help! --|| 05:26, 29 June 2007 (UTC)
Hello, tygartl1. I have made the message of the "vgood" template better. I do however think that we still need to beef it up a little. So that it looks nicer. Would you be in the mood and have the knowledge to do this?
Hello all; I have written and formalised the process as requested; I think our next steps should be:
I still dream about 1% very good articles (that would be 150 in number). Will be a long way though. -- 20:04, 18 June 2007 (UTC)
I have started an article about the Nancy Drew Mystery Stories. I need help writing the page in Simple format. To help, click here - Nancy Drew and change the page.
I have started a Talk Page for the new page Nancy Drew. You can post your thoughts, ideas, etc. in this space. Thank you. -- 18:51, 20 June 2007 (UTC)
Can anyone who knows CSS tell me how to make a scrolling box thing? Do you even know what I'm talking about? 22:20, 20 June 2007 (UTC)
If you are able, please translate this notice to as many possible languages and post it anywhere applicable.
The Wikimedia Election Committee is accepting candidates for the 2007 Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees election. Please see for more information.
There is still time for a new candidate to be considered for election, and you may now endorse the candidate of your choice (up to 3 candidates) on the endorsements page, . Please read the instructions carefully prior to endorsing. If you can translate the instructions, please do.
If you have any questions, please contact any member of the election committee, who are listed here .
Posted on behalf of the Election Committee, <br>
I discovered two sysops, an inactive bureaucrat who made his last edit 1 1/2 years ago on December '05 and , a developer in meta and also has been absent for more than 1 1/2 years; his last edit was on October '05. Well as meta and en wiki's policies go, it states that a sysop who hasn't used his tools for more than a year should be desysoped. So I was wondering if we should pick up this topic. And also they are currently the only two sysops who hasn't made any edits for more than exactly one year. -- 08:21, 21 June 2007 (UTC)
So, what to do in the end? Are we going to have a or not? - 18:05, 24 June 2007 (UTC)
I am adding an article - Björk. You may add if you wish. In fact, I would very much appreciate it if you could.
THANKS. .
Oddly enough, I have been having issues with popups not working on this page only. After some hunting the culprit was found. The word Article used as a heading ( ==Article==) actually blocked Lupin's popups.. I renamed the heading here to List of Shields to correct it in case others were also having issues. (I am running an old copy of Lupins so it may just be me) -- 10:23, 23 June 2007 (UTC)
As of today, someone has erased all of my "big" font tags and erased my bold font head tags in my userpage. I have fixed it, but would like to remind the wikipedia community that User pages are personal, and should be layed out anyway the user would like them, and should be unique. .
Just for reference for those people not running multiple browsers, here is are screenshots of the page at 1024x768 resolution in Firefox 1.0.7, Internet Explorer 7, and Safari 3. The Safari image is the easiest to read but I would hardly say legible and Firefox is just a big black blog. -- 17:18, 24 June 2007 (UTC)
Would an article on be okay here? 19:14, 24 June 2007 (UTC)
I would like to join , but a note says "Consensus currently opposes any creation or use of non-Babel userboxes in the main or template: namespaces. Whether they will be ultimately allowed in the user: namespace is still uncertain." So do you think I should join them or not? 19:36, 24 June 2007 (UTC)
The article Lyon, France is horribly written. It really needs to be edited, but I can't add and simplify the article. 
I feel that the article Big words is a waste of space. It is obviously an inside joke. 
If you knew two Japanese words, would you put up the Ja-1 Babel userbox? I sure wouldn't. Alastor Moody, I know you would. 17:07, 26 June 2007 (UTC)
I think there should be a featured article, or article of the day, on the Main Page like English Wikipedia, as there are articles people probably won't be searching often, such as Pavia, Italy or London, Ontario. 19:22, 27 June 2007 (UTC)
Could someone help simplify the article Pavia? I think, if it is simplified, it can be nominated as a very good article. 

</doc>
<doc id="63699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63699" title="St Kilda Football Club">
St Kilda Football Club

St Kilda Football Club (nicknamed The Saints) is an Australian Rules Football club who play in the Australian Football League. The club first played in 1873. Their home ground is the Etihad Stadium in Melbourne. The team won the 1966 premiership, beating Collingwood. However, they have also placed last 26 times. Their current captain is Nick Riewoldt and their current coach is Alan Richardson. In 2010 they played in the Grand Final and scored a draw with Collingwood. They were defeated in a rematch the next week.
The first mention of a football team in St Kilda was made in 1859. The current club was started in 1873, based on the South Yarra Football Club which had closed the year before. The club joined the new Victorian Football League in 1897, and lost its first 48 games. Their home ground was the Junction Oval, in the Melbourne suburb of St. Kilda. In 1964, the team moved from St Kilda to Moorabbin.

</doc>
<doc id="63702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63702" title="Ingvar Carlsson">
Ingvar Carlsson

Ingvar Carlsson (born 9 November 1934 in Borås, Västra Götaland County (then Älvsborg County), Sweden), is a Swedish politician, former Prime Minister of Sweden (March 1986–October 1991; October 1994–March 1996) and leader of the Social Democratic Party (March 1986–March 1996).

</doc>
<doc id="63703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63703" title="Shilpa Shetty">
Shilpa Shetty

Shilpa Shetty (Tulu: ಶಿಲ್ಪ ಶೆಟ್ಟಿ) (born 8 June 1975) in Mangalore is a four-time Filmfare Award-nominated Indian movie actress and model. Since making her debut in the movie "Baazigar" (1993), she has appeared in nearly 50 more movies and made her first lead role in 1994's "Aag". She currently resides at the centre of the Hindi-language movie industry in Mumbai, India. Her younger sister Shamita Shetty is also a Bollywood movie actress. 
Shilpa was announced as the winner of "Celebrity Big Brother UK" on 28 January 2007 with 63% of the final votes, after an international reported racism controversy involving her and fellow contestants Jade Goody, Jo O'Meara and Danielle Lloyd.

</doc>
<doc id="63707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63707" title="Third party (politics)">
Third party (politics)

In any two-party system of politics, a third party is a party other than the two main ones. While the term should be used only when discussing the third largest party, it is often used to describe any smaller party. For example, in the United Kingdom a third party is a national political party other than the Conservative Party and Labour Party that has a presence in the House of Commons. In the United States, a third party is a political party other than the Democratic Party or Republican Party that has national influence.
The term "third parties" is used in countries with first past the post electoral systems as these systems tend to create a two-party system because successful smaller parties are rare.
Countries using proportional representation have less of a tendency to create a two-party system because successful smaller parties are common. In fact, coalitions between the smaller parties are normal in such a country. A party generally needs to have a certain level of success to be called a third party. Smaller parties that only win a small percentage of the vote and no seats in the legislature are often called "minor parties" or "fringe parties".
Third parties are not usually likely to win the presidency. Despite this, there are many reasons for third parties to run. In an election, the two main parties listen to the opinions of third parties. The larger parties must respond to these opinions, and sometimes the larger parties copy ideas from third parties. Some third parties also hope that the party can slowly build its support and eventually become one of the dominant parties, as the Labour Party did in Britain.

</doc>
<doc id="63708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63708" title="Paula DeAnda">
Paula DeAnda

Paula DeAnda (born 1989 in Corpus Christi, Texas) is an American singer. She is best known for her 2007 hit songs "Doing Too Much", "Walk Away (Remember Me)" and "Easy". DeAnda is of Mexican descent.
"Easy" is a song by DeAnda. It also has a remix with Bow Wow. This version is used in the PC video game, "Bratz Babyz".

</doc>
<doc id="63713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63713" title="Republican">
Republican

Republican could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="63714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63714" title="Third party">
Third party

Third party is often used in the English language to refer to a person or group that has some connection to a relationship between two parties. Here, a "party" is a person or group of people who act together. If two parties share a close relationship, a third party is farther away or more different from them. It could more directly mean:

</doc>
<doc id="63715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63715" title="Fribourg (canton)">
Fribourg (canton)

Fribourg is one of the twenty-six cantons of Switzerland. About 250,000 people live in the canton. Of these, about 100,000 live in the urban area of the capital of this canton: Fribourg City.
The canton of Fribourg is found in the west of Switzerland. The river Saane (Sarine) flows from the south to the north of the canton. It borders the cantons of Vaud, Bern and Neuchâtel.
There are 168 municipalities in the canton of Fribourg:

</doc>
<doc id="63716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63716" title="Fribourg">
Fribourg

Fribourg can mean one of two areas in Switzerland

</doc>
<doc id="63727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63727" title="Compass rose">
Compass rose

A compass rose is a drawing on a map that shows the cardinal directions.

</doc>
<doc id="63728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63728" title="Cardinal direction">
Cardinal direction

Cardinal directions or cardinal points are the four main directions or points of the compass: north, east, south and west. These direction are also written in short form as N, E, S and W.
North and south are directed towards the north and south poles of the Earth. The Earth's rotation defines east and west. The sun rises in the morning in the east, and sets in the evening in the west.
If a needle is magnetised and allowed to move freely (for example floated on water) it will align itself with the Earth's magnetic field which is almost in the same direction as north. The direction of the needle in this situation is called magnetic north which in some places differs from the direction of the North Pole by a few degrees.
Through history, different cultures have given different values to each direction. For example, in old Asian culture, each direction is given a color, as follows:
East: Green or Blue
South: Red
West: White
North: Black

</doc>
<doc id="63729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63729" title="Social Democratic Party">
Social Democratic Party

The name Social Democratic Party has been used by many parties in various countries around the world.
Note: Country names and dates in parentheses are not part of official party names.

</doc>
<doc id="63732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63732" title="Category:Chess">
Category:Chess

This is the category for all articles related to chess.

</doc>
<doc id="63733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63733" title="Knight (chess)">
Knight (chess)

A knight is a piece in the game of chess. Each player starts the game with two knights. It moves in an L pattern, two squares in one direction then one square in another. It is the only piece in chess to be able to jump over other pieces. It is also the only piece that can be in position to attack a king, queen, bishop, or rook without being attacked by that piece. Because of this, the knight plays forks well in a game of chess. 
'Knight' is shortened to Kt or N when recording games. In printed game scores it is represented by a figurine.

</doc>
<doc id="63734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63734" title="Queen (chess)">
Queen (chess)

The queen in chess is piece which stands next to the King at the start of the game. It can move any number of unoccupied squares diagonally, vertically, and horizontally. When recording games it is shortened to Q.
The queen moves like a bishop and rook both. Although both players start with one queen each. A player may promote a pawn to a piece, usually a queen, when the pawn is reaches the last line of the opponent team.
The IndoArabic game lasted for nearly a thousand years until the end of the 15th century. In it, the piece next to the Shah was the Firzān or Visier, who was a counsellor. This piece had a movement even more limited than the king: it moved just one square at a time, on the diagonal. Not surprising, then, that when the move changed into its modern form, the Italians called the new game "schacci alla rabioso" (~furious chess).

</doc>
<doc id="63743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63743" title="Dennis the Menace">
Dennis the Menace

Dennis the Menace is the name of two different comic strips, which both debuted in 1951. One is a British comic strip, that is featured in the UK comic magazine, The Beano. The other is a daily newspaper comic strip from the United States. This daily strip was a single panel, but the Sunday strip was longer. The single panels were sometimes collected into small paperbacks. Dennis also had a comic book.
In Britain, Dennis is usually drawn as wearing a red and black striped jumper, and spikey black hair. He is normally with his black dog called Gnasher. 
In the United States, Dennis the Menace (Dennis Mitchell) wore a red and white striped tee-shirt and bib overalls. He had blond hair and a large cowlick. His dog was a sheepdog called Ruff. Dennis' parents are Henry and Alice. His neighbors are George and Martha Wilson. Dennis wants to be helpful but his attempts often end in disaster. Dennis' friends are Tommy Anderson, Joey McDonald, and Margaret Wade. In 1959, the comic strip was developed into a CBS television sitcom called "Dennis the Menace". It stars Jay North as Dennis and Joseph Kearns as George Wilson. The series aired for four years and has been released to DVD.

</doc>
<doc id="63747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63747" title="5 BC">
5 BC

Year 5 BC was a common year starting on Monday or Tuesday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Sulla.

</doc>
<doc id="63751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63751" title="Taner Akçam">
Taner Akçam

Altuğ Taner Akçam (born October 23 1953) is a Turkish historian, sociologist and author. He is one of the first Turkish academics to acknowledge and discuss openly the Armenian Genocide by the Ottoman Turkish government in 1915.

</doc>
<doc id="63753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63753" title="Category:Historians by nationality">
Category:Historians by nationality


</doc>
<doc id="63755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63755" title="International Date Line">
International Date Line

The International Date Line (IDL), also known as just the Date Line, is an imaginary line on the surface of the Earth, going from north to south in the Pacific Ocean. The date becomes one day later as one travels across it in western direction, and one day earlier as one travels across it in eastern direction.
The reason for this effect is that the countries on the eastern side of the International Date Line, (in or outside eastern Asia) have the time zone 10–12 hours more than Greenwich. And the countries on western side of it (Alaska/Hawaii and other areas) have the time zone 9–12 hours less than Greenwich. So when travelling across the line, one's watch has to be adjusted 20–24 hours, depending on the time zones. 
For example, New Zealand is twelve hours ahead of Greenwich Mean Time while Hawaii is ten hours behind Greenwich Mean Time. When travelling from New Zealand to Hawaii the clocks must be switched 22 hours backwards, about one day.
International Date Line follows the meridian of 180° longitude down the middle of the Pacific Ocean for some time. So that it does not cross nations, it passes around the far east of Russia and other archipelagos in the Pacific.
In the north the date line turns to the east through the Bering Strait and then west past the Aleutian Islands in order to keep Alaska and Russia on opposite sides of the line. This is to keep it in agreement with the date of the rest of those countries. The date line passes equidistantly between the two Diomede Islands—Little Diomede Island (US) and Big Diomede Island (Russia)—at a distance of 1.5 km (1 mi) from each island.
The date line circumvents the territory of Kiribati by swinging far to the east, almost reaching the 150° meridian.
In the South Pacific the date line swings east such that Wallis and Futuna, Fiji, Tonga, and New Zealand's Kermadec Islands have the same date but Samoa is one day earlier.
The International Date Line can cause confusion among airline travelers. The most problematic situation usually occurs with short journeys from west to east. To travel from Tonga to Samoa by air, for example, takes about two hours but involves crossing the International Date Line, causing passengers to arrive the day before they left. This often causes confusion in travel schedules, like hotel bookings. Some examples of time zone adjustments for real air trips are: Alaska-Siberia 21 hours, New Zealand-Cook Islands 22 hours, and Samoa-Tonga 24 hours.
If someone travels around the globe in an airplane from east to west (the same direction as Magellan), they should subtract one hour for every 15° of longitude crossed, losing 24 hours for one circuit of the globe; but 24 hours are added when crossing the International Date Line (from east to west). The International Date Line must therefore be observed in conjunction with Earth's time zones: the net adjustment to one's watch is zero. If one crosses the date line at precisely midnight, going westward, one skips an entire day; while going eastward, one repeats the entire day.
For two hours every day, at UTC 10:00–11:59, there are actually three different days observed at the same time. At UTC time Thursday 10:15, for example, it is Wednesday 23:15 in Samoa, which is eleven hours behind UTC, and it is Friday 00:15 in Kiritimati (separated from Samoa by the IDL), which is fourteen hours ahead of UTC. For the first hour (UTC 10:00–10:59), this phenomenon affects inhabited territories, whereas during the second hour (UTC 11:00–11:59) it only affects an uninhabited maritime time zone twelve hours behind UTC.
Originally, the date line ran along the 180° meridian. This is a relatively good choice, because most of the time, there is no land there. There are however some problems.
Looking from the north, one of the first places where the meridian runs over dry land is the Chukchi Peninsula, which is part of Russia. The whole peninsula has been declared part of the UTC+12. This means that all of Russia (and with it, all of Asia) is on the same side of the date line.
There are many groups of islands in the Pacific Ocean. These groups belong to states, who do not want some islands on one side of the date line, and the rest on the other. They have therefore decided to move the date line, so that all islands are in the same time zone. Examples of this are the Aleutian Islands, which are on both sides of the 180° meridian. They are part of Alaska, and are therefore all in the UTC-10 timezone. The date line has a "bump" to the west, there.
There are a few Islands, east of the 180°, which belong to New Zealand. It was decided that they should have the same date than New Zealand, so the date line runs east of the meridian there.
Kiribati is a state consisting of many small islands, spread over a huge portion of the Pacific; the meridian runs right through the state. Because the state needed the same date over all its territory, the date line was shifted east, the biggest shift to occur, in 1995. The easternmost island of Kiribati was renamed to Millennium Island, because it was the first part of the world which saw the new millennium.
The Philippines had very good trade relations with Mexico. They therefore decided they wanted the same date, date line to the west of the state. When the trade with China grew, this was inconvenient. They changed, after Monday, 30 December 1844, came Wednesday, 1 January 1845.
Jews and Muslims and Christians regard particular days of the week as holy. For Muslims this is Friday, Jews (and a few Christian denominations) regard Saturday as the Sabbath, while most Christians observe Sunday as "the Lord's Day" in honour of the resurrection of Jesus on that day.. This works well if the traveller stays on the same side of the date line. but there is a problem when travellers move across it. For the traveller it might still be Friday, but the place where he is might say that it is Saturday.

</doc>
<doc id="63756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63756" title="Boredom">
Boredom

Boredom is an emotional state that comes when a person has nothing to do, and is not interested in anything. To stop boredom, most people do something to occupy or amuse themselves. 
The first known use of the word "boredom" is in the novel "Bleak House" by Charles Dickens, written in 1852, but the saying "to be a bore" had been used to mean "to be tiresome or dull" since 1768.
Psychologically, boredom is a bad state in which the person feels a deep lack of interest in what is going on around them, and where it is hard to focus.

</doc>
<doc id="63761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63761" title="Circle of latitude">
Circle of latitude

On the Earth, a circle of latitude is an imaginary east-west circle that connects all locations with a given latitude. A location's position along a circle of latitude is given by its longitude. Circles of latitude are often called parallels because they are parallel to each other.
The five major circles of latitude are, from north to south:

</doc>
<doc id="63766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63766" title="J-Pop">
J-Pop

J-Pop is the popular music of Japan. Recently, J-Pop has been influenced (affected) by Western culture, so new J-Pop now sounds different than older J-Pop. This kind of music is very common in Japan and it is often played by young music groups.
Yumi Matsutoya, also known as Yuming, Yumi Arai or Karuho Kureta, is considered by many the "mother" of modern-day J-Pop. She has been one of the most successful Japanese singer-songwriters in the twentieth century in the world of pop music. Almost half of her albums reached number one at the Japanese Oricon charts, and all of her albums reached top 10 since her first album, Hikōki-gumo in 1973. She has sold over 37,800,000 copies of albums and singles.
"NO SIDE" was made from Rugby game "Ooita Maiduru vs Tennri high school".
The term 'j-pop' was coined in the 1990s.

</doc>
<doc id="63767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63767" title="List of J-pop artists">
List of J-pop artists

A list of Japanese pop musicians and bands.

</doc>
<doc id="63769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63769" title="Ara Darzi">
Ara Darzi

Ara Darzi (born 7 May 1960) is a British doctor. He was appointed head of Minister of Healthcare of Great Britain.
Ara Darzi was born in Iraq in a family with Armenian descent, which escaped the Genocide of 1915. But most of his life was lived in Ireland.

</doc>
<doc id="63770" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63770" title="Puffy AmiYumi">
Puffy AmiYumi

Puffy AmiYumi was the one of the more popular J-pop groups of the 1990s. The band has two members, Ami Onuki and Yumi Yoshimura. It was first formed in 1996.
They had some success when they went to the United States to record and perform. They had a short-lived cartoon television series on Cartoon Network. It can still be seen occasionally on the Japanese version of Cartoon Network.

</doc>
<doc id="63771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63771" title="Mika Nakashima">
Mika Nakashima


</doc>
<doc id="63772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63772" title="Yui (singer)">
Yui (singer)

YUI, is a Japanese musician. She was born 26 March 1987 in Fukuoka, Japan. She is signed to Sony Music Records Japan. She sings, and plays the guitar, keyboard and electric guitar, although she usually performs with only an acoustic guitar. She started in a Japanese movie released on 17 June 2006 titled 'Taiyō no Uta' (A Song to the Sun). She is popular with young girls,but she decided to stop her music activity as YUI in 2012. It means she carry on her music work but not YUI.
She dropped out high school because she want to live with music.Then she started taking music lesson at ongakujyuku.It is famous music private night-school.She practiced playing the guitar and making songs. She participated in music contest and got first prize.By that winning, she can get right to major debut. 
She made a debut with "feel my soul". This is her first major song. Afterthat she made many hit songs.Especially,her fifth single goodbye days was hit.And she appeared in "taiyou no uta" that is the movie her song was used.
She got many award.She made many CDs and did concert many times.Her popularity is getting higher and higher.But she stopped her working as artist YUI in 2012.
YUI has released seven albums:
And she makes many new single CD.

</doc>
<doc id="63773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63773" title="Zard">
Zard

Zard was a J-pop music group. Zard's member was Izumi Sakai. Her true name is Sachiko Kamachi. She was a vocalist. Zard's other member changed many times. Zard's music did not often appear on television. The group had many famous songs, for example "Makenaide". Izumi Sakai was born in Fukuoka on February 6, 1967. She fought illness in Keiougijyuku University hospital. She had cervical cancer. Izumi Sakai died on May 27, 2007. When she died, she was 40 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="63774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63774" title="Wyolica">
Wyolica

Wyolica is a two person band from Japan. The members are Azumi (vocals) and So-to (guitar). The group is not well known outside of Japan. Their sound is very similar of many American pop acts but sung in Japanese.
Their first album, "Who Said La La?" was released in 2000. Since then they have released a number of albums and singles, including a six-song EP of acoustic songs. 

</doc>
<doc id="63775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63775" title="Crystal Kay">
Crystal Kay

Crystal Kay Williams (born 26 February 1986 in Yokohama, Japan) is a J-Pop singer. She is also known as "Kuri" by her fans. She is well known for her songs "Koi ni Ochitara" and "Boyfriend -part II-". She has released ten Japanese studio albums. In 2003 she released an English album called "Natural: World Premiere Album". She started singing on television commercials when she was four years old. When she was twelve she was signed to Epic Records. Kay's first album "C.L.L Crystal Lover Light" was released on March 23, 2000 when Kay was fourteen. 

</doc>
<doc id="63776" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63776" title="Speed (band)">
Speed (band)

SPEED is a Japanese music group. The group is made up of four female singers. They are from Okinawa, Japan. The members are Hiroko Shimabukuro, Eriko Imai, Takako Uehara and Hitoe Arakaki. Hiroko and Eriko are lead vocal singers. 
When they debuted, Hiroko was 12 years old. They made their debut single “Body & Soul” in 1996. They have many songs which sold million records. 
They broke up in March 31, 2000. From 2000 to 2008, they have broken up and came back together several times. They made their latest come back in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="63777" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63777" title="Glay">
Glay

Glay is a Japanese rock band. There are 4 men in the band. The member's names are Takuro (guitar & piano), Teru (vocals), Hisashi (guitar), and Jiro (bass). They are one of the most popular rock bands in Japan. They are from Hakodate in Hokkaido. "HOWEVER" is their most famous song. This song made them famous. Many of their CDs and albums have sold millions of copies .
Since 2007, Teru has been in ads shown on television and in theaters to raise awareness about HIV/AIDS.

</doc>
<doc id="63778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63778" title="Aiko (singer)">
Aiko (singer)

Aiko (born November 22, 1975) is a Japanese singer and guitar player. She has a high popularity among young people. Her most famous song is "Kabutomushi". Aiko has won several Japan Gold Disc Awards.
Aiko debuted in 1998. She sings songs about love and girls' feelings. Her famous songs are "Hanabi", "Boyfriend", "Kabutomushi", "Kirakira", and so on. "milk/Nageki no Kisu", her "mukaiawase"　double A-side single, was her first single to hit #1 on Oricon since her debut..She do many concerts at everywhere in Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="63780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63780" title="Ringo Shiina">
Ringo Shiina

Ringo Shiina (born November 25, 1978) is a Japanese singer and guitarist. She is a member of Tokyo Jihen. Shiina is from Fukuoka. 

</doc>
<doc id="63781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63781" title="GO!GO!7188">
GO!GO!7188

GO!GO!7188 was a band from Japan with three members. One plays guitar, one plays drums, and one plays bass. The main vocalist is a woman. One of their famous songs is "Koinouta".
GO!GO!7188 formed in 1998 by YUU (singer/guitarist) and AKKO (singer/bassist); high school classmates in Kagoshima prefecture. In 1999, they headed to Tokyo where they meet drummer TURKEY.
Ever since they have released 9 full-length albums, 12 singles and 3 DVDs.
When they made their debut in the Japanese music scene, they were quoted to be one of the leading girl's punk band which mixes rock'n roll music with Japanese pop.
They have raised their evaluation as one of most important Japanese rock bands, making performances in live houses events to Nippon Budokan hall, with songs rich and full of originality and high performance ability.
single

</doc>
<doc id="63782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63782" title="Porno Graffitti">
Porno Graffitti

Porno Graffitti is a Japanese J-Pop band. The members of the band are Akihito Okano (vocals) and Haruichi Shindo (guitar). The band is from Innoshima in Hiroshima. The band first started playing in 1999 with three members. The third member, Tama, left the band in 2004. The band has become one of the duos leading the music in Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="63783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63783" title="Yuki Isoya">
Yuki Isoya

Yuki Isoya is a Japanese singer. Isoya debuted as a singer of the group Judy and Mary in 1993. Judy and Mary broke up in 1999. She began her solo singing career in February, 2002. Isoya has released four albums. 

</doc>
<doc id="63784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63784" title="Mr. Children">
Mr. Children

Mr. Children, usually called , is a Japanese rock band made in 1988. They belong to Oorong-sha (). Their record company is Toy's Factory.
They are one of the most successful Japanese bands, selling over 50 million records. 
The official fan club of Mr. Children is called Father & Mother. The fan club was started in 1994. The fan club can only be joined by mail and requires an admission fee of 3.500 yen, with yearly re-applications for membership. And there are concert ticket only for the members.
As of 2007, Mr. Children has published twelve original studio albums and 30 singles, three compilation albums, a live album, and ten home video releases.

</doc>
<doc id="63785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63785" title="3B LAB.*">
3B LAB.*

3B LAB.* is a Japanese punk band. They are all men. The vocalist also sang in the folk-rock band 19. Their most popular song is "Ichigo Ichi". They're now called 3B Lab.☆S. Tamakoshi Masahiro left this group in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="63786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63786" title="Ellegarden">
Ellegarden

Ellegarden is a Japanese band formed in 1998 by four young men.Their activity pauses now.
Hosomi Takeshi(Guiter&Vocal)
Ubukata Shinichi(Guiter)
Takada yuichi(Bass)
Takahashi Hirotaka(Drums)

</doc>
<doc id="63787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63787" title="Def Tech">
Def Tech

Def Tech is a Japanese group. The band has three members: Shen, Micro and Playa T. They have sold more than 2.8 million copies of their albums "Def Tech" and "Lokahi Lani". The band took a break in September 2007 and have since reunited as of June 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="63788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63788" title="Ai Otsuka">
Ai Otsuka

Ai Otsuka (born September 9, 1982) is a Japanese pop female singer-songwriter and pianist from Osaka, Osaka Prefecture, Japan. Her music is famous because it varies a lot in style but is mainly happy pop. Her first single was called Momo No Hanbira, but it was not until her second single, which was called Sakuranbo, that people really noticed her music.

</doc>
<doc id="63789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63789" title="Remioromen">
Remioromen

Remioromen are a three-man band from Japan that started in 2000. 

</doc>
<doc id="63790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63790" title="Ayaka">
Ayaka

Ayaka Iida (born December 18, 1987 in Moriguchi, Osaka Prefecture, Japan) is a Japanese female singer signed and songwriter. 
Ayaka is married to Hiro Mizushima. Her favorite singer is the Beatles, DREAMS COME TRUE, Mr.Children and so on. She started musical activities when she was 1st high school student.She released "I believe" and she made her debut in 2006. She sufferd from Basedow's disease and she stopped musical activity in 2009 in order to concentrate on getting well. But she started activities again in 2011 and announced that she made her own record company.
original album
best album

</doc>
<doc id="63791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63791" title="Kyu Sakamoto">
Kyu Sakamoto

Hisasi Osima, better known as Kyu Sakamoto (December 10, 1941 – August 12, 1985) was a Japanese singer and actor. He was from Kanagawa in Japan. His song "Sukiyaki" became the first Japanese song to sell a million copies. 

</doc>
<doc id="63792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63792" title="Orange Range">
Orange Range

On March, 2001, the present members were composed of the classmates from the preschool and YOH’s younger brother, RYO. When they were indies, they did lots of their concerts on the street, and the audience was surely increased. On July 4, 2003, they debuted and became major by their 1st single, “Kirikirimai”. Their 2nd single, “Shanghai Honey” was appreciated by the mass media and became a hit. On February 25,2004, they released their 5th single, “Michishirube～a road home～” came in 1st place in the Japanese single charts for the first time in themselves, and since then, their singe continued to come in 1st place to their 13th single, “Champione”.
Also, a member of other bands, including "Soy-sauce" and "Pechuniarokkusu". He writes more than half of all Orange Range songs.
Before joining the group Orange Range, he was a member of another band, "Ruse". He and Yoh are brothers.
He has not cut his hair since releasing the song "Hana".
He usually plays bass, but uses a guitar when he makes songs.
It is said that he has a screwdriver when he records music because it makes him relaxed, but sometimes its sound is also recorded and they have to record again.

</doc>
<doc id="63793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63793" title="Bump of Chicken">
Bump of Chicken

Bump of Chicken is a Japanese rock music group. The members are four men. All members in this group were born in 1979. The vocalist of the group is Fujiwara Motoo. The bassist of the group is Naoi Yoshifumi. The guitarist of the group is Masukawa Hiroaki. The drummer of the group is Masu Hideo. They have been friends since they started school at a young age. The voice of Fujiwara Motoo and the words of their music, which he writes, are popular. They released the debut album “FLAME VEIN” in 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="63794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63794" title="Kumi Koda">
Kumi Koda


</doc>
<doc id="63795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63795" title="Zeebra">
Zeebra

Zeebra ( "", born April 2, 1971 in Tokyo, Japan) is a famous Japanese hip hop artist, who is known as the first rapper in Japan. He was born and raised in Tokyo. He made his first appearance in 1995. Zeebra was a member of the hip-hop group King Giddra, which also included DJ Oasis and K Dub Shine. He became a solo artist in 1997. Because he has been in many TV commercials, started hip-hop television programs, and produced songs for upcoming rappers, Zeebra could be called the father of the Japanese rap scene.

</doc>
<doc id="63797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63797" title="Dreams Come True">
Dreams Come True

Dreams Come True is a Japanese J-Pop music group.
The group is made up of a woman and a man. The vocalist is Miwa Yoshida and the bassist is Masato Namamura. They made their debut in 1988. The group tends to use humorous and ambiguous language in their songs.

</doc>
<doc id="63798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63798" title="Every Little Thing (band)">
Every Little Thing (band)

Every Little Thing is a Japanese rock band. The group is made up of a woman and a man. The woman, Kaori Mochida, is a singer from Tokyo, and the man, Ichiro Ito, is a guitarist from Kanagawa Prefecture. This group made their debut in 1996. And next year they took part in Kohaku (New Year's) Song battle for the first time. When they started the band, there were three members. But Mitsuru Igarashi left the band in 2000, and he started to focus on his production. He made all of Every Little Thing's songs and wrote their lyrics. So since he left, Every little thing sound changed a little. Now they released 35 single CDs, 8 original albums, 2 best albums and 3 ballad best albums. They took part in "Kouhakuutagassen" eight times. They are often called "ELT". 
Ito began playing guitar in local bands around the US Yokota Air Base in Fussa, Tokyo, performing cover versions of songs by rock acts like Van Halen to local sailors. He initially intended to play drums.
Mochida made her debut as a baby in an advertisement for diapers as her mom hoped she would enter the entertainment business. In 1991, at the age of 13, she joined the eight-member girl group The Kuro Buta All-Stars. Though not successful, the experience convinced her to record a two track demo, featuring the two songs, "Mouichido" (The Kuro Buta All-Stars) and a cover song from 1970s/80s singer-songwriter Mariya Takeuchi.
She sent the demo to Avex Trax, where Mitsuru Igarashi was a producer looking for a girl for a new duo with him as the keyboardist. Impressed by her strong yet sweet voice, Igarashi asked her to join as a duo, and then asked his guitarist friend Ichiro Ito, then working as a studio receptionist, to help on the first single "Feel My Heart", created by Igarashi. Ito, over ten years Mochida's senior, has said that when first meeting the young Mochida wearing gyaru style thick platform boots, he didn't even know how to strike up conversation.

</doc>
<doc id="63799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63799" title="KAT-TUN">
KAT-TUN

KAT-TUN is a Japanese J-Pop band.
The group is made up of six young Japanese men. Their debut was announced January 29, 2006. The debut was accompanied by a concert tour of Japan. They released a single ("Real Face"), an album ("Best of KAT-TUN"), and a DVD ("Real Face Film") on the same day, March 22, 2006.　
KAT-TUN is made up of six members:
KAT-TUN not only sings and dances. KAT-TUN also acts.

</doc>
<doc id="63803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63803" title="Boa Kwon">
Boa Kwon

Boa Kwon (born 5 November 1986 in Guri, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea) is a South Korean singer. She is commonly known by her stage name BoA. She has been active in both South Korea and Japan. Aside from Korean, BoA also speaks Japanese and English and has released songs in those languages. She also released some Chinese songs, but she does not know Chinese. BoA succeeded not only in Korea, but in all of East Asia as well.
BoA was born and raised in Gyeonggi-do, South Korea. She was discovered by SM Entertainment talent agents when she accompanied her older brother to a talent search. In 2000, after two years of training, she released ID; Peace B, her debut Korean album. Two years later, she released her debut Japanese album, Listen to My Heart.
On October 14, 2008, BoA debuted in the United States with the single "Eat You Up" and released her debut English-language album, BoA on March 17, 2009 .

</doc>
<doc id="63804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63804" title="Namie Amuro">
Namie Amuro

Namie Amuro () is a Japanese singer, born September 20, 1977 in Naha, Okinawa. She was the top J-Pop star of the 1990s, with a long string of number-one hits.
When she had a baby in the late 1990s her popularity went down, but her albums became popular again when she released "Queen of Hip-Hop". Her next album "Play" became #1. Her 2008 hit single, 60s 70s 80s, sold about 293,000 copies and came #1. That was her first #1 single since 1999.
In July 2008, Namie released her third greatest hits album BEST FICTION, which sold over 1.500,000 copies. It was the year's the most selling female album in Japan and second most selling album of 2008 in Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="63806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63806" title="Saturn (mythology)">
Saturn (mythology)

Saturn (Latin: Saturnus) was a Roman god of agriculture and harvest. He is the Roman form of the Greek titan Kronos. He was the father of Ceres, Jupiter, Veritas and others. The day Saturday and planet Saturn are named after the Roman god.

</doc>
<doc id="63807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63807" title="Comanche">
Comanche

Comanche peoples are Native Americans who lived in an area called the "Comancheria". This is where Eastern New Mexico, Southern Colorado, Southern Kansas, all of Oklahoma and most of Northern and Southern Texas are today. There once were as many as 20,000 Comanches. Today the Comanche Nation has 10,000 members, most in Oklahoma (centered at Lawton), and the rest in Texas, California, and New Mexico. The Comanche speak a language of their own, the Comanche language that is related to other Native American ones, called "Uto-Aztecan language family".
The name Comanche was given by the Mexicans, and it was the word the Comanche used to call them, "komantsia" (enemy, foreigner). But the Comanches' call themselves "Numunuu", meaning "human being" or "the People". They were very good warriors and fought the white settlers and army for many years until they gave up in 1875.
The woman in the family made the teepees. They gathered wild potatoes, fruits, nuts and berries. The woman in the family cooked, cleaned and made their clothing. The clothing was made out either bear, deer, bison, buffalo, wolves or coyotes.

</doc>
<doc id="63812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63812" title="Cuvette">
Cuvette

A cuvette is a kind of laboratory glassware, usually a small tube of circular or square cross shape, closed at one end and open at the other, made of plastic, glass, or optical grade quartz and made to hold samples for spectroscopic experiments. The best cuvettes are as clear as possible, without impurities that might affect a spectroscopic reading. Like a test tube, a cuvette may be open to the air on top or have a glass or other material to close it.

</doc>
<doc id="63814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63814" title="John Abbot">
John Abbot

John Abbot (1587/1588 – c. 1650) was an English Roman Catholic priest and poet. Nobody knows where he was born, he might have been from either London or Leicester. Abbot was from a strongly Protestant family because he was the nephew of George Abbot, the Archbishop of Canterbury, but after being educated at Balliol College, Oxford, he travelled to the European continent where he was converted to Roman Catholicism. On returning to England he was in Jesuit orders for a while, before working as a priest. In 1635 he was put in jail. He was released within a year, but in 1637 he was again arrested, and spent the rest of his life in prison.
His best known work is his poem "Devout Rhapsodies" (2 vols., 1647), about the war between Good and Evil and the temptation and fall of man.

</doc>
<doc id="63816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63816" title="Lemuel Abbott">
Lemuel Abbott

Lemuel Abbott (c. 1730 – April, 1776) was an English priest and poet. Little is known of his background, but he worked as a priest in Ansty, Leicestershire and Thornton. He is known mostly for his collection of poems called "Poems on Various Subjects, whereto is Prefixed a Short Essay on the Structure of English Verse", published in 1765. Abbott and his wife Mary were probably the parents of the artist Lemuel Francis Abbott.

</doc>
<doc id="63817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63817" title="Thomas Eastoe Abbott">
Thomas Eastoe Abbott

Thomas Eastoe Abbott (1786/1787|7 – 18 February 1854) was an English poet. He was born in East Dereham, Norfolk. He lived in Darlington, where he worked at the Royal Free Grammar School. He wrote many books like "Peace, a Lyric Poem" (1814); "Resignation" (1817); "The Triumph of Christianity" (1819); and "The Soldier's Friend" (1828). Abbott died in Darlington, County Durham in 1854.

</doc>
<doc id="63818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63818" title="Division of labour">
Division of labour

In ancient history, a division of labour (or specialisation) was when some people in a city stopped growing crops and took other jobs. This usually happened because of a surplus of food. This means that there was more than enough food for everyone, so some people did not have to grow crops anymore.
Xenophon was a philosopher of the 4th century BC. In his book Cryopedia ("The Education of Cyrus") he writes about the division of labour: 
"Just as the various trades are most highly developed in large cities, in the same way food at the palace is prepared in a far superior manner. In small towns the same man makes couches, doors, ploughs and tables, and often he even builds houses, and still he is thankful if only he can find enough work to support himself. And it is impossible for a man of many trades to do all of them well. In large cities, however, because many make demands on each trade, one alone is enough to support a man, and often less than one: for instance one man makes shoes for men, another for women, there are places even where one man earns a living just by mending shoes, another by cutting them out, another just by sewing the uppers together, while there is another who performs none of these operations but assembles the parts, Of necessity, he who pursues a very specialised task will do it best."

</doc>
<doc id="63819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63819" title="Euphrates">
Euphrates

The Euphrates is the western of the two rivers that define the borders of Mesopotamia (the other is the Tigris).

</doc>
<doc id="63820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63820" title="JC Chasez">
JC Chasez

JC Chasez (born Joshua Scott Chasez on August 8, 1976 in Washington, D.C.), is an American singer, songwriter, actor, and producer. He is best known as one of the lead singers in the pop group *NSYNC. On February 24 2004 Chasez's solo album "Schizophrenic" was released. Three singles were released from the album. Chasez made a girl group called Girl Radical with Jimmy Harry.

</doc>
<doc id="63822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63822" title="Surplus">
Surplus

Surplus is when there is more of something than is needed. Therefore:

</doc>
<doc id="63824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63824" title="Ricky Martin">
Ricky Martin

Enrico Martinez del Morales (born on December 24, 1971), stage name Ricky Martin, is a Grammy Award and Latin Grammy Award-winning Puerto Rican-American pop singer, dancer, musician, recording artist and actor. He was a member of the Latin boy band Menudo. From 1991 he has worked as a solo act. He has sold over 55 million albums around the world. He has 21 Top 10 songs on the US Latin Charts, including eight which made Number One.
Studio albums
Live albums
Compilation albums
DVDs

</doc>
<doc id="63825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63825" title="Fiefdom">
Fiefdom

In feudalism, a fiefdom (also called a fief, feud, feoff, or fee) was a property or right that an overlord gave a vassal in exchange for military service. This property, of whatever size, could be inherited by the man's heirs. However, not only land but anything of value could be held in fee, including a political office, hunting or fishing rights or monopolies in trade. A fief included the right of possession of something but with conditions.

</doc>
<doc id="63826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63826" title="Nicky Hilton">
Nicky Hilton

Nicholai "Nicky" Olivia Hilton (born October 5, 1983, in New York City, New York) is an American fashion model, socialite, and fashion designer. Hilton is also an heiress to a part of the Hilton Hotels chain, as well as to about 5–15% of her father's real estate fortune and investments. She shares her nickname with her grandfather's brother, Conrad "Nicky" Hilton, who died 14 years before she was born. She is the sister of celebrity Paris Hilton.

</doc>
<doc id="63828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63828" title="Category:Models">
Category:Models


</doc>
<doc id="63830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63830" title="Disappearance of Madeleine McCann">
Disappearance of Madeleine McCann

Madeleine McCann (born 13 May 2003 in Leicestershire, England) disappeared on the evening of Thursday, 3 May 2007 from a holiday apartment in Praia da Luz in the Algarve, Portugal. She was staying with her parents, brother and sister.
There was a lot of news coverage around the world about the case. Rumours that Madeleine has been taken to countries such as Morocco and Malta have all turned out to be untrue.
Madeleine's parents have started a website in their daughter's name where people can keep up to date on events and write to the family. They have also started "Madeleine's Fund" to which people can give money.
Robert Murat was the first official suspect. On 8 September 2007, Madeleine's mother, Kate McCann, and her father, Gerry McCann, were declared official suspects as well, after the finding of blood and fluids in their apartment. Murat stopped being an official suspect in July 2008, Kate and Gerry in August 2008.
The case remains unsolved.

</doc>
<doc id="63832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63832" title="Category:2000s births">
Category:2000s births

Note that the year 2000 is actually the last year in the 20th century; 2001 is the first year in the 21st century.

</doc>
<doc id="63833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63833" title="Category:21st century births">
Category:21st century births


</doc>
<doc id="63835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63835" title="Linda Thelenius">
Linda Thelenius

Linda Thelenius (born Linda Maria Elisabeth Gedin later "Linda Rosing" 21 January 1974 in Västerås, Sweden) is a model and was a participant in the 2003 edition of "Big Brother" in Sweden. In the Big Brother house, she and another participant, Micke, became involved in a relationship which was followed closely by the producers. During the show, she had sex on live TV, making her an instant tabloid celebrity.
Thelenius released her debut single, "Summer Love", in 2004. In 2006, she released her autobiography, "Den nakna sanningen" ("The naked truth"), written together with journalist and television host Daniel Nyhlén.
In the summer of 2006, Thelenius became the leader of a new political party, 'Unika Partiet', or 'The Unique Party'. This is a so-called non-registered party, meaning that there is no official record of the party. Thelenius was listed as the only candidate for the party, listed as an author on the party ballot. She received 222 votes out of more than 5.6 million votes cast in the election. Thelenius is also famous for her many plastic surgery operations. She has breast implants, has had a facelift, and uses botox injections.

</doc>
<doc id="63837" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63837" title="Category:Mouseketeers">
Category:Mouseketeers

Child actors on the Disney television show "The Mickey Mouse Club" are called "Mouseketeers". "The Mickey Mouse Club" ran during the 50s, 70s and 90s. Actors on all three series of the show are listed in this category.

</doc>
<doc id="63838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63838" title="Linda Bengtzing">
Linda Bengtzing

Linda Bengtzing (born March 13, 1974 in Gullspang, Sweden) is a singer and television host. She has sung three times in the Swedish Melodifestivalen.

</doc>
<doc id="63839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63839" title="Melodifestivalen">
Melodifestivalen

Melodifestivalen, translated as the "Melody Festival", is an annual music competition organised by Sveriges Television (SVT) and Sveriges Radio (SR) to determine Sweden's representative song and performer at the Eurovision Song Contest.
It has been staged under various formats almost every year since Sweden first participated in the Eurovision Song Contest in 1958. The first year, no TV or radio broadcasted event was held, but in 1959., the first public competition was held. The competition is the most popular television programme in Sweden, a title it has held since 2000, at times eclipsing even Eurovision itself. In 2007, an estimated four million Swedes—almost 44% of the country's population—watched the final, while the semifinals averaged around 3.1 million viewers.
The winner is chosen by a number of regional juries and a national televote. Until 2001 the competition was normally limited to between eight and twelve songs (in 1981, only five songs), but since the introduction of semifinals in 2002 that number has risen to thirty-two.
The Melodifestival has produced five Eurovision-winning songs and fifteen placings in the top five for Sweden at the Contest. The event is often seen as being dominated by light orchestrated pop songs, known locally as Schlager. music—so much so that it is sometimes referred to as "Schlagerfestivalen" (the "Schlager Festival") or "Schlager-SM" ("Swedish schlager championship") by the Swedish media but other styles of music such as rap, reggae and glam rock have made an appearance since the competition's expansion. 
The competition makes a significant impact on music charts in Sweden; twenty-three participants reached the domestic singles chart in 2006 and twenty-one in 2007. There would have been more people taking part, but Agnes Carlsson was disqualified because she discussed her song in an interview with the Aftonblad newspaper.

</doc>
<doc id="63840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63840" title="Katie Price">
Katie Price

Katie Price (Katrina Amy Alexandra Alexis Infield Price, born 22 May 1978) is an English television personality and glamour model. She was born in Brighton, East Sussex, England, and was previously known as "Jordan".
She first became known as a topless female glamour model in a pictorial "Page 3" tabloid newspaper "The Sun". Later, her life in the public spotlight allowed her to develop a variety of different activities including television, books, fashion and music.
Her singles include "A Whole New World" with Peter Andre. It peaked at number 12. A solo "Free To Love Again" peaked at number 60.
She won the January to February 2015 series of Celebrity Big Brother (UK).
Price has had many plastic surgeries on her breasts and her face. In 2002, Price had a leiomyosarcoma (a type of cancer) removed from her finger.
She married Peter Andre in September 2005; they divorced in 2009. She married Alex Reid in February 2010; they divorced in 2011. In January 2013, she married Kieran Hayler. Price has a son, Harvey (born in May 2002), by footballer Dwight Yorke. He is blind, has ADHD and Prader-Willi syndrome and is autistic. She has a son Junior (born June 2005), and daughter, Princess (born June 2007), by Andre. She has a son, Jett (born August 2013), by Hayler. The couple separated in May 2014. Their daughter was born in August 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="63841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63841" title="Nikki Grahame">
Nikki Grahame

Nicola Rachele-Beth "Nikki" Grahame (born 28 April 1982, Watford, Hertfordshire) is a British television personality. She rose to fame in the UK when she was chosen to be a housemate on "Big Brother 7" in 2006. A former model and promotions girl, Grahame has become renowned for throwing temper tantrums — behaviour that divided viewer opinion during her time on Big Brother. It led to her being given her own reality television show called "Princess Nikki". She has been reported in the tabloids for fighting in the street.
Grahame won a National Television Award for most popular TV contender in 2006. As of 2007, Grahame writes a regular column in "OK!'s" "Hot Stars" magazine.
Grahame spent most of her adolescence in psychiatric hospitals. She has the eating disorder anorexia nervosa, a condition that left her comatose and near death at the age of 12. She has told about her experience in two autobiography books called "Dying To Be Thin - The True Story Of My Lifelong Battle Against Anorexia" released in 2009 and "Fragile - The True Story of My Lifelong Battle With Anorexia" released in 2012. In October 2011, Grahame said she had relapsed and was suffering from anorexia again. She had checked into her 11th institution and weighed just . In 2012 Grahame was put in hospital after she took an overdose of pills.
She returned to the Big Brother house in June 2015 as a special guest at Big Brother 16, spending a total of 16 days inside the house. 
She is a HouseGuest in season 4 of "Big Brother Canada", having entered the house in March 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="63844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63844" title="Venus Williams">
Venus Williams

Venus Ebony Starr Williams (born July 17, 1980) is an American professional tennis player who is a former World No. 1 and is ranked World No. 37 in singles as of January 17, 2014. She is an Olympic gold medalist who has won 7 Grand Slam titles. She was ranked World No. 24 as of October 22, 2012 in singles. 
Williams is the older sister of fellow former World No. 1 tennis player Serena Williams. The Williams sisters are noted for their power games. Venus holds the record for the fastest serve ever recorded by a female player in a main draw match (128.8 mph).
 

</doc>
<doc id="63845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63845" title="Serena Williams">
Serena Williams

Serena Jameka Williams (born September 26, 1981) is an American professional tennis player who is currently ranked No. 1 in women's singles tennis. Williams has won 23 Grand Slam singles titles. She is the younger sister of another former world no. 1 professional female tennis player, Venus Williams.
The Williams sisters grew up in Los Angeles and currently live together in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, United States. Both are Jehovah's Witnesses.

</doc>
<doc id="63848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63848" title="Category:Tennis players">
Category:Tennis players


</doc>
<doc id="63849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63849" title="Miki Ando">
Miki Ando

Ando was born in Nagoya.
Ando won the 2004-2005 Japanese National Championship; and she placed first again in 2011. 
She won the World Championships in 2007 and 2011.
She was a member of the Japanese team at the 2006 Winter Olympics at Turin in Italy. She also competed at Vancouver in the 2010 Winter Olympics.

</doc>
<doc id="63853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63853" title="Kelly Ripa">
Kelly Ripa

Kelly Maria Ripa (born October 2, 1970) is an American actress, talk show host, and television producer. Ripa, who played Hayley Vaughan on the television soap opera "All My Children" from 1990–2002, is best known as co-host of the popular syndicated morning talk show "Live! with Kelly and Michael". She is also known for her role as Faith Fairfield on "Hope & Faith". Additionally, Ripa and her husband Mark Consuelos own a New York based production company, Milojo.
In 2012, "The Hollywood Reporter" named her one of the Most Powerful People in Media.
Ripa was born in Stratford, New Jersey. She is the daughter of Esther, a homemaker, and Joseph Ripa, a labor-union president and bus driver. She has a younger sister, Linda, who is a children's book author. She is of Italian and Irish ancestry. Her father has been the Democratic County Clerk for Camden County, New Jersey since June 2009. She is the first in her family to enter the acting profession. She has studied ballet since age three, plays the piano, and, in her words, is "no Barbra Streisand," but can carry a tune.
Ripa graduated from Eastern High School in Voorhees Township, New Jersey, where she became a cheerleader and was later encouraged by her drama teacher to pursue acting. "I owe so much of my career to Jim Beckley," she said. "He thought I was a natural performer and so he gave me the lead in the next show." She starred in local theatre productions and was discovered while performing in the comedy play "The Ugly Duckling" (c. 1941), by A.A. Milne, during her senior year. She attended Camden County College studying psychology, but dropped out and moved to New York City to be an actress.

</doc>
<doc id="63854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63854" title="MediaWiki:Editingold">
MediaWiki:Editingold


</doc>
<doc id="63855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63855" title="Faith Ford">
Faith Ford

Faith Alexis Ford (born September 14, 1964, in Alexandria, Louisiana) is an American television and movie actress. She is best known for her role as Corky Sherwood on "Murphy Brown" and as Hope in the television series, "Hope & Faith".

</doc>
<doc id="63856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63856" title="Hope &amp; Faith">
Hope &amp; Faith

Hope & Faith was an American television series. It was a sitcom that aired for three seasons on ABC from 2003 to 2006. For its first two seasons the series was part of a revived TGIF comedy block.
The series starred Faith Ford as Hope and Kelly Ripa as Faith. Ford plays a homemaker with a husband (played by Ted McGinley) and three children. Ripa plays her sister, a soap opera star whose character is killed off, leading her to move in with her sister's family. The series is based in part on the life of its creator, Joanna Johnson, a former cast member of "The Bold and the Beautiful". The series featured guest stars such as Tony Curtis, Dean Cain, Robert Wagner, Regis Philbin (Ripa's co-host on "Live with Regis and Kelly"), Kathie Lee Gifford, and Mark Consuelos (Ripa's husband).
The series was primarily filmed at New York City's Silvercup East, a sister studio to Silvercup Studios, to accommodate Ripa's schedule with "Live with Regis and Kelly".
All 73 episodes were picked up by the American television network , as the total number of produced episodes was short of what was required for American television syndication.

</doc>
<doc id="63858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63858" title="Live! with Kelly">
Live! with Kelly

Live! with Kelly is a syndicated American television talk show, hosted by Kelly Ripa.
The show began in 1983 as a local New York City program called "The Morning Show", hosted by Regis Philbin and Cyndy Garvey (then the wife of Major League Baseball player Steve Garvey). A year later, Garvey left the show and was replaced by Ann Abernathy. In 1985, after Abernathy married and moved to Los Angeles, Kathie Lee Gifford became Philbin's co-host. The show went into national syndication in 1988 as Live! with Regis and Kathie Lee. Gifford left the show in 2000; the show continued as "Live! with Regis" while Philbin and the show's producers teamed him with several potential co-hosts.
In 2001, Ripa was named as Philbin's co-host, with the show then being renamed Live! with Regis and Kelly. Philbin and Ripa remained a team until 2011; in January of that year, he announced he was leaving the show, with his last show airing on November 18. The show then became Live! with Kelly, with Ripa appearing with a wide array of guest co-hosts. Former New York Giants star defensive lineman Strahan became the new full-time co-host effective with the 2012–13 season premiere. At that point the show became Live! with Kelly and Michael.
"Live!'s" mixture of A-list guests and the interaction between co-hosts have made it one of daytime's most popular and venerable talk shows.
In 2016, Strahan announced he was leaving the show to join Good Morning America. The show is currently holding tryouts to replace him. 

</doc>
<doc id="63860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63860" title="Category:Television talk shows">
Category:Television talk shows


</doc>
<doc id="63863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63863" title="Category:Big Brother contestants">
Category:Big Brother contestants


</doc>
<doc id="63864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63864" title="Sven-Göran Eriksson">
Sven-Göran Eriksson

Sven-Göran Eriksson (born 5 February 1948) is a Swedish football manager. He was recently the football manager of Manchester City after agreeing a 3-year-deal with the club. He is set to earn £2 million per year plus bonuses. He was sacked by Manchester City. Eriksson stepped down from his most recent position as the English national team manager following England's exit from the 2006 World Cup; there was, however, considerable speculation that he was forced out by the English football authorities due to his tenure being punctuated by well-documented tabloid reports of his private life. Erikkson currently manages the Côte d'Ivoire national team.

</doc>
<doc id="63866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63866" title="Jade Goody">
Jade Goody

Jade Goody (5 June 1981 – 22 March 2009) was a British television personality. She became famous when she was in the third series of the reality television show Big Brother in 2002. She had been a dental nurse before she went into the Big Brother house. Goody starred in fitness DVDs, got somebody to write a book about her, had her own beauty salon and line of perfume. Goody was a housemate once again in Celebrity Big Brother 2007. People said that she was racist towards her Indian housemate Shilpa Shetty. She had two sons by Jeff Brazier. She married Jack Tweed on 22 February 2009 and died from metastatic cervical cancer a month later (on the 22 of March). She was 27 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="63867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63867" title="Category:Big Brother">
Category:Big Brother


</doc>
<doc id="63868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63868" title="Sara Rue">
Sara Rue

Sara Rue (born January 26, 1979 in New York City, New York) is an American actress. She played the roles of "Carmen Ferrara" on the drama "Popular" and "Claudia Casey" on the sitcom "Less Than Perfect". 

</doc>
<doc id="63869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63869" title="Less Than Perfect">
Less Than Perfect

Less Than Perfect was an American television series. It was a sitcom that began airing on ABC on October 1, 2002 and ended on June 6, 2006. The series is about a young female office employee (played by Sara Rue) and her co-workers The series was directed by Skip Collector and Ted Wass, among others.

</doc>
<doc id="63871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63871" title="Hilary Hahn">
Hilary Hahn

Hilary Hahn (born November 27, 1979 in Lexington, Virginia) is an American Grammy Award–winning violinist.
She was born into a Lutheran family and moved to Baltimore, Maryland at the age of three and began playing the violin one month before her fourth birthday in the Suzuki Program of Baltimore’s Peabody Conservatory.
Hahn became interested in the violin after taking a walk with her father in their Baltimore neighborhood (Zaustinsky 1999). The two passed a branch of the Peabody Conservatory that advertised music lessons for four-year-olds and observed a music lesson where a young boy was playing "Twinkle Twinkle Little Star". Hahn began taking lessons the following week and participated in a Suzuki class for about a year.
In 1995 Hahn made her international debut in Germany with a performance of the Beethoven Concerto for Violin and Orchestra in D Major with Lorin Maazel and the Bavarian Radio Symphony Orchestra. The concert was broadcast on radio and television throughout Europe. A year later, Hahn debuted at Carnegie Hall in New York as a soloist with the Philadelphia Orchestra.
By the age of sixteen, Hahn had completed the Curtis Institute's university requirements, but elected to remain at the Institute for several more years to pursue additional elective courses, until her graduation in May of 1999 with a Bachelor Of Music degree. During this time she regularly coached violin with Jaime Laredo, and studied chamber music with Felix Galimir and Gary Graffman. In an interview with PBS in December 2001, Hahn stated that of all the musical disciplines, she is most interested in musical performance (PBS Interview).
Hahn has played with orchestras such as the London Symphony Orchestra, New York Philharmonic, Singapore Symphony Orchestra, just to name a few. She debuted with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra in March of 2007.
She began performing and touring in a crossover duo with singer-songwriter Josh Ritter in 2005 and (early 2007) with singer-songwriter Tom Brosseau.
In 2001, Time Magazine named Hahn as “America’s Best” young classical musician. Throughout her career, Hahn has performed with numerous orchestras around the globe. She previously recorded five albums with Sony Classical, but now records exclusively for Deutsche Grammophon.
In 1996 Sony Music signed Hahn to an exclusive recording contract, which made her one of the youngest exclusive artists in the label’s history. Hahn’s first recording, released in 1997, featured selected solo sonatas and partitas by J.S. Bach, and spent weeks as a bestseller on the Billboard classical charts.
In addition to being a solo violinist, Hahn has also performed as a chamber musician. Since the summer of 1992 she has performed nearly every year with the Skaneateles Chamber Music Festival in Skaneateles, New York. Between 1995 and 2000 she spent performing and studying chamber music at the Marlboro Music Festival in Vermont, and in 1996 she served as an artist and a member of the chamber music mentoring program of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center.
Hahn signed with Deutsche Grammophon in 2003 after her contract with Sony expired in 2002. After Hahn completed her part of the contract with Sony, which was for five recordings over six years, she decided against renewing the contract due to the fact that she and Sony did not agree on her future projects (Lark Ascending).
In an interview with "Strings Magazine" conducted in 1999, Hahn cited several people as being influential on her development as a musician and a student. Two of these influences include David Zinman, the conductor of the Baltimore Symphony and Hahn’s mentor since she was ten, and Lorin Maazel, with whom she worked in Europe with the Bavarian Radio Symphony Orchestra. In the interview, Hahn also stated that she enjoys watching movies, reading, and writing in her free time. Other hobbies that she lists include: meeting new people, exploring cities, ballet, working out, swimming, and bike riding. She also enjoys animals and rowing (The Daily Princetonian).
Hilary Hahn plays an 1864 Vuillaume violin that was formerly owned by the Russian violinist Samuel Lande who was a friend of Klara Berkovich, Hahn’s first teacher. Hahn uses Dominant strings and bows by French bow makers Paul Jombar and Emil Miquel (Zaustinsky 1999).
As of 1999, Hahn has stated that she plays Bach more than any other composer and that she has played solo Bach pieces every day since she was eight (Zaustinsky 1999). The following is an excerpt from the liner notes to Hahn’s album "Hilary Hahn Plays Bach":
"Bach is, for me, the touchstone that keeps my playing honest. Keeping the intonation pure in double stops, bringing out the various voices where the phrasing requires it, crossing the strings so that there are not inadvertent accents, presenting the structure in such a way that it's clear to the listener without being pedantic - one can't fake things in Bach, and if one gets all of them to work, the music sings in the most wonderful way."
In a segment on NPR entitled "“Musicians in Their Own Words”", Hahn speaks about the surreal experience of playing the Bach "Chaconne" (from the Solo Violin Partita No. 2) alone on the concert stage. In the same segment, she also discusses her experiences emulating a lark while playing "The Lark Ascending" by Ralph Vaughan Williams. The complete transcript can be found here:
Musicians in Their Own Words

</doc>
<doc id="63872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63872" title="Larry King">
Larry King

Larry King (born November 19, 1933) is an American writer, journalist and broadcaster. For many years, he hosted a nightly interview program on the Cable News Network (CNN) called "Larry King Live". The program ran from 1985 to 2010. It was simulcast on Westwood One radio network until 2009 . Before that, he hosted a radio talk show on Mutual Radio called the "Larry King Show." He has made some 40,000 interviews with politicians, athletes and entertainers. Larry King has won several awards.<ref</ref> He now hosts a talk show called "Politicking". That show is on Russia Television, an English language television network run by the Russian state.
His first show of "Larry King Live" was in 1985. He has had an interview with every President of the United States since Gerald Ford. 
King has stated he is liberal politically. 
King had a heart attack in 1987 and wrote two books about life with a heart disease. He founded the Larry King Cardiac Foundation in 1988 to help people who have no insurance cover the costs of treatment. 
King was born Lawrence Leibel Harvey Zeiger in Brooklyn, New York City to immigrant parents. His father was from Austria and his mother was from [Belarus]]. Both parents were Orthodox Jews.
Larry King has been married eight times . His wives include:

</doc>
<doc id="63875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63875" title="Category:Television talk show hosts">
Category:Television talk show hosts


</doc>
<doc id="63876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63876" title="Category:Television presenters">
Category:Television presenters


</doc>
<doc id="63879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63879" title="Norfolk, Virginia">
Norfolk, Virginia

Norfolk is a large city in Virginia, United States. It is the 78th largest city in the United States. It is home to the "Norfolk Admirals" of the AHL.
As of the census of 2000, there were 234,403 people, 86,210 households, and 51,898 families residing in the city. The population density was 1,684.4/km² (4,362.8/mi²). There were 94,416 housing units at an average density of 678.5/km² (1,757.3/mi²). The racial makeup of the city was 48.36% White, 44.11% African American, 0.46% Native American, 2.81% Asian, 0.11% Pacific Islander, 1.67% from other races, and 2.48% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 3.80% of the population.

</doc>
<doc id="63882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63882" title="Cream Lemon">
Cream Lemon

Cream Lemon is an anime series. It is a collection of short stories. There are many different types of stories in the anime, for example, soap opera (the Ami series), fantasy (Rall series), horror (Cream Lemon Dark) and parody (Pop Chaser). It deals with a lot of heavy perversions including S&M, men being raped by groups of women, bondage, torture, yuri and incest.
"Project A-ko" was originally intended to be a part of this series.

</doc>
<doc id="63883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63883" title="Vahan Tekeyan">
Vahan Tekeyan

Vahan Tekeyan (, January 21, 1878, Constantinople - April 4, 1948) was an Armenian poet, journalist, and public activist. He was educated in Armenian schools in Constantinople and moved to Egypt in 1914, escaping the Armenian Genocide.

</doc>
<doc id="63884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63884" title="Pontic Greeks">
Pontic Greeks

Pontic Greeks, Pontian Greeks, Pontians or Greeks of Pontus (, ) can refer to Greeks specifically from the area of Pontus in the region of the former Empire of Trebizond on the Black Sea coast of Eastern Turkey, or in other cases more generally all Greeks from the shores of the Black Sea or the Pontus. Greeks from Trabzon traditionally speak Pontic Greek. The terms Pontic and Pontian can be used interchangeably.

</doc>
<doc id="63885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63885" title="Nynorsk">
Nynorsk

Nynorsk (New Norwegian) is one of the two official standards of the Norwegian language. The other is Bokmål. It is based on Norwegian dialects and was created by Ivar Aasen during the 19th century to show a Norwegian alternative to the Danish language (upon which Bokmål is based) which was commonly written in Norway at the time.

</doc>
<doc id="63887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63887" title="Austrian Armenian Cultural Society">
Austrian Armenian Cultural Society

The Austrian Armenian Cultural Society was founded in 1974 at Vienna, Austria, the Austrian-Armenian Cultural Society is an organization that promotes cultural ties between Armenia and Austria and a lot more. Its main goal is to introduce Austrians to the Armenian culture and heritage as well as informing Armenians about the Austrian culture and history. The Austrian-Armenian Cultural Society whose members are Armenians as well as Austrians, e.g. scientists, writers, artists, renowned leaders, and more. The organization is maintaining cultural ties to different organizations in Austria, Armenia and the diaspora. Among its many activities, it runs Armenian language lessons, useful programs to Armenia, youth camping events and way more.

</doc>
<doc id="63888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63888" title="Laredo, Texas">
Laredo, Texas

Laredo is a mid-sized city in southern Texas, United States established in the year 1755. Laredo has a population of 207,787. Hispanics make up 90% of the total population, and the city is largely Catholic. Laredo is a border city which is part of the bi-national metropolitan area of Laredo, Texas - Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas, Mexico with a total population of 575,585. The main sources of income for Laredo is international trade, followed by retail sales.
Laredo was founded by Don Tomas Sanchez under the name of Villa de San Agustin de Laredo in 1755 in a colony called Nuevo Santander in New Spain. Today, most of Nuevo Santander is part of Texas. 

</doc>
<doc id="63892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63892" title="German-Armenian Society">
German-Armenian Society

The German-Armenian Society was founded in Berlin in 1914. Apart from Johannes Lepsius, its original members included the journalist Paul Rohrbach and the Armenian author Avetik Issahakyan.
The goals of DAG are the promotion and understanding between Germans and Armenians and to safeguard the likings of Armenians living in Germany. Furthermore, the DAG defends the rights and interests of Armenian minorities, including in Turkey and other Middle Eastern countries.

</doc>
<doc id="63895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63895" title="Asbarez">
Asbarez

"Asbarez" Newspaper began its publication in August 1908 in Fresno as a weekly. After several successful decades the offices and publishing headquarters moved to Los Angeles in the early 1970s. Today it is still active.
"Asbarez" is the official publisher of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation Western United States Central Committee, and mainly serves the more than 500,000 strong Armenian-American community in the Western states.
On May 1, 1970 when "Asbarez" began publishing its English section. Today, that section, which became a daily publication in January 1993, is the voice of the community and a source of information within the halls of Congress, in libraries around the country and newsrooms of major media outlets.

</doc>
<doc id="63899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63899" title="Nuevo Laredo">
Nuevo Laredo

Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas is a mid-sized city in northern Tamaulipas, Mexico established in the year 1847. Nuevo Laredo has a population of 355,827. Nuevo Laredo is a border city which is part of the bi-national metropolitan area of Laredo, Texas, United States - Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas, Mexico with a total population of 575,585. The main sources of income for Nuevo Laredo is international trade, followed by retail sales.
Laredo, Texas was founded by Don Tomas Sanchez under the name of Villa de San Agustin de Laredo in 1755 in a colony called Nuevo Santander in New Spain. Today, most of Nuevo Santander is part of Texas. Laredo was named after a village in Spain also called Laredo in Cantabria. In 1847, when Texas became part of the United States, 17 families decided to remain Mexican and crossed the Rio Grande into Mexico and established Ciudad Nuevo Laredo.

</doc>
<doc id="63900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63900" title="United States military chocolate">
United States military chocolate

Military chocolate has been a part of U.S. armed forces rations since 1937, and is issued to troops as part of basic field rations and sundry packs. Chocolate rations served two purposes: as a morale boost, and as a high-energy, pocket-sized emergency ration. 

</doc>
<doc id="63903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63903" title="Marion Bartoli">
Marion Bartoli

Marion Bartoli (born 2 October 1984) is a French retired female professional tennis player. 
Her highest ranking was 7th in the world in singles and 15th in doubles. She won seven Women's Tennis Association tournaments in singles and three in doubles. She was known for playing two-handed shots on both forehand and backhand, which is unusual.
In 2007 she played in the Wimbledon final against Venus Williams, after winning against the World Number 1 Justine Henin in the semi-finals. It was considered one of the biggest shocks in Wimbledon history. Bartoli lost against Williams in the final, finishing as runner-up. Bartoli won the Wimbledon singles in 2013.
Bartoli retired in August 2013 due to pain from injuries. She lives in Geneva in Switzerland.
Bartoli in the Wimbledon final

</doc>
<doc id="63905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63905" title="Bandana">
Bandana

A kerchief (from the French ', "cover the head") is a triangular or square piece of cloth tied around the head or around the neck for protective or decorative purposes. A "handkerchief" primarily refers to a napkin made of cloth, used to maintain personal hygiene. A bandanna or bandana"' (from Hindi , "bandhana", "to tie") is a type of large, usually colorful, kerchief, usually worn on the head. Bandannas are frequently printed in a paisley pattern.
Certain colors of kerchiefs are associated with gangs making it potentially dangerous to wear different types of them in certain areas. For example, in Los Angeles, California, a red kerchief is associated with Bloods and a blue one is associated with Crips or Sureños. In certain cities such as Richmond, Virginia, non-violent bicycle clubs such as The Loners may wear black and white bandannas to show their association.
A bandana can also be used as a gag and has been used in western movies and in BDSM movies to prevent a person from speaking. The person being gagged is almost always tied up in some way and the bandana is tied so its in the persons mouth or around over the mouth.

</doc>
<doc id="63908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63908" title="Roger Federer">
Roger Federer

Roger Federer (born 8 August 1981, Basel) is a professional Swiss tennis player. As of February 2017, he is ranked number 10 in the world.
Federer holds the record for the most number of weeks at the top spot in the world ranking, with 302 weeks. He also holds the record for most weeks at the top spot in a row, with 237 weeks. Many experts believe that Federer is the greatest tennis player of all time. He has won 18 Grand Slam singles titles: five at the Australian Open (2004, 2006, 2007, 2010 and 2017), one at the French Open (2009), seven at Wimbledon (2003 to 2007, 2009 and 2012) and five at the U.S. Open (2004 to 2008). In 2007, he equalled the record for the most titles in a row (five) at Wimbledon set by Björn Borg. He won a gold medal at the 2008 Summer Olympics and a silver medal at the 2012 Summer Olympics.
He was named the Laureus World Sportsman of the Year for a record four years in a row (2005–2008).
Federer's first language is Swiss-German and he speaks English, German and French very well. He also speaks some Swedish and Italian. His wife is former tennis player Mirka Vavrinec. After Wimbledon 2009, he became a father of twin girls who were named Charlene Riva and Myla Rose.
In May 2014 he became a father again, to twin boys named Leo and Lenny.
This table shows Federer's performance in each Grand Slam tournament in singles competition.

</doc>
<doc id="63909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63909" title="Category:Swiss athletes">
Category:Swiss athletes


</doc>
<doc id="63910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63910" title="Martina Hingis">
Martina Hingis

Martina Hingis (born 30 September 1980 in Košice, Slovakia, then Czechoslovakia) is a Swiss professional tennis player who spent a total of 209 weeks as World No. 1. She is known as the "Swiss Miss". She has won five Grand Slam singles titles, three at the Australian Open (1997 to 1999), one at Wimbledon (1997) and one at the U.S. Open (1997). She is a dominant player in doubles, winning 10 Grand Slam doubles titles and 3 mixed doubles titles.
Hingis has retired twice from the game. The first time was in 2002, when she was struggling with injuries and was only 22. She returned to tennis in 2005, but retired two years later after sustaining more injuries. A blood test had also proved that she was using cocaine, an illegal drug. In 2013, she returned to playing doubles and became a tennis coach. She won the 2015 Wimbledon doubles title together with Sania Mirza, 19 years after winning her first Wimbledon doubles title in 1996.
She was a contestant in the 2009 series of "Strictly Come Dancing".

</doc>
<doc id="63911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63911" title="Noisettes">
Noisettes

The Noisettes are a band from England. They mostly play rock and alternative rock. With Shingai Shoniwa singing and playing bass guitar guitar, Dan Smith playing guitar, and Jamie Morrison who drums.
They released their first EP "Three Moods of the Noisettes" in April of 2005 on the independent record label Side Salad Records which led to signing internationally with Universal Music Group, who released the EP in the US on the Low Altitude imprint.
Noisettes have performed in Europe and the United States with bands such as TV on the Radio, Tom Vek, Babyshambles, Bloc Party and the Mystery Jets, and Muse. In 2007 the band released their first album "What's the Time Mr. Wolf?".

</doc>
<doc id="63912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63912" title="Rafael Nadal">
Rafael Nadal

Rafael Nadal Parera (born 3 June 1986 in Manacor, Majorca, Spain) is a Spanish professional tennis player who has won 14 Grand Slam singles titles; nine at the French Open, two at Wimbledon and the US Open and one at the Australian Open. He has been ranked number one in the world. He plays very well on clay courts, and many people regard Nadal as the greatest clay-court tennis player in history. He plays tennis with his left hand.
Nadal has won 28 ATP Masters Series titles, a former record, and the 2008 Olympic gold medal in singles. He is a part of the Spain Davis Cup team and has won the cup four times, in 2004, 2008, 2009, and 2011.
Nadal is often known simply as Rafa. He has rivalries against Roger Federer, Novak Djokovic and Andy Murray. Nadal is agnostic.
This table shows Nadal's performance in each Grand Slam tournament in singles.

</doc>
<doc id="63913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63913" title="Justine Henin">
Justine Henin

Justine Henin (born June 1, 1982) is a Belgian former professional tennis player and a World Number 1. She won seven Grand Slam singles titles, including four (and three in a row) at the French Open. She is two-time runner up at Wimbledon but never won the title. Her mental toughness and her one-handed backhand are recognized by great tennis players. One of the greatest tennis player of all time, Billie Jean King has said that Justine is the best player of her generation. She was known as "Justine Henin-Hardenne" for a while, until she separated from her husband in 2007 and went back to her maiden name of Justine Henin. She retired in 2008 but announced her comeback on 22 September after seeing the success of her compatriot Kim Clijsters.

</doc>
<doc id="63924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63924" title="Carla Garapedian">
Carla Garapedian

Carla Garapedian is an American movie director. She was the anchor of BBC World News. 
Movies directed by Garapedian include:

</doc>
<doc id="63926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63926" title="Massacres of Erzurum">
Massacres of Erzurum

The Massacres of Erzerum. Turkish soldiers took an active part in the massacres in Erzeroum. The soldiers began a massacre of the Armenians and the Turkish populace joined in the attack. The shops and houses of the Armenians were pillaged.
Following the massacres of Erzeroum of October 30, 1895 , a British consul put the hand on two letters sent to his brother and to his parents by a Turkish soldier: 
"My brother, if you want news from here, we killed 1 200 Armenians, all tiny rooms in pâtée for dog [... ] Mother, I am healthy and except. Father, twenty days ago, we carried out the war against the Armenian incrédules. By the grace of God, no misfortune arrived to us. The rumour says that our battalion will be dispatched in your part of the world - if it is the case, we will kill all the Armenians there. Other share, 511 Armenians were wounded, and it perishes about it one or two each day. If you want news of the soldiers and bachi bouzouks, not only one did not bleed of the nose [... ] That God blesses you." 

</doc>
<doc id="63927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63927" title="Lake Kari">
Lake Kari

Lake Kari () is a lake in Armenia, in the slopes of Mount Aragats. It is mostly formed by ice and snow.

</doc>
<doc id="63928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63928" title="Mount Aragats">
Mount Aragats

Mount Aragats () is the highest point in Armenia. It is in the province of Aragatsotn, northwest from Yerevan. It is a standalone extinct stratovolcano with four main peaks forming the rim of the crater. It is a popular destination for local alpinists.

</doc>
<doc id="63932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63932" title="Crystle Stewart">
Crystle Stewart

Crystle Danae Stewart (born September 20, 1981) is a beauty queen from Houston, Texas. She won the Miss USA beauty contest in 2008.
Stewart graduated from the University of Houston in 2007. She won the Miss Texas USA 2008 title in a state pageant held in Laredo, Texas on July 1, 2007. She competed against 121 other contestants. She is the second African American to win the crown at Miss Texas USA. Chelsi Smith was crowned Miss Texas USA 1995. Smith later became Miss USA and Miss Universe.
Stewart became the ninth Texan to win the Miss USA title.
Stewart hosted the Miss Teen USA 2009 competition on July 31, 2009 with Seth Goldman. Goldman and Stewart again hosted the Miss Teen USA pageant on July 24, 2010. Stewart hosted the 2011 Miss Texas USA contest with Jason Feinberg.

</doc>
<doc id="63933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63933" title="Victoria Cross for Australia">
Victoria Cross for Australia

The Victoria Cross for Australia (VC) is the highest military decoration given for bravery "in the face of the enemy" to members of the Australia Armed Forces. The medal was called the "Victoria Cross", but the name was changed in 1991. The "Victoria Cross" was started in 1856 for bravery in the Crimean War. The first medals were made from captured Russian cannons. The Victoria Cross for Australia looks exactly the same as the Victoria Cross.
The first winner of the "Victoria Cross for Australia" is SAS Trooper Mark Donaldson. Donaldson won the medal for bravery in Afghanistan in September 2008. The medal was given to him in a ceremony on January 16, 2009. He was the first winner of a VC for 40 years.

</doc>
<doc id="63934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63934" title="White Pines Forest State Park">
White Pines Forest State Park

White Pines Forest State Park, also known as White Pines State Park, is an Illinois state park in Ogle County, Illinois.

</doc>
<doc id="63935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63935" title="George Stainforth">
George Stainforth

Wing Commander George Hedley Stainforth AFC RAF (1899 - 27 September 1942) was a British Royal Air Force pilot. He was the first man in the world to exceed 400 miles per hour in an aircraft.

</doc>
<doc id="63936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63936" title="Ion Heliade Rădulescu">
Ion Heliade Rădulescu

Ion Heliade Rădulescu or Ion Heliade (also known as Eliad or Eliade Rădulescu January 6, 1802 – April 27, 1872) was a Wallachian-born Romanian academic, Romantic and Classicist poet, essayist, short story writer, newspaper editor and politician.

</doc>
<doc id="63937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63937" title="Chosroid Dynasty">
Chosroid Dynasty

The Chosroids (Khosro[v]iani, Georgian: ხოსრო[ვ]იანი) were a dynasty of the kings and later of the ruling princes of the early Georgian state of Iberia, natively known as Kartli, from the fourth to the ninth centuries. Presumably of Iranian origin and a branch of the Mihranid House, the family accepted Christianity as their official religion around the year 337, and maneuvered between the Byzantine Empire and Sassanid, Iran to retain a degree of independence. 

</doc>
<doc id="63939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63939" title="Guaramid Dynasty">
Guaramid Dynasty

The Guaramid Dynasty was the younger branch of the Chosroid royal house of Iberia (Kartli, eastern Georgia).

</doc>
<doc id="63940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63940" title="George II of Imereti">
George II of Imereti

George II (; died in 1585), of the Bagrationi Dynasty, was a king of Imereti from 1565 to 1585.

</doc>
<doc id="63941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63941" title="Bagrat III of Imereti">
Bagrat III of Imereti

Bagrat III () (September 23, 1495 – 1565), of the Bagrationi Dynasty, was a king of Imereti from April 1, 1510 to 1565.

</doc>
<doc id="63942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63942" title="Glasgow Hillhead by-election, 1982">
Glasgow Hillhead by-election, 1982

A Glasgow Hillhead by-election was held on 25 March 1982. The by-election was caused by the death of the Conservative Party Member of Parliament for Glasgow Hillhead Tam Galbraith on 2 January 1982.

</doc>
<doc id="63943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63943" title="Solaris">
Solaris

Solaris is an operating system created by Sun Microsystems in 1992. It was created to run on their workstations (but it can be used on most modern PCs) and is still developed today. It used to be called SunOS until it was renamed to Solaris in 1992. As of 2010, it is one of the main commercial UNIX variants (The others are HP-UX, AIX, and z/OS). Solaris is ultimately based on UNIX System V. With version 10, released in 2009, most parts of it were made Open Source, and released as OpenSolaris. Solaris 10 runs on SPARC processors, as well as the 32-bit and 64-bit Intel and AMD processors. Oracle Corporation acquired Sun Microsystems in January 2010. Oracle continued developing Solaris, but it stopped developing OpenSolaris. OpenSolaris was later forked into the illumos kernel and the OpenIndiana distribution.
It is mostly used in advanced servers like the ones that run the Internet, on some workstations, and for programming in languages like Java, having advanced features for programmers.

</doc>
<doc id="63944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63944" title="Puja Gupta">
Puja Gupta

Puja Gupta (born 30 junuary 1984 in Kozhikode, Kerala, India) was the winner of Miss India Universe in 2007. She represented India in Miss Universe 2007 and placed in the top ten. Puja Gupta wants to be a writer and her hobbies are yoga, writing, horse riding and drawing.

</doc>
<doc id="63945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63945" title="Charles A. Johns">
Charles A. Johns

Charles A. Johns (June 25, 1857 – January 11, 1932) was an American lawyer, jurist and politician. He served as the 47th Associate Justice of the Oregon Supreme Court.

</doc>
<doc id="63946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63946" title="Saved!">
Saved!

Saved! is a 2004 American teen comedy movie. It is a religious satire. It is set in Maryland. The movie stars Jena Malone, Macaulay Culkin, and Mandy Moore.

</doc>
<doc id="63947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63947" title="Gibraltar Chronicle">
Gibraltar Chronicle

The Gibraltar Chronicle is a newspaper published daily in Gibraltar since 1801. It is not only the oldest newspaper in Gibraltar, but also the second oldest English newspaper in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="63948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63948" title="Alan Johnston">
Alan Johnston

Alan Graham Johnston (born May 17, 1962) is a British journalist working for the BBC. On March 12, 2007, he was taken by a group of armed men in Gaza. He was kept as a hostage until he was let free on July 4.

</doc>
<doc id="63949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63949" title="BBC Television Centre">
BBC Television Centre

BBC Television Centre (sometimes abbreviated TVC or TC) in White City, London is home to much of the BBC's television output. Since 1998, almost all of the corporation's national TV and radio news by BBC News is made there too.

</doc>
<doc id="63950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63950" title="Liberty Bell">
Liberty Bell

The Liberty Bell is an important and famous symbol of American independence (freedom). It used to be in the Pennsylvania State House (now known as Independence Hall). The bell was ordered from the London firm of Lester and Pack (which is known as the Whitechapel Bell Foundry today) in 1752. It had the letters "Proclaim LIBERTY throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof." This was a part of Leviticus 25:10. It first cracked when it was first rung when it came to Philadelphia, and was made again twice by John Pass and John Stow, two workmen. When it was first made, the Liberty Bell was used to make lawmakers come to legislative meetings. It was also used to call people to public meetings. 
Bells were rung when the Declaration of Independence was read on July 8, 1776. While there is no record that the Liberty Bell was rung, most historians believe it was rung with the other bells. In the 1830's, the bell was used as a symbol by abolitionist societies, who called it the "Liberty Bell". The bell got its large, well-known crack in the early 19th century. One story claims it was cracked while ringing after Chief Justice John Marshall died in 1835.
The bell became widely famous after a short story in 1847 claimed that an old bell-ringer rang it on July 4, 1776, after hearing the Second Continental Congress's vote for independence. Actually, the bell could not have been rung on that Fourth of July, because no announcement of the Declaration was made that day. However, many people believed this story. Even some historians accepted it as a fact. From the 1885, the City of Philadelphia, which owned the bell, allowed it to go to many different patriotic meetings. Many people came to see the bell, and it grew even more cracked. Pieces were broken off by souvenir hunters. The last such journey was in 1915. After that, the city refused any more requests of that kind.
Ever since the city began in 1682, Philadelphia had been using its city bell to make its people know about meetings or civil danger. The first bell hung from a tree behind the Pennsylvania State House, now known as Independence Hall. In 1751, a bell tower was built in the Pennsylvania State House, and the leaders there began looking for a bell which could be heard from far away (the city was growing larger quickly). Isaac Norris, speaker of the Pennsylvania Provincial Assembly, ordered the colony's London agent, Robert Charles, to get a "good Bell of about two thousands pound weight".
We hope and rely (trust) on thy (your) care and assistance (help) in this affair and that thou (you) wilt (will) procure (get) and forward it by the first good opp as our workmen inform us it will be much less trouble to hang the Bell before their Scaffolds are struck from the Building where we intend (wish) to place it which will not be done 'till the end of next Summer or beginning of the Fall. Let the bell be cast by the best workmen & examined carefully before it is Shipped with the following words well shaped around it vizt.<br>
By Order of the Assembly of the Povince  of Pensylvania  for the State house in the City of Philada 1752<br>
and Underneath<br>
Proclaim Liberty thro' all the Land to all the Inhabitants thereof.-Levit. XXV. 10.
So Charles paid Lester and Pack (today the Whitechapel Bell Foundry) £150 13s 8d, (the same amount of money as about $36,400 today) for the bell, including the cost of taking it to Philadelphia and its insurance. It arrived in Philadelphia in August 1752.
A big reason why the bell became famous was because of a writer named George Lippard. On January 2, 1847, his story "Fourth of July, 1776" appeared in "Saturday Review" magazine. The short story was about an old man on July 4, 1776. It described how he was sitting sadly by the bell, afraid that Congress would not be able to declare independence. Suddenly, a young boy comes to tell the old man to ring the bell. The story was widely reprinted. This made people think of the Liberty Bell and the Declaration of Independence as closely related.

</doc>
<doc id="63951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63951" title="Frank Lloyd Wright">
Frank Lloyd Wright

Frank Lloyd Wright (Frank Lincoln Wright; June 8, 1867 – April 9, 1959) was a famous American architect from the early 20th century. He designed all kinds of buildings including banks, holiday resorts, office buildings, churches, a synagogue, a gas station, a beer garden and an art museum.
Wright designed more than 1,000 structures and completed 532 works. Wright believed in designing structures which were in peace with humanity and its environment. He called his belief organic architecture. He used this technique for his design for Fallingwater (1935), which has been called "the best all-time work of American architecture". Wright was a leader of the Prairie School movement of architecture and developed the image of the Usonian home, his one-of-a-kind vision for urban planning in the United States.
He began an American style of building design and is said to be one of the greatest architects of the twentieth century.
Wright was born in Richland Center, Wisconsin on June 8, 1867 to a farming family.
His work includes original and creative examples of many building types. Wright also designed many of the interior elements of his buildings, such as the furniture and stained glass. Wright authored 20 books and many articles and was a popular lecturer in the United States and in Europe.
His colorful personal life often made headlines, most notably for the 1914 fire and murders at his Taliesin studio. Already well-known during his lifetime, Wright was recognized in 1991 by the American Institute of Architects as "the greatest American architect of all time."
Wright died on April 9, 1959 in Phoenix, Arizona from surgical complications. He was 91 years old.
Frank Lloyd Wright was born in the farming town of Richland Center, Wisconsin, United States, on June 8, 1867. He was born Frank Lincoln Wright. His father, William Carey Wright (1825–1904), was a locally admired speaker, music teacher, sometimes a lawyer, and minister. William Wright had met and married Anna Lloyd Jones (1838/39 – 1923), a county school teacher of Welsh descent, the previous year when he was employed as the superintendent of schools for Richland County.
The Wright family moved from Richland Center to Weymouth, Massachusetts. Afterwards, The Wright Family struggled financially in Weymouth and returned to Spring Green, Wisconsin. They settled in Madison. Although William was a distant parent, he shared his love of music, especially the works of Johann Sebastian Bach, with his children.
Wright attended a Madison High School, but there is no evidence he ever graduated. He was admitted to the University of Wisconsin–Madison as a special student in 1886. There he joined Phi Delta Theta fraternity, took classes part-time for two semesters, and worked with a professor of civil engineering, Allan D. Conover. He moved to Chicago, Illinois in 1887.
Wright did not get along well with other draftsmen. He wrote that several violent events happened between them during the first years of his apprenticeship. Afterwards many other draftsmen showed very little respect for his employees as well. In spite of this, "Sullivan took [Wright] under his wing and gave him great design responsibility." As an act of respect, Wright would later refer to Sullivan as "Lieber Meister" (German for "Dear Master"). Wright also formed a bond with office foreman Paul Mueller. Wright would later engage Mueller to build several of his public and commercial buildings between 1903 and 1923.
As Wright began to work on residential projects for Adler & Sullivan. Wright designed his houses on his own time. Sullivan knew nothing of Wright's works until 1893, when he recognized that one of the houses was a Frank Lloyd Wright design. This particular house, built for Allison Harlan, was only blocks away from Sullivan's townhouse in the Chicago community of Kenwood.
Many examples of his work are in Buffalo, New York as a result of friendship between Wright and Darwin D. Martin. In 1902, the Larkin Company decided to build a new building. Wright came to Buffalo and designed not only the Larkin Administration Building (completed in 1904, demolished in 1950), but also homes for three of the company's executives including the Darwin D. Martin House in 1904. Wright later built their summer home. He also designed the Graycliff Estate, also designed for Darwin D. Martin and his wife, Isabelle.
On August 15, 1914, while Wright was working in Chicago, Julian Carlton, a male servant from Barbados who had been hired several months earlier, set fire to the living room of Taliesin and murdered seven people with an axe as the fire burned. The dead included Mamah; her two children, John and Martha; a gardener; a draftsman named Emil Brodelle; a worker; and another workman's son. Two people survived the mayhem. One of them helped to put out the fire that almost completely burned the residential wing of the house.
Carlton swallowed muriatic acid right after the attack in an attempt to kill himself. He was nearly lynched on the spot, but was taken to the Dodgeville jail. Carlton died from starvation seven weeks after the attack, despite medical attention.
Frank Lloyd Wright designed a summer-house in 1935 for the Kaufmann family over a waterfall in Pennsylvania. He called the house "Fallingwater". Some people say it is the most famous private home in the world.
The house actually sits low in the valley over the stream, but looks dramatic from further downstream. It has large terraces, and some of them stick straight out and hang over the waterfall or the stream. There are windows and glass doors, with only narrow steel supports between them, wrapping all the way around the living room.
There are also windows going all the way from the floor to the ceiling in all three stories of the tower.
Most of the house is made from stone. There are strong horizontal and vertical lines in the design of the house. It resembles the horizontal and vertical lines in the rock formations and other natural features. The waterfall can be heard everywhere in the house. Wright wanted there to be a close connection between inside and outside, and for the house itself to be natural.
In 1991, members of the American Institute of Architects named the Fallingwater house the "best all-time work of American architecture".
One famous house was called the Robie House. It had a maze like layout and geometric stained glass windows. The Robie House was a unique house with odd shapes, colors and form. He finished making it in 1910, as a house for children. In fact, many children lived and played in that house with their families up until 1926 when it was closed for living in, and closed to the public. Many times, it was planned to be destroyed. However, twice, Wright saved his house from destruction because of the reasons he built it and all the memories of it that he loved so much. It is now being restored at a cost of $10 million.
Another famous building by Wright was called the Johnson Wax Headquarters. The building has Wright's idea of the streamlined Art Moderne style popular in the 1930s. In a break with Wright's earlier Prairie School structures, the building features many circular forms and needed over 200 different curved "Cherokee red" bricks to create the sweeping curves of the inside and outside.
The mortar between the bricks was created in traditional Wright-style to give the horizontality of the building. The warm, reddish hue of the bricks was used in the polished concrete floor as well. The white stone trim and white columns create a slight yet striking difference. All of the furniture, created by Steelcase, was designed for the building by Wright and it mirrored many of the building's unique design features.
The entrance is in the structure, entering the building on one side with a covered carport on the other. The carport is supported by short versions of the steel-reinforced (tree-like) concrete columns that appear in the Great Workroom.
Wright proposed to build a skyscraper called The Illinois that would be the height of a distance of a mile. It was intended to be constructed in Chicago, Illinois. It could have included 528 stories, with a gross area of 18,460,000 square feet (1,715,000 m2). Wright stated that there would be parking for 15,000 cars and 150 helicopters.
The Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York City. Wright worked on this project for 16 years (1943–1959) and is probably his most recognized masterpiece. The building is located in Fifth Avenue. Its interior is similar to the inside of a seashell.
Its one of a kind central geometry was created to allow visitors to easily see Guggenheim's collection of his paintings by taking an elevator to the top-level and then viewing artworks by walking down the slowly descending, central spiral ramp, the floor of which is lodged with circular shapes and triangular light bulbs to complement the geometric nature of the building.
However, when the museum was completed, some of Wright's design were ignored, such as his desire for the interior to be painted off-white. Further, the Museum currently designs exhibits to be viewed by walking up the curved walkway without walking down from the top-level.
Wright strongly believed in working alone. He did not support the American Institute of Architects during his career, going so far as to call the organization "a harbor of refuge for the incompetent," and "a form of refined gangsterism." When an the Institute called him "an old amateur" Wright later responded, "I am the oldest." In 1940, Wright started the Frank Lloyd Wright Foundation. It was set up for educational purposes. It looks after two Wright buildings, Taliesin East in Wisconsin, and Taliesin West in Arizona. It has a library with more than 22,000 of Wright's drawings, and 300,000 documents. It is home to the Frank Lloyd Wright School of Architecture.
Frank Lloyd Wright was married three times and fathered seven children, four sons and three daughters. He also adopted Svetlana Milanoff, the daughter of his third wife, Olgivanna Lloyd Wright. Wright once had an apprentice who was married to Joseph Stalin's daughter.
His wives were:
The Oscar-winning actress Anne Baxter was Wright's granddaughter.
Wright was a fan of Japanese Art and collected them throughout his career. Wright continued to collect them until his death in 1959. He used prints to help him pay for loans. He often relyed upon his art business to help financially.
Wright died on April 9, 1959, while undergoing surgery in Phoenix, Arizona, to remove an intestinal obstruction. His third wife, Olgivanna, ran the Fellowship after Wright's death, until her own death in Scottsdale, Arizona, in 1985. 
Later that year, it was learned that her dying wish had been that Wright, she, and her daughter by a first marriage all be cremated and relocated to Scottsdale. By then, Wright's body had lain for over 25 years in the Lloyd-Jones cemetery, next to the Unity Chapel, near Taliesin, Wright's later-life home in Spring Green, Wisconsin. Wright's remains were removed from his grave by members of the Taliesin Fellowship. Then, his remains were cremated and sent to Scottsdale where they were later interred in the memorial garden.
In 1966, the United States Postal Service honored Wright with a "Prominent Americans series" 2¢ postage stamp. Several of Wright's buildings have been proposed by the United States to be UNESCO World Heritage sites.
Shortly after his death, Simon & Garfunkel recorded "So Long, Frank Lloyd Wright" as a tribute to Wright.
In 2000, Fallingwater was named "The Building of the 20th century" in "Top-Ten" poll taken by members attending the AIA annual convention in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. On that list, Wright was listed along with many of the USA's other greatest architects including Eero Saarinen, I. M. Pei, Louis Kahn, Philip Johnson and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe. He was the only architect who had more than one building on the list. The other three buildings were the Guggenheim Museum, the Frederick C. Robie House and the Johnson Wax Headquarters.

</doc>
<doc id="63952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63952" title="Law enforcement in Cuba">
Law enforcement in Cuba

Law enforcement in Cuba is the responsibility of the National Revolutionary Police Force (Spanish: Policía Nacional Revolucionaria, PNR) under the administration of the Cuban Ministry of the Interior.

</doc>
<doc id="63953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63953" title="Battle of Damascus">
Battle of Damascus

The Battle of Damascus (18 June - 21 June 1941) was the final action of the Allied advance on Damascus in Syria during the Syria-Lebanon campaign in World War II.

</doc>
<doc id="63954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63954" title="Laurence Mancuso">
Laurence Mancuso

Laurence Mancuso (born June 30, 1934 - died June 10, 2007) was the founding abbot of the New Skete Eastern Orthodox monastic community in upstate New York.

</doc>
<doc id="63955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63955" title="Joseph Jukes">
Joseph Jukes

Joseph Beete Jukes (1811-1869) was a famous English geologist. He wrote of several geological manuals, and served as a naturalist on the trips of the ship "H.M.S Fly". He was born to John and Sophia Jukes in Birmingham, England

</doc>
<doc id="63956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63956" title="Second Severn Crossing">
Second Severn Crossing

The Second Severn Crossing (Welsh: Ail Groesfan Hafren) is a bridge over the River Severn between South Gloucestershire in England and Monmouthshire in Wales. 
The bridge carries the M4 motorway and is one of the main routes into South Wales. It was opened on 5 June 1996 to allow more traffic than the original Severn Bridge, which opened in 1966. Both bridges are still in use although the newer crossing is more direct and less likely to be closed in strong winds. 

</doc>
<doc id="63958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63958" title="Spitz (band)">
Spitz (band)

Spitz is a Japanese rock band that set up in 1987. Masamune Kusano is a vocalist and plays the guitar, too. Tetsuya Miwa plays the guitar. Akihiro Tamura plays the bass. Tatsuo Sakiyama plays the drums. Their songs, especially "Robinson", "Cherry" and "Soramotoberuhazu,"are very popular.

</doc>
<doc id="63959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63959" title="Yakima, Washington">
Yakima, Washington

Yakima is a city in the state of Washington.

</doc>
<doc id="63962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63962" title="Sprite">
Sprite

Sprite is a lemon-lime soda, similar to 7 UP and Sierra Mist. It is made by the Coca-Cola Company. It has no caffeine. In 2009, its logo was changed.
There are many variants of Sprite. The two popular Sprite variants are:

</doc>
<doc id="63964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63964" title="University of Washington">
University of Washington

The University of Washington (UW) is the main state university of the U.S. state of Washington. There are over 40,000 students. It is in Seattle, Washington. The University of Washington's sports teams (the Huskies) are part of the Pacific-12 Conference of the National Collegiate Athletic Association.
Every year UW has a rivalry game with Washington State University. This game is called the Apple Cup in which the two football teams play each other. As of the year 2010 the University of Washington has won 66 Apple Cups and Washington State University only has 31. The longest consecutive wins of the Apple Cup belongs to U.W. with 8 consecutive wins, with Washington State at 2 consecutive wins.

</doc>
<doc id="63965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63965" title="Howl">
Howl

Howl may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="63966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63966" title="The Hershey Company">
The Hershey Company

The Hershey Company (), until April 2005 Hershey Foods Corporation, commonly called Hershey's, is America's largest chocolate company. Its main office is in Hershey, Pennsylvania, a town that smells strongly of cocoa on some days, and home to Hershey's Chocolate World. The company was founded by Milton S. Hershey in 1894 as the Hershey Chocolate Company. Hershey's candies and other products are sold around the world.

</doc>
<doc id="63967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63967" title="Totally Spies!">
Totally Spies!

Totally Spies! is an French/Canadian animated television series produced by Marathon Media and Image Entertainment Corporation. The Show Broadcasted first on November 3, 2001 on ABC Family in USA. Originally Broadcasted on TF1 in France and Teletoon in Canada.
Totally Spies! The Movie was released in July 22, 2009 in France. It Show had been still running since 2001. A Sixth season was confirmed by Marathon Media to premiere on September 4, 2013. 156 episodes divided in 6 seasons
The series centers around the adventures of three teenage girls - Sam, Alex and Clover - who live a double life as spies working for the World Organization of Human Protection (WOOHP). The girls are recruited by the organization's leader, Jerry Lewis, to solve crises that arise around the world. Many of their missions involve dealing with disgruntled villains who have been wronged in some form during their past. Several have exacted revenge on the spies by invading their personal lives. The b-stories focus on the girls' daytime lives as high school students, dealing with relationships, school and school rivals (Mandy).
List of Episodes of Totally Spies!
The show premiered a season 1 with 26 episode a second season with 26 episodes a Third season was Co-produced by Image and Teletoon. The show had a third season with 26 episodes, a Fourth season with 26 episodes and a Fifth season with 26 episodes it was going to be canceled but a Sixth season of Totally Spies! was confirmed in 2011 by Marathon Media with 26 episodes to be in production or making in 2012 with TF1 and The Walt Disney company France each episode was 26 minutes long Zodiak Kids licensing to TF1 France, Teletoon Canada, Super DEA Kids Italy, Nickelodeon Central east Europe, Nickelodeon Germany, Nick Netherlands and Cartoon Network Latin America
"Main Article" : Totally Spies! The Movie
Totally Spies! The Movie 2009 film by Marathon Media hit 110 theaters in France and Netherlands. The Film was awarded 2011 kidscreen 
Totally Spies premiered on November 3, 2001 on ABC Family. It later premiered in Europe on channels such as Germany's ProSieben, France's TF1 and the United Kingdom's Channel 4 during the spring of 2002. The show later moved to Cartoon Network, where it attracted 1.6 million viewers (aged 4 – 10) daily and continued airing until 2009. The show has also attracted over one million viewers in France since its debut. It was later re-licensed and its sixith season, along with Totally Spies! The Movie and the show's spin off The Amazing Spiez!. The show aired its sixth season in France and is being broadcast around Europe. The Amazing Spiez! was broadcast in France on TF1, Canada on Teletoon, Japan on NHK, USA on Cartoon Network, Southern Asia on Disney Channel Asia. The sixth season of Totally Spies! was re-licensed with new and old broadcasters! The sixith season made it's debut on it's Original network of TF1 in France in September 4, 2013 and Teletoon in Canada in September 7, 2014. 
Good Times Entertainment released seasons 1-3 was made formated on DVD on Amazon. 

</doc>
<doc id="63968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63968" title="Screamers (2006 movie)">
Screamers (2006 movie)

Screamers is a 2006 documentary by director Carla Garapedian. 

</doc>
<doc id="63977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63977" title="Ross Bagdasarian">
Ross Bagdasarian

Ross Bagdasarian (January 27, 1919 – January 16, 1972) was an American pianist, songwriter, actor, and record producer of Armenian descent. He was born in Fresno, California. During his professional life he was better known by the stage name David Seville, which he used on his recordings featuring Alvin and the Chipmunks.

</doc>
<doc id="63978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63978" title="Shawn Michaels">
Shawn Michaels

Michael Shawn Hickenbottom (born July 22, 1965) is an American television presenter and retired professional wrestler, better known by the ring name Shawn Michaels, he has been given the nickname of "The Heartbreak Kid" (sometimes referred to as HBK). He used to performs on the Raw brand of World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). Michaels retired from wrestling after a loss to The Undertaker. He is a 2011 inductee in to the WWE Hall of Fame.
Michaels is one of the two wrestlers that performed on the very first episode of "WWF Monday Night RAW" that is still part of the company, the other being The Undertaker.

</doc>
<doc id="63980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63980" title="Denali">
Denali

Denali, also formerly known as Mount McKinley, is the highest mountain peak in both the United States and North America. It is exactly 20,310 feet (6,190.5 m) high. It is in the highest part of the Alaska Range. Denali means "the high one" in the Athabaskan language.
Denali is in the middle of the Alaska Range. It is about 130 miles (209 km) north-northwest of Anchorage and 155 miles (249 km) southwest of Fairbanks. The summit is about 35 miles (56 km) from the nearest major road, the George Parks Highway.

</doc>
<doc id="63981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63981" title="Dune">
Dune

In physical geography, a dune is a hill of sand built by eolian processes. Sand dunes have different forms and sizes based on their interaction with the wind. A "dune field" is an area covered by many sand dunes.
Sand dunes are found in desert regions.

</doc>
<doc id="63983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63983" title="Hurri">
Hurri

Hurri was a state along with Mitanni and also called the "Hurri lands", which many scholars place in Armenia. 

</doc>
<doc id="63994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63994" title="Detective">
Detective

A detective is a person who solves crime, investigates and spies for living. Most detectives are police officers. Some are hired by a private person or company. Those are called private investigators. There are many stories about detectives. Some famous fictional (not real) detectives are Sherlock Holmes, Inspector Clouseau, Nancy Drew, The Hardy Boys.
Detectives will search public and private databases, investigate people and examine evidence in order to solve the case.

</doc>
<doc id="63999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63999" title="Kieran Richardson">
Kieran Richardson

Kieran Richardson (born 21 October 1984) is an English football player. He plays for Sunderland, a team in the Premier League in England.
102||12
102||12
!Total||8||2

</doc>
<doc id="64000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64000" title="Juan Pablo Montoya">
Juan Pablo Montoya

Juan Pablo Montoya (born September 20, 1975 in Bogotá, Colombia) is an IndyCar Series racecar driver. He used to race in NASCAR and Formula 1. His wife is Connie and he has a son and a daughter. He was a CART champion winning the Indianapolis 500., his first win in "NASCAR" came in 2007 and the second in 2010 for Chip Ganassi's racing team. Before 2007, he was in Formula One from 2000 to 2006 winning at 7 Grand Prix's one of them in Monte Carlo, Monaco. While in NASCAR, he drove for Earnhardt Ganassi Racing (his old CART Team), and his teammate was Jamie McMurray. He left Ganassi and NASCAR in 2014 to race IndyCars for Penske Racing. In 2014, he won his first race since leaving NASCAR when he won a race at Pocono Raceway.

</doc>
<doc id="64002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64002" title="Riyo Mori">
Riyo Mori

Riyo Mori (born 24 December 1986 in Aoi-ku, Shizuoka, Japan) is a Japanese dance instructor. She won the Miss Universe 2007 title in May 2007. She was the second woman from Japan to hold the title. (The first Miss Universe winner from Japan was Akiko Kojima in 1959.) Mori is the eleventh Asian woman to win the pageant.

</doc>
<doc id="64004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64004" title="Eolian processes">
Eolian processes

Eolian (or aeolian or æolian) is an event that occurs in nature. It is related to the winds and its ability to modify the surface of the Earth and other planets.
Winds cause erosion, and move sand and other materials. Wind is powerful in dry regions with sparse vegetation, such as deserts. Although water is, generally speaking, a much more powerful eroding force than wind, aeolian processes are primary in deserts.
Sand dust from the Sahara gets all over Europe, and even as far as the Amazon basin. Winds and global air movements are what causes this widespread travel of materials from the ground.

</doc>
<doc id="64005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64005" title="American Girl">
American Girl

The American Girl series is a series of books and accompanying dolls about fictional girls who live in different time periods in America's history. The American Girl series was first created by The Pleasant Company in 1986, founded by Pleasant T. Rowland. Today, the dolls and books are made by Mattel, a large toy company. Each doll has her own line of accessories that includes a series of books about her life, furniture, clothing, pets, and things that she would use or play with. For some dolls, a doll of her best friend is included in the collection. Four of the dolls have had movies made about their stories. 
There have also been some dolls who have been "retired":
There is also another line of dolls called "Girl of the Year," (called "American Girl of Today" before 2006). Each girl stars in her two book (one book before 2007) series. Their stories take place in modern times in the year they are released. The line was made starting in 2001. However, there wasn't a Girl of the Year in 2002 and 2004 due to low sales of Lindsey. These are the Girls of the Year:

</doc>
<doc id="64014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64014" title="Hot spring">
Hot spring

A hot spring is a spring produced by the emergence of geothermally heated groundwater from the Earth's crust. There are hot springs all over the crust of the earth.
There is no universally accepted definition of a hot spring. For example, one can find the phrase "hot spring" defined as 
The water issuing from a hot spring is heated by geothermal energy, i.e., heat from the Earth's mantle. 

</doc>
<doc id="64015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64015" title="Sergei Parajanov">
Sergei Parajanov

Sergei Parajanov ( "Sargis Hovsepi Parajanyan"; "Sergej Iosifovich Paradzhanov"; also spelled Paradzhanov or Paradjanov), (January 9, 1924 – July 20 1990), is considered by many to be one of the most original and critically-acclaimed filmmakers of the 20th century. His work reflected the ethnic diversity of the Caucasus where he was raised. 
He was born to Armenian parents Iosif Paradjanyan and Siranush Bejanyan, in Tbilisi, Georgia. In 1945, Parajanov traveled to Moscow, enrolled in the directing department at VGIK, one of the oldest and highly respected film schools of Europe, and studied under the tutelage of directors Igor Savchenko and Aleksandr Dovzhenko. 
In 1950 Parajanov married his first wife, Nigyar Kerimova in Moscow. She came from a Muslim Tatar family and converted to Eastern Orthodox Christianity to marry Parajanov, to terrible consequences: she was later murdered by her relatives in retaliation for her conversion. As a result of this tragic event Parajanov moved to Kiev. There he produced several documentaries ("Dumka", "Golden Hands", 
"Natalia Uzhvy") and a handful of narrative films based on Ukrainian and Moldovan folktales, such as "Andriesh", "Ukrainian Rhapsody", and "Flower on the Stone". He became fluent in Ukrainian, remarried (Svetlana Ivanovna Sherbatiuk in 1956) and had a son (Suren, 1958).

</doc>
<doc id="64016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64016" title="Artavazd Peleshyan">
Artavazd Peleshyan

Artavazd Peleshyan (born November 22, 1938) is an Armenian movie director. He makes documentaries.
Peleshyan is also the author of many books, such as his 1988 book "Moyo kino" ("My Cinema").
Peleshyan's work has not been recognized by world cinema until after the fall of the Soviet Union. Since then, he has been able to make two more short films, "Life" (1993) and "The End" (1994). He is now living in Moscow and suffering from a severe mental illness.

</doc>
<doc id="64019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64019" title="Dress">
Dress

A dress is one of the basic styles of female clothing. It is a garment of a skirt (bottom half) with an attached bodice (top half). The colouring and style of the dress gives the effect of a one-piece garment. A dress is also known as a frock or a gown. In Europe and the Americas, dresses are worn by females of all ages as an alternative to a separate skirt and blouse or trousers. 
There are many types of dresses. A dress is usually worn at formal occasions, such as a wedding or a dance. It is also worn in the summer to keep cool. Younger females tend to prefer shorter skirts than older females. 

</doc>
<doc id="64021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64021" title="Giza">
Giza

Giza or Gizah (Arabic, الجيزة, transliterated "al-Gīzah"; pronounced in dialect of Cairo of Egyptian Arabic "eg-Gīza;" also sometimes spelled in English as Gizeh, Ghizeh, or Geezeh) is a town in Egypt. It is on the west bank of the Nile river. It is about 20 km southwest of central Cairo. Today it is part of the greater Cairo metropolis. It is the capital of the Al Jizah Governorate, and is near the northeast border of this governorate in coordinates . It is right on the banks of the Nile River. It had 4,779,000 people living in it in 1998.
Giza is known for being the place where the Giza Plateau is. The plateau is the site of some of the most impressive ancient monuments in the world. There are a complex of ancient Egyptian royal mortuary and sacred structures there. These include the Great Sphinx, the Great Pyramid of Giza, and a number of other large pyramids and temples.
The Great Pyramid of Giza was once advocated (1884) as the location for the Prime Meridian, a reference point used for determining a base longitude.
Giza's most famous archaeological site, the Giza Plateau, holds some of the most astonishing monuments in Egyptian history. Once thriving with the Nile that flowed right into the Giza Plateau, the Pyramids of Giza were built overlooking the ancient Egyptian capital of Memphis, which was near modern-day Cairo.
The Giza Plateau is also home to many other Ancient Egyptian monuments, including the tomb of Pharaoh Djet of the First dynasty as well as that of Pharaoh Ninetjer of the Second dynasty.
The city itself has seen some changes over time. Changes in infrastructure during the different occupations of Egypt by various rulers, including the British in the 19th and early 20th century, focused on the construction of roads, streets, and buildings in the area. It is commonly misunderstood that the Giza area is a complete desert area; however, Giza has become a thriving centre of Egyptian culture and is quite heavily populated, with many facilities and buildings in the current area. Giza saw much attention in particular to its vast amount of ancient Egyptian monuments found on the Giza Plateau, and has astonished thousands of visitors and tourists over the years. Giza's infrastructure saw much attention from both the British government prior to the 1952 coup d'état as well as the current Egyptian government due to the city's importance in tourism.
Parts of Giza include Alharam famous in the past for its night clubs, Zamalek predominantly populated by middle class Egyptians and relatively recently overpopulated Almohan
Access to the city of Giza, which has its own Governorate adjacent to the governorate of Cairo, is dependent on Cairo International Airport, since no official International Airport is located in Giza.
Giza is also known for its appearance as a dig and discovery site in the fictional universe of Stargate. An interplanetary transportation device is found and is the central basis for a movie and 2 popular television shows.

</doc>
<doc id="64023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64023" title="Thorn">
Thorn

Thorn has several meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="64024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64024" title="Thorns, spines and prickles">
Thorns, spines and prickles

Botanists use three different words for sharp things on plants. They are thorns, spines, and prickles. Thorns are the ends of branches that are hard and sharp. Spines are hard structures with sharp ends. There are many different kinds of spines, some on leaves, some grow instead of leaves. Prickles are on the outside of stems. 
Spines, prickles, and thorns protect plants from plant-eating animals (defence against herbivory). Some plants and animals, such as the acacia tree and giraffe have evolved in response to each other. The plants grow very long spines and the animals develop very long tongues to reach past the spines and feed on the leaves.

</doc>
<doc id="64026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64026" title="Pope Pius IX">
Pope Pius IX

Pope Pius IX (, ; May 13, 1792 – February 7, 1878), born Giovanni Maria Mastai-Feretti, was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 256th Pope 1846 until his death. Only Saint Peter himself led the church longer than the 32-year reign of Pius IX. 
In 2000, he was beatified, which is a step in the process of naming a saint of the Catholic Church.
Mastai-Feretti was ordained as a priest in 1819.
Father Mastai-Feretti was named Bishop of Spoletto in 1827. In 1877, the Golden Jubilee celebrations recalled the 50 years since he was named a bishop.
In 1840, Pope Gregory XVI made Bishop Mastai-Feretti a cardinal.
Cardinal Mastai-Feretti was elected Pope in 1846; and he took the name Pius IX.
In 1846, Piux IX declared an amnesty for political prisoners. 
In 1848 he ordered that the gates to the Jewish ghetto in Rome be knocked down.
Pius formally defined the dogma of the Immaculate Conception.
In 1849, Pius was deposed as the temporal ruler of the Papal States. As a result of Italian nationalism and the Risorgimento, the pope spent his last years a virtual prisoner within the Vatican. 
In 1869-1870, Pope Pius brought together the church's bishops and cardinals in a meeting called the Vatican Council. The council defined the dogma of papal infallibility.
Pius died at age 85.
The process of recognizing Pius IX as a saint began in 1907. 
The body of Pope Pius IX was exhumed in 1956. This was part of a ceremony of "recognition".
Preparations for beatification were almost finished in 1962; and they were completed in 1984.

</doc>
<doc id="64028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64028" title="Sickle">
Sickle

A sickle is a curved tool used in agriculture for harvesting grain crops. It was the tool used before machines were used for harvesting. It has a curved blade with an attached handle. The inside part of the blade is sharp, so that the user can swing the blade against the crop's base, catching it in the curve and slicing it.
In Greek mythology, the Greek deities Cronus and Perseus used the sickle as a weapon.
A sickle and a hammer are the symbols of the Soviet Union.

</doc>
<doc id="64030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64030" title="Kilometres per hour">
Kilometres per hour

Kilometres per hour is a unit of measurement, which measures speed or velocity. The unit symbol is km/h or km·h. By definition, an object travelling at a speed of 1 km/h in a straight line for 1 hour moves 1 kilometre. The unit is the most commonly used unit of speed worldwide, more common than the SI unit of speed, metres per second.

</doc>
<doc id="64032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64032" title="Amanda Bynes">
Amanda Bynes

Amanda Laura Bynes (born April 3, 1986) is an American former actress, former program host on Nickelodeon and fashion designer. After being in several successful television series on Nickelodeon in the late 1990s and early 2000s, Bynes has moved into a movie career. She starred in several movies aimed at teenage audiences. These included "Big Fat Liar", "She's the Man", "Hairspray," and "Easy A". She was on the 2007 Forbes list as the 5th highest paid celebrities under 21 earning $2.5 million.
Bynes has been described by "The Boston Globe" as having an "everygirl" appeal, embodying "both everything her teen fans dream of being and everything they know they really are, and they love her for it." In 2006, she was named one of "Teen People's" "25 Hottest Stars Under 25".
On June 19, 2010, Bynes said on her Twitter that she is retiring from acting saying she does not like it as much as she used to. A month later, Bynes changed her mind and returned to acting.
Again in 2012 she said that she is retiring from acting.
In April 2012 Bynes was arrested for side-swiping a police car. In June 2012 she was charged with driving under alcohol or drugs when she was arrested in April.
In May 2013 Bynes was arrested at her house in Manhattan for having marijuana. In July she was arrested after she set fire to a stranger's driveway. The police decided that she should be kept for psychiatric evaluation for her own safety. Since September 2013 Bynes has been in The Canyon rehab in Malibu for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder treatment.

</doc>
<doc id="64033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64033" title="Exclamation mark">
Exclamation mark

An exclamation mark (!) is a punctuation mark. It is used to show strong emotion at the end of a sentence or after an interjection.
The use of a space in before an exclamation mark is incorrect.
In coding, "!" sometimes means "not". In Mathematics, the use of an exclamation mark can be used for the function "factorial".

</doc>
<doc id="64036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64036" title="Yupik">
Yupik

The Yupik (in the Central Alaskan Yup'ik language, Yup'ik, plural Yupiit) people are a group of native people who mainly live in certain parts of Alaska, somewhere near Fairbanks. Most of them were wiped out by a virus or sickness. Some of the Yupi'k people's traditions are celebrating the dead. They celebrate by having ceremonies with a shaman, where they connect with the dead. They also name the next child born after the most recent person who has died.

</doc>
<doc id="64041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64041" title="Anna Kournikova">
Anna Kournikova

Anna Sergeevna Kournikova (born June 7, 1981, in Moscow, Russia, then USSR) (Russian: Анна Сергеевна Курникова) is a Russian model and retired professional tennis player. She won two Grand Slam doubles tournaments, both with Swiss player Martina Hingis. In 1999, the Women's Tennis Association (WTA) said she was the best doubles player in the world. She also played tennis for Russia in an international competition called the Fed Cup.
Kournikova played in her last Grand Slam tournament in 2009. Since then, she modeled clothes and played in exhibition tennis matches. Although she was born in Russia, she lives in Miami, Florida, in the United States. She appeared in several advertisements mainly about tennis. As of July 2008, her boyfriend is Spanish singer Enrique Iglesias.
Kournikova was born in Moscow, Russia, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1981. Her mother is called Alla, and her father is called Ser She first picked up a tennis racket when she was five years old and joined the Spartak Tennis Club. She improved very much and when she was 10 years old she moved to Florida to train at an academy.
In 2000, it was reported that she was going to marry Russian NHL player Pavel Bure. Another Russian ice hockey player, Sergei Fedorov, who played for the Detroit Red Wings said he married Kournikova in 2001, but they divorced later that year. In 2002, she was in a music video with Enrique Iglesias for his song "Escape". She was Iglesias's girlfriend after this video, but she later said she did not want to get married. Iglesias said Kournikova kept saying no when he would ask her to marry him. He said "I always try, but she doesn't want to." Kournikova has said that she is not interested in getting married: "I'm never getting married. Everything is good."
In 2002, she was the second most popular athlete searched for on Google, and was voted the "Sexiest Woman In The World" by FHM readers. However, some experts working for ESPN voted her the 18th biggest sports failure from 1979 to 2004.
It is estimated Kournikova earned about £50 million in her career as of 2007, but most of this did not come from tennis. She said "You cannot just be a great tennis player or just be a beautiful person to succeed in the game any more. You have to have it all: the talent, the looks, the brains and the drive."
Kournikva was at the center of controversy in early 2017, when it was reported that she had the loosest vagina in history.
Kournikova holds her racket in her right hand but uses both hands when she plays backhand shots. She is a good player at the net. She has several different types of shots, some of which are her hard shots from the back of the court and drop shots which land just over the net.
Kournikova became a professional tennis player in October of 1995 when she was 14 years old. In 1996, the WTA gave her a prize for being the best new player in the world. She won the first of her 16 WTA tour doubles titles in September of 1998 in Tokyo, in Japan. Her partner for the victory was American player Monica Seles. After this, Kournikova would often play her doubles matches with Swiss player Martina Hingis. She finished the year in the top 20 women tennis players in the world. In 1999, the pair won five doubles tournaments, one of which was the Australian Open, and they came second in the French Open. That year, the WTA gave them an award for being the best doubles pair in the world. Kournikova won six doubles tournaments in 2000, four of them with Hingis.
In 2001, Kournikova suffered an injury to her foot which meant she was unable to play in many tournaments that year. She got better and won the doubles tournament at the Australian Open in 2002, again with Hingis. Other injuries like a bad back meant that in 2003, Kournikova played very few tournaments and said "I do not want to go on playing unless I can participate 100%".
Kournikova also played tennis for Russia in the Fed Cup. She played both singles and doubles and won 12 out of 19 matches between 1996 and 2000.
The following table shows how far Kournikova progressed in each of the Grand Slam singles tournaments she has played in.
Kournikova won two doubles tournaments. She won the 1999 Australian Open with Swiss player Martina Hingis when they defeated Lindsay Davenport and Natasha Zvereva. Kournikova and Hingis won the 2002 Australian Open, when they defeated Daniela Hantuchová and Arantxa Sánchez Vicario. They were also runners-up in the 1999 French Open where they lost to the American pair Venus and Serena Williams. At the end of 1999, Kournikova was the best doubles player in the world.
Kournikova has also played mixed doubles. She was runner-up with Swede Jonas Björkman in 1999 at the Wimbledon Championships. She also finished runner-up with Max Mirnyi from Belarus in the 2000 US Open.
The following table is a summary of the Women's Tennis Association and Grand Slam tournaments won by Kournikova.
Kournikova began to be a model while she was still playing tennis. When she lost in the first round at Wimbledon in 2002, she had an interview with a reporter from the BBC. The reporter suggested that her modeling was making her concentrate less on tennis. This upset her and she nearly walked out of the interview. She said she was "100% committed to tennis".
Kournikova sponsored a video game called "Anna Kournikova's Smash Court Tennis" for the Sony PlayStation in 1999. She was also sponsored by sportswear manufacturer Adidas and sports bra manufacturer Berlei. She made more than ten times as much money from her sponsors than from playing tennis that year. She made a £7 million agreement to be in an advertising campaign for the internet company Lycos. In 2002, Adidas said they were worried she was not concentrating on tennis enough. 
As of July 2008, she is sponsored by sportswear manufacturer K-Swiss.

</doc>
<doc id="64042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64042" title="Sk8er Boi">
Sk8er Boi

Sk8er Boi is a single by pop-punk singer Avril Lavigne. It is one of her most famous songs.
In this song, she tells the story of a relationship between a "sk8er boi" (skater boy) and a more preppy girl who does ballet. Although both of them "want" each other, the girl rejects him against her own secret feelings because of peer pressure. In the end, the skater boy becomes famous and is with another punk girl (Avril sings in that girl's point of view) who cares for him, leaving the preppy girl behind.
The music video begins with what may be the "Sk8er Boi" in the alley of a city with a bunch of spray paint on the ground. The music video goes along with posters that have a star on them advertising a concert Avril hosts, where people use their cars and amplifiers to have the concert on the streets. The concert gets so wild the police come in trying to stop it. At the end of the video, Avril crashes her guitar into the car windshield. A police helicopter comes in, leaving a mystery as to what they will do.
In 2003, Paramount Pictures optioned the song for adaptation into a feature film. However, as of December 2006, the film has apparently been abandoned or is stuck in development hell.

</doc>
<doc id="64043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64043" title="Pay">
Pay

Pay may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="64045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64045" title="Talk show">
Talk show

A talk show is a radio or television program where one or more hosts discuss current issues or other topics with guests. Many talk shows (especially those on radio) allow members of the public to join in, through telephone calls, letters, e-mail and Internet chat. Talk shows are often meant to entertain, and many feature comedy or performing. Many shows, though, do a , by informing the public and discussing issues openly. While some are locally based, and serve only one station's audience, others become and play on many stations, or are broadcast by a regional or national network.
The host of a talk show may already be a celebrity, or may become one as their show becomes popular. Some are professionals or experts in a field of knowledge, such as psychology or business. Others are well-known performers who can converse well with others. Guests on a talk show may also be experts in a field of knowledge or work, longtime professionals, or new and familiar celebrities, performers or athletes. Sometimes guests are members of the public who do something that interests others, such as inventors and authors, or someone who comes to public attention through a disaster or mishap. 
Johnny Carson hosted NBC's "The Tonight Show" for thirty years, with guests from every walk of life, including many old and new celebrities. (Comedian Jay Leno took over "The Tonight Show" when Carson retired.) Singer Mike Douglas hosted a popular, long-running show, co-hosted by weekly guests. Merv Griffin, David Frost and Dick Cavett also had long-running talk shows. Dr. Joyce Brothers was one of the first women to host a national talk show. Other women followed as hosts, including Oprah Winfrey, Joan Rivers, Ricki Lake, Rosie O'Donnell, and Ellen DeGeneres.
Many celebrities host a talk show after they finish work on a television series, to change the direction of their career or to promote things they think are important. Many such series last only a season or two, and some even less. Actresses Gabrielle Carteris, Caroline Rhea and Megan Mullally each hosted short-lived talk shows, after leaving successful series. Nearly every show aired at the same time as "The Tonight Show" has been cancelled after a short run, including shows hosted by Chevy Chase and Dennis Miller. Arsenio Hall came close, with a show lasting five seasons. "Late Show with David Letterman" has been the most successful, and is still airing. (Ironically, David Letterman was a hopeful to take over "The Tonight Show" from Carson when he retired in 1992.)
Talk shows became more and more popular on from the 1970s onward, as AM stations began to play less music. Today talk shows are heard on AM, FM, and also radio stations, , and the Internet. Larry King began his career on radio, and "crossed over" to television after many years as a popular host. Howard Stern led the trend of "", using profanity and personal topics to make his show more exciting. Art Bell talked about controversial topics, like UFOs and possible government conspiracies.
Call-in shows are meant especially for members of the public to join in, by telephone. Callers may wish to talk about current topics in politics, economics or social trends, or to seek advice, or help with a personal problem. Dr. Laura Schlesinger, Dr. Joy Browne, and Bruce Williams help callers with problems, while Michael Savage and many other hosts discuss current issues, on their radio shows.

</doc>
<doc id="64047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64047" title="Graduated cylinder">
Graduated cylinder

A graduated cylinder (or measuring cylinder) is a piece of laboratory glassware used to measure the volume of liquids. It is used to accurately measure the volume of chemicals for use in reactions. 
Often, the biggest graduated cylinders are made of polyethylene or other stiff plastic, making them lighter and less fragile than glass, but more difficult to sterilize.

</doc>
<doc id="64048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64048" title="Edmond Keosayan">
Edmond Keosayan

Edmond Keosayan (; Leninakan, now Gyumri, October 9, 1936 - Moscow, April 21, 1994) was an Armenian Soviet movie director and musician. From 1954 to 1956 Keosayan studied in Plekhanov Moscow Institute of Economy. From 1956 to 1958 he studied in Yerevan Fine Arts and Theatre Institute. In 1964, he graduated from the Directing Department of VGIK (E.Dzigan's master class). Since 1964 Keosayan has been a director at Mosfilm Studio. He has worked worked a few times for Armenfilm Studio.
He was also a Master of Ceremonies of the Soviet State Variety Orchestra. 
His films are mainly in the Armenian and 
Russian languages.

</doc>
<doc id="64052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64052" title="Amerigo Vespucci">
Amerigo Vespucci

Amerigo Vespucci (9 March 1454 - 22 February 1512) was an Italian merchant, explorer and cartographer. He was the first person to explain that the New World discovered by Christopher Columbus in 1492 was not the eastern area of Asia, but an unknown continent (the Americas). America was named after the great man Amerigo Vespucci.
It is also popularly believed that North and South America derive their name from a Latinized version his first name.
Vespucci died of malaria. 

</doc>
<doc id="64054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64054" title="Titanic (1997 movie)">
Titanic (1997 movie)

Titanic is a 1997 American epic romantic disaster movie. It was directed, written, and co-produced by James Cameron. The movie is about the 1912 sinking of the" RMS Titanic". It stars Kate Winslet and Leonardo DiCaprio. The two play characters who are of different social classes. They fall in love after meeting aboard the ship, but it was not good for a rich girl to fall in love with a poor boy in 1912.
Production of the movie began in 1995. Cameron recorded footage of the real "Titanic" wreck. The reconstruction of the "Titanic" was created at Playas de Rosarito in Baja California. To create the sinking of the ship, scale models and computer-generated imagery were used. Paramount Pictures and 20th Century Fox helped with half of the funding for the movie. At the time when the movie was released, it was the most expensive movie ever made. It had a budget of $200 million.
The movie was released on December 19, 1997. It received positive critical reviews. The movie won 11 Academy Awards, and was nominated for fourteen other Academy Awards. It was also a commercial success with a total worldwide gross of $1.84 billion. It was the first movie to reach the billion-dollar mark. A 3D version of the movie was released in theaters on April 4, 2012 to mark the 100th anniversary of the sinking of the ship. It earned $343.6 million worldwide. This made "Titanic"s worldwide total to be $2.18 billion. 
A 100-year-old woman named Rose DeWitt Bukater tells a story about her voyage on the famous ship" Titanic". She is sharing the story with her granddaughter, Lizzy Calvert, and a crew of men who are interested in the "Titanic" shipwreck. The members of the crew are named Brock Lovett, Lewis Bodine, Bobby Buell, and Anatoly Mikailavich. She tells the story while on the "Keldysh. "The men are on the" Keldysh "trying to find a famous necklace called "The Heart of the Ocean" that they think sank with the ship"." She goes on to explain the whole story from the ship's departure to the sinking of Titanic on its first (and last) voyage at 2:20 in the morning on April 15, 1912. Most of the movie is not Old Rose telling the story, but Young Rose actually living the story.
On April 10th 1912, Young Rose boards a ship called "Titanic" with the upper-class passengers, her mother, Ruth DeWitt Bukater, and her fiancé, Caledon 'Cal' Hockley. Meanwhile, a drifter and artist named Jack Dawson and his best friend Fabrizio De Rossi win third-class tickets to the ship in a game.
After winning a trip on the RMS Titanic during a dockside card game, American Jack Dawson spots the society girl Rose DeWitt Bukater who is on her way to Philadelphia to marry her rich snob fiancé Cal Hockley. Rose feels helplessly trapped by her situation and makes her way to the aft deck and thinks of suicide until she is rescued by Jack. Cal is therefore obliged to invite Jack to dine at their first-class table where he suffers through the slights of his snobbish hosts. In return, he spirits Rose off to third class for an evening of dancing, giving her the time of her life. Deciding to forsake her intended future all together, Rose asks Jack, who has made his living making sketches on the streets of Paris, to draw her in the nude wearing the invaluable blue diamond Cal has given her. Cal finds out and has Jack locked away. Soon after wards, the ship hits an iceberg and Rose must find Jack while both must run from Cal even as the ship sinks deeper into the freezing water.
In 1996, treasure hunter Brock Lovett and his team has reached the most famous shipwreck of all - the RMS "Titanic". Emerging with a safe believed to contain a famous diamond called the "Heart of the Ocean", he discovers that the safe does not hold the diamond, but a drawing of a beautiful young woman wearing it. When Lovett is later interviewed on television, he shows the drawing to the cameras, and Rose Dawson Calvert, now 101, recognizes the young woman in the drawing - herself. She and her granddaughter Lizzy visit Lovett on his research ship over the wrecksite, and tells her story of the "Titanic" and its ill-fated maiden voyage.
In 1912, 17-year-old society girl Rose DeWitt Bukater boards the ship's first class suites with her fiance, Pittsburgh Steel tycoon owner Caledon Hockley, and her mother, Ruth DeWitt Bukater, in Southampton. Also boarding are poor artist Jack Dawson and his best friend Fabrizio De Rossi, after a lucky poker game wins them in steerage. When Rose attempts suicide by jumping off the stern in third class, Jack pulls her back onto the ship... and a bond is forged between them as Jack is invited by her into first class the following day. Rose's mother and Cal try desperate measures to keep them apart as Jack and Rose fall in love, until the "Titanic" collides with an iceberg and is critically damaged. Now Jack and Rose must fight to stay alive, as their passionate romance becomes a struggle for survival, but Jack is already doomed because of his lower status as a steerage passenger.
The movie scenes of the ship's journey were taken on the "Akademik Mstislav Keldysh" in July 1996. Principal photography for "Titanic" began in September 1996. The location was at the newly-built Fox Baja Studios. The poop deck was built on a move-able machine. This allow it to rise from zero to ninety degrees in a few seconds. This was used during the sinking scene of the movie. Many props were made of foam rubber. The material was used for the safety of the stuntmen. On November 15, the boarding scenes were recorded. Cameron decided to build his RMS "Titanic" on the starboard side. This was because weather data showed north-to-south winds. This caused the funnel smoke to move in one direction.
A full-time etiquette coach was hired. He taught the cast on the manners of the upper class during the year 1912. However, several critics noticed that some cast members were not very good. They also noticed the two main stars on the movie were not well trained. Cameron sketched Jack's nude portrait of Rose for the nude scene. He said "You know what it means for her, the freedom she must be feeling. It's kind of exhilarating (happy) for that reason." The nude scene was DiCaprio and Winslet's first scene together. Cameron said "It wasn't by any kind of design, although I couldn't have designed it better. There's a nervousness and an energy and a hesitance (not sure) in them." This was the first scene to be recorded. Cameron said that the "big set" was not yet ready. The crew members had to record something so they decided to do the nude scene first.
An angry crew member put the dissociative drug PCP into the soup that Cameron and other members ate one night. This caused more than 50 people to be rushed to the hospital. "There were people just rolling around, completely out of it. Some of them said they were seeing streaks and psychedelics," said actor Lewis Abernathy. Cameron had vomit before the drug began working. Abernathy was shocked at the way he looked. "One eye was completely red, like the "Terminator" eye. A pupil, no iris, beet red. The other eye looked like he'd been sniffing glue since he was four." The person who poisoned the cast members was never found.
Filming was scheduled to last 138 days. However, it grew to 160. Many cast members came down with colds, flu, or kidney infections. This happened during the many hours they spent in the cold water. Winslet, who also had these symptoms, decided she would not work with Cameron again unless she earned "a lot of money". Several other cast members left the movie. Three stuntmen broke their bones. The Screen Actors Guild decided to begin an investigation. They concluded that there was nothing unsafe going on on the set. 
The movie's budget reached $200 million. Fox executives were worrying. They suggested an hour of different scenes to be removed from the three-hour movie. Cameron did not accept this. He told Fox that if they want to remove some scenes out that they would need to fire him. The executives did not want to start over. This would mean they will loose their entire investment.
The soundtrack of the movie was written, orchestrated and conducted by James Horner. The soundtrack was released by Sony Classical on November 18, 1997. When the movie was released, the soundtrack topped the charts in two-dozen countries. It sold over 30 million copies. It then became one of the best-selling albums of all time. It was also the highest-selling orchestral soundtracks ever. Horner wrote the song "My Heart Will Go On". He wrote the song in secrecy because Cameron did not want any songs with singing in the movie. Céline Dion agreed to record a demonstration. Her husband, René Angélil, asked Dion many times to do it, since she did not want to record it at first. Horner waited until Cameron was in a happy mood. After playing it several times, Cameron approved of the song. However, Cameron feared that he might be criticized for "going commercial at the end of the movie". 
James Cameron announced that "Titanic" was being converted to 3D. The 3D version came out on April 6, 2012. This was the 100th anniversary of the sinking of the "Titanic". It took $18 million to produce it. The 3D conversion was done by Stereo D. Sony Music with Slam Content's Panther Records, re-worked the soundtrack. The movie grossed $4.7 million on the first day of its re-release in North America. It went on to make $17.3 million during the weekend. It then became the third most-watched movie for that week. The movie earned $35.2 million worldwide. It then became the second most-watched movie for that week. The following week saw an increase of the movie's earnings. It became the number one movie for that week with $98.9 million. It was more successful in China. It earned $11.6 million on its opening day in that country. It then earned a record-breaking $67 million for that week. The re-release earned a total of $343.4 million worldwide. In China the total was at $145 million. In Canada and the United States, it made $57.8 million from those countries.

</doc>
<doc id="64056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64056" title="Rip Slyme">
Rip Slyme

Rip Slyme is a Japanese hip hop group formed in 1994. It has 5 members - 4 MCs and 1 DJ. 

</doc>
<doc id="64067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64067" title="Names for large numbers">
Names for large numbers

Naming very large numbers is relatively easy. There are two main ways of naming a number: scientific notation and naming by grouping. For example, the number 500 000 000 000 000 000 000 can be called 5 x 10 in scientific notation since there are 20 zeros behind the 5. If the number is named by grouping, it is five hundred quintillion (American) or 500 trillion (European).
When large numbers have many different decimals in them, such as 642 500 000 000, naming them with scientific notation is about the same, but with one difference. Still counting the number of numbers after the first number (in this case, after the 6 there are 11 numbers) you need to include the ones that are not zero in the formula, but after a decimal point. So 642 500 000 000 will be 6.425 x 10. When naming by grouping, each group of thrthe name of the group. With the same number, it would be said to be 642 billion, 500 million (US) or 642 milliard, 500 million (Eur).
The American way or "Short form" for naming large numbers is different from the European way or "Long form" of naming large numbers. This is mainly because of American finance. Short form numbering is based on thousands and Long form is based on millions. Because of this, in Short form a billion is one thousand millions (10) while in Long form it is one million millions (10). The change in the United Kingdom to Short form numbering happened in 1974. Today, Short form is most commonly used in most English speaking countries.
There is also the number googol, which is a 1 with 100 zeros behind it, and the number googolplex, which is a 1 with a "googol" of zeros behind it.

</doc>
<doc id="64068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64068" title="Acetylene">
Acetylene

Acetylene is a hydrocarbon, belonging to the alkyne group. It is the simplest type of alkyne, as it has only two hydrogen atoms and two carbon atoms. Acetylene is an unsaturated organic compound because its four atoms are triple bonded through a covalent bond. It was discovered in 1836 by Edmund Davy. The chemical symbol is CH.
80% of all acetylene produced yearly in the United States is used for chemical synthesis. It is a toxic chemical; breathing the substance causes dizziness, headache and nausea.

</doc>
<doc id="64069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64069" title="Ralf Schumacher">
Ralf Schumacher

Ralf Schumacher (born 30 June 1975) is a German ex-Formula one driver. He was born in Huerth, North Rhine-Westphalia and is the younger brother of Michael Schumacher. His team was Toyota F1.

</doc>
<doc id="64072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64072" title="Auto racing">
Auto racing

Auto racing (also known as automobile racing, autosport or motorsport) is a sport involving racing automobiles. Auto racing began in France in 1895 and is now one of the world's most popular spectator sports.
Formula One is the top level racing championship worldwide. Formula One cars have no fenders or quarter panels. At the front and back of each car there is a spoiler, or wing, which causes the car to have more grip and allows it to go faster. Each Formula One race takes place in a different country. These are called Grands Prix.
Indy Cars look very similar to Formula One cars, but race on some oval tracks with two to four sweeping curves that are usually banked and have only left hand turns, and road courses which have both left and right hand turns.

</doc>
<doc id="64076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64076" title="Lascelles Abercrombie">
Lascelles Abercrombie

Lascelles Abercrombie (January 9, 1881 – October 27, 1938) was a British poet and critic of Literature, and he was a member of a group of famous poets called "Dymock poets". He was born in Ashton upon Mersey and studied at the University of Manchester. 
Before the First World War, he lived for a time at Dymock in Gloucestershire. In 1922, they gave him the job of Professor of English at the University of Leeds. In 1929 he moved on to the University of London, and in 1935 to the University of Oxford. He wrote many poems, that were put together in a book called 'Poems' (1930). In the same year he wrote his most important poem, "The Sale of Saint Thomas" in six Acts. He was the brother of the architect Patrick Abercrombie, and his son was the scientist Michael Abercrombie.

</doc>
<doc id="64077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64077" title="Eliza Acton">
Eliza Acton

Elizabeth "Eliza" Acton (17 April 1799 – 13 February 1859) was an English poet and cook. She was born in Battle, Sussex and raised in Suffolk. She wrote one the first cookbooks for cooking at home, not for professional cook or chef, "Modern Cookery for Private Families". In this book she started the use of listing the ingredients and suggested cooking times with each recipe, like all the world does now. "Modern Cookery" was sold for a long time after her death, until 1914 and can still be found at many libraries. Her recipes are still very famous.

</doc>
<doc id="64078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64078" title="Ralph Fiennes">
Ralph Fiennes

Ralph Fiennes, is an English actor, born 22 December 1962 in Ipswich, Suffolk, England, who won the Tony Award and was nominated for the Academy Award for his work in Steven Spielberg's movie "Schindler's List", and the Genie Award. His parents were Jennifer Lash and Mark Fiennes. His brothers and sisters are Joseph Fiennes, Sophie Fiennes, Martha Fiennes, Magnus Fiennes and Jacob Fiennes.

</doc>
<doc id="64084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64084" title="Wellington Koo">
Wellington Koo

Vi Kyuin Wellington Koo (Chinese: 顾维钧；Pinyin: Gù Wéijūn; Wade-Giles: Ku Wei-chün) (January 29, 1887–November 14, 1985) was a Chinese diplomat. He was a representative at the Paris Peace Conference of 1919. 
Born in Shanghai in 1887, he went to the United States in 1904 and studied Western culture in order to help China with the problem of imperialism. He spoke perfect fluent English, and came to be interested in China's position in international society.

</doc>
<doc id="64087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64087" title="Wade-Giles">
Wade-Giles

Wade-Giles (), sometimes abbreviated Wade, is a Romanization system for the Chinese language. It is based on the form of Mandarin used in Beijing. The system was produced by Thomas Wade in the mid-19th century. It was fully developed in Herbert Giles's 1892 Chinese-English dictionary.
Wade-Giles was the main system of transliteration in the English-speaking world for much of the 20th century. It is used in several standard reference books. It is also used in all books about China published before 1979. It replaced the Nanjing-based romanization systems that was common until the late 19th century. Wade-Giles has been replaced by the pinyin system today. It still remains in use in Taiwan (Republic of China).

</doc>
<doc id="64088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64088" title="Prince (disambiguation)">
Prince (disambiguation)

A prince is a member of the highest aristocracy
Prince may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="64090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64090" title="Natalia Oreiro">
Natalia Oreiro

Natalia Oreiro (born May 18, 1977 in Montevideo,Uruguay) is a Latin Grammy-nominated Uruguayan singer and actress. She has been in both soap operas and movies. She is best known for her participation in the soap opera, "Muñeca Brava" (1998-1999), which was an every-afternoon-smash-hit during its run in Argentina. Her most recent soap opera, "Sos mi vida" (2006), was shown in more than 40 countries. 
Natalia Oreiro was born in Montevideo, Uruguay on May 19, 1977. She is daughter of Carlos Oreiro Poggio and the painter Mabel Iglesias Bourié. She studied drama when she was eight years old than she appeared in advertisements at twelve years old such as Coca-Cola, Pepsi and Johnson & Johnson. When she was fifteen years old, she joined Latin America's show "El Show de Xuxa" and won the competition. At the age of 16 she moved to Argentina to work there. She worked as an MTV VJ and in 1995, she landed a role in the soap opera "Dulce Ana". After that she st in the TV series "90-60-90 modelos" (1996) and "Ricos y famosos" (1997). In "Ricos y famosos", Oreiro played fictional character Valeria. 
In 1998, Natalia Oreiro starred in her first movie "Un Argentino en New York" with Guillermo Francella. "Un Argentino en New York" was watched by 1.634.702 people in Argentina. After the movie, she released three studio albums ("Natalia Oreiro, Tu Veneno, Turmalina") and she starred many TV series and movies.
In 1998, Natalia Oreiro released single "Que Sí, Que Sí" from "Un Argentino en New York". Than she launched her first studio album "Natalia Oreiro" (1998). "Cambio Dolor" was first single from her debut album and became the opening theme for the prime time show "Muñeca Brava" (1998-1999). Album was ranked eighty-first in list of "Worldbeat Global Album Chart" and sold over 140,000 copies therefore received a double platinum disc in Argentina and gold disc in countries like Greece, Slovenia and Israel.
In 2000, her second studio album, "Tu Veneno" (Your Poison) was released and was presentation in "Gala de la Hispanidad", "Gala de Murcia" (both in Spain) and "Festival de la Calle 8" in Miami. She was nominated for Latin Grammy Awards, but lost to Christina Aguilera's "Mi Reflejo". Oreiro was first Uruguayan nominated for a Grammy. She was crowned Queen of that event at Viña del Mar Festival 2000 in Chile. 3rd music video of album "Cómo Te Olvido" (2001) was directed by Tudor Giurgiu in Dracula's Castle, Romania.
Oreiro's next and last album, "Turmalina", was released in 2002 and centered around a superhero character named Turmalina who is created by Oreiro. "Turmalina" was produced by Latin maker Kike Santander. The album was recorded in USA. "Que Digan Lo Que Quieran" (Should they say whatever they want) was first single from "Turmalina". "Cuesta Arriba, Cuesta Abajo" became the opening theme for soap opera "Kahorra". Natalia made contributions with singer/songwriter Jaime Roos and Falta y Resto for the official Uruguayan 2002 FIFA World Cup song "Pasión Celeste".

</doc>
<doc id="64096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64096" title="Democratic Progressive Party">
Democratic Progressive Party

The Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) (Traditional Chinese: ; Simplified Chinese: ; abbreviated to or ; Pinyin: Mínjìndǎng) is a major political party in the Republic of China (Taiwan). The party has been linked with the pan-green coalition and de jure Taiwan independence movementy. The DPP is a member of Liberal International and a founding member of the Council of Asian Liberals and Democrats. The DPP represented Taiwan in the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organisation. 

</doc>
<doc id="64097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64097" title="President of the Republic of China">
President of the Republic of China

The President of the Republic of China (Taiwan) is the head of state and Commander-in-Chief of the democratic island country known officially as the Republic of China (Taiwan). The Republic of China (Taiwan) government has controlled Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen, Matsu and other islands after the rest of mainland China since 1949. 
The presidential office was created in 1948 under the 1947 Constitution of the Republic of China (Taiwan).
Outside of Taiwan, the President of the Republic of China (Taiwan) is usually informally referred to as the "President of Taiwan" (). In the previous Kuomintang-controlled administration, the title of "President of the Republic of China" was used. The current Democratic Progressive Party administration refers to the President as the "President of the Republic of China (Taiwan)" ().

</doc>
<doc id="64101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64101" title="Anastas Mikoyan">
Anastas Mikoyan

Anastas Hovhannesi Mikoyan (, "Anastas Hovhannesi Mikoyan"; ;  – 21 October 1978) was an Armenian Old Bolshevik and Soviet statesman during the Stalin and Khrushchev years.
It was told that, during Khrushchev time, he was the second most powerful man in the Soviet Union.

</doc>
<doc id="64103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64103" title="Mitanni">
Mitanni

Mitanni was a Hurrian kingdom in northern Mesopotamia from ca. 1500 BC.
Mitanni is often associated with Armenian nobility.

</doc>
<doc id="64105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64105" title="Russians in the United Kingdom">
Russians in the United Kingdom

There may be many as 300,000 Russians in the United Kingdom. About half of these were born in Russia. Some of the others are citizens of the Baltic states (Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania). Since they joined the EU in 2004, they are free to live in other EU countries, including the UK. There are many Russian language schools in London and the South East. These schools were founded by immigrants from Russia to the United Kingdom. They send their children to the schools so the children can learn about their parents' culture.

</doc>
<doc id="64110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64110" title="Larry Griffin">
Larry Griffin

Larry Griffin (September 23, 1954 - June 21, 1995) - was a man accused of killing 19-year-old Quintin Moss. The alleged crime happened in Saint Louis, Missouri, on June 26, 1980. On June 21, 1995, the State of Missouri executed Griffin by lethal injection. He is one of the few people who were put to death partly based on the testimony of a witness who had been at the crime scene. There were others including Garay Graham who was executed on June 22 2000 when George Bush & TX appeals board refused to give him life in prison instead. He maintained his innocence until he was executed for the crime. There are groups to this day trying to reopen his case, prove him innocent.

</doc>
<doc id="64111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64111" title="Nassau County, New York">
Nassau County, New York

Nassau County is a suburban county in the New York Metropolitan area east of New York City and west of Suffolk County, in the U.S. state of New York. In 2000, 1,334,544 people lived there. It and Suffolk County are together referred to as Long Island. Until 1899 Nassau County was part of Queens County. Along with Suffolk, it was named the safest county in the United States in 2005 by Forbes magazine.

</doc>
<doc id="64114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64114" title="Nagorno-Karabakh War">
Nagorno-Karabakh War

The Nagorno-Karabakh War was an armed conflict that took place from February 1988 to May 1994, in the small ethnic enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh in southwestern Azerbaijan, between the mostly ethnic Armenians of Nagorno-Karabakh backed by the Republic of Armenia against the Republic of Azerbaijan.

</doc>
<doc id="64116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64116" title="Category:Nagorno-Karabakh">
Category:Nagorno-Karabakh


</doc>
<doc id="64122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64122" title="Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol">
Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol

Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol is a region of northern Italy. The two main cities are Bolzano (Bozen) and Trento.
The region is divided into two provinces: 
The province of Bozen wanted more autonomy, because the main German-speaking community of Italy lives there.
In the province of Trient, the people speak Italian. It has 339 official towns.
The most important cities are:
Trentino has an area of 6,207 km, most of it mountainous land (20% is over and 70% over 1,000 m) and covered by vast forests (50% of the territory). The climate is various through the province, from an alpine climate to subcontinental one, with warm and variable summers and cold and quite snowy winters. The region has always been a favourite destination for tourists, both in winter for skiing in the high mountains and in summer to visit the wide valleys and many lakes (the largest being Lake Garda).
Alto Adige/South Tyrol has an area of , all of it mountainous land and covered by vast forests. The climate is of the continental type, owing to the influence of the many mountain ranges which stand at well over above sea level and the wide valleys through which flow the main river, the Adige, from north to south and its numerous tributaries. In the city of Bolzano, capital of the province, the average air temperature stands at and the average rainfall at . The lowest pass across the Alps, the Brenner Pass, is located at the far north of the region on the border with Austria.
In Trentino the majority language is Italian, although there are Cimbrian minorities in the municipality of Luserna and four Mòcheno municipalities in the Mòcheni Valley. There are also Ladin-speaking minorities living in the Fassa Valley and in Non Valley (3.5% of the population). While in Fassa Valley Ladin already enjoys official status, in Non Valley it still does not, in spite of the fact that the number of speakers outnumbers those in Fassa Valley. Sole Valley also historically belongs to the Ladin area.
The majority of people in Alto Adige/Südtirol speaks German. However more Italian speakers than Germans live in the capital of Bolzano.
A tiny minority group called the Ladins lives in the Dolomites region: they speak an old Rheto-Romanic language.
Words and ways of talking in this area are spread in the valleys around the Dolomites mountain group: Gardena, Badia Mareo Valley (Alto Adige/Südtirol)and Fassa Valley (Trentino). Ladin is also spoken in the town of Cortina d'Ampezzo and areas around there.
The Ladin language of the Fassa Valley Ladin is more like Italian: the Ladins of this valley speak a language with a lot of Italian or Trentino style sentences.

</doc>
<doc id="64124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64124" title="SMAP">
SMAP

SMAP is a Japanese boy band. Their music is produced by Johnny's. SMAP was formed in April 1988. Now, the group has five members but at the beginning it had six members. They held their first concert at Nippon Budokan in January 1991. They released their first album "Can't Stop!!-LOVING" on September 9, 1991.
SMAP is an acronym. It is a short way of writing Sports Music Assemble People.
Katsuyuki Mori withdrew from the group in 1996 to be an auto racer.

</doc>
<doc id="64125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64125" title="Kick the Can Crew">
Kick the Can Crew

Kick the Can Crew is a Japanese hip-hop group. The style is 3MC and 1DJ. The group was started by 1996, but it broke up in 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="64126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64126" title="Judy and Mary">
Judy and Mary

Judy and Mary is a Japanese rock band. This group began in 1992. The members were YUKI, Yoshihito Onda, Kota Igarashi and TAKUYA. They were very famous, but this group ended in 2001. Their famous songs include "Sobakasu," "Lucky Pool" and "Sanpomichi". Their songs have been sung by many Japanese people at karaoke.

</doc>
<doc id="64127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64127" title="Angela Aki">
Angela Aki

Angela Aki (born September 15, 1977) is a J-pop singer-songwriter. Her former Japanese name is Aki Kiyomi. She was born in Itano of Tokushima prefecture. Her father is Japanese and her mother is Italian-American. She is bilingual in English and Japanese. She was raised in Japan, but she moved to Hawaii when she was fifteen. Then she went to university at George Washington University. She released an indie album in the United States in 2000, called "These Words". Now she is signed under Sony Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="64129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64129" title="Reduction">
Reduction

Reduction in a general sense means to take of a part of a whole thing or to make it smaller. 
Reduction or reducing may may mean in special cases:
In mathematics and computer science:

</doc>
<doc id="64135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64135" title="Spanish Empire">
Spanish Empire

The Spanish Empire was one of the largest empires in history, and one of the first global empires.
In the 15th and 16th centuries, Spain was a very powerful country. It led European exploration of the world, building the largest colonies in the New World at the time. Spain also created trade routes across the oceans. The Spanish traded goods across the Atlantic Ocean, between Spain and its colonies in the Americas. They also traded across the Pacific Ocean, between Asian-Pacific countries and Mexico. 
Spanish Conquistadors destroyed the Aztec, Inca, and Maya Empires. They took large territories in North, South America, Asia, Africa, and Oceania. Spain made these territories into colonies. Spain, especially the kingdom of Castile, became much more powerful. Also, through marriage, the Spanish monarchs created alliances with the Crown of Aragon (and later on, temporarily, Austria). This allowed the Spanish Empire to gain control of many territories in Europe. With all of these territories and colonies across the world, the Spanish Empire became the greatest and richest empire in the world. 
For a time, the Spanish Empire was a great power in the oceans, with its experienced navy. It was also very powerful in European land battles, with its well-trained infantry. Spain enjoyed a cultural golden age in the 16th and 17th centuries.
However, eventually, the French, Portuguese, and British Empires gained power and land in the New World. Starting in the second half of the 17th century, the Spanish Empire began to suffer bankruptcies, and its military began to lose battles and colonies. Finally, in the 19th century, Spain lost its last major colonies in the Spanish-American War.
The Spanish Empire was very big, and was scattered all over the world. It was constantly fighting with other powers about territories, trade, or religion. For example, the Spanish Empire fought:
Many of these different powers fought constantly, often at the same time, for long periods. They fought about both political and religious differences. Each empire wanted to be the most powerful and to control the most colonies and trade.
The Spanish Empire slowly lost power, as it gradually lost territory to other empires. In 1648, Spain and many other powers signed the Peace of Westphalia, which ended both the Thirty Years' War and the Eighty Years' War. In 1659, the Treaty of the Pyrenees ended fighting between France and Spain. With these treaties, Spain began to lose its status as one of the world's greatest powers.
In 1713, Felipe V signed the Peace of Utrecht. In this treaty, Spain gave up its territories in Italy and The Netherlands. Spain was no longer Europe's greatest power. However, it would still have an important role in European politics.
However, during this time, Spain kept its large overseas empire, and even made it larger. The Spanish Empire fought with the British Empire, which was trying to take over more of America; the French Empire; and the Dutch in the New World. Spain remained a major economic power until it lost its colonies in the Americas through revolutions.
Spain kept control of two colonies in its empire in America: Cuba and Puerto Rico. It also held onto the Philippines and some preserved islands in Oceania, including the Carolinas (including the Palau Islands) and the Marianas (including Guam). However, when Spain lost the Spanish-American War of 1898, it lost almost all of these last territories. Spain kept control only of the small islands of Oceania (not including Guam). Spain sold these islands to Germany in 1899 .
Spain tried to make up for these losses by creating a second colonial empire in Africa. Spain controlled Morocco, Western Sahara, and Equatorial Guinea, until decolonization in the 1960s and 1970s. The last colony to gain its independence was the Sahara, in 1975.
The "Spanish Empire" generally means Spain's overseas colonies in the Americas, the Pacific, and elsewhere. But it is not clear what is exactly part of the Spanish Empire. For instance, traditionally, territiories such as the Low Countries or Spanish Netherlands were included as they were part of the possessions of the King of Spain, governed by Spanish officials and defended by Spanish troops. But the British historian Henry Kamen writes that these territories were never part of a "Spanish" state and instead formed part of the wider Habsburg estate. Therefore, many historians use both "Habsburg" and "Spanish" when they speak of the empire of Charles V or Philip II. However, the Low Countries were effectively part of Spain during that period.
Portugal was occupied by Spanish forces and was ruled by the same monarch in "personal union", but Portugal remained a separate state. The Portuguese empire continued to be ruled from Lisbon during this period. Therefore, there was a joint Spanish-Portuguese rule for some time. These jointly run empires have sometimes been called the Spanish-Portuguese Empire, but they were not parts of one state. 
The 1469 marriage of Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile created a personal union of Aragon and Castile. 
In 1492, Spain drove out the last Moorish king of Granada. This unified the Iberian peninsula, except for Portugal. After their victory, the Spanish monarchs allowed Christopher Columbus to try to reach India by sailing west. Columbus instead "discovered" America. That was the start of the Spanish colonization of the continent. 
By the Treaty of Tordesillas of 1494, the globe was divided into two hemispheres between Spain and Portugal. Therefore, Spain had the right to start colonies in all of the New World from Alaska to Cape Horn (except Brazil), as well as Asia. The Castilian Empire was the result of a period of rapid colonial expansion into the New World, as well as the Philippines and colonies in Africa: Melilla was captured by Castile in 1497 and Oran in 1509.
The Spanish language and the Roman Catholic Church were brought to the Americas and to the Spanish East Indies (Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, Marianas, Palau and the Philippines) by the Spanish colonization which began in the 15th century. Together with the Portuguese empire, the Spanish empire laid the foundations of a globalised trade by opening up the great trans-oceanic trade routes. Modern International law has its roots in the Spanish colonial expansion and bad experience with imperialism as well.

</doc>
<doc id="64136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64136" title="Viceroyalty of New Spain">
Viceroyalty of New Spain

The Viceroyalty of New Spain was the name of the viceroy-ruled territories of the Spanish Empire in North America and its peripheries in Asia from 1535 to 1821. New Spain was the name that the Spanish gave to the area that today is central and southern Mexico, and since the capital city of the Viceroyalty was in Mexico City, the name was also used for the viceroyalty.
The Viceroyalty of New Spain's territory included what is the Bay Islands "(until 1643)", Cayman Islands "(until 1670)", Central America (as far as the southern border of Costa Rica until 1821), Cuba, Florida, Hispaniola (including Haiti until 1697), Jamaica "(until 1655)" Mariana Islands, Mexico, Philippines, Puerto Rico, nearly all of the southwestern United States (including all or parts of the modern-day U.S. states of California, Nevada, Utah, Colorado, Wyoming, Arizona, New Mexico, Texas and Florida). Spain claimed areas as far north as British Columbia and Alaska, but the northern boundary of New Spain was redefined by the Adams-Onís Treaty of 1819. New Spain also included Venezuela before it was annexed to the Viceroyalty of New Granada in 1717. 
The territories were separated into provinces. Provinces were led by a governor, who was responsible for the administration of the province and often also led the province's army and militias. The provinces were grouped together under five high courts, called "Audiencias" in Spanish, at Santo Domingo, Mexico City, Guatemala, Guadalajara and Manila. Both the high courts and the governors had autonomy from the viceroy and carried out most duties on their own. Only on important issues did the viceroy become involved in ruling the provinces directly.
In 1821, Spain lost continental territories when it recognized the independence of Mexico, as well as Santo Domingo when it was invaded by Haiti that same year. However, Cuba, Puerto Rico and Spanish East Indies (including Mariana Islands and the Philippines) remained a part of the Spanish crown until the Spanish–American War (1898).

</doc>
<doc id="64139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64139" title="Matt LeBlanc">
Matt LeBlanc

Matthew Steven LeBlanc (born April 12, 1967) is an American actor. He has been nominated for an Emmy and a Golden Globe Award. He is famous for his role as "Joey Tribbiani" on the television sitcoms "Friends" (1994-2004) and "Joey". In 2000, he won "Editor's Choice" in TV Guide Awards (as "Friends"). In 2002, he won "TV - Choice Actor - Comedy" at the Teen Choice Awards (as "Friends"). In 2005, he won "Favorite Male Television Star" at the People's Choice Awards. He stars in "Episodes" as a fictional version of himself.

</doc>
<doc id="64140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64140" title="Tango">
Tango

The Tango is a dance which was created in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The musical style that was created with the dance is also called 'tango'. It is danced today in two versions. Neither version is 'better' than the other; they are rather different in style.
The first tango dances and music was called "tango criollo," or simply "tango". Today, there are various tango dance styles, including Argentine tango, Uruguayan tango and vintage tangos. The Argentine tango is probably closer to that originally danced in Argentina and Uruguay, though no details survive of its original form.
The tango is a standard dance in international ballroom dancing. This version was developed in England before WWII, mainly as a result of the work of Monsieur Pierre, a French dance teacher who lived in London. 
The Tango is now danced in international competitions to a style first set out in English ballroom texts and regulations.

</doc>
<doc id="64142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64142" title="Ethane">
Ethane

Ethane is an organic chemical compound with chemical formula CH. 
At standard temperature and pressure, ethane is a colourless, odorless gas. It is isolated from natural gas, and as a byproduct of petroleum refining. 
Its main use is in the chemical industry, to make ethylene by steam cracking. 
At room temperature, the gas is flammable, and it explodes when mixed with air. When ethane is liquid, touching it causes a very serious frostbite.

</doc>
<doc id="64143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64143" title="Cracking (chemistry)">
Cracking (chemistry)

In chemistry terms, cracking is a process by which complicated organic molecules (such as kerogens or heavy hydrocarbons) are broken down into simpler molecules (e.g. light hydrocarbons) by breaking their carbon-carbon bonds. How fast the cracking process is and how long it takes for the end products to form are very dependent on the temperature and any existing catalysts. Cracking, also referred to as pyrolysis, is the breakdown of a large alkane into smaller, more useful alkanes and an alkene.
Cracking is used in petroleum to form "light" products such as LPG and gasoline.
It usually produces a short chain alkane and a long chain alkene.

</doc>
<doc id="64145" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64145" title="Christchurch">
Christchurch

Christchurch is the largest city in the South Island of New Zealand and the third largest urban area in the country. Christchurch is located on the South Island’s east coast. The population is approximately 376,700 (2010).
The name ‘Christchurch’ was decided upon at the first meeting of the Canterbury Association (made up of settlers of the surrounding province of Canterbury) on March 27, 1848. The city’s name came from the Christ Church, Oxford College and was suggested by John Robert Godley, who attended the College. Earlier, the name of the town was Christ Church. On July 31, 1856, Christchurch became a city by Royal Charter and is officially the oldest established city in New Zealand.
Original settlers of the Christchurch region were Moa Hunters. These settlers hunted the moa out of existence by about the year 1500. The hunters cleared large areas of Mataī and Tōtara forests by fire, changing the landscape. The Māori people (Ngati Mamoe and later Ngai Tahu) arrived in Canterbury between 1500 and 1700. The Moa Hunters were either killed or adopted by tribes. On February 16, 1770, Captain James Cook was the first European to see the Canterbury peninsula from his ship the Endeavour. Thinking it was an island, he named it Banks Island after the ship’s botanist, Joseph Banks. It was not until around 1815 when European sailors from the sealing ship, Governor Bligh, landed and set foot on Banks Peninsula. During the 1820s the local Māori population fell due to fighting between different groups of Ngāi Tahu and raids by the Ngāti Toa chief Te Rauparaha from 1830 to 1832. The impact of European diseases, especially measles and influenza only increased the death toll of the Māori people. The Māori tribes fought each other to near disappearance in the Christchurch region. 
European pilgrims began settling the area in the 1800s. In 1839, the New Zealand Company was established in London. In current history, people started immigrating from Europe to New Zealand during this time. In May 1840, Major Thomas Bunbury arrived on a ship, the HMS Herald, to collect signatures from the Ngāi Tahu chiefs for the Treaty of Waitangi. The Treaty had been signed by many North Island chiefs in the Bay of Islands earlier in the year on 6 February, 1840. During Bunbury’s visit, only two of the Ngāi Tahu chiefs signed it. After this treaty was signed, the colony became in direct control if the U.K. 
The settlement by the British began in 1850. Christchurch was born by a royal warrant of the British King as the oldest city in New Zealand on July 31, 1856. A building of Neo-Gothic architecture was designed and constructed by Benjamin Mount Fort in the city center. The suburb of Hei Hei was subdivided for poultry farming after WWI for returning serviceman, but the venture failed due to the poor soil conditions. 
In 1947, New Zealand's a major fire disaster occurred at Ballantyne's Department Store in the inner city. 41 people died in a blaze which razed the rambling collection of buildings.
Christchurch is in Canterbury. It is the largest city in the South Island. The Pacific Ocean lines its east coast and south coast. The Southern Alps act as a border on the west coast. The Waimakariri River creates a natural northern border. The purest and cleanest water can be found in Christchurch. This water comes from the Southern Alps via aquifers. 
A two-hour drive by car includes the many highlights from Christchurch International Airport. One can enjoy skiing, golf, bungee jumping, white-water rafting, mountain biking, windsurfing, whale watching and a variety of other activities including the winery garden circulation. Christchurch has earned the pet name of “the garden city” with the southern island. 
Central city
The Cathedral Square is located right in the center of the city. The city center was damaged by the earthquake of February, 2011. The area around this square, within the 'four avenues' of Christchurch, was the central business district of the city. There were a number of residential areas within the central city including Inner City East, Inner City West, Avon Loop, Moa Neighbourhood and Victoria. Cathedral Square is located at the crossing of two famous, major central streets, Colombo Street and Worcester Street, both of which are currently cordoned off as you approach the square.
Attractions such as the Wizard of New Zealand, Ian Brackenbury Channell, and evangelist Ray Comfort were hosted at the Cathedral Square until the earthquake in February, 2011. They also held market days, free standing food and coffee carts, an aquarium, pubs, restaurants and the city's chief tourist information centre.
The City Mall was refurbished in 2008 & 09 before the earthquake of February 2011. The mall had specially designed seating, flower and garden boxes, more trees, paving, and an extension to the central city tram route. Now all that lies there is The Bridge of Remembrance commemorating war dead stands at the western end of the mall.
"A City for People Action Plan” was released in 2010 by the Christchurch City Council. This program of work is planned through the year 2022 to improve public spaces within the central city to entice more inner city residents and visitors. To increase the comfort of pedestrians, a plan was put into action to reduce the impact of motorized private vehicles. The renowned Danish design firm, Gehl Architects prepared this report. Wellington architect Ian Athfield has since been selected to re-plan and help rebuild since the February, 2011 Christchurch earthquake.
The main mode of public transportation in the city is by bus. The bus system operates throughout the city. Also, there is a free shuttle bus going around the city center.
A railroad station exists southwest, around 4 km from the inner-city, but it is not for citizens. It is used for freight and sightseeing exclusively.
Agriculture is the main industry that is carried out over the Canterbury plains. The main crops grown are wheat, barley, various strains of clover and other grasses for seed exporting. Besides growing these crops, it also created various processing and distribution businesses in Christchurch. In recent years, agriculture has expanded to the wine industry and olive production and processing. Deer farming has led to new processing using antlers for Asian medicine and aphrodisiacs. Also, dairy farming and raising stock are also carried out on the flourishing Canterbury plains. Other industries include manufacturing, real estate and wholesale business. In more recent years, sightseeing and tourism have become prosperous, led by tourists from Europe, Asia, and North America.
Christchurch is fairly dry all year round, and has warm summers and cold winters. The most common wind is a northeasterly sea breeze, but the city is famous for Nor'westers, hot dry, dusty winds which blow across the plains. Many people complain that the nor'westers give them headaches
Burnside High School is in Christchurch. Largest school in New Zealand with 2,506 students enrolled. Cashmere High School at Rose Street is the second largest co-educational secondary school. Recently, Papanui High School has grown rapidly and is almost the same size. Then there is Riccarton High School that was one of the first state schools in the country to adopt a strong values base – the Riccarton Way. There are several single-sex schools as follows: Shirley Boys’ High School, Christchurch Boys’ High School, Avonside Girls’ High School and Christchurch Girls’ High School.
Christchurch is also well known for several very traditional schools of the English public school type as follows: St. Thomas of Canterbury College, St. Margaret’s College, Christ’s College, St. Bede’s College, Mariam College, St. Andrew’s College, Villa Maria College and Rangi Ruru Girls’ School.
There are also less conventional schools such as Unlimited Paenga Tawhiti and Hagley Community College. 
Tertiary educational institutes include:

</doc>
<doc id="64146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64146" title="Phosphine">
Phosphine

Phosphine is a chemical compound. Its chemical name is phosphorus hydride. Its chemical formula is PH. It is also called phosphane and phosphamine. It contains phosphide and hydrogen ions.
It is a colorless, flammable gas. It is highly toxic; it can easily kill, even when concentration levels are low. It smells like fish. It can ignite without a spark. When it burns, it makes a white cloud of phosphorus(V) oxide, which is irritating.
It is made when hypophosphites and phosphites are heated. It is also made when white phosphorus reacts with warm alkali.
The gas is used for pest control. It is also used in making semiconductors. 

</doc>
<doc id="64149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64149" title="Planetary ring">
Planetary ring

A planetary ring is a ring made of dust and other particles orbiting around a planet in a flat-disc shaped region. The gas giants Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune are the only planets known to have rings, with the rings of Saturn being the most spectacular system of rings.
The rings sometimes have "shepherd satellites". These moons orbit either in between ring gaps or the outside edge of a ring. The moons' gravity maintain the rings current shape with a well defined edge. Any material that drifts closer to a Moon's orbit, it can either move back into the body of the ring, deflect out into space, or is added onto the Moon's surface.
The rings can be made of silica or water ice. It is not known how any of the rings were formed.

</doc>
<doc id="64150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64150" title="Castile">
Castile

Castile or Castilia can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="64151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64151" title="Kingdom of Castile">
Kingdom of Castile

The Kingdom of Castile was one of the medieval kingdoms of the Iberian Peninsula. It began in the 9th century: it was called "County of Castile" and was a vassalage depending from the Kingdom of León. It was one of the kingdoms that existed before the Kingdom of Spain.
The first Count of Castile was Rodrigo in 850, under Ordoño I of Asturias and Alfonso III of Asturias. In 931 the county was unified by count Fernán González, who made his lands subject to a succession, independent of the kings of León.
In 1028 Sancho III the Great, of Navarre, married the sister of count García Sánchez and inherited title to the County of Castile after his brother-in-law's death. In 1035 he left the county to his son Fernando. Fernando I was married to Sancha, sister of Bermudo III of León. Fernando I began a war with León and in the battle of Tamarón against a coalition of Castile and Navarre the king of León was killed, leaving no offspring. His brother-in-law Fernando took the crown of León for himself and their three sons took the kingdoms of León (Alfonso VI), Galicia (García) and Castile, Sancho, becoming king and borning the Kingdom of Castile.

</doc>
<doc id="64156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64156" title="Luigi Galvani">
Luigi Galvani

Luigi Galvani (September 9, 1737 – December 4, 1798) was an Italian physician who lived and died in Bologna (Italy). In 1771, he found out that the muscles of dead frogs twitched when hit by a spark. He was a pioneer in modern obstetrics, and discovered that muscle and nerve cells produce electricity. He is well known as the inventor of chemical cells.
Galvani invented batteries which is probably the most important thing which he has made. He also discovered that nerves and muscles produce electricity, and he was a very intelligent man in many different other ways.
This also links to the story of Frankenstein this story is based on a scientist giving life to a body made from different people's limbs by using the same procedure as Luigi Galvani, by sending an electrical current form lightening. 

</doc>
<doc id="64158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64158" title="Lorem ipsum">
Lorem ipsum

Lorem ipsum is a placeholder text (filler text) in publishing and graphic design. It is used to demonstrate the graphics elements of a document, such as font, typography, and layout. 
The lorem ipsum text is usually a section of a Latin text by Cicero with words altered, added and removed to make it nonsensical. Lorem ipsum text is used in mock-ups of visual design projects before the actual words are put into the finished product. This is often called greeking. The text is derived from Cicero's "De finibus bonorum et malorum" ("On the Ends of Goods and Evils", sometimes the title is translated as "[About] The Purposes of Good and Evil" ). 
The text was frequently used in desktop publishing templates. To experiment with the text, it can be copy-pasted into the desktop publishing software, and the typeface and its setting can be tried out. The distribution of letters in lorem ipsum is close to that in English language. This way, you can see what your own text would look like in that graphic format. 

</doc>
<doc id="64168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64168" title="Planetary core">
Planetary core

The planetary core is the innermost layer or layers in a planet. The terrestrial planets (planets with a rocky surface) have a core mainly made of iron and could be a solid or a liquid layer. The Earth's core is partially liquid, while the cores of Mars and Venus are thought to be completely solid, because the cores do not make a magnetic field.
The gas giants also have a core made of iron. Their cores are very small, in proportion to their large size. However, the gas giants are so large that their cores can still be larger than the Earth's core. Jupiter's core is estimated to be 12 times the mass of the Earth's.
A core's size can vary from each planet or other object. The moon's core is 20% of its radius, but Mercury's core is 75% of its radius.

</doc>
<doc id="64169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64169" title="Redox">
Redox

Redox (shorthand for reduction/oxidation) describes all chemical reactions in which atoms have their oxidation number (oxidation state) changed.
The term "redox" comes from the two concepts of reduction and oxidation. It can be explained in simple terms:
Which gains and loses electrons can be easily memorised by the abbreviation OIL RIG, which stands for, "Oxidation Is Loss," or losing electrons, and "Reduction Is Gain," or gaining electrons.
But there are exceptions.
Redox is a chemical process. It can be described within chemical formulas. This example describes the process that occurs in a blast furnace, where iron (Fe) reacts with carbon (C):

</doc>
<doc id="64170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64170" title="Van Resistance">
Van Resistance

The Siege of Van, Resistance at Van, ( "Vani Herosamart", ) or Van Rebellion, Van Revolt (), Armenian Revolution at Van () was a resistance during the World War I against Ottoman Empire. 

</doc>
<doc id="64174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64174" title="100 (number)">
100 (number)

100 (also written as one hundred, C, and "cent") is the natural number after 99 and before 101. It is the first three-digit number above zero. The number 100 is an abundant number.
Usage
100 m running competition.
In binary and bcd -code, 100 means number four.

</doc>
<doc id="64175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64175" title="1021">
1021

1021 (MXXI) was a common year when the Julian calendar was used. It was the twenty-first year of the 2nd millennium and the 11th century.

</doc>
<doc id="64176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64176" title="1332">
1332


</doc>
<doc id="64177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64177" title="Category:1454 births">
Category:1454 births


</doc>
<doc id="64178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64178" title="Category:1454">
Category:1454


</doc>
<doc id="64179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64179" title="Category:1512 deaths">
Category:1512 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="64180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64180" title="Wasabi">
Wasabi

Wasabi is a spice traditionally prepared from a plant from the cabbage family. Its root is used as a spice and has a very strong flavor. The root is smashed up into paste and used as a condiment. Its hotness is more like hot mustard or horseradish than chili pepper, because it irritates the nose more than the tongue. Eating too much wasabi can cause a very painful feeling in the nose. The plant grows naturally in Japan. It is often eaten with sushi.
Wasabi needs clean water and a cool climate. It is difficult to grow wasabi. There are two ways to grow wasabi. One way is to grow wasabi in water. The other way is to grow wasabi in field.
Major sources of wasabi are Shizuoka, Nagano, Shimane, Yamanashi, and Iwate prefectures in Japan. Other source of wasabi include China, New Zealand, Taiwan.
Because the wasabi plant is so hard to grow, real wasabi is very rare and expensive. Most wasabi is a green paste that is really made from horseradish, mustard and food coloring. Real wasabi is white, not green.

</doc>
<doc id="64181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64181" title="Prion disease">
Prion disease

A prion disease (also called transmissible spongiform encephalopathy) is a disease which is caused by prions. Prions are structurally altered versions of small proteins that are normally expressed in cells. Unlike diseases that are caused by a mutation of the gene resulting in the expression of a mutant protein, prions are able to replicate and transmit diseases through physical contact with the normal proteins resulting in a structural change from the normal state to the prion state. 
Unlike bacteria, prions are not considered to be alive because they do not have their own metabolism, they do not possess genes and cannot naturally reproduce outside a host cell. Prion diseases are very rare, and no treatment is available for most of them.
Almost all of the known prion diseases are neurologic diseases. There are two common signs which are seen in typical prion diseases:
Few types of prion diseases are known. The most important ones are:
Prion diseases are very rare. With Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, which makes up about 85% of the cases, there are about 1 to 1.5 cases per one million people per year.

</doc>
<doc id="64185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64185" title="Help!">
Help!

Help! is a 1965 movie starring The Beatles, and also the name of the movie's , and of its soundtrack album. The movie was directed by Richard Lester, the same as their first movie, "A Hard Day's Night". While "A Hard Day's Night" was filmed in black-and-white, "Help!" was in color. George Martin produced the Beatles's songs for the album, and all their recordings for the movie.
"Help!" is a fantasy story, that makes fun of spy movies, which were popular at the time. A religious cult has lost a special ring, worn by people they plan to sacrifice to their goddess, Kaili. It turns out one of their members sent the ring to Ringo Starr (drummer for the Beatles, who loved to wear rings). When the cult finds out, they try to capture Ringo, and either sacrifice him to Kaili or get their ring back. He tries to give it back, but the ring will not come off his finger. The other Beatles try to help, but also end up in danger. A (quitter) from the cult tries different ways to remove the ring, and a scientist also tries to steal it. Scotland Yard hides the Beatles at Buckingham Palace, but the cult even sneaks in there. The band escapes to the Bahamas in disguise, but are followed. Tired of running, the Beatles finally face down the .
The movie's co-stars were Leo McKern, Eleanor Bron, Roy Kinnear, and Victor Spinetti. Spinetti also appeared in "A Hard Day's Night", and later in "Magical Mystery Tour". The movie was going to be called "Eight Arms to Hold You", but the title was changed when John Lennon wrote a song titled "Help!" that suited the movie's theme.
"Help!" was filmed partly in England, partly in Austria, and partly in the Bahamas. The Beatles started a company in the Bahamas, as a , but it did not work out. While they were filming, a Hindu believer gave each Beatle a book about reincarnation. George Harrison became a follower of Hinduism. He also enjoyed the Indian music featured in "Help!", bought a sitar, and took music lessons with Ravi Shankar.
"Help!" was the fifth album by the Beatles. The first seven songs appeared in the movie. The album includes the title song, "Ticket To Ride", George Harrison's "I Need You", and Paul McCartney's "Yesterday", the song with the most versions by other artists of all time. "Help!" was the last Beatles album with songs written by other people.
The album is ranked number 332 in "Rolling Stone" magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time. All songs were written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney unless noted otherwise.

</doc>
<doc id="64186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64186" title="Please Please Me">
Please Please Me

Please Please Me is a 1963 album by The Beatles. It was their first album. Ten of its songs were recorded all in one day, on 11 February 1963, and was an example of what they played live at the time.

</doc>
<doc id="64187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64187" title="Maritime, Fluvial and Harbor Museum of Rouen">
Maritime, Fluvial and Harbor Museum of Rouen

The Musée Maritime, Fluvial et Portuaire de Rouen (English: Maritime, Fluvial and Harbor Museum of Rouen) is a museum in France. It is about the history of the port of Rouen, which is one the greatest port of France. The main themes are:
It is possible to see a 38 meter long barge which can be visited, trawler and barge motors and a whale skeleton.
The museum is in a former hangar of the port, not far from the new bridge.

</doc>
<doc id="64189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64189" title="Echternach">
Echternach

Echternach () is a commune in south-eastern Luxembourg, capital of the Echternach canton. It is the oldest town with city rights in Luxembourg.
The town grew around the walls of the Abbey of Echternach, which was founded in 698 by St. Willibrord, an English monk from Ripon, Northumbria (in present-day North Yorkshire, England), who became the first bishop of Utrecht and worked to Christianize the Frisians.
The abbey were closed during the French revolution in 1797. Echternach was given city rights in the year 1236.
Echternach is in the east of the country near the border with Germany, on the banks of the Saar River.
The "commune" has an area of . The altitude is high. At the city hall, the altitude is high.
Echternach is surrounded by four "communes" of Luxembourg: Rosport to the east and south, Bech to the southwest, and Berdorf and Consdorf to the west. To the north, the "commune" borders the Echternacherbrück municipality of the Bitburg-Prüm district in the German state of Rhineland-Palatinate; and to the northwest the Bollendorf municipality, also in the Bitburg-Prüm district of the Rhineland-Palatinate.
, there are 5,249 persons living in the "commune", for a population density of inhabitants/km².

</doc>
<doc id="64190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64190" title="Breast cancer">
Breast cancer

Breast cancer is cancer in the breast.
In the world, breast cancer is the fifth most common cause of cancer death. The first four are lung cancer, stomach cancer, liver cancer, and colon cancer. In 2005, breast cancer caused 502,000 deaths (7% of cancer deaths; almost 1% of all deaths) in the world. Among all women in the world, breast cancer is the most common cancer.
In the United States, breast cancer is the most common cancer in women, and the second most common cause of cancer death in women (after lung cancer). In 2007, breast cancer caused about 40,910 deaths (7% of cancer deaths; almost 2% of all deaths) in the U.S. Women in the United States have a 1 in 8 chance of getting breast cancer in their lives. They have a 1 in 33 chance of death from breast cancer. 
There are many more people getting breast cancer since the 1970s. This is because of how people in the Western world live. Because the breast is composed of identical tissues in males and females, breast cancer also occurs in males, though it is less common.
When a person gets breast cancer, they can try to cure it in three ways. Doctors can cut out the cancer (mastectomy or lumpectomy). They can give the person drugs (chemotherapy). They can also try to kill the cancer with energy (radiation). If one cure does not work, they may need to try another.

</doc>
<doc id="64200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64200" title="Cue sports">
Cue sports

Cue sports are games played with balls on a cloth-covered table that has rubber railings (called "cushions") around it to keep the balls on the table. Two or more people use sticks (called cues) to make one ball (the cue ball) hit other balls. In the past, all cue sports were called billiards, but that term has various different meanings in different areas. 
There are different kinds of cue sports, including:

</doc>
<doc id="64205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64205" title="Cher">
Cher

Cherilyn Sarkisian (better known as Cher; born on May 20, 1946) is an American actress, singer, songwriter, author and entertainer. She has won an Academy Award, a Grammy Award, an Emmy Award and three Golden Globe Awards. She is well known for her deep contralto vocal range.
Cher first became well known in 1965 as one half of the pop/rock duo Sonny & Cher. She has also released 25 albums as a solo artist, and has 22 "Billboard" Top 40 entries over her career. These include twelve Top 10 singles and 5 number one singles.
She became a successful television star in the 1970s, and a movie actress in the 1980s. In 1987, she won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her role in the romantic comedy Moonstruck.

</doc>
<doc id="64206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64206" title="Frunzik Mkrtchyan">
Frunzik Mkrtchyan

Frunzik (Mher) Mkrtchyan (July 4, 1930 – December 29, 1993) was a popular Soviet Armenian actor who was named a People's Artist of the Soviet Union in 1984.
Even though he was a comedian, Frunzik's personal life was very sad. His first wife, Donara Mkrtchyan, became mentally ill and was sent to a mental institution for the rest of her life and Frunzik became a single parent of two young kids. 
His son inherited his mother’s mental illness and, according to people close to Frunzik, he suffered from severe depression in the last few years of his life, and became a heavy alcoholic. In 1993, his brother found him lying dead in his home in Yerevan. Thousands of people attended his funeral.

</doc>
<doc id="64212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64212" title="Pest">
Pest

Pest could mean:
Places with the name Pest:

</doc>
<doc id="64214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64214" title="Yuzu (band)">
Yuzu (band)

Yuzu (ゆず) is a Japanese popular music duo. Its members are Kitagawa Yujin (北川悠仁) and Iwasawa Kouji (岩沢厚治). Both of the band members come from Yokohama in the Kanagawa Prefecture. At first, they sung on the street in Yokohama. They have known each other since they were small children.
They are famous for their concerts in front of the department store, "Matsuzakaya" in Isezakicyo in Yokohama. They officially debuted in 1997. The first CD was "Yuzu no Moto".
They are loved among men and women of all ages in Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="64215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64215" title="Pestilence">
Pestilence

Pestilence is a word that is used for any highly infectious disease that can cause an epidemic or even a pandemic. It is commonly used for parasites too, but only when they cause large scale sickness or death, such as the Guinea worm.
The word meant the disease plague, which is called "pestis" in Latin.
It was used for the Black Death as well, an epidemic of the 14th century that killed Millions of people in Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="64216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64216" title="List of historical plagues">
List of historical plagues

This list contains famous or well documented outbreaks of plagues or disease. They are examined in individual entries.

</doc>
<doc id="64217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64217" title="List of epidemics">
List of epidemics

This article is a list of major epidemics.

</doc>
<doc id="64219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64219" title="Pandemic">
Pandemic

A pandemic (from Greek παν "pan" all + δήμος "demos" people) is an epidemic (an outbreak of an infectious disease) that spreads across a large region (for example a continent), or even worldwide.
According to the World Health Organization, a pandemic can start when three conditions have been met:
A disease or condition is not a pandemic merely because it is widespread or kills many people; it must also be infectious. For example cancer is responsible for many deaths but is not considered a pandemic because the disease is not infectious (although certain causes of some types of cancer might be).
The World Health Organization (WHO) has developed a plan to prepare globally the fight against influenza. It defines the stages of a pandemic and makes recommendations for national measures before and during a pandemic. The phases are:
Interpandemic period:
Pandemic alert period:
Pandemic period:

</doc>
<doc id="64224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64224" title="Training">
Training

Training means learning to "do" something. It includes practicing skills. The term is used for learning to do jobs, or play games.
Examples:
Training means changing behavior through learning new requirements and methods. Its effect is measured by testing to see if the behavior has been successfully changed. Follow-up sessions may be repeated until the desired behavior has been achieved.
Exercise may or may not be part of training. When it is, it is called physical training. It is specific and done to improve one's capability, capacity, and performance; see, e.g., strength training or flexibility training.
 

</doc>
<doc id="64230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64230" title="Demi Moore">
Demi Moore

Demi Moore (born November 11, 1962 as Demi Guynes) is an American actress. She became well-known after a string of 1980s teen-oriented movies, and was one of the best known actresses of 1990s Hollywood.
She has been married to musician Freddy Moore and actors Bruce Willis and Ashton Kutcher. All her marriages ended in divorce. She has three daughters by Willis: Rumer, Scout and Tallulah.

</doc>
<doc id="64231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64231" title="Fergie">
Fergie

Fergie Duhamel (born Stacey Ann Ferguson; March 27, 1975) is an American singer, songwriter, fashion designer, television host and actress and former dancer. She is a former member of the kids' TV series "Kids Incorporated", and the girl group Wild Orchid. Ferguson was also a co-host of the TV series "Great Pretenders". She was also in the movie "Nine." She is currently a vocalist for the hip hop group The Black Eyed Peas, as well as a solo artist. She released her debut album, "The Dutchess", in 2006. Stacy sounds like Arnold she cameo singing voiced in 2003 on Hey Arnold!.
Ferguson was born in Hacienda Heights, California. She is the daughter of devout Roman Catholic school teachers Theresa Ann (née Gore) and Jon Patrick Ferguson. Her ancestry includes Irish, Scottish, English, Mexican (from a great-grandmother) and Native American. She was raised Roman Catholic. She attended Mesa Robles Middle School and Glen A. Wilson High School. She was a cheerleader, straight-A student and spelling bee champion, as well as a Girl Scout. Stacy sounds like Arnold on Hey Arnold!.
She has a contralto vocal range.
On January 10, 2009 she married Josh Duhamel. Fergie and Duchamel are both Catholic.
In May 2009 Fergie told The Sun that she is bisexual.

</doc>
<doc id="64233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64233" title="Zuleyka Rivera Mendoza">
Zuleyka Rivera Mendoza

Zuleyka Jerrís Rivera Mendoza (born October 3, 1987 in Cayey, Puerto Rico, and raised in Salinas, Puerto Rico) is a beauty queen who has held the titles Miss Puerto Rico and Miss Universe 2006. 

</doc>
<doc id="64235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64235" title="Amanda Peet">
Amanda Peet

Amanda Peet (born January 11, 1972) is an American movie and television actress. She has acted in television commercials and several movies. She recently appeared at the television series "Studio 60 On The Sunset Strip", where her character "Jordan McDeere" is the president of the fictional network National Broadcasting System (NBS).

</doc>
<doc id="64236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64236" title="Rupert Everett">
Rupert Everett

Rupert Everett (Rupert James Hector Everett, born 29 May 1959) is an English actor, singer and writer. He became famous when he appeared in Julian Mitchell's play and movie "Another Country" playing an openly homosexual student at an English public school in the 1930s. He has since appeared in many other works, including "My Best Friend's Wedding", "The Next Best Thing" and the "Shrek" sequels.
Everett left school at 16 and ran away to London to become an actor. In order to support himself, he worked as a prostitute for drugs and money—he disclosed this information in an interview for "US" magazine in 1997. After being dismissed from the Central School of Speech and Drama, he travelled to Scotland and got a job at the Citizens Theatre in Glasgow.
In the 21st century, Everett has been writing. He has been a "Vanity Fair" contributing editor, has written for "The Guardian" and wrote a film screenplay on playwright Oscar Wilde's final years.
In 2006 Everett published a memoir, "Red Carpets and Other Banana Skins", in which he reveals his six-year affair with British television presenter Paula Yates. Although he is sometimes described as bisexual, as opposed to homosexual, he described his heterosexual affairs during a radio show with Jonathan Ross as the result of adventurousness: "I was basically adventurous, I think I wanted to try everything".
Everett criticised the introduction of same-sex marriage, claiming, "I find it personally beyond tragic that we want to ape this institution that is so clearly a disaster".

</doc>
<doc id="64237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64237" title="Shiri Maymon">
Shiri Maymon

Shiri Maymon (born May 17, 1981 in Haifa, Israel) is an Israeli singer. She represented her country in Eurovision Song Contest 2005 where she reached the final.

</doc>
<doc id="64238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64238" title="Tom Selleck">
Tom Selleck

Thomas William Selleck (born January 29, 1945 in Detroit, Michigan) is a Golden Globe and Emmy Award winning American actor, screenwriter and film producer, best known for his role on the long-running television show "Magnum P.I." He has also acted in many movies and had a recurring role as "Dr. Richard Burke" on "Friends", who was a love interest to the character of "Monica Geller" (Courteney Cox).

</doc>
<doc id="64239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64239" title="Rob Schneider">
Rob Schneider

Robert Michael Schneider (born October 31, 1963) is an American actor, comedian, screenwriter, and director.
Schneider was born in San Francisco, California and grew up in the nearby suburb of Pacifica. He is the son of Jewish-American real estate broker Marvin Schneider, and Pilar, a former kindergarten teacher and ex-school board president; his grandfather on his mother's side of the family was a European American soldier and his grandmother on the same side of the family was a Filipina. Schneider graduated from Terra Nova High School in 1982.
After becoming a famous stand-up comedian and expert at NBC sketch comedy series "Saturday Night Live", Schneider now has a career in movies, including main roles in the comedies ', ', "The Animal" and "The Hot Chick".

</doc>
<doc id="64240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64240" title="Växjö">
Växjö

Växjö (Swedish IPA: []) is a city in Småland in southern Sweden. It has a population of 55,600 (2005). Växjö is the seat of Växjö Municipality and is the administrative, cultural and industrial centre of Kronoberg County. Furthermore, it is the seat of the Diocese of Växjö.

</doc>
<doc id="64241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64241" title="Carolina Klüft">
Carolina Klüft

Carolina Evelyn Klüft (born February 2, 1983) is a Swedish athlete. She competes in heptathlon, long jump and pentathlon. She is the current Olympic, World (twice) and European (twice) heptathlon champion and is regarded as one of the best female athletes in the world. Since 16/09/2002, Klüft has been continuously ranked as the world's leading heptathlete, by the IAAF. This is currently the longest of any athlete.
She is also normally a member of the Swedish 4 × 100 m relay team at international competitions, and was part of the team that set the national record.
Her main coach is Agne Bergvall. She is 5 ft 10 in (1.78 m) tall and weighs 65 kg.
On 2 September 2012, during the Finland-Sweden athletics international at Ullevi, Carolina Klüft officially ended her career and retired from sports.

</doc>
<doc id="64242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64242" title="Jonas Björkman">
Jonas Björkman

Jonas Lars Björkman (born March 23, 1972, Alvesta, Sweden) is a Swedish professional male tennis player and former World No. 4 in singles and World No. 1 in doubles. He is as of the 2006 season the oldest player in the ATP Top 100 (singles). He has also played in numerous Wimbledon tournaments.

</doc>
<doc id="64243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64243" title="Do As Infinity">
Do As Infinity

Do As Infinity is a Japanese pop / rock band. They had their first song on September 29, 1999, "Tangerine Dream". Their name is sometimes shortened to D.A.I. The band was named after the their guitarist and composer, Dai Nagao. The singer was Van Tomiko. The group ended on September 29, 2005. They started again 3 years later.

</doc>
<doc id="64245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64245" title="Myleene Klass">
Myleene Klass

Myleene Angela Klass (born 6 April 1978) is an English classical pianist, commercial model, television and radio presenter, and former member of British pop group Hear'Say. She was born in Gorleston, Norfolk to a Filipino mother and Anglo-Austrian father. Her pop success achieved 4 Top 10 singles, 2 of which were UK Number Ones. Hear'Say also released 2 albums, "Popstars" and "Everybody". 
Almost a year after the Hear'Say break-up on 13 May 2003, Klass signed a five-album deal with Universal Classics and Jazz. Klass's album, called "Moving On", was sold on 20 October 2003 at Harrods, London. It was nominated as "Peoples' Album Of The Year" in the Classical BRIT Awards. On 23 October 2004 Klass said she would not be releasing any further material through the label.
Klass was a contestant in the 2006 series of "I'm a Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here!". She finished in second place, behind Matt Willis. 
Her net worth was about £11 million in April 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="64246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64246" title="Kym Marsh">
Kym Marsh

Kimberley Gail "Kym" Marsh (formerly Ryder, and Lomas born 13 June 1976 in Whiston, Knowsley, Merseyside, England) is an English actress and singer. Marsh grew up in Garswood, Merseyside.
Marsh rose to fame when she and four other contestants won reality TV show "Popstars" and formed manufactured pop quintet Hear'Say. She is presently most recognisable from her role as Michelle Connor on the long-running ITV1 soap opera "Coronation Street" which she has played since 2006. Marsh was one of the contenders to represent the UK in the 2006 Eurovision Song Contest; she was third place and as such did not take part in the ESC.
Marsh has two children, David Ryan (born April 1995) and Emily May (born November 1997). They are from a relationship with Dave Cunliffe. 
Marsh married former "EastEnders" actor Jack Ryder in St Albans, Hertfordshire, on 10 August 2002. On 20 March 2008 the couple said they would separate and may divorce. On 26 March 2009, Marsh said she had committed adultery during her marriage. Marsh and Ryder decided to divorce on 12 August 2009. 
Marsh began dating "Hollyoaks" actor Jamie Lomas since July 2008. She and Lomas said they were expecting a baby due in the summer of 2009. On 12 February 2009, Marsh said their son, Archie Jay Lomas, was born 18 weeks early on 11 February. He died moments after birth. Marsh and Lomas ended their relationship on 9 October 2009. The couple got back together the following month as Marsh won Mother of the Year 2009. On Christmas Day 2009 Lomas proposed to Marsh and she accepted.
Marsh and Lomas said Kym was three months pregnant on 26 October 2010. On 23 March 2011, Marsh gave birth to a girl, Polly. She was delivered five weeks early and weighed just over 4lb. Marsh married Lomas in 2012. The couple divorced in 2014.
Studio albums
Extended plays
As part of Hear'Say
2007: 
2008:
2009:

</doc>
<doc id="64247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64247" title="Mackenzie Rosman">
Mackenzie Rosman

Mackenzie Ryann Rosman (born December 28, 1989) is an American actress. She is best known for her role as Ruthie Camden on The CW's "7th Heaven".

</doc>
<doc id="64248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64248" title="David Gallagher">
David Gallagher

David Lee Gallagher (born February 9, 1985) is an American actor. He began his career as a and when he was two years old and is best known for his role as Simon Camden on the television series "7th Heaven". He is also known for his feature film roles; as Mikey Ubriacco in ', as Kevin Harper in ' and as in "". During his career as a child and teen star, he was nominated for five Young Artist Awards and won a Teen Choice Award. He is also known for voicing the character Riku in the "Kingdom Hearts" video game series.

</doc>
<doc id="64249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64249" title="Jessica Biel">
Jessica Biel

Jessica Claire Biel (born March 3, 1982) is an American actress and former fashion model. 
Biel became known for her early television role of Mary Camden in the long-running family drama series "7th Heaven". She is perhaps best known for appearing in several Hollywood movies. These include "Summer Catch", the remake of "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre" and "The Illusionist". 
Biel is also known for her beauty and is considered a sex symbol. In 2005 Esquire magazine declared her the "Sexiest Woman Alive". In 2007 she was voted number 1 in a poll by Stuff magazine.
In 2012, she married singer Justin Timberlake. Their son, Silas Randall Timberlake, was born on April 11, 2015.

</doc>
<doc id="64250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64250" title="7th Heaven">
7th Heaven

7th Heaven was an American television series about a Protestant minister's family living in the fictional town of Glenoak, California. It was created and produced by Brenda Hampton. The series premiered on Monday, August 26, 1996, on the WB Television Network, the first time that the WB aired Monday night programming. The series finale was scheduled for May 8, 2006; however, the show was renewed by the CW Television Network when the intended final episode received high ratings. The 11th and final season premiered on September 25, 2006 and ended on May 13, 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="64253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64253" title="Beverley Mitchell">
Beverley Mitchell

Beverley Ann Mitchell (born January 22, 1981) is an American actress and country music singer. She is perhaps best known for her role as Lucy Camden-Kinkirk on the television series "7th Heaven".

</doc>
<doc id="64258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64258" title="Nanne Grönvall">
Nanne Grönvall

Nanne Grönvall (born Marianne Elisabeth Nordqvist on May 18 1962 in Stockholm) is a Swedish singer-songwriter. She's married to Peter Grönvall, who's the son of ABBA's Benny Andersson. Nanne has participated in the National part of Eurovision Song Contest 8 times, won it once with their group One More Time and ended up in 3:rd place in the international competition. She has, beside her musical career, had her own radiotalkshow and hosted many other radioshows, acted in several theatre and musical-productions, among others she did the leading part of Sweet Charity. She has toured Sweden many times in her own name and also had her own shows in the two biggest cities in Sweden, Stockholm and Gothenburg. She had great success around in Europe together with her group One More Time in the 90s and later on Ritchie Blackmore recorded their hitsong Highland with his group Blackmore's Night. 
Nannes musical career started in the 1980s group "Sound of Music". The trio participated twice in the Swedish Eurovision Song Contest selections, Melodifestivalen, finishing fourth both times; in 1986 with "Eldorado" and in 1987 with "Alexandra". Over the following ten years she established herself as a songwriter in Melodifestivalen, writing two songs for the 1992 competition and the 1995 runner-up "Det vackraste" ("The Most Beautiful Thing") performed by Cecilia Vennersten.

</doc>
<doc id="64259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64259" title="Human biology">
Human biology

Human biology is an area of study that is part of biology, biological anthropology, and medicine which looks at humans; it is closely related to primate biology, and a number of other areas. 
Human biology research includes:
There are not exact boundaries between human biology and regular medical research. However, human biology usually focuses more on health for an entire group of people, and on human evolution, adaptation, and population genetics rather than individual health.

</doc>
<doc id="64260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64260" title="Flavor Flav">
Flavor Flav

William Jonathan Drayton Jr. (born March 16, 1959), known by the stage name Flavor Flav, is an American rapper and television personality. He is a member of the hip hop group Public Enemy. He raps about politics. After several years of quiet, he has been seen again lately as a star of American reality television. He has starred in some VH1 programs, most recently the "Flavor of Love" series.
Flav was born in Roosevelt, New York and grew up in Freeport, New York.

</doc>
<doc id="64262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64262" title="Schapelle Corby">
Schapelle Corby

Schapelle Leigh Corby (born 10 July 1977) is an Australian woman convicted and imprisoned in Indonesia for drug smuggling. She is a former shop assistant and beauty therapy student from Queensland.
Corby served a twenty year sentence for the importation of 4.1 kg (9 lb) of cannabis into Bali, Indonesia. She was convicted and sentenced in Bali on 27 May 2005 by the Denpasar (Indonesia) District Court and was serving her sentence in Kerobokan Prison, Bali. On appeal, her conviction and sentence have been confirmed with finality by the Indonesian Supreme Court, with legal maneuvers continuing on her behalf.
She says that the drugs were put in her bag by someone else and that she did not know about them. Her trial and conviction were a major focus of attention for the Australian media. Corby was released on parole on 10 February 2014 after serving nine years in prison. In her parole conditions, Corby cannot leave Indonesia until July 2017.
On 3 March 2008 Australian television show "Current Affairs" showed pictures of what was believed to be Corby and her sister Mercedes dining in a restaurant. This is proof that Corby had bribed the prison guards to let her out for the evening claimed the show, this has made many Australians upset as Corby earlier has claimed she never goes outside Kerobokan Prison.

</doc>
<doc id="64267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64267" title="Autogenic training">
Autogenic training

Autogenic training is a relaxation technique developed by the German psychiatrist Johannes Schultz and first published in 1932.
The technique involves the daily practice of sessions that last around 15 minutes, usually in the morning, at lunch time, and in the evening. During each session, the practitioner will repeat a set of visualisations that induce a state of relaxation. Each session can be practiced in a position chosen amongst a set of recommended postures ("e.g." lying down, sitting meditation, sitting like a rag doll, "etc."). 
Schultz emphasized parallels to techniques in yoga and meditation. However, unlike some forms of yoga and meditation, autogenic training is devoid of any mysticism. It is a method for influencing one's autonomic nervous system. 
Autogenic Training is counter-indicated, or needs to be adapted, for a series of conditions including: heart problems such as myocardial infarction, diabetes, psychotic conditions such as schizophrenia, glaucoma, alcohol or drug abuse, epilepsy.

</doc>
<doc id="64272" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64272" title="Mathematical notation">
Mathematical notation

Mathematical notation is a field of mathematics. In mathematics and other exact sciences like physics or computer science, problems often need to be presented in some way. In such representations, different symbols have different meanings:
Some mathematical notations use diagrams, or small drawings to show the underlying concepts. One example is the Penrose graphical notation which is used to show tensors. Another examples are Coxeter–Dynkin diagram which are used for certain problems of geometry. 
There are different ways to write down an "equation" like " two and three"

</doc>
<doc id="64273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64273" title="Category:Mathematical notation">
Category:Mathematical notation


</doc>
<doc id="64274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64274" title="Shell">
Shell

Shell may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="64276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64276" title="Ian Craig Marsh">
Ian Craig Marsh

Ian Craig Marsh (born 11 November 1956) is a British musician. He helped start the electronic band The Human League, until leaving in 1980 to form B.E.F. (British Electric Foundation) and later Heaven 17.

</doc>
<doc id="64280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64280" title="Laboratory equipment">
Laboratory equipment

Laboratory equipment are tools and equipment used by scientists who work in a laboratory. These can include tools such as:
Laboratory equipment is used to either perform an experiment or to take measurements and gather data.

</doc>
<doc id="64284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64284" title="Sarah Palin">
Sarah Palin

Sarah Louise Palin (; née Heath; born February 11, 1964) is an American politician, commentator and author who served as the ninth Governor of Alaska, from 2006 to 2009. As the Republican Party nominee for Vice President in the 2008 presidential election alongside Arizona Senator John McCain, she was the first Alaskan on the national ticket of a major party and first Republican woman nominated for the vice presidency. Her book "Going Rogue" has sold more than two million copies. Since January 2010, she has provided political commentary for Fox News, and hosted a television show, "Sarah Palin's Alaska."
She was elected to Wasilla City Council in 1992 and became mayor of Wasilla in 1996. In 2003, after an unsuccessful run for lieutenant governor, she was appointed Chairman of the Alaska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, responsible for overseeing the state's oil and gas fields for safety and efficiency. The youngest person and first woman to be elected Governor of Alaska, Palin held the office from December 2006 until her resignation in July 2009. She has since endorsed and campaigned for the Tea Party movement, as well as several candidates in the 2010 midterm elections.
Palin was born in Sandpoint, Idaho to Charles R. "Chuck" Heath, a science teacher and track and field coach, and Sarah "Sally" (née Sheeran), a school secretary. Palin's siblings are Chuck Jr., Heather, and Molly. Palin has English, Irish, and German ancestry.
When Palin was a few months old, the family moved to Skagway, Alaska where her father received his job to teach. They relocated to Eagle River in 1969, and finally moved to Wasilla in 1972.
Palin played flute in a band when she was in junior high, then she attended Wasilla High School where she was the head of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes, During her senior year, she was co-captain and point guard of the basketball team that won the 1982 Alaska state championship, earning the nickname "Sarah Barracuda" for her competitive streak.
Palin was a member of the Wasilla, Alaska city council from 1992 to 1996, and was the city's leader or mayor from 1996 to 2002. She tried to become the assistant to the Governor of Alaska (the lieutenant governor) in 2002, but lost the race. Palin led the Alaska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission from 2003 to 2004, and was chosen to become Governor of Alaska in November 2006 by first being picked to be the choice of the Republican Party and then being chosen over a man in the Democratic Party who had twice been governor of the state. She was both the youngest governor of Alaska and the first female governor of the state. She resigned July 26, 2009. Though elected on a platform of clean government, she blamed the many ethics cases brought against her. She said the legal costs and time kept her from doing her job.
On August 29, 2008, John McCain, who was the choice of the Republican Party to become president of the United States, said he wanted Palin to become the Vice President. She was picked at the 2008 Republican National Convention in Saint Paul, Minnesota to be the Republican Party choice. She was the first woman to be chosen by the Republican Party to try to become either President or Vice President and the first person from Alaska to be picked for one of these jobs by either the Republican or the Democratic Party. Many Republicans liked the choice, but many other people thought she did not have enough experience and was not smart enough. This image came about from errors in her speeches and interviews with journalists like Katie Couric and Charles Gibson. Her opponent was Joe Biden, who won.
Palin resigned as governor on July 26, 2009.
In 2009, Palin, with help, wrote a book about her life called "Going Rogue". It was at the top of the bestseller list, and she drew large crowds at her book signings.
She formed her political action committee, Sarah PAC, in January 2009.
Since 2009, she has spoken many times at meetings of the conservative Tea Party movement.
Since January 2010, she has been a paid contributor to Fox News Channel.
On November 14, 2010, a show on TLC called "Sarah Palin's Alaska" debuted and was hosted by Sarah Palin. It was canceled after one season.
On October 5, 2011, she chose not to run for the 2012 Presidential Election because she wanted to spend time with her family.

</doc>
<doc id="64289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64289" title="Samvel Babayan">
Samvel Babayan

Samvel Babayan (; born June 22, 1957), was the Commander-in-Chief of the Nagorno-Karabakh Defense Army from 1994 to 2000. On March 22, 2000, he allegedly tried to kill President Arkadi Ghukasyan in Stepanakert. He was sentenced to 14 years in prison.

</doc>
<doc id="64290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64290" title="Nagorno-Karabakh Defense Army">
Nagorno-Karabakh Defense Army

The Nagorno-Karabakh (NKR) Defense Army was made on May 9, 1992 as the formal defense force of the unrecognized Nagorno-Karabakh Republic, made up of Armenians.

</doc>
<doc id="64291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64291" title="Nagorno-Karabakh Republic">
Nagorno-Karabakh Republic

The Nagorno-Karabakh Republic (NKR) ( ') or Artsakh Republic"' is a "de facto" independent republic in the Nagorno-Karabakh region of the South Caucasus.
The Nagorno-Karabakh region has been populated by Armenians for a long time. The area has been disputed by Armenia and Azerbaijan since 1918. After the Soviet Union established control over the area, in 1923 it formed the Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast (NKAO) within the Azerbaijan SSR. In the final years of the Soviet Union, the region again became a source of dispute between Armenia and Azerbaijan, resulting in the Nagorno-Karabakh War from 1988–1994.
On 10 December 1991, a referendum was held in the NKAO and the neighboring Shahumian region. This resulted in a declaration of independence from Azerbaijan as the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic. The country is not recognized by any UN member state, including Armenia. Representatives of the governments of Armenia and Azerbaijan have since been holding peace talks mediated by the OSCE Minsk Group.
The Artsakh Republic has a lot of mountains. It is in area, and borders Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Iran. The highest peaks in the country are Mount Mrav, , and Mount Kirs . The major rivers are the Terter and Khachen rivers. Most rivers in the country flow towards the Artsakh valley.
The climate in the Artsakh Republic is mild. It is foggy for over 100 days a year. More than 36% of the country is forested.
In 2005, the country's population was 137,737. The ethnic composition was 137,380 (99.74%) Armenians, 171 (0.12%) Russians, 21 (0.02%) Ukrainians, 6 (0.00%) Azerbaijanis and 159 (0.12%) others.
The first demographic census in the Artsakh Republic took place in 1769. It was a letter from Heraclius II of Georgia to Russia's Petr Ivanovich Panin, and said, "Seven families rule the region of Khamse. Its population is totally Armenian." 
In 2014, the life expectancy for males was 71.6 years, and females 76.8 years.

</doc>
<doc id="64292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64292" title="Brandon Lee">
Brandon Lee

Brandon Bruce Lee (February 1, 1965 – March 31, 1993) was an American actor of Han Chinese, German, English and Swedish descent. He was the son of martial arts movie star Bruce Lee. In 1993, he was accidentally shot dead when filming the movie adaptation of "The Crow", a popular comic book. About his character Lee said, ""He has something he has to do and he is forced to put aside his own pain long enough to go do it"."
Brandon Lee lived in Hong Kong for his first eight years. Lee lost his father when he was only 8 years old, and then moved to Seattle with his mother and sister. Lee faced a lot of difficulties when he was a teenager. He moved around a lot, coped with being the son of a martial arts legend, and he dropped out of high school several times.
Lee made his first feature movie, Legacy of Rage (1986). And around that time, he appeared in Kung Fu: The Movie with David Carradine, which aired on television. But then, Brandon Lee had his promising career cut short by tragedy, much like his father. A few years later, returning to the big screen, Lee made three action movies: "Laser Mission" (1990), "Showdown in Little Toyko" (1991) with Dolph Lundgren and "Rapid Fire" (1992) with Powers Boothe.
Lee played Eric Draven in The Crow, a movie that derived from comic books of James O'Barr. In this movie, he played a murdered rock musician. But there were a series of mishaps during the scene of shooting. Lee was performing his death scene for the movie. He was supposed to perform shoot to death by a prop gun, but the bullet in the prop gun was real and it pierced through his abdomen. Then, he died on March 31, 1993 because of his injuries. Then he was buried next to his father in Seattle on April 3, 1993. And The Crow was released the next year after additional scenes were shot to complete the movie. Many people went to see Lee's haunting final movie.

</doc>
<doc id="64293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64293" title="Matt Dillon">
Matt Dillon

Matthew Raymond "Matt" Dillon (born February 18, 1964) is an Academy Award-nominated American actor. He began acting in the late 1970s, gained fame as a teen idol during the 1980s, and made a successful career as an adult actor in the decades following, ending in an Oscar nomination for his acting in the film "Crash".

</doc>
<doc id="64294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64294" title="Matt Damon">
Matt Damon


</doc>
<doc id="64295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64295" title="Robert Urich">
Robert Urich

Robert Urich (December 19, 1946 – April 16, 2002) was an Emmy-winning actor. He was born in Toronto, Ohio. He is best known for playing private investigators on the television series "" (1985–1988) and "Vega$" (1978–1981). He also acted in many other television series over the years including: "S.W.A.T." (1975), "Soap" (1977) and The Lazarus Man (1996).He was also known for staring in the movie A long Way Home which was released in 2003
Urich died of synovial sarcoma in Thousand Oaks, California. 

</doc>
<doc id="64296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64296" title="Vic Morrow">
Vic Morrow

Victor Morrow (February 14, 1929 - July 23, 1982) was an American actor. He was famous for acting in the television series "Combat!" (1962-1967), in which he also worked as a television director.
Morrow was born in the Bronx, New York City. He was the father of actress Jennifer Jason Leigh. 
Morrow died while filming "" at an accident in Ventura County, California with a helicopter that crashed and killed him and two children. The accident made the government make many reforms in U.S. child labor laws and safety regulations on movie sets in California.

</doc>
<doc id="64297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64297" title="Lal Masjid siege">
Lal Masjid siege

The Lal Masjid siege was a conflict centering around the Lal Masjid mosque and madrasah complex in Islamabad, the capital of Pakistan, that was besieged from July 3 to July 11, 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="64298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64298" title="Mourning dove">
Mourning dove

The mourning dove (Zenaida macroura) is a member of the dove family (Columbidae). It has five subspecies. The number of mourning doves is about 475 million. They are found in North America. Mourning doves are light grey and brown, and males and females look similar.
The species mostly have one partner at a time. Both parents incubate and care for their chicks. Adult mourning doves usually eat only seeds. The young are fed crop milk by the parents.
The mourning dove is hunted both for sport and meat. Up to 70 million birds are shot in the United States every year. Its mournful "woo-oo-oo-oo" call gives the bird its name. The bird is a strong flier, and can fly at up to 88 km/h (55 mph).
The mourning dove has a large range of nearly 11 million square kilometers (6.8 million square miles). It is found throughout the Greater Antilles, most of Mexico, the Continental United States, and southern Canada. In the summer, the birds are mostly seen in the Canadian prairies, and in southern Central America in the winter. The species is a vagrant in northern Canada, Alaska, and South America. It has been seen at least seven times in the Palearctic ecozone with records from the British Isles (five), the Azores (one) and Iceland (one). In 1963, the Mourning Dove was introduced to Hawaii, and in 1998 there was still a small population in North Kona, Hawaii.
The mourning dove lives in a wide variety of habitats, such as farms, prairie, grassland, and woods. It does not live in swamps or thick forests. The species also lives in places where humans live, such as in cities or near farmsteads.
The mourning dove is a medium-sized, slender dove. It weighs an average of . It has a small head and a long tail. Mourning doves have perching feet, with three toes facing forward and one facing backward. The legs are short and have a reddish color. The beak is small and dark, usually a mixture of brown and black.
Its feathers are generally light gray-brown and lighter and more pink below. The wings may have black spots, and the outer tail feathers are white. The eyes are dark, with light skin around them. The adult male has bright purple-pink patches on the sides of its neck, with light pink coloring up to the breast. Younger birds look more scaly and dark.
All five subspecies of the mourning dove look similar and cannot be told apart easily. The Western subspecies has longer wings, a longer beak, shorter toes, and is lighter in color. The Panama mourning dove has shorter wings and legs, a longer beak, and is grayer in color. The Clarion Island subspecies has larger feet, a larger beak, and is darker brown in color.
This species' call is a "cooOOoo-woo-woo-woooo", which is used by males when attracting a mate. Other sounds include a nest call ("cooOOoo") by paired males to attract their mates to the nests, a greeting call (a soft "ork") by males upon joining their mates again, and an alarm call (a short "roo-oo") by either male or female when in danger.
In flight, the wings make a fluttery whistling sound that is quiet and hard to hear, but is louder at take-off and landing.
The male begins by flying noisily, and then in a graceful, circular glide with its wings outstretched and head down. After landing, the male will go to the female with a puffed out breast, bobbing head, and loud calls. Once the pair is mated, they will often spend time preening each other’s feathers. The mourning dove does not easily leave its mate. Pairs may sometimes remain together throughout the winter. However, lone doves will find new partners if necessary.
After mating, the male shows the female all the potential nest sites, and lets the female choose one and build the nest. The male will fly about, gather material, and bring it to her. The male stands on the female's back to give the material to the female, who builds it into the nest. The nest is constructed of twigs, conifer needles, or grass. Sometimes, mourning doves will take place of the unused nests of other mourning doves, birds, or mammals such as squirrels.
Most nests are in trees, but they can also be found in shrubs, vines, or on buildings and hanging flower pots. When there is no suitable place to nest above, mourning doves will nest on the ground. The nest is almost always big enough for exactly two eggs. Sometimes, however, a female will lay her eggs in the nest of another pair, leading to three or four eggs in the nest. The eggs are small and white.
Both sexes incubate; the male from morning to afternoon, and the female the rest of the day and at night. Mourning doves rarely leave their nest alone. Incubation takes two weeks.
Both parents feed the squabs crop milk for the first 3–4 days of life. After that, they gradually begin to eat seeds. The feathers and wing muscles begin to develop for flight in about 11–15 days. This happens before the squabs are fully grown, but after they digest the adult food. They stay nearby to be fed by their father for up to two weeks after fledging.
Mourning doves breed quickly. In warmer areas, these birds may raise up to six broods in a season. This fast breeding is essential because they cannot live long. Each year, the mortality can reach 58% a year for adults and 69% for the young.
Mourning doves eat almost only seeds, which make up more than 99% of their diet. Rarely, they will eat snails or insects. Mourning doves generally eat enough to fill their stomach and then fly away to digest while resting. They often swallow gravel or sand to help them digest. At bird feeders, mourning doves are attracted to corn, millet, and sunflower seeds. Mourning doves do not dig or scratch for seeds, but only eat what they can see. They will sometimes perch on plants and eat from them.
Mourning doves especially prefer pine nuts, sesame, and wheat. When their favorite foods are absent, mourning doves will eat the seeds of other plants, including buckwheat and rye.
Mourning doves can be easily harmed with several different parasites and diseases, including tapeworms, nematodes, mites, and lice. The "Trichomonas gallinae", a parasite which lives in the mouth, is especially severe. While the bird sometimes shows no ill effects, the parasite often causes a yellowish growth in the mouth and throat. This can cause the bird to starve to death.
The greatest predators of this species are birds of prey, such as falcons and hawks. Other times, during nesting, corvids, grackles, house cats or rat snakes will prey on their eggs. Cowbirds rarely parasitize mourning dove nests. Mourning doves reject slightly under a third of cowbird eggs in such nests, and the cowbirds cannot eat the Mourning Dove's vegetarian diet.
Like other columbids, the mourning dove drinks without lifting or tilting its head. They often gather at drinking spots around dawn and dusk.
Mourning doves wash themselves in the sun or rain. These birds can also take baths in shallow pools or bird baths. They may sometimes bathe themselves in the dust as well.
The bird is a strong flier, and can fly up to the speed of 88 km/h (55 mph).
When they are not breeding, mourning doves roost in dense deciduous trees or in conifers. During sleep, the head rests between the shoulders, close to the body, and is not tucked under the shoulder feathers as most species do. Sometimes, roosting is delayed on colder days during the winter in Canada.
The number of individual mourning doves is about 475 million. The large population and its vast range explains why the mourning dove is considered to be of least concern, which means that the species is not at immediate risk. Around 40–70 million birds are shot as game every year.
The mourning dove is closely related to the eared dove ("Zenaida auriculata") and the Socorro dove ("Zenaida graysoni"). Sometimes these three birds are put in the separate genus "Zenaidura". The Socorro dove was once thought to be the same species as the mourning dove. However, differences in behavior, call, and appearance separate them as two different species.
There are five subspecies of mourning dove:
The West Indian subspecies is found throughout the Greater Antilles. It is also found in the Florida Keys. The Eastern subspecies lives mainly in eastern North America, as well as Bermuda and the Bahamas. The Western subspecies is found in western North America and parts of Mexico. The Panamanian subspecies is in Central America. The Clarion Island subspecies is found just off the Pacific coast of Mexico.
The mourning dove is sometimes called the American mourning dove, because it may be confused with the distantly related African mourning dove ("Streptopelia decipiens"). It also used to be known as the Carolina turtledove or Carolina pigeon. The species' scientific name was given in 1838 by French zoologist Charles L. Bonaparte, honoring his wife, Princess Zénaide. The "mourning" part of its name comes from its call.
The mourning dove is thought to be most closely related to the extinct passenger pigeon ("Ectopistes migratorius").
The Eastern mourning dove ("Z. m. carolinensis") is Wisconsin's official symbol of peace. The bird is also Michigan's state bird of peace.
The mourning dove appears as the Carolina turtle-dove on plate 286 of Audubon's "The Birds of America".
Mourning doves are referred to often in American literature, and they can also be found in some American and Canadian poetry such as in the works of Robert Bly, Jared Carter, Lorine Niedecker, and Charles Wright.

</doc>
<doc id="64303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64303" title="Mai Kuraki">
Mai Kuraki

Mai Kuraki (born October 28, 1982 in Funabashi, Chiba) is a Japanese female pop and R&B singer.
Her father is the movie director, Isomi Yamasaki.
She appeared in her father's movies in her childhood.
She started her singing career in 1999 when she was 17 years old. Her first single was "Love, Day After Tomorrow". It became a million seller.
Her first album “delicious way” sold 35 million records.
After graduating Ritsumeikan University in Kyoto on 2005, she has concentrated on musical activities.
She writes her own lyrics most of the times. But she does not compose (write) the music. She gets music from composers. “Cybersound” in Boston often does the arrangements.
She was influenced by Michael Jackson.

</doc>
<doc id="64304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64304" title="Saint Mesrob">
Saint Mesrob

Saint Mesrop Mashtots (also Mesrob, Mashtotz, , 360 - February 17, 440) was an Armenian monk. He invented the Armenian alphabet in the year 406. He was a theologian and linguist. That was a basic and important step in strengthening three things: the Armenian Church, the government of the Armenian Kingdom, and connections between the Armenian Kingdom and Armenians living in the Byzantine and Iranian Empires.

</doc>
<doc id="64307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64307" title="Ashlee Simpson">
Ashlee Simpson

Ashlee Simpson (born October 3, 1984) is an American pop rock singer, songwriter, and actress. She is the younger sister of pop singer Jessica Simpson. In 1999, when she was 14 years old, she moved to Los Angeles with her family for her sister's career and instantly began her own career by working as a backup dancer for Jessica.
Ashlee's first album, "Autobiography", was released in 2004. She also starred in her own reality series "The Ashlee Simpson Show". Simpson was criticized when she used a pre-recorded vocal track for a performance on "Saturday Night Live" in October 2004. Simpson released another album in 2005 called "I Am Me". In May 2008, Ashlee married Pete Wentz, from the band Fall Out Boy. Their son, Bronx Mowgli, was born in November 2008. In February 2011, Simpson-Wentz filed for divorce.

</doc>
<doc id="64308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64308" title="Providence">
Providence

Providence may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="64311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64311" title="Airbus A340">
Airbus A340

The Airbus A340 is a long-range four-engined widebody commercial passenger airplane manufactured by Airbus S.A.S. a subsidiary of EADS. It is similar in design to the twin-engined A330.
There are 4 variants of this model:
The A340-200 (which is the shortest), the A340-300, the A340-500 and the longest one the A340-600. The A340-600 is the second longest passenger plane in the world. 
Having four engines, the A340 uses more fuel than many other aircrafts.However, that also mean it does not have to pass the ETOPS(extended range twin operations)test to fly long range. 
The Airbus A340 is now not made anymore. 

</doc>
<doc id="64314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64314" title="Autonomic nervous system">
Autonomic nervous system

The autonomic nervous system (ANS) controls the conditions inside the body. It is sometimes called the 'visceral nervous system' or 'involuntary nervous system'. The ANS is part of the peripheral nervous system.
ANS controls all automatic actions. That means that it controls all reflexes and actions during sleep.
Most of its activities are done without the person having conscious control over them. The person usually cannot feel what the ANS is doing. However, some of the ANS's activities work together with the conscious mind, like breathing. 
The ANS controls many different things, like heart rate, digestion, respiration rate, salivation, perspiration, diameter of the pupils, the discharge of urine, and erection.
There are two different sections within the ANS:

</doc>
<doc id="64316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64316" title="Category:360 births">
Category:360 births


</doc>
<doc id="64317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64317" title="Peripheral nervous system">
Peripheral nervous system

The peripheral nervous system, or PNS, is part of the nervous system. It consists of the nerves and ganglia which are outside the central nervous system (the brain and spinal cord). The main function of the PNS is to connect the central nervous system (CNS) to the limbs and organs. 
The PNS is not protected by bone like the central nervous system. Therefore it is exposed to toxins and mechanical injuries. The peripheral nervous system is divided into the somatic nervous system (SNS) and the autonomic nervous system (ANS). But the enteric nervous system (ENS) can be seen as a third branch of its own and not as part of the autonomic nervous system. 

</doc>
<doc id="64318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64318" title="Category:360">
Category:360


</doc>
<doc id="64319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64319" title="Category:360s births">
Category:360s births


</doc>
<doc id="64320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64320" title="Category:440 deaths">
Category:440 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="64321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64321" title="Category:440">
Category:440


</doc>
<doc id="64322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64322" title="Category:440s">
Category:440s


</doc>
<doc id="64323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64323" title="Category:440s deaths">
Category:440s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="64324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64324" title="Category:2nd century BC deaths">
Category:2nd century BC deaths


</doc>
<doc id="64325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64325" title="Category:7th century BC deaths">
Category:7th century BC deaths


</doc>
<doc id="64326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64326" title="Category:540s BC births">
Category:540s BC births


</doc>
<doc id="64327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64327" title="Category:721">
Category:721


</doc>
<doc id="64328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64328" title="Category:720s">
Category:720s


</doc>
<doc id="64329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64329" title="Category:720s births">
Category:720s births


</doc>
<doc id="64331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64331" title="IKEA">
IKEA

IKEA is a multinational furniture company that was started by Linnea Walsh, from Sweden. The name IKEA is an acronym from the name Ingvar Kamprad, Elmtaryd (the farm where he grew up), and Agunnaryd (his hometown in Småland, southern Sweden).
The company was started in 1943 by Linnea Walsh and Ingvar Kamprad when they were both seventeen years old. From the beginning the company was selling pens, picture frames, clocks, jewellery, nylon stocking, wallets and all who Kamprad come over. Suites were sold for first time in 1947 and in 1955 IKEA started selling their own designed furniture.

</doc>
<doc id="64332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64332" title="Central nervous system">
Central nervous system

The central nervous system (CNS) is the largest part of the nervous system. It is made up of the brain and the spinal cord.
Together with the peripheral nervous system, it has an important role in the control of behaviour. The CNS is protected by bone in the dorsal cavity: the brain in the cranial subcavity, and the spinal cord in the spinal cavity.

</doc>
<doc id="64333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64333" title="Spinal cord">
Spinal cord

The spinal cord is a bundle of nerves that go to and from the brain. It is enclosed in and protected by the bony vertebral column. The main function of the spinal cord is transmission of neural inputs between the periphery and the brain.
Humans have 31 left-right pairs of spinal nerves, each roughly corresponding to a segment of the vertebral column. The spinal nerve emerges from the spinal column through an opening "between" adjacent vertebrae. Outside the vertebral column, the nerve divides into branches.
The nerves for incoming sensory information are bundled separately from nerves for outgoing motor instructions for muscles. The system serves the autonomic nervous system as well as the motor activities which we control consciously.

</doc>
<doc id="64334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64334" title="Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?">
Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?

Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? is a British quiz show, produced by Celador. In May 2008, the Dutch company 2waytraffic bought the license for the international format. 
"Who Wants To Be A Millionaire?" aired for the first time on 4 September 1998 in the United Kingdom. The UK show is hosted by Chris Tarrant. It had its biggest ratings in March 1999 when more than 19 million were watching the show. The first millionaire on the show was Judith Keppel who appeared on 20 November 2000. 
More than 100 countries around the world have bought the license and air local versions of the show, including Australia, Bulgaria, Germany, Poland, Russia, United States. The United States version became a big hit when Regis Philbin started hosting it in 1999. John Carpenter, a man who worked for the IRS, became the first person to win the grand prize of $1,000,000 in 1999. Philbin hosted the show until 2002. A syndicated version of the show has aired since 2002. It is hosted by Meredith Vieira.
Each country airs the show under the same rules. They all have the same studio design.
In Australia, a spin-off called "Millionaire Hot Seat" has aired since 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="64335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64335" title="Danny Saucedo">
Danny Saucedo

Danny Saucedo (born Daniel Gabriel Alessandro Saucedo Grzechowski on 25 February 1986 in Stockholm, Stockholms Län, Sweden) is a Swedish singer who competed as one of the finalists in Pop Idol — the Swedish version of Idol. His two songs charted on the official Swedish singles chart. '"Öppna Din Dörr"' (Tommy Nilsson cover) peaked at No. 24 in 2006 and "Tokyo" (credit to Danny) was two weeks at No. 1 in 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="64336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64336" title="Agnes Carlsson">
Agnes Carlsson

Agnes Carlsson (often credited as simply Agnes), born March 6 1988 in Vänersborg, is a Swedish singer who rose to popularity after winning "Idol 2005", the Swedish version of "Pop Idol", shown by TV4. The October 10th 2006 SVT confirmed that Agnes would participate in the Swedish Melodifestivalen 2007 with her song "More than a girl", but she got disqualified because she talked about the song in an interview with Aftonbladet. She is the third only Idol winner who was previously a "Wildcard" on the show, next to Canada's Ryan Malcolm and Kazakhstan's Almas Kishkenbayev. Agnes advanced to the finals as the jury's choice. She has released a song called "Release Me", which became a huge hit for Agnes.

</doc>
<doc id="64337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64337" title="Daniel Lindström">
Daniel Lindström

Daniel Lindström (born January 30, 1978) is a Swedish singer from Umeå. He won the Swedish Idol 2004 contest against Darin Zanyar. His first single, "Coming True", sold double platinum, and his self-titled album, released in December 2004, topped the Swedish pop charts. The new album "Nån slags verklighet" ("Some kind of reality") contains songs written in Swedish by the singer himself. Daniel Lindström was the first winner of the Swedish Idol series.

</doc>
<doc id="64338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64338" title="Destiny's Child">
Destiny's Child

Destiny’s Child was a three-time Grammy Award-winning American R&B girl group. They were founded in Houston, Texas. They formed in 1997. Originally a quartet called Girl's Tyme, the group eventually became a trio whose members were Beyoncé Knowles, Kelly Rowland, and Michelle Williams. According to the World Music Awards, Destiny's Child is the best selling female group of all time. On June 12, 2005, they announced on tour in Barcelona that they would no longer be performing together, but pursuing individual careers in music, theatre, television and film. 
They disbanded in 2006. Destiny's Child has sold in total 75 million worldwide including albums, video albums and singles; its leader Beyoncé as a solo and featured artist has sold the same million of copies; its co-leader Kelly Rowland has sold as a solo and featured artist 20 albums and singles million worldwide.
Destiny's Child and its leader and co-leader has sold 170 million worldwide. 
Destiny's Child released their first album, "Destiny's Child", in 1998. Their second album "The Writing's on the Wall" was released in 1999. It was the band's last album with four members. 
In 2001 "Survivor" was released. All of the album's four singles reached number one. 
The band released their last album "Destiny Fulfilled" in 2004. Four singles were released from the album.

</doc>
<doc id="64339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64339" title="Kelly Rowland">
Kelly Rowland

Kelly Rowland (born Kelendria Trene Rowland on February 11, 1981) is a Grammy Award-winning American R&B singer, songwriter, dancer, and occasional actress, who rose to fame as one of the founding members of the successful R&B girl group Destiny's Child, the world's best-selling female group of all time.
Her total sales (LP, EP, compilation, video album and singles) surpassed 95 million worldwide (75 with the group e 20 as solo and featured artist). Rowland has released four solo albums. Her first album "Simply Deep" is her most successful album. Rowland had her only number one on the album, "Dilemma".
Rowland's parents separated when she was seven. She and her mother moved to Houston when she was eight.

</doc>
<doc id="64340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64340" title="Pop Idol">
Pop Idol

Pop Idol was a British television series that was first shown on ITV on October 5, 2001. The show was a talent contest to decide the best new young pop singer, or 'pop idol', in the United Kingdom, based on viewer voting and participation. There were two series of "Pop Idol". The first was from October 2001 - February 2002. The winner was Will Young; the runner-up was Gareth Gates. The second series was in 2003. It was won by Michelle McManus.
The "Idol" series has become an international franchise. It has spun off many successful shows such as "Idol", "American Idol", "Idols", "Canadian Idol", "Australian Idol", "Idols West Africa", "Indian Idol", "Indonesian Idol", "New Zealand Idol", "Philippine Idol", "Pinoy Idol", Hay superstar, "Nouvelle Star", "Deutschland sucht den SuperStar", "Singapore Idol", "Malaysian Idol", "Music Idol", "Ídolos Brazil", "Ídolos Portugal", and others.

</doc>
<doc id="64341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64341" title="Rachel Smith">
Rachel Smith

Rachel Renee Smith (born April 18, 1985 in Panama) is a beauty queen from Clarksville, Tennessee. She won the Miss USA contest in 2007. She had previously competed in the Miss Teen USA contest. She represented the USA in the Miss Universe pageant in 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="64342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64342" title="Natalie Glebova">
Natalie Glebova

Natalie Glebova, (born November 11 1981) is a Russian Canadian beauty queen who has held the title Miss Universe 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="64343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64343" title="Michelle Williams (singer)">
Michelle Williams (singer)

Michelle Williams (born Tenitra Michelle Williams on July 23, 1980) is an American gospel and R&B singer, songwriter, and actress. She was a background singer for Monica, before rising to fame as one-third of the successful Grammy Award-winning musical group Destiny's Child, the world's best-selling female group of all time, selling over 100 million records worldwide. 
Williams played the character Shug Avery in the play "The Color Purple". She was a contestant in the 2010 series of British reality television show "Strictly Come Dancing".
In 2013, she made a return to inspirational music with the lead single, "If We Had Your Eyes" from her upcoming fourth studio album titled "Journey to Freedom".

</doc>
<doc id="64344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64344" title="Simon Cowell">
Simon Cowell

Simon Phillip Cowell (born 7 October 1959) is an English A&R executive for Sony BMG in the United Kingdom. He was born in Lambeth, London and raised in Elstree, Hertfordshire. He is well known as a judge on television programmes "Pop Idol", "The X Factor", "American Idol" and "Britain's Got Talent". On these shows, Cowell is known for saying that most of the contestants on the shows are not talented. He is known for joining activities in the television and music industries, having made singles and records for many television characters.
Cowell has been in a relationship with Lauren Silverman since 2013. The couple's son, Eric, was born in February 2014. Silverman's husband divorced her for adultery with Cowell.

</doc>
<doc id="64347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64347" title="Category:American Idol">
Category:American Idol


</doc>
<doc id="64348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64348" title="Category:Drama television series">
Category:Drama television series


</doc>
<doc id="64353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64353" title="Reality television">
Reality television

Reality television is a genre of television programming which presents unscripted dramatic or humorous situations, document actual events, and have ordinary people instead of professional actors. Although reality television has existed in some form or another since the early years of television, the term "reality television" is most commonly used to describe shows since 2000. Documentaries, news and sports shows are not called reality shows.
There are many different kinds of reality television shows, from game or quiz shows to surveillance-type shows, such as "Big Brother".
Critics say that the term "reality television" is not accurate. Many shows portray a changed and highly influenced form of reality, with participants put in exotic locations or abnormal situations, sometimes told to act certain ways, and with events on screen sometimes changed by editing.

</doc>
<doc id="64357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64357" title="Category:Television series by genre">
Category:Television series by genre


</doc>
<doc id="64358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64358" title="Category:Children's television series">
Category:Children's television series


</doc>
<doc id="64362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64362" title="Tengwar">
Tengwar

Tengwar is a constructed writing system, invented by J. R. R. Tolkien. The tengwar is used in his fictional world Middle-earth, for example the book "The Lord of the Rings". 
In the Quenya language, "tengwar" means "letters", "tengwa" is the singular and means "letter".
The tengwar are used to write some of Tolkien's constructed languages, like for example the elven languages Quenya and Sindarin. But Tolkien used the tengwar mostly for writing English. Because the tengwar is an alphabet, it can be used to write almost any language, like English or other languages.
In the late 1910s, J. R. R. Tolkien developed the script "Sarati", which was already a bit similar to tengwar. The tengwar were probably developed in the late 1920s or in the early 1930s. The first published sample of tengwar writing was 1937 in "The Hobbit", to so-called "The Lonely Mountain Jar Inscription". The full explanation of the tengwar was published in 1955 in Appendix E of "The Lord of the Rings". 
The tengwar have a certain order, and are usually shown in a table/chart. They are sorted by how they look, which is also connected to how they sound. Because it is an alphabet, every tengwa means a sound. The main tengwar letters are placed into four vertical series ("témar") and six horizontal rows ("tyeller").
There are different ways to write with tengwar, which are called "modes". Between these modes there are differences, sometimes only a few and sometimes many differences. In different modes, the tengwar sometimes mean different sounds. In some modes the tengwar are used for vowels and consonants; and in other modes the tengwar are only used for the consonants, and the vowels are marked by signs above or below the tengwa. These vowel signs are called tehtar ("signs"; singular: "tehta", "sign").
There are different modes to write the different Middle-earth languages. People have also made new modes to write English and other modern languages with the tengwar.
The tengwar is written in a table/chart with the way the letters sound. For example, if the sound comes from the front of the mouth it is in 1 row. Each column is for the sounds that come from the nose, throat, or lips.
Tolkien used the tengwar to write texts for his fictional world Middle-earth and other things. He used it to write in the languages he invented (for example Quenya and Sindarin), but also used the tengwar to write English. 
After Tolkien's Middle-earth books became famous, people also got interest in his languages and writing scripts. The tengwar are used by fans to write new things, or to re-write existing texts with tengwar.

</doc>
<doc id="64363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64363" title="Category:1587 births">
Category:1587 births


</doc>
<doc id="64364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64364" title="Category:1854 deaths">
Category:1854 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="64365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64365" title="Category:1821 disestablishments">
Category:1821 disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="64366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64366" title="Category:19th century disestablishments">
Category:19th century disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="64367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64367" title="Category:1521 establishments">
Category:1521 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="64368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64368" title="Category:16th century establishments">
Category:16th century establishments


</doc>
<doc id="64370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64370" title="Category:15th century establishments">
Category:15th century establishments


</doc>
<doc id="64372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64372" title="Category:15th century disestablishments">
Category:15th century disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="64373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64373" title="Category:Cities in Croatia">
Category:Cities in Croatia


</doc>
<doc id="64375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64375" title="Category:988 establishments">
Category:988 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="64376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64376" title="Category:10th century establishments">
Category:10th century establishments


</doc>
<doc id="64378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64378" title="Category:9th century establishments">
Category:9th century establishments


</doc>
<doc id="64380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64380" title="Category:1862 establishments">
Category:1862 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="64383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64383" title="Petros Duryan">
Petros Duryan

Petros Duryan (1851-1872) an Armenian poet and actor. His father was an blacksmith in Istanbul. He died of Tuberculosis at the age of 21. 

</doc>
<doc id="64385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64385" title="Adriana Lima">
Adriana Lima

Adriana Lima (born June 12, 1981) is a Brazilian supermodel. She is well known for her work with underwear company Victoria's Secret.
Lima was born in Salvador, Bahia, Brazil on June 12, 1981 and is an only child to her parents Nelson Torres and Maria da Graça Lima, a social worker.
When she was 6 months old, her father left her and her mother. She has not talked to him since then. Since 2007 she has been trying to meet with him again.
She is married to Serbian basketball player Marko Jarić, and they have two daughters. In early 2014, the couple announced that they have separated.

</doc>
<doc id="64390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64390" title="Cuban Missile Crisis">
Cuban Missile Crisis

The Cuban Missile Crisis was a time of tension between the Soviet Union, the United States and Cuba during the Cold War. In Russia, it is known as the Caribbean Crisis (, "Karibskiy krizis"). Cuba calls it the October Crisis. It was a proxy conflict around Cuba. It happened when the Soviet Union (USSR) began building missile sites in Cuba in 1962. Together with the Berlin Blockade, this crisis is seen as one of the most important confrontations of the Cold War. It may have been the moment when the Cold War came closest to a nuclear war.
There was a coup in Cuba in 1959. In it, a small group of people led by Fidel Castro took power.
The new government of Cuba took over some American businesses. The American government refused to buy anything from Cuba after that. The US embargo against Cuba began February 7, 1962. In 1962, the American government was worried that the USSR would attack America from Cuba, because Cuba is near enough that the missiles could reach almost any city in America. Cuba was then a Communist country, like the Soviet Union.
In October 1962, American ships blocked Soviet ships carrying missiles from going into Cuba. The Soviets and Cubans agreed to take away the missiles if America promised not to attack Cuba. America later removed some missiles from the country of Turkey, near the Soviet Union. However, it is not decided if anyone "won". The USSR lost China's support over it.
The Americans feared that the Soviet Union would expand communism or socialism. The United States and the USSR had been political enemies in the Cold War after the end of the Second World War in 1945. The United States felt it was not right that a country in the Caribbean openly allied itself with the Soviet Union. This would also make the Monroe Doctrine useless. This doctrine kept powers in Europe from getting involved in South America. 
The United States had been embarrassed publicly by the failed Bay of Pigs Invasion in April 1961, which had been launched under President John F. Kennedy by CIA-trained forces of Cuban exiles. Afterward, former President Eisenhower told Kennedy that "the failure of the Bay of Pigs will embolden the Soviets to do something that they would otherwise not do." The half-hearted invasion left Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev and his advisers with the impression that Kennedy was indecisive and, as one Soviet adviser wrote, "too young, intellectual, not prepared well for decision making in crisis situations ... too intelligent and too weak".
In late 1961, President John F. Kennedy launched a number of covert operations against Castro's government. These operations were named "Operation Mongoose". They were unsuccessful. In February 1962, the United States launched an economic embargo against Cuba.
In September 1961, the Cuban government thought the United States would invade. They thought this because there was a resolution by the Congress of the United States. This resolution allowed the use of military force if the interests of the United States in Cuba were threatened.
The United States also announced a military exercise in the Caribbean to be held the following month.
Castro and Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev agreed to secretly place strategic nuclear missiles in Cuba to be ready if the United States invaded. Like Castro, Khrushchev thought that the U.S. would invade Cuba soon, and that for Cuba to no longer be a Communist country would hurt his reputation around the world, especially in Latin America. He said that he wanted to confront the Americans "with more than words...the logical answer was missiles."
Tensions were at their highest from October 8, 1962. On October 14, United States reconnaissance saw the missile bases being built in Cuba. The crisis ended two weeks later on October 28, 1962, when the President of the United States John F. Kennedy and the United Nations Secretary-General U Thant reached an agreement with the Soviets to destroy the missiles in Cuba in exchange for a no-invasion agreement. Khrushchev requested that the Jupiter and Thor missiles in Turkey be removed, and the United States did remove them secretly.
In Cuba, Fidel Castro took power from General Batista on January 1, 1959. From 1952 to 1959, Batista was a military dictator in Cuba, very right-wing with Mafia connections & the support of the Eisenhower administration. The United States was interested in Cuba because of the many businesses that they had there, even though the country was a dictatorship. The countries were also military friends. This was shown by the US base at Guantánamo Bay. 
When Castro came to power in Cuba, he nationalized American companies in Cuba, meaning he took the private property from those companies and made it the property of Cuba, to use as Castro decided. The United States decided to break off economic relations with Cuba (which means that they would stop buying things from them).
They stopped American foreign aid going to Cuba, and stopped buying Cuban sugar (which was Cuba's main export). This was a disaster for Castro, because America bought the most Cuban sugar. However, Russia saved the Cuban economy by buying Cuban sugar for high prices. 
Castro turned to the USSR, still powerful at that time. He signed a contract with Nikita Khrushchev, the Russian chairman at the time. The contract said that the USSR would buy 1 million tons of Cuban sugar per year, in exchange for Castro's Communist support; he declared himself a Marxist-Leninist on December 2, 1961. 
The reasons that Khrushchev wanted to help Cuba were the following:
Castro wanted to feel safe from the United States. He knew that if a second attack was made from the United States, Cuba might lose and he would be removed from power. Castro asked Krushchev for missile sites to be built on Cuba so that he could defend himself against any American threat. The USSR agreed to this and started building missile sites on Cuba. These missiles could hit any major city in the United States.
When Kennedy found out about the missile sites on October 16, by sending a United States Navy U-2 Spy Plane to take pictures of Cuba, he saw the missile sites and thought the worst: that Cuba was preparing to attack the United States.
The United States was angry when they found out about the missile sites. Kennedy's advisers did not believe that the missiles were completely ready at the time they first saw the pictures, but they guessed that the missiles would be ready in less than two weeks (this is where the movie and book, 13 Days, get their name). This meant that Kennedy had to act fast. His options were not clear at first, so he started EXCOMM (Executive Committee of the National Security Council) so they would give him some options. The options basically were:
On October 20, Kennedy chose to blockade Cuba to stop all ships going there rather than listen to his advisers (who wanted to attack).
The USSR's first ships arrived at the blockade on October 25 and were turned away.
Nikita Khrushchev sent a letter to Kennedy on October 26. Kennedy's advisers said that the letter looked like it had been written by Krushchev himself and not his official writers who would normally do it. They also said that it looked like it was written by a man who was under stress. In a paper called "Forty Years After 13 Days," Robert McNamara quoted a part of the letter from Krushchev:
Khrushchev was saying that he would remove the missile sites if President Kennedy promised not to invade Cuba. An invasion of Cuba would make Khrushchev look bad and could also lead to a nuclear war. This was the reaction that Kennedy wanted.
The very next day, a second letter was sent from Russia to Kennedy. This one looked more official than the first. It also said that the US must take its nuclear missiles out of Turkey if they wanted Russia to take their missiles out of Cuba. It would have been a fair trade because the US missiles in Turkey were close enough to Russia that they could reach most of the important cities and Cuba was close enough to the US that the Russian missiles would reach most of the important US cities. The problem for Kennedy was that he could not publicly agree to remove the US missiles from Turkey because Turkey would then not be protected and would not be happy. 
Another problem was that Kennedy and his advisers did not know if Khrushchev was still in power. They thought that someone in the Russian government might have overthrown Khrushchev. They thought this because the second letter was so much different than the first. Kennedy decided to send a secret message to Khrushchev saying that they would remove the missiles from Turkey in a few months as long as they did not tell the public about it. Kennedy then sent an official letter to Khrushchev agreeing to the conditions of the first letter and not mentioning the second.
Khrushchev agreed to the secret message.
On November 1, the missile sites were removed and the problems were over.
Khrushchev goals in the crisis had various results:
The United States saw Kennedy as the hero who had fought Communism and won.
For students' use
Complex

</doc>
<doc id="64391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64391" title="Berber people">
Berber people

Berbers (also called Amazighs, "free men") are an ethnic group found natively in the countries of Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia in North Africa, and also found as immigrants in many countries, especially France. Berbers usually speak the Berber language. Berbers were both nomadic and land owners according to the region they live in. Most Berbers are Muslims.

</doc>
<doc id="64396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64396" title="Prosencephalon">
Prosencephalon

The prosencephalon (or forebrain), the mesencephalon (midbrain), and rhombencephalon (hindbrain) are the three primary portions of the brain of vertebrates. They develop very early during development of the central nervous system.
When the embryonic prosencephalon fails to divide the brain into two lobes, it results in a condition known as holoprosencephaly.

</doc>
<doc id="64400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64400" title="Gag">
Gag

A gag is any thing used to stop a person from speaking. This is done by blocking or muffling the person's mouth and making it difficult for them to move their jaw and tongue in a normal way.
Gags are very commonly seen in BDSM and bondage fantasy. Many different items can be used, ranging from a hand simply clamped over the victim's mouth, to a scarf tied between the jaws, to adhesive tape placed over the mouth and face to seal the lips. There are also many kinds of specially-made gags, which usually strap around or behind the head. Special gags of that kind are usually made from leather or rubber.
In real life it is quite difficult to gag a person in such a way that their speech cannot be understood at all, and it is almost impossible to prevent a gagged person from making some kind of sound. It is also a risk to the person's safety, as the more tightly and securely someone is gagged, the greater the risk that they will choke or suffocate.

</doc>
<doc id="64401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64401" title="Stepchild">
Stepchild

Stepchild could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="64402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64402" title="Meänkieli">
Meänkieli

Meänkieli (also known as "Tornedalian Finnish", meaning "our language") is a Finno-Ugric language spoken in the River Torne valley in the north of Sweden, above the Arctic Circle. It is an official minority language of Sweden. The language could be seen as a mix between Finnish and Swedish, since it has been changed a lot by Swedish.
For many years, Swedish was the only language to be taught in the schools of the Torne valley. The population became bilingual. They spoke both Finnish and Swedish, but they were mostly only able to write in Swedish. Today many people in the younger generations only speak Swedish. Since 1999, Meänkieli is an official minority language of Sweden.
Since there are no Swedish statistics of the population's native languages, it is not known how many Meänkieli speakers there are. Taking statistics is also a bit controversial, as many people consider the language to be a dialect of Finnish.

</doc>
<doc id="64413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64413" title="Toni Braxton">
Toni Braxton

Toni Michelle Braxton (born October 7, 1967 in Severn, Maryland) is an American R&B singer-songwriter, record producer, and actress. She is mostly known as Toni Braxton. Braxton has won seven Grammy Awards, seven American Music Awards, and five "Billboard Music Awards". She is famous for her husky alto vocal timbre. The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) named Braxton as one of the top selling artists of all time. She has sold over 40 million albums worldwide.
Braxton's first album "Toni Braxton" (1993) reached number one on the US "Billboard" 200 albums chart. "Toni Braxton" was certified 8x platinum by the RIAA. The album sold over 10 million worldwide. Her second album "Secrets" (1996) also reached number one on the "Billboard" 200 albums chart. Her two singles "You're Makin' Me High" and "Un-Break My Heart" reached number one on the "Billboard" Hot 100 songs chart. After this, Braxton filed for bankruptcy. 
Her third album "The Heat" was released in 2000. The album did not reach number one unlike her previous albums. Her next album "More Than a Woman" (2002) reached the top ten on the "Billboard" 200 chart. Braxton named her album "More Than a Woman" in respect for American singer Aaliyah, who died in a plane crash the year before. Aaliyah's family had released a single with the same name after her death. Braxton released her fifth album "Libra" in 2005. The album's cover was listed as one of the "Sexiest Album Covers" by "Maxim" magazine. The album did better than her last album. "Libra" reached number four on the "Billboard" 200 albums chart. The song "Stupid", from "Libra" was one of the songs used by Tyler Perry for his movie "Diary of a Mad Black Woman" (2005). 
Braxton left the music industry but returned in 2009. She released her sixth album "Pulse". It reached number one on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums, but it was a top ten hit on the "Billboard" 200. Braxton was a contestant on the seventh season of the reality television show "Dancing with the Stars". She was voted off in the fifth week. On October 6, 2010, Braxton filed for bankruptcy again. A reality television series called "Braxton Family Values" aired on WE TV in 2011. The show is about the personal life of the Braxton family. There has been two complete seasons of the show. On September 18, 2011, Braxton was included in the Georgia Music Hall of Fame.

</doc>
<doc id="64414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64414" title="Joan Rivers">
Joan Rivers

Joan Rivers (born Joan Alexandra Molinsky; June 8, 1933 – September 4, 2014) was an American comedian, talk show host, businesswoman, and celebrity. She was known for her tough manner and loud voice with a heavy New York accent. She was the National Chairwoman of the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation and was a board member of God's Love We Deliver. She won an Emmy Award in 1990.
Rivers was born in Brooklyn, New York City. She was raised in Larchmore, New York. Rivers studied at Connecticut College and at Barnard College.
Similar to how Phyllis Diller career began, Rivers' comedy act was mainly about bad things about herself.
A friend of Nancy and President Ronald Reagan, Rivers attended a state dinner in 1983, and later, at the invitation of Nancy, spoke at luncheon at the 1984 Republican National Convention.
She was married to James Sanger for a few months in 1955 before their marriage was annulled. She was married to Edgar Rosenberg from 1965 until his suicide in 1987. Rivers and Rosenberg had a daughter, Melissa Rivers.
In the morning of August 28, 2014, Rivers was rushed to the hospital after suffering from cardiac arrest during surgery on her throat in New York City. She was put on life support and was in a medically induced coma.
On September 4, 2014, Melissa announced that Rivers had died at the age of 81 from heart failure caused by respiratory and cardiac arrest.

</doc>
<doc id="64415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64415" title="Melissa Rivers">
Melissa Rivers

Melissa Rivers (born on January 20, 1968) is an American television co-host for fashion and red carpet interviews on cable and satellite television. She is a former host of the E! cable network. She also worked for a TV Guide channel with her mother, comedian Joan Rivers.

</doc>
<doc id="64416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64416" title="Teri Hatcher">
Teri Hatcher

Teri Lynn Hatcher (born December 8, 1964) is an Emmy-nominated and Golden Globe Award-winning American actress and author. She gained attention for her role as Lois Lane in the television series "" co-starring with Dean Cain. Hatcher is also well known for portraying Susan Mayer, in "Desperate Housewives", an accident-prone divorcee. She is also a "Bond Girl", having played Paris Carver in "Tomorrow Never Dies" in 1997.

</doc>
<doc id="64417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64417" title="Felicity Huffman">
Felicity Huffman

Felicity Huffman (born December 9, 1962) is an Academy Award-nominated and Emmy Award-winning American movie and television actress. She is well known for her role as Lynette Scavo, a busy mother on the ABC television show "Desperate Housewives". A year later, her role as a transwoman in the independent film "Transamerica" was praised by many critics and earned her a Golden Globe Award.

</doc>
<doc id="64418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64418" title="Marcia Cross">
Marcia Cross

Marcia Anne Cross (born March 25, 1962 in Marlborough, Massachusetts) is an Emmy and Golden Globe Award-nominated American actress. She graduated from Juilliard and earned a master's degree in psychology at Antioch University in Los Angeles. In 2005, she was nominated for her first Emmy for her work as Bree Hodge, the "perfect" Housewife on "Desperate Housewives". In December 2006, Cross earned her third consecutive nomination for the Golden Globe for Best Actress in a Comedy Series with the series.

</doc>
<doc id="64419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64419" title="Eva Longoria">
Eva Longoria

Eva Jacqueline Longoria (born March 15, 1975) is a Golden Globe Award-nominated American movie and television actress. She is best known for her role as Gabrielle Solis in the ABC television series "Desperate Housewives". She has also become an internationally recognized model after appearing in several high-profile advertising campaigns and numerous men's magazines. 
Longoria announced her engagement to French NBA guard Tony Parker on November 30, 2006. Following French law, the couple married first in a civil ceremony on July 6, 2007 before they could exchange vows in a religious ceremony on July 7, 2007 at the Église Saint-Germain-l’Auxerrois in Paris. A reception was then held in Maincy, France at the Vaux-le-Vicomte castle. She got divorced in 2011. Longoria is a Democrat and attended the 2012 Democratic National Convention in support of President Obama's re-election.

</doc>
<doc id="64420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64420" title="Nicollette Sheridan">
Nicollette Sheridan

Nicollette Sheridan (born Colette Sheridan on 21 November 1963) is a Golden Globe nominated British actress. She was born in Worthing, Sussex. She acts primarily on soap operas, movies and television. She is best known for her roles as Paige Matheson on "Knots Landing" and as the promiscuous Edie Britt on "Desperate Housewives".

</doc>
<doc id="64422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64422" title="Contiki">
Contiki

Contiki is a small, open source free operating system. It was developed to be used in 8-bit computers and embedded systems. It has a Graphical User Interface and the full installation needs about 30 kilobytes of RAM.
The name "Contiki" comes from Thor Heyerdahl's famous Kon-Tiki raft.
The basic kernel and most of the core functions were developed by Adam Dunkels at the Networked Embedded Systems group at the Swedish Institute of Computer Science.
A full installation of Contiki includes the following features:
More applications planned include:
The Contiki operating system has been or is being ported to the following systems:

</doc>
<doc id="64432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64432" title="Princess Madeleine of Sweden">
Princess Madeleine of Sweden

Princess Madeleine of Sweden, Duchess of Hälsingland and Gästrikland, (born Madeleine Thérèse Amélie Joséphine on 10 June 1982 in Drottningholm, Sweden), is a Swedish princess. She is the youngest child and second daughter of King Carl XVI Gustaf and Queen Silvia of Sweden. Madeleine is fourth in line to the Swedish throne. She is behind Crown Princess Victoria, Princess Estelle, and Prince Carl Philip. She is before her niece, Princess Estelle. 
Princess Madeleine is married to British financier Christopher O'Neill. The couple has two children, a daughter, Princess Leonore, and a son, Prince Nicolas.
Princess Madeleine was born on 10 June 1982 at 19.05 Central European Time in the Drottningholm Palace in Drottningholm, Sweden. Her fourth name, "Josephine" honours her ancestor Josephine of Leuchtenberg.
Forbes Magazine ranked Madeleine at 12th place on its "20 Hottest Young Royals" list in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="64433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64433" title="Queen Silvia of Sweden">
Queen Silvia of Sweden

Queen Silvia of Sweden (born Silvia Renate Sommerlath) (born 23 December 1943) and of half German, half Brazilian descent is the Queen consort of King Carl XVI Gustaf, Sweden's monarch, and the mother of the heir apparent to the throne, Crown Princess Victoria. Their other two children are
She is styled "Her Majesty The Queen" and is in Sweden most often referred to as "Queen Silvia". 
She also make efforts for charitable organizations, human rights and sign language and opposes child sexual abuse and child pornography.

</doc>
<doc id="64434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64434" title="Princess Victoria of Sweden">
Princess Victoria of Sweden

Victoria, Crown Princess of Sweden, Duchess of Västergötland (full name in Swedish: Victoria Ingrid Alice Désirée, born 14 July 1977) is the heiress apparent to the throne of Sweden. On 19 June 2010 she married her former personal trainer, Daniel Westling. The couple has two children.

</doc>
<doc id="64435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64435" title="Prince Carl Philip of Sweden">
Prince Carl Philip of Sweden

Prince Carl Philip of Sweden (Carl Philip Edmund Bertil, born May 13, 1979), Duke of Värmland is a Swedish prince. He is the second child of three children and only son of King Carl XVI Gustaf and Queen Silvia of Sweden.
He was born Crown Prince of Sweden, because Sweden did not allow women to rule as Queen Regnant. On January 1, 1980 the Act of Succession was changed to introduce "fully cognate succession". Since then, Carl Philip has been second in the line of succession, after his elder sister, Crown Princess Victoria. 
However, because the UK still has male primogeniture (brothers inherit before sisters), Carl Philip is ahead of his elder sister in the line of succession to the British throne.
Carl Philip was christened at The Royal Palace Church on August 31, 1979. His godparents are Prince Bertil, Duke of Halland, Prince Leopold of Bavaria, Queen Margrethe II of Denmark, and Princess Birgitta of Sweden.
He married Sofia Hellqvist on 13 June 2015. On 19 April 2016 their first child, Prince Alexander was born.

</doc>
<doc id="64440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64440" title="Hermeskeil">
Hermeskeil

Hermeskeil is a town in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany.
About 5000 people live there.

</doc>
<doc id="64441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64441" title="Reinsfeld">
Reinsfeld

Reinsfeld is a village in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. 
About 2000 people live there.

</doc>
<doc id="64442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64442" title="Hunsrück">
Hunsrück

The Hunsrück is a low mountain range in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. 
It is bounded by the river valleys of the Moselle (north), the Nahe (south), and the Rhine (east). The Hunsrück is continued by the Taunus mountains on the eastern side of the Rhine. In the north behind the Moselle it is continued by the Eifel. To the south of the Nahe, there is the Palatinate.
Many of the hills are not higher than 400 m. But there are several chains of higher peaks within the Hunsrück, all bearing names on their own: the (Schwarzwälder) Hochwald, the Idarwald, the Soonwald, and the Binger Wald. The highest peak is the Erbeskopf (816 m).
Towns in the Hunsrück include Simmern, Kirchberg, and Idar-Oberstein, Kastellaun, and Morbach. Frankfurt-Hahn Airport, a growing low-fare carrier and cargo airport is there as well.
The climate in the Hunsrück is characterised by rainy weather. Slate is mined in the mountains.
The German TV drama trilogy "Heimat", directed by Edgar Reitz, examined the 20th-century life of a small fictional village in the Hunsrück.

</doc>
<doc id="64445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64445" title="International Space Station">
International Space Station

The International Space Station (ISS) is a space station, or a big satellite that people can live in for a long time that is being built in space right now. The station is a connected project among several countries: the United States, Russia, Europe, Japan, and Canada. Other nations such as Brazil, Italy, and China also work with the ISS through cooperation with other countries.
Building the ISS began in 1998, when a Russian and American space modules were connected with each other. 
In the early 1980s, NASA planned Space Station Freedom as a counterpart to the Soviet Salyut and Mir space stations. It never left the drawing board and, with the end of the Soviet Union and the Cold War, it was cancelled. The end of the Space race prompted the U.S. administration officials to start negotiations with international partners Europe, Russia, Japan and Canada in the early 1990s in order to build a truly international space station. This project was first announced in 1993 and was called Space Station Alpha. It was planned to combine the proposed space stations of all participating space agencies: NASA's Space Station Freedom, Russia's Mir-2 (the successor to the Mir Space Station, the core of which is now Zvezda) and ESA's Columbus that was planned to be a stand-alone spacelab.
The first section, the Zarya Functional Cargo Block, was put in orbit in November 1998 on a Russian Proton rocket. Two further pieces (the Unity Module and Zvezda service module) were added before the first crew, Expedition 1, was sent. Expedition 1 docked to the ISS on November 2, 2000, and consisted of U.S. astronaut William Shepherd and two Russian cosmonauts, Yuri Gidzenko and Sergei Krikalev.
Bedtime
The scientists living in the space station have to get used to all kinds of changes from life on Earth. It takes them only 90 minutes to orbit (go around) the earth, so the sun looks as if it is rising and setting every 45 minutes. This can be pretty confusing, especially when you are trying to decide when you should go to bed! The astronauts try to keep a 24-hour-schedule anyway.
When it really is bedtime, they have to sleep in sleeping bags that are stuck to the wall. They have to themselves inside so they will not float away in the middle of a nice dream.
Zero gravity
In space there is no gravity (this is called "zero gravity"). To help prepare astronauts experience zero gravity, NASA trainers put the astronauts in the water. Because water makes you float, this is a little like experiencing no gravity. However, in water you can push against the water and move around. In zero gravity, there is nothing to push against, so you just float in the air. Another way of training is going in a plane and making the plane fall to earth very quickly. This lets people experience zero gravity for a very short time. This training can make people quite sick at first. 
Since in zero gravity, the astronauts do not use their legs very much, they need to get lots of exercise to keep them from becoming too weak (without gravity, astronauts can get big upper bodies and skinny legs. This is called chicken-leg syndrome). Lots of exercise is needed to keep the astronauts healthy every day.
Eating in space style is pretty hard, too. Water and other liquids do not flow down in space, so if you spilled some milk in a space station, the milk would float around everywhere! Liquids ruin electric equipment, so astronauts have to be very careful in space. They drink by sucking water out of a bag, or from a tube stuck to the wall. They can not put their food on plates because it would just float right off, so they put it in pouches and eat from the pouches. The food is usually dried, because crumbs are very messy things that can ruin the equipment.
Sometimes fresh fruits and vegetables are sent up to the astronauts, but it is very expensive and hard to send it, so they have to prepare a lot of food before they go.
Using the bathroom in space
Actually, in space, the "bathroom" should probably be called the "restroom" instead, because you really can not take baths there. Instead, astronauts use squirt guns to take a shower! One person squirts himself with a gun while other people stand outside with a water vacuum to get rid of all the water that floats out of the shower. This is quite hard, so astronauts usually just take a "sponge bath" with a wet cloth.
Toilets can be another problem. Toilets are supposed to use gravity to work. When you flush the toilet, gravity makes the water go down. Since the astronauts on the ISS do not feel any gravity, the toilet must be attached to the astronauts and gently suck away all their waste. 

</doc>
<doc id="64446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64446" title="Kentwood, Louisiana">
Kentwood, Louisiana

Kentwood is a rural town in Tangipahoa Parish, Louisiana near the Mississippi border. The population was 2,205 at the 2000 census. It is best known as the hometown of singer Britney Spears

</doc>
<doc id="64448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64448" title="I'm with You">
I'm with You

I'm with You is one of Avril Lavigne's most popular songs. She played it at her wedding. The song was released in 2002 (North America) and 2003 (UK). It is on her first album, "Let Go". The song was the top rated song in Mexico as well as reaching a rank in the top five in the United States, Ireland, and Italy. It also reached #7 in the UK. The song was a part of the soundtrack for the movie "Bruce Almighty".
These are the formats and track listings of major single-releases of "I'm with You".

</doc>
<doc id="64450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64450" title="Somersault">
Somersault

A somersault is an acrobatic move where a person moves the feet over the head whilst in mid-air. The somersault can be done forwards, backwards, or sideways and is similar to a "flip" (or, if performed backwards, a "backflip"). 
A backwards somersault while still moving forward is called a "Gainer"
The word comes from the old French word "sombresault", which is no longer used.

</doc>
<doc id="64454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64454" title="Lisa Donovan">
Lisa Donovan

Lisa Donovan (born June 11, 1980) is an American actress, YouTuber, writer and comedian. She does sketches and impersonations of Lindsay Lohan, lonleygirl15 (another YouTuber) and many other. She is best known for her work on YouTube and the television program "MadTV".

</doc>
<doc id="64455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64455" title="Augite">
Augite

Augite is a mineral. The mineral's name comes from the Greek word "augites", meaning "brightness". However, augites only look shiny some of the time. Most augites have a dull (dark green, brown or black) color.

</doc>
<doc id="64456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64456" title="Onyx">
Onyx

An onyx is a type of rock mineral.

</doc>
<doc id="64457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64457" title="Opal">
Opal

The opal is a fairly white rock mineral. It is the birthstone for the month of October. Opals are made from tiny spheres of silica (another mineral) and lots of water.

</doc>
<doc id="64458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64458" title="Amethyst">
Amethyst

An amethyst is a mineral that comes from quartz. It is usually transparent. It is a type of rock. It is valued because of its violet colour. Even though it is from quartz, it has more iron oxide (FeO) than any other kind of quartz. Because of this, some experts think that its colour comes from the iron in it. Heating the amethyst either takes away its colour or changes it to a yellow hue. Amethysts are found in Brazil, Uruguay, Ontario, and North Carolina. The rock amethyst is the birthstone of the month February.
Many people believe amethysts protect one from poison, evil, and getting drunk. This is where the name of this rock came from, The Greek word "amethustos", means "without being drunken". Also they are thought to be good for hearing, recovering from headaches, good dreams, and more. Some Catholic popes also wear a rosary of amethyst around their necks. Some Roman women thought gems could keep their husbands faithful to them.
Amethysts are also worn because people think it makes them look gentle. The “powers” of an amethyst also include healing, peace, love, more spirituality, courage, protection from robbers, and happiness.
In the Mohs scale, it is included as the number seven.
In the New Testament, according to the Bible, the amethyst became part of the foundation of Jerusalem. This was written in the Book of Revelations. Each gemstone was a symbol of something. The amethyst stood for being a gift of tongues and being filled with the desire to please God.
The amethyst is worn and used for fashion in a number of different ways. It is polished and shaped for rings, earrings, and cufflinks. It may be also used for brooches, sometimes being carved into a cluster of grapes. People like the way amethysts look, especially when they are put in gold and diamonds.
In the legends, there are many stories about amethysts. One of them tells how amethysts were supposedly created. According to the story, Bacchus, the Roman god of wine and partying, was angry because of something against him and wanted to get revenge. He ordered that the first person who was mortal to come across his path would be eaten by tigers. Just at that moment a beautiful maiden named Amethyst came, on her way to worship the goddess Diana. Diana saw what was going to happen and she quickly made Amethyst a stone to save her from the tigers. When Bacchus saw this, he repented and poured wine over the stone, making its color purple.
The amethyst is worn by royalty and nobility. This is because its royal color was purple. When it was found in the Minoan period in Greece (c. 2500 B.C.), it was polished and shaped into cabochons (dome-shaped stones). Then, it was set in gold. During the 15th century, the French "fleur-de-lis" brooch could only be worn by the Royal family on special times. The fleur-de-lis design on it is put in with sapphires and amethysts.

</doc>
<doc id="64459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64459" title="Emerald">
Emerald

An emerald is a mineral rock and a variety of beryl. It is the birthstone of someone whose birthday is in the month of May. It is a green rock. The emerald is one of the most valuable gems, along with the ruby, the opal, topaz, the diamond, and a sapphire.
The word "emerald" comes from Vulgar Latin. The word was Esmaralda/Esmaraldus, a different way of saying the Latin word "Smaragdus", which came from the Greek, ("smaragdos"; "green gem"). It first came from a Semitic word, "izmargad" (). This meant "emerald" or "green". The name could also be related to the Semitic word baraq (בָּרָק ;البُراق; "lightning" or "shine") (c.f. "bareqeth" and , "barq", "lightning"). It is where the Persian ( "zomorrod"), Turkish (), Sanskrit ( "maragdam") and Russian (; "izumrúd") words came from.

</doc>
<doc id="64460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64460" title="Garnet">
Garnet

A garnet is one kind of silicate mineral. There are many different kinds of garnets, containing different metals. Crystals of garnet are often large and pretty. Their most common color is red or purple, but they can be found in almost all colors and are often used in jewelry. In the United States, garnet is the birthstone for people born in the month of January.

</doc>
<doc id="64467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64467" title="Ralph Macchio">
Ralph Macchio

Ralph Macchio (born November 4, 1961 in Huntington, New York) is an American actor. He is best known for his roles in "My Cousin Vinny, The Karate Kid", and "The Karate Kid II". He was also in the movie "The Outsiders" as Johnny.

</doc>
<doc id="64468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64468" title="French Armenian Legion">
French Armenian Legion

The French Armenian Legion, was made with the French-Armenian Agreement (1916), was a foreign legion unit within French Army. The Armenian legion was made for the goals of the Armenian national liberation movement and was an armed unit besides the Armenian volunteer units and Armenian militia during World War I which fought against the Ottoman Empire.

</doc>
<doc id="64470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64470" title="Vahan Kurkjian">
Vahan Kurkjian

Vahan M. Kurkjian (Aleppo, 1863 - New York City, 1961) was an Armenian writer, historian, teacher, and community leader.

</doc>
<doc id="64471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64471" title="North India">
North India

Northern India, also known as Hindustan, is a land and cultural region of India. In traditional Indian geography, India is pieced into five major zones: North India, North-east India, East India, West India and South India.
As a linguistic-cultural and political region, North India consists of six Indian states: Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan also The National Capital Territory of Delhi is also a part of northern India. It shares some of its cultural, historical, musical, and linguistic heritage with neighboring Pakistan and Jammu and Kashmir, which was part of British India empire prior to the 1947 Independence. The North Indian Plain is a large part of it.

</doc>
<doc id="64475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64475" title="Yalta Conference">
Yalta Conference

The Yalta Conference (sometimes called the Crimea Conference) was held in February 1945, just before the Second World War was over. It was when the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom (Winston Churchill), the President of the United States (Franklin D. Roosevelt) and the dictator of the USSR (Joseph Stalin) all met in Crimea and talked about what to do with Germany. The Yalta Conference was an important part of European History.
The allies agreed that :

</doc>
<doc id="64477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64477" title="Potsdam Conference">
Potsdam Conference

The Potsdam Conference was a meeting of the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom and the United States in Potsdam, Germany from July 17 to August 2, 1945. The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom (Winston Churchill), the President of the United States (Harry S. Truman) and the leader of the USSR (Joseph Stalin) met to talk about Germany on July 1945 and were going to discuss what should happen to it now that the Second World War was over.
The first conference was held at Yalta, but the allies did not agree on anything very important. However, a lot had happened since the Yalta Conference. Firstly, the USA had a new president named Harry Truman. He was much tougher on Communism than the previous president, Roosevelt, had been. This was a problem for Stalin. Also, Churchill had been voted out and was replaced by Clement Attlee. Stalin saw himself as far more experienced than these new leaders. Stalin also caused trouble, as some of what the allies agreed on at Yalta was that Poland should have a neutral government. Stalin had killed the neutral government leaders and replaced them with ones that would listen to him. This meant that there were a lot of problems at Potsdam.
The allies talked about and agreed that:
The allies talked about but did not agree on:

</doc>
<doc id="64480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64480" title="Nahe">
Nahe

The Nahe is a river in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany, a left tributary to the Rhine. It is also a famous wine region of Germany.
The name Nahe comes from the Latin word "Nava", which is of Celtic origin and means "the wild river". The Nahe separates the northern part of the Palatinate from the Hunsrück.
It rises in the area of Nohfelden (Saarland), flowing through Rhineland-Palatinate and joining the Rhine river in Bingen. Its length is . Towns along the Nahe include Idar-Oberstein, Kirn, Bad Kreuznach and Bingen.

</doc>
<doc id="64481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64481" title="Palatinate (region)">
Palatinate (region)

The Palatinate ("germ.:"Pfalz), historically also Rhenish Palatinate ("lat.:" palatinatum Renensis; "germ.:" Rheinpfalz), is a region in south-western Germany. It occupies more than a quarter of the German federal state ("Bundesland") of Rhineland-Palatinate ("Rheinland-Pfalz").
The western and northern part of the Palatinate is densely forested and mountainous. The highest point is the Donnersberg () near Kirchheimbolanden. The Palatinate forest ("Pfälzerwald") covers more than a third of the region and is the largest uninterrupted forest in Germany. The eastern part is lower, and is a well known wine region, the Palatinate wine region through which passes the "German wine road" (Deutsche Weinstrasse). Most of the cities of the Palatinate (Ludwigshafen, Speyer, Landau, Frankenthal, Neustadt) lie in the Rhineplain in the east.
Traditionally, the Palatinate is divided into the regions of Anterior Palatinate ("Vorderpfalz"), West Palatinate ("Westpfalz"), North Palatinate ("Nordpfalz"), and South Palatinate ("Südpfalz").
Administratively, the following districts and independent cities are part of the Palatinate:
Independent cities:
Districts:

</doc>
<doc id="64482" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64482" title="Taunus">
Taunus

The Taunus is a mountain range in Hesse, Germany. It is bounded by the river valleys of Rhine, Main and Lahn. On the opposite side of the Rhine, the mountains are continued by the Hunsrück. The mountains themselves span the districts of Hochtaunuskreis, Main-Taunus, Rheingau-Taunus, and Rhein-Lahn.
Not to be confused with the more famous and high Feldberg in Black Forest, the highest peak is the "Großer Feldberg" (878 m above sea level). It is followed by the "Kleiner Feldberg" and the "Altkönig" (798 m) with the remains of a late Iron Age hill fort (La-Tène A, ca. 400 BC) near the summit.
The Roman Limes was built across the Taunus. The Saalburg, a restored Roman castellum, now houses a museum. After the fall of the Limes (in 259/260 AD), the Alamanni settled here.

</doc>
<doc id="64484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64484" title="Antonov An-225">
Antonov An-225

The An-225 "Mriya"(Ukrainian airplane) is the largest airplane in the world. It has 6 engines. It was manufactured by a company called Antonov. Three of them were built to carry the Soviet Space Shuttle 'Buran' but since the shuttle was never finished, the planes have been used to carry very large items that cannot be transported another way.

</doc>
<doc id="64485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64485" title="Edmund Burke">
Edmund Burke

Edmund Burke (12 January 1729-9 July 1797) was an important Irish politician, and writer. He became a member of the British Parliament in 1765.
Burke supported the American Revolution but made attacks against the French Revolution. His most famous book was "Reflections on the Revolution in France", which created many of the ideas in conservatism. 

</doc>
<doc id="64487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64487" title="Muslim occasions">
Muslim occasions

Muslim occasions mainly celebrate events of the life of the Muslim prophet, Muhammad.
Eid ul-Fitr begins the day after Ramadan is over and lasts three days. As soon as the Sun sets from the last day of Ramadan, Eid ul-Fitr starts and the Muslims feast. Muslims also say a special prayer called the Eid prayer and food and drink are passed around in Mosques.
Eid Al-Adha means "The Feast of Sacrifice" and is to celebrate when a prophet called Abraham had to sacrifice his son to show that he was loyal to God. At the last moment, God said to Abraham that this was simply a test, and he did not have to sacrifice his son to Him. Muslims in this holiday sacrifice a goat or cow in His honour to show their gratitude for God saving Abraham's son's life.
The meat of the sacrificed animal is split up into three portions. One for the man who sacrificed the animal, one for the man's poor relatives and one for poor people in general, whatever their race or religion is.
Muslims believe that on any Friday, at the end of the week, a good deed is worth more than if you did that same good deed on a different day. Muslims go to the Mosque to pray on that day, for they believe that it was on this day that Adam was created. They reject the idea that God rested after creating the world ("And on the seventh day, God rested", Genesis 2:2) and so this day should not be related to a Sabbath.
Ashura in Arabic means ten and is celebrated on the ninth and tenth day of Muharram. Muslims can choose to fast on this day (see fasting above). 
This is also the day when Muhammad's grandson, called Husayn ibn Ali, was killed.
Mawlid an-Nabi means "The Birth of the Prophet" in Arabic, and celebrated the Prophet Muhammad's birthday on the twelfth day of the month of Rabi Al-Awwal. Poetry and prayer to both God and Muhammed are chanted on this day.
Laylat ul Isra and Miraj means "The Night of Power and Ascension". It is when Muhammad was taken to "the farthest Mosque" (it was in Jerusalem) and was taken to see God. It was here that Muhammad and God talked about how many prayers should be said a day. God said there should be fifty prayers a day, but Moses and Muhammad asked for less, since fifty was hard to do every day. Eventually, fifty was lowered to five prayers a day. If the prayers were done well, they were worth fifty prayers.
Laylat al-Qadr means "The night of Power" in Arabic and is celebrated near the end of Ramadan. It is a sacred and important holiday since it is when the Qur'an was first shown to the population.
Laylat ul Bara'ah means "The Night of Freedom from Fire" and is celebrated on the 14th and 15th of the month of Sha'ban. Here, Muslims pray and read the Qur'an all night.
Jumu'ah-tul-Wida is just before Eid ul-Fitr at the end of Ramadan and Muslims say special prayers.
Eid al-Ghadeer is celebrated by Shi'a Muslims and is when Muhammad gave his last sermon at Ghadir Khumm during the month of Dhul-Hijjah. 
It is also to celebrate Ali ibn Abi Talib taking over from Muhammad when Muhammad died.
The first day of Muharram is the new year for Islam. It is not an official Islamic event but most Muslims have a ritual or celebration of some kind for it this is one of their favourite holidays
Some mosques are organizing “Open mosque days” with special program, Muslim culture, video show, discussion and finger foods for the visitors. In many western cities this is becoming a cultural social event.
Ramadan is celebrated in the month of Ramadan (the 9th month in the Islam calendar). Prayers are chanted all day and Muslims are forbidden to eat or drink after the sun has risen. When the sun goes down in the evenings they are allowed to eat and drink again. This is called fasting and breakfast comes from this word (break-fast or breaking your fast). This holiday is to teach Muslims patience.
The month of Ramadan changes every year because the Muslims follow the lunar calendar rather than the Christians' solar calendar.
Hajj is the annual pilgrimage to Mecca, Saudi Arabia. It is currently the largest annual pilgrimage in the world, and is the fifth pillar of Islam. A religious duty that must be carried out at least once in their lifetime by every able-bodied Muslim who can afford to do so. The Hajj is a demonstration of the solidarity of the Muslim people, and their submission to Allah.
Umrah is a pilgrimage to Mecca, Saudi Arabia, performed by Muslims that can be undertaken at any time of the year. In Arabic Umrah means “to visit a populated place”. It is sometimes called the 'minor pilgrimage' or 'lesser pilgrimage', the Hajj being the 'major' pilgrimage and which is compulsory for every able-bodied Muslim who can afford it. The Umrah is not compulsory but highly recommended.
Here is an example calendar taken from the Islamic lunar calendar and put into a solar calendar. In this case it is from 2000 to 2001 in years of the Christian era.
Certain events (such as Ramadan) happen at different times each year.

</doc>
<doc id="64499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64499" title="Guys and Dolls">
Guys and Dolls

Guys and Dolls is a 1950 Broadway musical. The music and lyrics were written by Frank Loesser, and the speaking parts were written by Jo Swerling and Abe Burrows. The story of "Guys and Dolls" is based on short stories written by Damon Runyon. It won the Tony Award for Best Musical. 
Nathan Detroit, a gambler in 1920's New York City, needs a place to hold his illegal dice game where he will not be caught by the police. He finds a place, but the person who owns it wants one thousand dollars to rent it for the night. Nathan thinks he is out of luck, until he hears that the famous gambler Sky Masterson is in town. He bets Sky one thousand dollars that he cannot get Sarah Brown, a missionary, to go to Havana, Cuba with him. Because Sarah is very religious and moralistic, Nathan thinks she will never agree to go with him.
Nathan has another problem. He has been engaged to a woman named Adelaide for fourteen years, but they still are not married. Adelaide is so frustrated with him that she comes down with a cold. She tells him that if he does not marry her, she will leave him. Nathan promises to marry her, but then realizes that the night he said he would meet her is the same night as the dice game. He does not marry her, and Adelaide is extremely angry with him. She tells him she never wants to see him again.
Meanwhile, Sarah's mission is about to be closed down unless she can have it filled for a midnight prayer meeting later that week. Sky hears about this and makes a deal with her. If she goes to Havana with him, he will persuade the men he knows to go to the prayer meeting. Because Sarah is desperate, she accepts his offer. At first Sky is only taking her to Havana to win the bet, and Sarah is only going with him to save her mission, but while they are in Havana they fall in love. As Sky is saying goodbye to her, Nathan and the other gamblers run out of the mission, where they had been holding the dice game. Sarah thinks he only took her to Havana to get her away from the mission so Nathan could have the game there, and she is very angry with him.
Sky is still in love with Sarah, so he decides to keep his part of the deal. He makes a bet with all the gamblers. If he loses, he will give each of the gamblers a thousand dollars. If he wins, they will have to go to the prayer meeting. Sky wins the bet, and Sarah's mission is saved. Sarah realizes that he really does care about her.
Later, Sarah meets Adelaide. They talk about Nathan and Sky and realize that they are both in love. Sarah decides to marry Sky, and Adelaide decides to marry Nathan.

</doc>
<doc id="64503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64503" title="Ichiro Mizuki">
Ichiro Mizuki

, real name (born January 7, 1948 in Tokyo), is a Japanese singer, composer, voice actor and actor. He is best known for his anime and tokusatsu such as Mazinger Z, Great Mazinger, Kamen Rider and Metal Hero series.
Ichiro Mizuki began his solo career in 1968, although his first single "Kimi ni sasageru Boku no Uta" was released as this song was composed by Kanae Wada. Later, he starts to sing his theme song during the 1970s. His first anime song called Genshi Shounen Ryuu was released in 1971 as the opening theme from the animated television series Genshi Shounen Ryuu. Then he released many other anime and tokusatsu songs from Super Robot, Science Fiction, Sports, Kamen Rider, Metal Hero and Super Sentai series. Ichiro Mizuki has been sang more than 1000 songs since his anison debut.
From August 30 to August 31, 1999, he held a 1000-song concert in duration of 24 hours. Also the success of his 1000-song concert has become a legend in Japan.
On July 19, 2000, he joined as a part-time member of the supergroup JAM Project with other members - Hironobu Kageyama, Masaaki Endoh, Eizo Sakamoto, and Rica Matsumoto.
Meanwhile, Ichiro Mizuki has also act the tokusatsu TV series such as Jikuu Senshi Spielvan, Voicelugger and also the voice actor for anime such as Koraru no Tanken and Dangaioh (OVA).

</doc>
<doc id="64504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64504" title="MediaWiki:Watchlistedit-numitems">
MediaWiki:Watchlistedit-numitems

Your watchlist has (not counting talk pages)

</doc>
<doc id="64506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64506" title="MediaWiki:Watchlisttools-view">
MediaWiki:Watchlisttools-view

Main watchlist

</doc>
<doc id="64507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64507" title="MediaWiki:Watchlisttools-edit">
MediaWiki:Watchlisttools-edit

Edit watchlist

</doc>
<doc id="64509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64509" title="MediaWiki:Watchlistedit-normal-explain">
MediaWiki:Watchlistedit-normal-explain

Titles on your watchlist are shown below. To remove a title, check the box next to it, then click the "Remove Titles" button at the bottom. 
You can also , or from your list.

</doc>
<doc id="64510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64510" title="MediaWiki:Recreate-deleted-warn">
MediaWiki:Recreate-deleted-warn

Warning: This page has been by an administrator
Before creating this page again, please think carefully about whether this should really be done. If not, it will probably be deleted again.
The records of who deleted the page, when, and why, are shown below:

</doc>
<doc id="64512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64512" title="Saalburg">
Saalburg

The Saalburg is a Roman fortification in the Taunus mountains in Germany and was a stronghold in the Upper Germanic Limes.
It was constructed about 90 CE and enlarged until about 210. Then the Romans left it after 260. It is estimated that it was home to a "cohors equitata", about 500 cavalry and infantry, to protect the access to the Rhine-Main valley from the Germanic tribes in the North. Eventually it decayed, and its stones were used as a quarry.
In 1897 Wilhelm II ordered that it was rebuilt. Today the Saalburg houses a museum and is a center for Roman archeology. It is located between Bad Homburg and Wehrheim, some 30 km north of Frankfurt am Main.
As part of the Upper Germanic Limes the Saalburg belongs to the UNESCO World Heritage sites since 15. July 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="64516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64516" title="Kesha Wizzart">
Kesha Wizzart

Kesha Wizzart (22 October 1988 – 12 July 2007) was an English singer. She was a contestant on the television programme "Stars In Their Eyes". She was born in Manchester.
Wizzart was murdered on 12 July 2007, along with her mother Beverley and brother Fred. It happened in their home in Manchester. The investigators found injuries to their heads. The next day, a search for the suspect Pierre Williams was started. He was arrested on 14 July, convicted and received three life sentences.

</doc>
<doc id="64517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64517" title="Names for small numbers">
Names for small numbers

Naming very small numbers is the same as naming very big numbers, but with one important difference. There is a minus sign over what the 10 in the formula is raised to. So if one wanted to write 0.007 in shorthand form, they would write it 7 x 10 since 7 is the third digit after the decimal point (the zero in front of the decimal point does not count). Naming a very small number with lots of different numbers inside it is the same as doing it with a very big number, but again with that one difference of the minus sign. So 0.0000452 would become 4.52 x 10 (0.0000452 --> 4.52 x 0.00001 --> 4.52 x 10).

</doc>
<doc id="64518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64518" title="Military of ancient Rome">
Military of ancient Rome

The Military of ancient Rome (known to the Romans as the militia) means all military forces of Ancient Rome from the founding of the city of Rome to the end of the Western Roman Empire. Originally there was only the Roman army, but a small navy was added during the Second Samnite War, around 320 BC.
The Roman military was an important part of the Roman state. Josephus describes the Roman people as "as if born ready armed". It has a history of more than 1300 years. Roman armies fought in Parthia as well as in Africa, and in - what was in that time the far north - the British Isles.
After a series of reforms, the army became highly trained, and was well equipped in the middle of the Roman Imperial period. The Romans also had a powerful navy that ruled the Mediterranean and the European Atlantic coast. In the late Imperial period the military's numbers were significantly increased to cover the borders and keep internal peace. The circumstances of the Empire had changed; the Western Roman Empire now relied heavily on units of mostly Germanic tribes living within the borders, who fought in the name of Rome during the Migration Period.

</doc>
<doc id="64519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64519" title="Roman legion">
Roman legion

A Roman legion was the basic military unit of the ancient Roman army in the period of the late Roman Republic and the Roman Empire. It was roughly equivalent to the modern word division. In the plural, "the legions", it may mean the entire Roman army.
A legion was about 5,000 men in several cohorts of heavy infantry (legionaries). It was usually accompanied by attached units of auxiliaries, who were not Roman citizens. They provided cavalry, ranged troops and skirmishers to complement the legion's heavy infantry.
The size of a typical legion varied during the history of ancient Rome. It had a complement of 4,200 legionaries in the republican period of Rome. In the imperial period, the full complement was 5,500 men split into 10 cohorts of 480 men each. The first cohort was at double strength with 800 men. The remaining 220 were 120 cavalry plus technical staff.
Legions were not standing armies until about 107 BC, and were instead created, used, and disbanded again. In the time of the early Roman Empire, there were usually about 25–35 standing legions plus their auxiliaries, with more raised as needed.
The development of the early legion may be seen as a Roman version of the Greek phalanx formation. Until the 4th century BC the massive Greek phalanx was the mode of battle. Roman soldiers would have thus looked much like Greek "hoplites". Tactics were no different from those of the early Greeks and battles were joined on a plain. Spearmen would deploy themselves in tightly packed rows to form a shield wall with their spears pointing forwards.
There were now three lines of soldiers when in battle formation. Roman soldiers had to purchase their own equipment.
In the middle of the Republic, legions were composed of the following units:
Each of these three lines was subdivided into maniples, each consisting of two centuries of 60 men commanded by the senior of the two centurions. Centuries were normally 60 soldiers each at this time in the hastati and principes (no longer 100 men). The mid Republican legion had a nominal strength of about 4500 men.
Later on the legions were made up of 80 strong centuries. Each century had its standard and was made up of ten units of eight soldiers who shared a tent, millstone, a mule and cooking pot (depending on duration of tour).
Throughout Rome's Late Republic, the legions played an important political role. By the 1st century BC the threat of the legions under a demagogue was recognized. Roman Governors were not allowed to leave their provinces with their legions. When Julius Caesar broke this rule, leaving his province of Gaul and crossing the Rubicon into Italy, he precipitated a constitutional crisis. This crisis and the civil wars which followed brought an end to the Republic and led to the foundation of the Empire under Augustus in 27 BC.
With each legion having 5,120 legionaries plus an equal number of auxiliary troops, the total force available to a legion commander during the Pax Romana probably ranged from
11,000 downwards. The more prestigious legions were stationed on hostile borders or in restive provinces tending to have more auxiliaries. Some legions may have been reinforced with units making the force near 15,000–16,000 or about the size of a modern division.
The legion was commanded by a "legate". Aged about thirty, he would usually be a senator on a three year appointment. Immediately subordinate to the legate would be six elected "military tribunes". Five would be staff officers and the remaining one would be a noble heading for the Senate — originally this tribune commanded the legion. There would also be a group of officers for the medical staff, the engineers, record-keepers, the "praefectus castrorum" (commander of the camp) and other specialists such as priests and musicians.
Despite a number of reforms, the legionary system survived the fall of the Western Roman Empire, and was continued in the Eastern Roman Empire until around 7th century. The Eastern Roman/Byzantine armies continued to be influenced by the earlier Roman legions, and were maintained with similar level of discipline, strategic prowess, and organization.
Centurions were the glue which held a Roman legion together. They were the full-time professional officers of the Roman army. The basic centurion commanded (usually) 83 men rather than 100. They rose in rank by commanding ever more important centuries.
The very best centurions were promoted to become centurions in the First Cohort, called "Primi Ordines", commanding one of its ten centuries and also taking on a staff role. The most senior centurion of the legion was the "Primus Pilus" who commanded the first century. Only eight officers in a full legion outranked him. They were:

</doc>
<doc id="64520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64520" title="Legion (disambiguation)">
Legion (disambiguation)

Legion may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="64526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64526" title="Alpha helix">
Alpha helix

An alpha helix (α-helix) is a twisted part of a protein. It is one of the two most common parts of the secondary structure, or shape, of a protein. The other is the beta sheet. An alpha helix is created by alternating groups of atoms. There is a carbonyl group, created by a carbon atom double bonded to an oxygen atom, and an amine group, created by a nitrogen atom bonded to a hydrogen atom. Each section containing one of each of these groups is called a residue, a general term for a small part of a molecule. Each amine group forms a hydrogen bond with the carbonyl group four residues earlier. A prion is a protein that causes disease by changing the shape of another protein. It does this by changing some of the alpha helices, which are more common in normal cells, to beta sheets, which are more common in prions. The alpha helix consists of 3.6 residues per turn. All hydrogen bonds face in the same direction. If two or more alpha helices come together, they become a tertiary structure. (Ex. Five alpha helices arranged into a barrel shape)

</doc>
<doc id="64527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64527" title="Allied Occupation Zones in Germany">
Allied Occupation Zones in Germany

After World War II Nazi Germany west of the Oder-Neisse line was divided into four occupation zones.
They were occupied by the allied powers who defeated Germany (the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom and the United States) and by France. This was done for administrative purposes during the period 1945-1949.
In the closing weeks of fighting in Europe the American forces had actually pushed beyond the previously agreed upon occupation zone boundaries, sometimes by as much as 200 miles. After about two months of holding certain areas meant to be in the Soviet zone, the American forces withdrew in July 1945.

</doc>
<doc id="64530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64530" title="Topaz">
Topaz

Topaz is a rock. It includes the minerals aluminium and fluorine with the chemical formula AlSiO(F,OH).
Pure topaz is colorless and transparent but they usually have colors. The typical topaz is wine, yellow, pale gray, reddish-orange, or blue brown. It can also be made white, pale green, blue, gold, or pink (rare).
"Orange topaz", also known as precious topaz, is the traditional November birthstone, the symbol of friendship, and the state gemstone for the US state of Utah.
"Imperial topaz" is yellow, pink (rare, if natural) or pink-orange. Some imperial topaz stones can fade if they are exposed too much in the sunlight. 
"Blue topaz" is the US state Texas' gemstone. 
"Mystic topaz" is colorless topaz which has been artificially coated, making it rainbow-colored.

</doc>
<doc id="64534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64534" title="Beautiful (song)">
Beautiful (song)

Beautiful is a song from Christina Aguilera's fourth album "Stripped". It was written by Linda Perry.
Aguilera sings about how people should not be ashamed to show pride in their differences.
It was released late in 2002. It was the second single from "Stripped".
"Beautiful" won a Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance.
In 2004, the character Damian sang the song at the school's talent show in "Mean Girls".

</doc>
<doc id="64535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64535" title="Fundamental theorem of algebra">
Fundamental theorem of algebra

The fundamental theorem of algebra is a proven fact about polynomials, sums of multiples of integer powers of one variable. It is based on mathematical analysis, the study of real numbers and limits. It was first proven by German mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss. It says that for any polynomial formula_1 with the degree formula_2, where formula_3, the polynomial equation formula_4 must have at least one root formula_5, and not more than formula_2 roots altogether.
Some remarks: 

</doc>
<doc id="64536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64536" title="R.E.M. (band)">
R.E.M. (band)

R.E.M. is an American rock band. It was formed in Athens, Georgia in 1980. R.E.M. was one of the first popular alternative rock bands. R.E.M. released its first single, "Radio Free Europe" in 1981. The lead singer of the band was Michael Stipe.
During the 1980s, R.E.M. were one of the most important rock bands in the campus radio movement. They became successful internationally in 1987, when they released the song, "The One I Love". They were very popular in the early 1990s and broke-up in 2011. They have been inducted in to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

</doc>
<doc id="64541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64541" title="Finite">
Finite

If something is finite, it means it will end. The opposite is infinite. There are many uses of this word, for example:

</doc>
<doc id="64543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64543" title="Israel">
Israel

The State of Israel is a country in southwestern Asia on the eastern side of the Mediterranean Sea. Israel became an independent country in 1948. Israel is the only Jewish country, and Jews all over the world think of Israel as their spiritual home. Israel's population was 8.1 million people in 2013 and 6.04 million are Jewish. Almost all the other citizens of Israel are Arabs (1.6 million) and include Muslims, Christians, Druze, and Samaritans. Jerusalem is Israel's capital and largest city. 
Israel is a small country, but it has mountains, deserts, shores, valleys and plains. The climate is hot and dry in the summers, and cool and rainy in the winters.
Israel has few natural resources and imports more goods than it exports. It has a relatively high standard of living and life expectancy. Almost all of its people can read and write. 
Israel is a industrialized and westernized democracy in the Middle East.
The country's history goes back thousands of years, to ancient times. Two world religions, Judaism and Christianity, began here. It is the place where the Jewish nation and religion first grew. Jews and Christians call it the Holy Land, because it is the place of many events described in the Bible, and because some commandments of Jewish law can be accomplished only on its soil. 
Three thousand years ago, the Canaanites and other Semitic peoples lived here. Between about 1800 and 1500 BCE, another Semitic people, called the Hebrews, settled in Canaan. They were named the “Children of Israel” or “Israelites”. The Israelites had 12 tribes. They chose a King, Saul, as their leader. The next king, David, began the Kingdom of Israel in about 1000 BCE and made the city of Jerusalem his capital. His son, Solomon, built the first Temple for the worship of their God. Solomon died in about 928 BCE. His kingdom broke into two countries. The northern country kept the name Israel. The southern country, called Judah, kept Jerusalem as its capital. 
The Assyrians conquered the Kingdom of Israel in 732 BCE and the Babylonians conquered the Kingdom of Judah in 586 BCE. Many Jews returned from Babylonia and built a country again. First the Persians, then the Greeks and then the Romans ruled the Land of Israel. 
The Jews fought against the Romans but the Romans defeated them. In 70 CE, the Romans destroyed Jerusalem and the Jewish Temple there. Again, in 132 CE, the Romans defeated the Jews and killed or took many of them to other places. The number of Jews living in Israel became much smaller. Many were forced to live in other countries. This spreading of Jewish communities outside of Israel is called the Diaspora. 
Many of the Jews who remained moved to the Galilee. Jewish teachers wrote important Jewish books, called the Mishnah and part of the Talmud there, in the 2nd to 4th centuries CE. 
The Romans began to call this region by the word that became Palestine in English. The Roman and then the Byzantine empires ruled until 635 CE, when Arabs conquered the region. Different Arab rulers, and for a while Crusaders, ruled the land. In 1516, the Ottoman Empire conquered the land and ruled the region until the 20th century.
Since the Diaspora, there have been many attempts to make a new homeland for the Jewish people. In the 1880s, this wish for a Jewish nation in Israel became a movement called Zionism. Jews from all over the world began to come to the area and settled in desert zones, then governed by the Turkish and later by the British Governments.
On 14 May 1948, British control over the Palestine Mandate ended. The Jewish inhabitants (under the leadership of David Ben-Gurion) declared independence for the new Jewish state. Immediately following Israel's declaration of independence, the armies of several nearby countries – including Egypt, Syria, Jordan, and Iraq – attacked the new country. Since the 1980s, Israel's main military opponents have been Islamist groups, such as Hezbollah.
The countries of Lebanon and Syria are to the north of Israel; Jordan is on the east; and Egypt is to the southwest. Israel also controls the West Bank of the Jordan River.
Israel has a long coastline on the Mediterranean Sea. In the south, the town of Eilat is on the Gulf of Aqaba, which is part of the Red Sea.
The Galilee is a fertile and mountainous region in the north. There is a flat plain called the Coastal Plain to the west, near the coast of the Mediterranean Sea. The Negev Desert is a barren area of flat plains, mountains, and craters in the south. There is a range of mountains in the center that runs from the north to south. 
On the eastern side, there is a low area called a depression. The Hula Valley and the Sea of Galilee are in this low area in the north. The Jordan River runs from the Sea of Galilee to the Dead Sea. The land next to the Dead Sea is the lowest in the world. It is -426 meters below sea level. 
The weather is normally hot and dry in the summer and mild in the winter. Rain falls mostly in the winter (between the months of November and April). There is more rain in the north than in the south, and hardly any rain in the desert. Israel built a very big irrigation system to bring water from the north to the dry areas in the south so that crops can grow there also.
Jerusalem is the biggest city in Israel. Tel Aviv, Haifa, Beersheba and Rishon LeZion are also large cities. The capital city is Jerusalem.
Israel is a parliamentary democracy. All Israeli citizens who are 18 years or older may vote. The Israeli parliament is called the Knesset. The Knesset has 120 members. Each member is elected for no more than four years at a time. The Knesset makes laws, helps decide national policy, and approves budgets and taxes.
Voters do not vote for individual candidates in Knesset elections. Instead, they vote for a party. This party makes a list with all its candidates. The list may have only one candidate or as many as 120 candidates. In an election, the percentage of the vote that each list wins decides how many representatives, or seats, the party gets in the Knesset. For example, if a party list gets 33 percent of the vote, it gets 40 Knesset seats. 
Israel has no written constitution. Instead, the Knesset made "Basic Laws". The Basic Laws say how the government must work and give civil rights to the citizens.
The Prime Minister is the head of Israel's government. He or she is usually the leader of the party that has the most seats in the Knesset. The prime minister must keep the support of a majority of Knesset members to stay in office. He or she appoints ministers to the cabinet. The Knesset approves appointments to the Cabinet. The ministers are responsible for subjects such as education, defense, and social welfare. The prime minister is the head of the cabinet and decides the topics of cabinet meetings and makes the final decisions.
Benjamin Netanyahu has been the Prime Minister since March 2009.
The President is the head of state. The Knesset elects the president for seven years. Most of the president's duties are ceremonial: The president signs laws and treaties approved by the Knesset, appoints judges, and members of some public organizations. He or she also accepts the documents from ambassadors and foreign diplomats bring when they are appointed.
Reuven Rivlin has been the President since July 2014.
Israel has many political parties, with a large variety of opinions. In the elections of 2009, twelve parties won seats in the Knesset. 
The parties belong to three main groups. The biggest groups are the Zionist parties. These include the conservatives, such as the Likud party; social democrats, such as Kadima and the Labor Party; and the religious Zionists. There are also smaller religious Orthodox Jewish parties, special-interest parties, and Israeli Arab parties.
A single party usually does not win enough seats in the Knesset by itself to have a majority, so one of the bigger parties asks for support from the other parties, including the religious parties, to form a coalition government. This gives these parties a lot of power although they are small.
The Likud supports free market policies and limited government involvement in the economy. Likud believes strongly in protecting Israel's security. It wants to give less away in the peace process for a negotiated agreement with the Palestinians and the Arab states. 
The Labor Party supports government control of the economy, but also believes in a limited amount of free enterprise. The party says it will give more away for an agreement with the Palestinians and the Arab states. 
Kadima is a centrist political party. It believes in both Israel's security and continuing the peace process, and supports negotiating an agreement for peace with the Palestinians.
At independence, Israel was a poor country with little agricultural or industrial production. But Israel's economy has grown tremendously since 1948. The nation now enjoys a relatively high standard of living, despite having few natural resources and a limited water supply. 
Many immigrants came to Israel in the years immediately after independence. Many of these immigrants were skilled laborers and professionals who greatly aided the nation's economic development. 
Many of Israel's service industry workers are employed by the government or by businesses owned by the government. Government workers provide many of the services that are needed by Israel's large immigrant population, such as housing, education, and job training.
Tourism is one of the country's important sources of income. Tourists visit many archaeological, historical, and religious sites; museums; nature reserves; and beach resorts in Israel.
Tourists support many of Israel's service industries, especially trade, restaurants, and hotels. Over 2.7 million foreign tourists visited Israel in 2009.
Israeli factories produce such goods as chemical products, electronic equipment, fertilizer, paper, plastics, processed foods, scientific and optical instruments, textiles, and clothing. The cutting of imported diamonds is a major industry. Government-owned plants manufacture equipment used by Israel's large armed forces. Israel is the world's largest exporter of drones. Tel Aviv and Haifa are Israel's major manufacturing centers.
Agriculture formerly employed a much larger percentage of Israel's workforce. But much of the work once performed by people is now performed by machines. Important agricultural products include citrus and other fruits; eggs; grain; poultry; and vegetables. 
The government develops, helps finance, and controls agricultural activity, including fishing and forestry. Israel produces most of the food it needs to feed its people, except for grain. Agricultural exports provide enough income to pay for any necessary food imports. Most Israeli farmers use modern agricultural methods. Water drawn from the Sea of Galilee irrigates large amounts of land in Israel. 
Most Israeli farms are organized as moshavim or kibbutzim. Israel also has some private farms.
The Dead Sea, the world's saltiest body of water, is Israel's leading source of minerals. Bromine, magnesium, potash and table salt are extracted from the sea. Potash, used mainly in fertilizers, is the most important mineral. 
In the Negev Desert, there are mines for phosphates, copper, clay, and gypsum.
Israel has few energy sources. It has no coal deposits or hydroelectric power resources, and only small amounts of crude oil and natural gas. As a result, Israel depends on imported crude oil for gasoline and diesel for transportation, and coal producing electricity for its energy needs.
Solar energy – energy from the sun – is used widely to heat water for houses. Israel is developing other ways to use solar energy to power houses and factories.
In 2008, Israel began investing in building electric cars and the stations to charge them. There may also be large natural gas fields in the Mediterranean Sea that Israel could develop.
For 2006, Israeli exports grew by 11% to just over $29 billion; the hi-tech sector accounted for $14 billion, a 20% increase from the previous year.
Because it has few natural resources, Israel imports more goods than it exports. The country's main imports include chemicals, computer equipment, grain, iron and steel, military equipment, petroleum products, rough diamonds, and textiles. 
Israel's main exports are chemical products, citrus fruits, clothing, electronic equipment, fertilizers, polished diamonds, military equipment, and processed foods. The nation's main trading partners include the Benelux countries (Belgium, the Netherlands, and Luxembourg); Germany; Italy; Switzerland; the United Kingdom; and the United States.
Israel has a well-developed transportation system. Most middle-class Israeli families either own a car or have one provided by their employer. Paved roads reach almost all parts of the country. Public transportation both in and between cities is provided primarily by bus. 
Ben-Gurion Airport is Israel's main international airport. It is near Tel Aviv. There are smaller airports are located at Atarot, near Jerusalem, and at Eilat. El Al, Israel's international airline, flies regularly to the United States, Canada, Europe, and parts of Africa and Asia. Israel has three major deepwater ports: Haifa, Ashdod, and Eilat.
Israel's communication system is one of the best in the Middle East. Israel has about 30 daily newspapers, about half of which are in Hebrew. The rest are in Arabic, Yiddish, or one of several foreign languages. The Israel Broadcasting Authority, a public corporation set up by the government, runs the television and nonmilitary radio stations.

</doc>
<doc id="64546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64546" title="Lake Champlain">
Lake Champlain

Lake Champlain is a natural freshwater lake in North America along the borders of New York and Vermont and partially across the United States-Canada border in the province of Quebec. The lake was named for the French explorer Samuel de Champlain, who discovered it in 1609.
Lake Champlain is one of a large number of large lakes spread in an arc from Labrador through the northern United States and into the Northwest Territories of Canada. Although it is much smaller than the Great Lakes of Ontario, Erie, Huron, Superior, or Michigan, Lake Champlain is a large body of fresh water. The lake is about in area. It is about long. At its widest point, it is about wide. The maximum depth is about . It contains about 80 islands, including an the entire country of Grand Isle County in Vermont.
In the colonial times, Lake Champlain gave an easily blocked water (or, in winter, ice) passage between the Saint Lawrence and the Hudson Valleys. Boats and sledges were usually preferable to the unpaved and frequently mud-bound roads of the time. The northern tip of the lake at Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Quebec (St. John in colonial times) is a short distance from Montreal. The southern tip at Whitehall (Skenesborough in colonial times) is a short distance from Saratoga, Glens Falls, and Albany, New York.
Forts at Ticonderoga and Crown Point (Fort St. Frederic) controlled passage of the lake in colonial times. Important battles were fought at Ticonderoga in 1758 and 1777. A important naval battle was fought in 1776 at Valcour Island: in the Battle of Valcour Island, Benedict Arnold delayed British ships enough to prevent the fall of these forts until the following year, allowing the Continental Army to grow stronger and allowing the later victory at Saratoga.

</doc>
<doc id="64548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64548" title="Fumie Suguri">
Fumie Suguri

Suguri is expressive, her program is called "Suguri World". Her younger sister Chika Suguri is figure skater likewise, too.
She was first Japanese skater to win the ISU Grand Prix Final in 2003, and got more Four Continents Championships titles in 2005, and got more World Championships medals than other Japanese figure skater in 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="64554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64554" title="List of official languages in Russia">
List of official languages in Russia

Although Russian is the only official language of the Russian Federation, there are several other officially-recognized languages for areas within Russia. This is a list of languages that are official only in certain parts of Russia.

</doc>
<doc id="64557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64557" title="Category:Canadian figure skaters">
Category:Canadian figure skaters


</doc>
<doc id="64558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64558" title="Category:Japanese figure skaters">
Category:Japanese figure skaters


</doc>
<doc id="64562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64562" title="Occupational Safety and Health Administration">
Occupational Safety and Health Administration

The United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) is an agency of the United States Department of Labor. It was created by Congress under the Occupational Safety and Health Act and was signed by President Richard M. Nixon, on December 29, 1970. Its mission is to prevent work-related injuries, illnesses, and deaths by making and enforcing rules (called standards) for workplace safety and health. As of March 2006, the agency is headed by Assistant Secretary of Labor Edwin Foulke.

</doc>
<doc id="64563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64563" title="Arsenio Hall">
Arsenio Hall

Arsenio Hall (born February 12, 1956) is an American actor and comedian. He hosted his own television talk show, "The Arsenio Hall Show", from 1989 to 1994 on the Fox network. He also had his own sitcom, titled "Arsenio".
Hall co-starred with Eddie Murphy in the movies "Coming to America" and "Harlem Nights". After his own television series ended, Hall sometimes guest-starred on "The Tonight Show" with Jay Leno.
Hall was born in Cleveland, Ohio. 

</doc>
<doc id="64564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64564" title="Bezenye">
Bezenye

Bezenye is a village in the north-west of Hungary. It is very close to the border with Slovakia and only 9 km from the Slovakian capital city Bratislava. The population is about 1600.
Archaeologists have found things under the ground which show that the first people to lived there were Old Germanic tribes. Later, Hungarian (Magyar) people lived there. Then troops from Turkey destroyed a lot of the village and the people fled. New people came to live in the area: Croatians and Germans. The Croatians called the village "Bizonja" and the Germans called it "Palersdorf". "Bezenye" is the Hungarian name. It comes from a Slav word "baza" meaning an elderberry tree.
After World War II many of the poorer Germans had to go and live in Germany. New Hungarian families from Slovakia came to live in Bezenye.
Today Bezenye is not a typical Hungarian village. The people speak a mixture of Hungarian, Croatian, Slovak and German. The Roman Catholic church of the Blessed Virgin Mary has services in Hungarian and Croatian.

</doc>
<doc id="64565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64565" title="Category:Villages in Hungary">
Category:Villages in Hungary


</doc>
<doc id="64571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64571" title="Royal Proclamation of 1763">
Royal Proclamation of 1763

The Royal Proclamation of 1763 was issued October 7, 1763, by King George III after Great Britain gained French territory in North America after the end of the French and Indian War/Seven Years' War. The purpose of the Proclamation was to organize Britain's large North American empire, and to make relations with Native Americans better and more stable by controlling trade, settlement, and land purchases on the western frontier. The Proclamation stated that Americans could not settle or buy land west of the Appalachian Mountains. This angered colonists because many already had land in that area. Tempted by great farm land, settlers continued to flow into the Ohio River Valley and Great Britain was unable to provide adequate protection for those colonists. Also, the Proclamation gave Great Britain a monopoly in land bought from Native Americans.

</doc>
<doc id="64572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64572" title="Inkscape">
Inkscape

Inkscape is a vector graphics (pictures made from lines instead of dots) drawing program published under the GNU General Public License. Its stated goal is to become a really good drawing tool while being able to fit in with standards for SVG graphics.
Inkscape was first made for Linux, but now it is cross-platform and runs on Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, and other Unix-like operating systems. As of 2007, Inkscape is actively being made better, and new features are added all the time.
Inkscape began in 2003 as a fork (break-off) of the Sodipodi project. Sodipodi, developed since 1999, was itself based on Raph Levien's Gill (Gnome Illustration Application).

</doc>
<doc id="64575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64575" title="Land grant">
Land grant

A land grant is a gift of real estate - land or privileges - made by a government or other authority as a reward for services to an individual, especially as rewards for military service. Grants of land are also awarded to individuals and companies to help develop unused land in relatively unpopulated countries.
Roman soldiers were given rewards at the end of their service including cash or land ("praemia"). Augustus fixed the amount in AD 5 at 3000 denarii and by the time of Caracalla it had risen to 5000 denarii.
In old California, the King of Spain frequently gave land to people he liked, or who helped him.

</doc>
<doc id="64580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64580" title="Pope Leo XIII">
Pope Leo XIII

Pope Leo XIII (; , March 2, 1810—July 20, 1903), born Vincenzo Gioacchino Raffaele Luigi Pecci, was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 257th Pope from 1878 until his death.
Pope Gregory XVI granted Pecci the title Monsignore. In 1903, there were Golden Jubilee celebrations which recalled the 50 years since he was named a cardinal.
In 1846, he visited London where he had an audience with Queen Victoria.
Pecci was Bishop of Perugia for thirty-two years, from 1846 to 1878.
Pope Pius IX raised him to the rank of cardinal in 1853.
In 1878, Cardinal Pecci was elected Pope.
After his election, Pope Leo never went outside the gates of the Vatican.
Pope Leo was in office until the age of 93. He was the oldest pope and had the second longest papal reign before Pope John Paul II. He is known as the "Pope of the Working Man."
Age age 93, the pope died from pneumonia and old age.
The pope lay in State in St. Peter's Basilica. His final resting place is the Basilica of St. John Lateran, which is the official seat of the Bishop of Rome.

</doc>
<doc id="64581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64581" title="Konzum">
Konzum

Konzum is Croatia's biggest supermarket chain. Konzum was opened in Zagreb in 1957, and today has 230 stores open in Croatia. Lately, Konzum's popularity has grown a lot in Croatia. In 1994, Konzum joined the Agrokor group. Konzum supermarkets can also be found in Croatia's neighbouring country, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Konzum has relations with the Bosnian company, Velpro.

</doc>
<doc id="64582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64582" title="Mother Teresa">
Mother Teresa

Mother Teresa (born Agnes Gonxha Bojaxhiu, 26 August 1910 – 5 September 1997), was a Roman Catholic nun who started the Missionaries ofCharity and won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1979 for her work with people.For over forty years, she took care of needs of those without money, those who were sick, those without parents, and those dying inCalcutta (Kolkata), guided in part by the ideals of Saint Francis of Assisi.
As the Missionaries of Charity grew under Mother's leadership, they expanded their ministry to other countries. By the 1970s she had become internationally well known as an advocate for the poor and helpless, due in part to a movie and book, "Something Beautiful for God" by Malcolm Muggeridge. She did not think women had the right to have abortions and said "The greatest destroyer of peace is abortion because if a mother can kill her own child, what is left for me to kill you and you to kill me?".
Following her death she was beatified (the first stage of sainthood) by Pope John Paul II and given the title Blessed Teresa of Calcutta.
Mother Teresa received criticism over the years, especially in recent years as debate about sex and abortion grew. Christopher Hitchens says that, instead of trying to help the poor, she encouraged them to endure pain and continue to suffer. Hitchens also thinks she was against ending poverty and raising the social status of women. Hitchens wrote a book on Teresa called "The Missionary Position". In an article for Slate, Hitchens writes "MT was not a friend of the poor. She was a friend of poverty. She said that suffering was a gift from God".

</doc>
<doc id="64597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64597" title="JoJo (singer)">
JoJo (singer)

Joanna Noëlle Blagden Levesque (born December 20, 1990 ), known by her stage name JoJo, is an American singer. She was born in Brattleboro, Vermont and raised in Keene, New Hampshire and Foxborough, Massachusetts. She is a pop and R&B singer, songwriter, record producer, and actress. She released her first album, "JoJo", in June 2004. The album's first single "Leave (Get Out)" was No.1 of the US "Billboard" Pop Chart.

</doc>
<doc id="64599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64599" title="Angela Aames">
Angela Aames

Angela Aames (27 February 27, 1956 in Pierre, South Dakota – 27 November 1988 in West Hills, California) was an American actress. She was famous for her role in the movie ’’Bachelor Party’’. She died of heart problems at the age of 32.

</doc>
<doc id="64600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64600" title="Willie Aames">
Willie Aames

Willie Aames (born Albert William Upton July 15, 1960 in Los Angeles, California) is an actor famous for the roles of Buddy Lembeck on "Charles in Charge", Tommy Bradford on "Eight is Enough" and the voice of Hank on "Dungeons & Dragons", the cartoon. He also hosted a game show "The Krypton Factor" from 1990-91. 

</doc>
<doc id="64601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64601" title="Peter Abbay">
Peter Abbay

Peter Abbay (born May 3, 1966) is an American actor. He is rumored to play the mysterious unseen Banker on NBC's hit game show, "Deal or No Deal". He also appeared on several television series, such as "House" as a cab driver, "Punk'd" as a Mob Boss, and "Another World" as Logan. He recently acted in the independent movie "Manhattan Minute".

</doc>
<doc id="64602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64602" title="Bruce Abbott">
Bruce Abbott

Bruce Paul Abbott (born 28 July 1954 in Portland, Oregon) is an American actor. He was in movies such as "Re-Animator", "Bad Dreams", "The Prophecy II", "Out of Time", "Bride of Re-Animator" and the television series "Dark Justice".

</doc>
<doc id="64603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64603" title="Bud Abbott">
Bud Abbott

William Alexander “Bud” Abbott (October 2, 1895 – April 24, 1974) was an American actor, producer and comedian born in Asbury Park, New Jersey. He is famous for his role as the "straight man" of the comedy team of Abbott and Costello, with Lou Costello. 

</doc>
<doc id="64604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64604" title="Kareem Abdul-Jabbar">
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar

Kareem Abdul-Jabbar (born Ferdinand Lewis Alcindor, Jr. on April 16, 1947) is an American former professional basketball player and current assistant coach. He was known as Lew Alcindor before changing his name in the fall of 1971, several years after converting to Islam. He is considered one of the greatest players of all time. He has also had numerous television and movie appearances.
Alcindor was born in NYC. He attended Power Memorial High School in New York. While there, the school went 78-2 and won three city championships.
Alcindor went to college at UCLA. When he played on the freshman team, it beat the UCLA varsity team that had won two national championships. When he played on the varsity team, it won three national championships. The Bruins were 80-2 when Alcindor. When Alcindor was at UCLA, the NCAA did not allow the dunk, so he developed a hook shot called the skyhook. Alcindor also got a degree in history. 
Alcindor was drafted by the Milwaukee Bucks in the 1969 NBA Draft. He lead the league in scoring twice with the Bucks. He also won three MVP awards with them. In 1975, Abdul-Jabbar was traded to the Los Angeles Lakers. He won three more MVP awards with them, as well as five championships. Abdul-Jabbar played in the NBA until 1989. When he left, he had scored 38,387 points, which is more than any other player has. He was also one of the ten most accurate players, and blocked the third-most shots. Abdul-Jabbar was placed in the Basketball Hall of Fame in 1995.
Abdul-Jabbar studied martial arts with Bruce Lee, and appears in the Lee movie "Game of Death". He is also in the movie "Airplane!". Abdul-Jabbar has written several books. Some of them are about basketball, but he has also written a book about the Harlem Renaissance. His book was later made into a documentary movie. Abdul-Jabbar has also been an assistant coach for several NBA teams. Usually, he has helped tall players play better. Abdul-Jabbar has had leukemia from 2009. 

</doc>
<doc id="64605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64605" title="Betty Aberlin">
Betty Aberlin

Betty Aberlin (born Betty Kay Ageloff December 30, 1942, New York City) is an American actress, poet, and writer. She had a regular role on "The Smothers Brothers Show". Aberlin worked on many television programs. She played Lady Aberlin on "Mister Rogers' Neighborhood". Her movie roles include work in "Dogma" and "Jersey Girl".

</doc>
<doc id="64606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64606" title="Jake Abel">
Jake Abel

Jacob Allen "Jake" Abel (born November 18, 1987 in Canton, Ohio) is an American actor.
He is best known for his roles in movie "Go Figure" as Spencer, and in "Threshold". He also played Kirk in an episode of "The Suite Life of Zack and Cody".

</doc>
<doc id="64609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64609" title="Baudrecourt, Moselle">
Baudrecourt, Moselle

Beaudrecourt is a village in the Lorraine region of France. It is about half way between Metz and Nancy. The TGV high-speed line from Paris to Strasbourg currently ends there. In 1999, 172 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="64610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64610" title="Hayden Panettiere">
Hayden Panettiere

Hayden Leslie Panettiere (born August 21, 1989) is an American actress, singer, and a Grammy Award nominee.
She first appeared on TV as a baby in commercials, and had her first role at the age of four in the TV show "One Life To Live". She is also well known for her work in trying to stop whaling. In January 2008, Panettiere spoke at an anti-whaling meeting in Washington D.C., and later spoke to representatives from Norway, Iceland and Japan.
Her brother is actor Jansen Panettiere (born 1994).

</doc>
<doc id="64611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64611" title="Avatar: The Last Airbender">
Avatar: The Last Airbender

Avatar: The Last Airbender (in Europe known as Avatar: The Legend of Aang) is an American animated television series that aired for on Nickelodeon. The series was created and produced by Michael Dante DiMartino, Bryan Konietzko and Aaron Ehasz. Based on an Asian-influenced world of Chinese martial arts and elemental manipulation. The show drew on elements from traditional Asian culture, blending the styles of anime and US domestic cartoons.
The series follows the adventures of the main character Aang and his friends, Katara, Sokka, and after Toph and Zuko who must save the world by defeating the Fire Lord Ozai and ending the destructive war with the Fire Nation, which started 100 years ago.
The pilot episode (The Boy in the Iceberg) first aired on 21 February 2005 and the series concluded with a widely praised on 19 July 2008.
The show is obtainable from various sources, including on DVD, the iTunes Store, the Zune Marketplace, the Xbox Live Marketplace, the PlayStation Store, Netflix Instant Play, and on the Nicktoons Network.
"Avatar: The Last Airbender" was popular with both audiences and critics, garnering 5.6 million viewers on its best-rated showing and receiving high ratings in the Nicktoons lineup, even outside its 6–11-year-old demographic.
"Avatar" has been nominated for and won awards from the Annual Annie Awards, the Genesis Awards, the primetime Emmy Awards and a Peabody Award among others. The first season's success prompted Nickelodeon to order second and third seasons. In other media, the series has spawned a live-action movie trilogy, the first titled "The Last Airbender", directed by M. Night Shyamalan, scaled action figures, a , three video games based on the , , and seasons, stuffed animals distributed by Paramount Parks, and two LEGO . An art book was also released in mid-2010. Furthermore, the president of Nickelodeon announced on 21 July 2010 that a spin-off mini-series called "" will premiere in 2011.
"Avatar: The Last Airbender" takes place in a world that is home to humans, fantastic animals, and spirits. Human civilization is divided into : the Water Tribes, the Earth Kingdom, the Air Nomads, and the Fire Nation. Each nation has its own natural element, on which it bases its society. Furthermore, people known as Benders have the ability to manipulate the eponymous element of their nation using the physical motions of martial arts. The show’s creators based each Bending style on a style of real-world martial art, leading to visual differences in the techniques used by Waterbenders (tai chi chuan), Earthbenders (Hung Ga kung fu, for the most part), Firebenders (Northern Shaolin kung fu) and Airbenders (baguazhang).<ref name="avatar2/index.jhtml"></ref> Each country is also associated with a season: autumn for the Air Nomads, winter for the Water Tribe, spring for the Earth Kingdom and summer for the Fire Nation.
At any given time, there is only one person alive in the world of "Avatar" who is able of bending all four elements: the show's titular Avatar, the spirit of the planet manifested in human form. When an Avatar dies, he or she is reincarnated into the next nation in the Avatar Cycle, in the order of the seasons. Legend holds the Avatar must master each bending art in seasonal order as well, starting with their native element. For the Avatar, learning to bend their opposite element can be extremely difficult; the example shown in the series is Aang's inability to stand his ground head-on while Earthbending, his Airbender training having placed emphasis on circling, approaching from new angles and adapting on the fly.
The Avatar possesses a unique power called the Avatar State, which endows the Avatar with the knowledge and abilities of all past lives and acts as a self-triggering defense mechanism, although it can be made subject to the will of the user through various methods, such as extensive trial and training. If an Avatar is killed in the Avatar State, the cycle will be broken, and the Avatar will cease to exist. Through the ages, countless incarnations of Avatar have served to keep the four nations in harmony, and maintain world order. The Avatar serves as the bridge between the world of humans and the Spirit World, allowing him or her to solve problems that normal benders cannot.
One hundred years before the start of the series a twelve-year-old Airbender named Aang learns he is the new Avatar. Fearful of the heavy responsibilities and the separation from his beloved mentor Monk Gyatso, Aang flees from home on his animal guide, a flying bison named Appa. Caught in a fierce storm, they crash into the ocean, triggering Aang's protective Avatar State which freezes them in a state of suspended animation inside an iceberg. After his disappearance, Fire Lord Sozin, in past friend of Avatar Roku, knowing that the new Avatar is an Air Nomad, launches a genocidal campaign against the Air Nomads in order to ensure his plots for world domination will not be interrupted by the Avatar. Ironically, the Avatar is the only Air Nomad to survive the attack.
A hundred years later Katara,a fourteen-year-old Waterbender girl, and her older warrior brother, Sokka, free Aang and Appa from the iceberg. The three travel to the Northern Water Tribe so Aang and Katara can learn Waterbending. While on their journey, Aang and friends visit the Southern Air Temple where Aang discovers that the Fire Nation destroyed the Air Nomads. At the Southern Air Temple Aang meets his Avatar guide, Avatar Roku. The trio are constantly being pursued by banished Prince Zuko, the exiled son of Fire Lord Ozai, who can only return to the Fire Nation and reclaim his honor and throne if he captures the Avatar. Zuko travels with his uncle Iroh, nicknamed "Dragon of the West",a legendary Fire Nation general and the older brother of Ozai, known as "Western Dragon". Competing with Zuko for the Avatar is Admiral Zhao who leads a Fire Nation assault on the Northern Water Tribe that is successfully repelled thanks to Aang and his friends.
After leaving the North Pole, Aang continue master the water with Katara. Searching for a new Earthbending teacher, the group meets Toph Bei Fong, a blind Earthbending prodigy who teaches Aang how to "see" using earthbending and vibrations. Meanwhile, Zuko and Iroh, now fugitives from the Fire Nation, attempt to lead new lives in the Earth Kingdom. Zuko, with the help of his uncle, tries to come to terms with his troubled past and his obsession with capturing the Avatar. Aang and his friends discover that an upcoming solar eclipse will deprive Firebenders of their bending, leaving them open to invasion and giving Aang his chance to defeat the Fire Lord. Azula, Zuko's younger sister, and her two friends Mai and Ty Lee pursue Team Avatar, who struggle to reach Ba Sing Se, the Earth Kingdom capital, and tell the Earth King of the eclipse. After capturing and impersonating the Kyoshi Warriors, friends of Team Avatar, Azula persuades an elite group of Earthbenders called the Dai Li to instigate a coup d'état, allowing the Fire Nation to capture Ba Sing Se. In a final confrontation, Zuko sides with Azula, who promises to restore his honor. Azula mortally wounds Aang, who is in the Avatar State, with a lightning blast. Katara revives Aang with spirit water from the North Pole, but his seventh chakra is blocked and he cannot enter the Avatar State.
Aang awakens to find the group disguised as Fire Nation soldiers heading West on a Fire Nation ship, while Zuko has been restored to his position as crown prince. Sokka has planned a small-scale invasion of the Fire Nation to capture the Fire Lord's palace and defeat Fire Lord Ozai, taking advantage of the solar eclipse. The invasion will be staged by a ragtag group of benders and warriors who Aang has helped along his journey. Initially the invasion proceeds as planned, but Aang fails to find the Fire Lord before the eclipse ends, because Azula knew about the invasion. The invasion ultimately fails, and only Aang and his closest friends are able to escape. Zuko, in a change of heart, decides to defy his father and join the Avatar. Zuko catches up with Aang at the Western Air Temple and offers to teach Aang Firebending. After some reluctance from Katara and Sokka, Team Avatar allows Zuko to join the group. In the series finale, Aang defeats Fire Lord Ozai by taking away his ability to firebend. With Ozai defeated, the war quickly ends. Zuko is crowned the new Fire Lord and, with the help of the Avatar and his friends, begins rebuilding the four nations. The series ends as Aang and Katara kiss in front of the sunset.
Aang (Zach Tyler Eisen) is a 12 year old. He is the most important character in the series. He was frozen in ice with his flying bison, Appa, for 100 years. He was found by a young Waterbender named Katara. Now he is the Avatar, the master of 4 different powers: water, earth, fire and air. Aang is a hero, but he doesn't want to be a hero. He is trying to make the world good again.
Katara (Mae Whitman) is 14 years old. She is a Waterbender. This means she can move water by moving her body. She is in the Southern Water Tribe. Katara has a brother. His name is Sokka. They find Aang in a big ball of ice. He had been frozen for 100 years. Katara and Sokka go with Aang on an adventure to kill the evil Lord. His is called Fire Lord Ozai. She is his first teacher for water.<refgroup="Notes">Katara can do bloodbending. This means she can move peoples' bodies by "bending" their blood. She doesn't like to do this.
Sokka (Jack DeSena) is 15 years old. He is a warrior. He is also Katara's brother. He lives in the Southern Water Tribe. He goes with Aang on his adventure to kill the evil Fire Lord. He is very funny, so he says he is "meat-loving" and "sarcastic". Sokka is different from his friends. He cannot "bend" anything, he is a fighter and a thinker. He has lots of good ideas and weapons. He has a boomerang and a sword he made from a meteorite. Michael Dante DiMartino, who made the TV show, said that Sokka could have been a Waterbender, but he never learned how to do it.
Toph (Jessie Flower) is 12 years old. She is blind. She is an Earthbender. Her family is rich, but she doesn't like money. She is very strong and she likes to fight. When she meets Aang and his friends she thinks they are strange. She wants to help them, so she goes with them on their adventure. She is Aang's teacher for Earthbending. She is blind, but she can still see things. Toph "sees" with her feet. She feels the earth move a little bit. Then she knows what is happening. Toph is the most powerful Earthbender ever.
Zuko (Dante Basco) is 16 years old. He is the son of the evil Fire Lord, so he is a prince. In Season 1 he is the most important bad guy. Zuko's life was hard. Something happened and now his father doesn't like him. Zuko wants to catch the Avatar because he thinks his father would like that. Zuko does not like himself, he is angry, and his family is crazy. In the show Zuko learns how to be nice. He wears a blue mask to hide himself and then he saves people. In season three, he leaves the Fire Lord. He goes to Aang and becomes his friend. He becomes a Firebending teacher for Aang. At the end, he is the new Fire Lord.
Azula (Grey DeLisle) is a bad princess. She is a Firebender. She is Zuko's younger sister. She is an important bad guy in the show. Azula is very good at Firebending. It is easy for her to do it. She can make lightning. She is very mean to her friends Mai and Ty Lee. She uses fire to scare them. The Fire Lord likes her more than Zuko.
Iroh (Mako in season one and two Greg Baldwin in season three) used to be a general for the Fire Lord. He can make fire in his nose and mouth, so they call him the Dragon of the West. He is Prince Zuko's uncle and teacher. The Fire lord is Iroh's brother. Iroh is older than the Fire Lord. He should be the Lord, but the Fire Lord lied, so that he could be the Lord. People think Iroh is nice, kind, and happy. He does silly things so people think he is not strong or smart. But Iroh is very smart and strong. Iroh has a secret group of friends. They are strong and good at fighting. The friends are called The Order of the White Lotus. In the last episode they fight the Fire Nation. They win and the world becomes a good place. Iroh is special because he learned how to do Firebending from Dragons.
"Avatar: The Last Airbender" was co-created and produced by Michael Dante DiMartino and Bryan Konietzko at Nickelodeon Animation Studios in Burbank, California. Animation work was done by the Korean animation studio DR Movie. According to Bryan Konietzko, the program was conceived in the spring of 2001 when he took an old sketch of a balding, middle-aged man and re-imagined the character as a child. Konietzko drew the character herding bison in the sky, and showed the sketch to Mike DiMartino. At the time, DiMartino was studying a documentary about explorers trapped in the South Pole.
Konietzko described their early development of the concept: The co-creators successfully pitched the idea to Nickelodeon VP and executive producer Eric Coleman just two weeks later.
The show was first revealed to the public in a teaser reel at Comic-Con 2004, and started show the episodes from 21 February 2005. In the United States, first two episodes of the series were shown together in a one-hour premiere event. A second twenty-episode season ran from 17 March 2006 through 1 December. A third and final season, beginning September 21, 2007, featured twenty-one episodes rather than the usual twenty. The final four episodes were packaged as a two-hour movie.
"Avatar" is notable for borrowing extensively from Asian art and mythology to create its universe. The show's character designs are heavily influenced by anime as well as Chinese art and history, Hinduism, Taoism, Buddhism, and Yoga. Traditional East Asian calligraphy styles are used for nearly all the writing in the show. For each instance of calligraphy, an appropriate style is used, ranging from seal script (more archaic) to clerical script. The show employed a cultural consultant, Edwin Zane, and calligrapher Siu-Leung Lee as consultants for the show's cultural influences.
The choreographed martial art bending moves were profoundly affected by Asian cinema. In an interview, Bryan revealed that, "Mike and I were really interested in other epic 'Legends & Lore' properties, like Harry Potter and "Lord of the Rings", but we knew that we wanted to take a different approach to that type of genre. Our love for Japanese anime, Hong Kong action and kung fu cinema, yoga, and Eastern philosophies led us to the initial inspiration for "Avatar"."
All music and sound used in the series was done by Jeremy Zuckerman and Benjamin Wynn, who form "The Track Team". They made use of a wide range of different instruments (such as the guzheng, pipa and duduk) to compose a background music that fits into the world.
The term "Avatar" comes from the language of Sanskrit, one of the most ancients languages of India. The word "Avatāra", (Sanskrit: ), which means "descent"; its roots are "ava" means "down," and "tri" means "to pass." In the Hindu scriptures, "avatara" signifies the descent of Divinity into flesh. One who attains union with Spirit and then returns to earth to help humanity is called an avatar. The Chinese characters that appear at the top of the show's title card mean "the divine medium who has descended upon the mortal world."
When Aang was young, he unknowingly revealed that he was the Avatar when he chose four toys out of thousands, each of which were the childhood toys of the previous Avatars. In Tibetan Buddhism, there is a similar test for reincarnations of a Tulku Lama. In "Magic and Mystery in Tibet", Alexandra David-Neel writes that "a number of objects such as rosaries, ritualistic implements, books, tea-cups, etc., are placed together, and the child must pick out those which belonged to the late "tulku", thus showing that he recognizes the things which were "theirs" in their previous life." Each successor is expected to show signs of continuity with the previous Avatar, such as being born within a week of the death.
"Avatar" draws on the four classical elements common to many ancient philosophies for its bending arts: Water, Earth, Fire and Air. Although each has its own variation, most ancient philosophies incorporate these four elements in some way. Examples include the classical Hindu, Buddhist, and Greek elemental traditions. In the show’s opening, each element is accompanied by two Chinese characters: an ancient Chinese seal script character on the left representing the element being shown and a modern Chinese character on the right describing some feature of the element.
The character 水 (pinyin: "shui"), which stands for water, is shown with 善 (pinyin: "shan"), which means benevolence and adaptivity. The character 土 (pinyin: "tu"), which stands for earth, is shown with 強 (pinyin: "qiang"), which means for strength and stability. The character 火 (pinyin: "huo"), which stands for fire, is shown with 烈 (pinyin: "lie"), which means intensity and passion. Finally, the character 气 (pinyin: "qi"), which stands for air, is shown with 和 (pinyin: "he"), which means peace and harmony.
In addition to the use of four classical elements in the series, the fighting styles associated with each element are all taken from different styles of Chinese martial arts. The series employed Sifu Kisu of the Harmonious Fist Chinese Athletic Association as a martial arts consultant. Each fighting style was chosen to represent the element it projected. Tai Chi was used for "Waterbending" in the series, and it focuses on alignment, body structure, breath, and visualization. Hung Gar was used for "Earthbending" in the series, and was chosen for its firmly rooted stances and powerful strikes to present the solid nature of earth. Northern Shaolin, which uses strong arm and leg movements was used for "Firebending". And Ba Gua, which uses dynamic circular movements and quick directional changes, was used for "Airbending".<ref name="avatar2/index.jhtml"></ref> The only exception to these styles is Toph, who can be seen practicing a Chu Gar Southern Praying Mantis style.
When the show first was shown it was rated the best animated television series in its demographic; new episodes averaged 3.1 million viewers each. A one-hour special showing of "The Secret of the Fire Nation" which was shown on 15 September 2006, consisting of "The Serpent's Pass" and "The Drill", gathered an audience of 5.1 million viewers. According to the Nielsen Media Research, the special was the best performing cable television show airing in that week. In 2007, "Avatar" was syndicated to more than 105 countries worldwide, and was one of Nickelodeon's top rated programs. The series was ranked first on Nickelodeon in Germany, Indonesia, Malaysia, Belgium, and Colombia.
The series finale, "", received the highest ratings of the series. Its 19 July 2008 premiere averaged 5.6 million viewers, 95% more viewers than Nickelodeon had received in mid-July 2007. During the week of 14 July, it ranked as the most-viewed program for the under-14 demographic. "Sozin's Comet" also appeared on iTunes' top ten list of best-selling television episodes during that same week. "Sozin's Comet"s popularity affected online media as well; "Rise of the Phoenix King", a Nick.com online game based on "Sozin's Comet", generated almost 815,000 game plays within three days.
Dark Horse Comics released an art book titled "Avatar: The Last Airbender — The Art of the Animated Series", on 2 June 2010 which contains 184 pages of the original art and creation behind the "Avatar" animated series.
"Avatar"'s success has led to some promotional advertising with third-party companies, such as Burger King and Upper Deck Entertainment. "Avatar"-themed roller coasters at Nickelodeon Universe in the Mall of America and one formerly at "Kings Island" also appeared. During the show's runtime, Nickelodeon published two special issues of "Nick Mag Presents" dedicated entirely to the show. Various members of the "Avatar" staff and cast appeared at the 2006 San Diego Comic-Con International convention, while Michael Dante DiMartino and Bryan Konietzko appeared with Martial Arts Consultant Sifu Kisu at the Pacific Media Expo on October 28, 2006. "Avatar" also has its own line of T-shirts, LEGO , toys, a trading card game, a cine-manga, and three video games, as well as an MMO.
The Mattel-produced action figure toy line generated some controversy with its exclusion of any female characters. Mattel came to release information stating that they have taken account of Katara's increased role within the program, and that she would be included in the figure assortment for a mid 2007 release. The figure ultimately went unreleased, however, as the entire line was canceled before she could be produced.
Nickelodeon executives have since released optimistic plans for upcoming marketing strategies in regards to "Avatar". Nickelodeon President Cyma Zarghami openly stated his belief that the franchise "could become their "Harry Potter"". They expect consumers to spend about $121 million in 2007, rising to $254 million by 2009. The marketing plans are to be coincided with the release of the first live-action movie based on the series in 2010, which will be the first movie in a trilogy.
In the series of "Avatar: The Last Airbender" based a video game trilogy:
"Avatar: Legends of the Arena", a video game for Microsoft Windows, was launched on 25 September 2008 by Nickelodeon. Each user is able to create their own character, choose a nation, and to interact with others across the globe.
In the series of "Avatar: The Last Airbender" based the trilogy "The Last Airbender":
A series based on "Avatar: The Last Airbender" is currently in development at Nickelodeon and due for release in 2011. It will be created by Michael Dante DiMartino and Bryan Konietzko. the creators of "Avatar: The Last Airbender". The show, tentatively titled "", will be a twelve-episode mini series that takes place in the same universe, 70 years after the of Fire Lord Ozai. The development period and release dates were announced at the annual Comic-Con in San Diego on 22 July 2010.
The series will focus on Korra, a teenage female protagonist and current incarnation of the Avatar, who, according to the president of Nickelodeon, will be "hotheaded, independent, and ready to take on the world". She has already mastered the elements of Water, Earth, and Fire, but needs to master Air. The character was partly inspired by Avatar Kyoshi of the original series, whom the creators say was very popular among fans. In order to avoid repetition of Aang's adventures, the creators wanted to root the show in one place, called Republic City. A concept drawing of the city, released with the announcement of the series, shows the city's design as inspired by Shanghai in the 1920s and 1930s, Hong Kong, Manhattan, and Vancouver. In the show, Korra will have to learn Airbending from master Tenzin, son of Avatar Aang and Katara, and contend with an anti-bender revolution taking place in the city.
While not targeting a different demographic than "Avatar: The Last Airbender", Michael and Bryan have stated that the show won't cover more mature subject material necessarily, just different mature subjects, "It won't be another war, but a different sort of conflict." The creators also explained that there would be some "cheesy teen romance" for the main character, Korra. At the 2010 Comic-Con, it was revealed that the creators will continue to work with Joaquim Dos Santos and Ryuki Hung on the animation and design of the show. The creators also confirmed that they will directly write all twelve episodes, explaining that as a mini-series, episode fillers will be omitted, allowing for a "really tight" and "cool" story. In late July, Jeremy Zuckerman, composer of the original series, was confirmed to be returning to score "The Legend of Korra".

</doc>
<doc id="64614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64614" title="Toul">
Toul

Toul is a city in the Northeastern part of France. There are about 17,000 people living there. Toul is a fortified town, with a long history. The people who started building the city were the Romans. It was the capital of the Leuci tribe. When the Carolingian Empire was split by the Treaty of Meerssen, in 870, Toul was given to East Francia. In the early 1800s, the importance of the city diminished, and Nancy took its place.

</doc>
<doc id="64617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64617" title="Blessthefall">
Blessthefall

Blessthefall is an American post-hardcore band from Phoenix, Arizona. The band was formed in 2004 and released the first album "His Last Walk" in April 2007. The lead vocalist, Craig Mabbitt leaves the band in November 2007, the bassist Jared Warth was lead vocalist/bassist, replacing the Mabbitt place touring. Mabbitt joined Escape the Fate in mid-2008. Beau Bokan joined to the band in September 2008. With Bokan, the band released the second studio album, "Witness" in October 6, 2009, with Fearless Records. The third studio album, "Awakening" will released in October 4, 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="64628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64628" title="Amber">
Amber

Amber is the common name for fossil resin. It occurs in different colours, and is widely used for making jewellery and other ornaments. Although not mineralized, amber is sometimes considered as a gemstone. 
Most of the world's amber is in the range of 30–90 million years old. Semi-fossilized resin or sub-fossil amber is called copal. Baltic amber was called 'Freya's tears' by the Norse and the 'tears of the Heliades' by the ancient Greeks. 
Amber consists of several resinous bodies that can mostly dissolve in alcohol, ether and chloroform, associated with a bituminous substance that does not dissolve.
Amber is formed from sap coming out of certain trees. The sap soon becomes a sticky gum, and fossilises as amber. The amber can look different depending on its origin, and its later geological history.
To end up as amber, the starting resin must resist decay. Many trees produce resin, but usually it is broken down by physical and biological process. Exposure to weather tends to disintegrate resin, assisted by microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. For resin to survive long enough to become amber, it must resist such forces, or be produced under conditions that exclude them.
Baltic amber (historically called Prussian amber) is found as irregular nodules in a marine sand, known as "blue earth," in the Lower Oligocene strata of Sambia in Kaliningrad Oblast, where it is now systematically mined.
"Agathis" amber comes from the conifer "Agathis", a tree that used to grow over a much wider area.
Amber from America and Africa often comes from the "Hymenaea", a genus of flowering plants.
The resin can contain, in addition to the beautifully preserved plant-structures, remains of insects, spiders, annelids, frogs, crustaceans and other small organisms that became trapped while it was fluid. In most cases the organic structure has disappeared, leaving only a cavity, with perhaps a trace of chitin.
Amber is found along the shores of a large part of the Baltic Sea and the North Sea. The greatest amber-producing country is the promontory of Sambia, now part of Russia's Kaliningrad Oblast. About 90% of the world's extractable amber is in the Kaliningrad region of Russia on the Baltic Sea. 
Amber was deposited in the late Eocene and early Oligocene in a delta of a prehistoric river, in a shallow part of a marine basin. In addition to the coast near Kaliningrad, amber is also found elsewhere in the Baltic Sea region. Small amounts of Baltic amber can even be found outside the Baltic region, for example on the coastline of the south east of England. On the evidence of Fourier-transform infrared microspectroscopy (FTIR) analysis of amber and resin from living trees, that conifers of the family Sciadopityaceae were responsible. The only living representative of this family is the Japanese umbrella pine, "Sciadopitys verticillata".
Amber is extensively used for beads and other ornaments, and for cigar-holders and the mouth-pieces of pipes. The Amber Room in the Catherine Palace near Saint Petersburg is notable. It is a reproduction of the original Amber Room, destroyed in WWII. 
When gradually heated in an oil-bath, amber becomes soft and flexible. Two pieces of amber may be united by smearing the surfaces with linseed oil, heating them, and then pressing them together while hot. Cloudy amber may be made clearer in an oil-bath, as the oil fills the numerous pores to which the turbidity is due. Small fragments, formerly thrown away or used only for varnish, are now used on a large scale in the formation of "ambroid" or "pressed amber". The pieces are carefully heated with exclusion of air and then pressed into one mass by intense hydraulic pressure, the softened amber being forced through holes in a metal plate. As mentioned, the product is extensively used for making cheap jewellery and articles for smoking. 
Amber was much valued as an ornamental material in early times.

</doc>
<doc id="64631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64631" title="Resin">
Resin

Resin is a hydrocarbon secreted by many plants, especially coniferous trees.
Plants evolved many complex chemicals as defences against herbivores. That may be the origin of these resins, which are certainly not good to eat. 
Humans value them for their chemical constituents and uses. They are used in varnishes, adhesives, as raw materials for organic synthesis, or for incense and perfume. Fossilized resins are the source of amber. The term is also used for synthetic substances with similar properties.
Rosin, (also called 'colophony' or 'Greek pitch') is a solid form of resin. It is got from pines and some other plants, mostly conifers. Heating fresh liquid resin vaporizes light volatiles like terpenes. 
Rosin is semi-transparent and yellow to black in colour. The term "colophony" comes from "colophonia resina" or "resin from the pine trees of Colophon", an ancient Ionic city.
Rosin has hundreds of uses, of which only a few can be mentioned here. These uses fall into groups, such as:

</doc>
<doc id="64633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64633" title="Varnish">
Varnish

Varnish is a transparent, hard, protective finish or film primarily used in wood finishing but also for other materials. Varnish is traditionally a combination of a drying oil, a resin, and a solvent.
Most resin or "gum" varnishes consist of a natural substance dissolved in a solvent. The two main types of natural varnishes are "spirit varnish" (which uses alcohol as a solvent) and turpentine or petroleum-based varnish. Some resins are soluble in both alcohol and turpentine.
Shellac is a very widely used single component resin varnish that is alcohol soluble. It is not used outdoors or where it will come into repeated contact with water such as around a sink or bathtub.

</doc>
<doc id="64634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64634" title="Secretion">
Secretion

Secretion is the process of releasing chemicals from a cell, or from a gland.
Eukaryotic cells have a highly evolved process of secretion. 

</doc>
<doc id="64635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64635" title="Adhesive">
Adhesive

An adhesive is a compound that sticks or bonds two items together. Adhesives may come from either natural or man-made material. Some modern adhesives are extremely strong, and are becoming increasingly important in modern construction and industry. Examples of adhesives include adhesive tape, glue, and sticky-tac. Some adhesives are for temporary use, like sticky-tac or the adhesive on sticky notes. Others are for more permanent bonding of small items like gluing paper or building large pieces of furniture using construction adhesive.
The first adhesives were natural gums and other plant resins. Archaeologists have found 6000-year-old ceramic vessels that had broken and been repaired using plant resin. 

</doc>
<doc id="64636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64636" title="Gum">
Gum

A number of different things are called "gum":
"See also:" GUM

</doc>
<doc id="64637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64637" title="Natural gum">
Natural gum

Natural gums are polysaccharides of natural origin, that can change the viscosity of a material in solution, even at small concentrations.

</doc>
<doc id="64641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64641" title="Mineralization">
Mineralization

Mineralization may mean: 

</doc>
<doc id="64643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64643" title="Ali">
Ali

Ali ibn Abi Talib (‘Alī ibn Abī Tālib) () (Approximately: March 17, 599 - February 28, 661) was an early Islamic leader. He was the fourth Sunni caliph and the first Shia imam.
The Prophet, Mohammad, took him as his brother in the pact of brotherhood in Medina.

</doc>
<doc id="64644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64644" title="Zakarid Armenia">
Zakarid Armenia

The Zakarid Armenia describes territories of Armenia given to the Zakarid-Mxargrzeli princes as a fief by Tamar, the queen of the Kingdom of Georgia. 

</doc>
<doc id="64645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64645" title="Women and Islam">
Women and Islam

The complex relationship between women and Islam is shown by both Islamic texts and the history and culture of the Muslim world. Islamic scholars maintain that the Qur'an, the holy book of Islam, affirms women's religious and moral equality.
However, sharia (Islamic law) shows the marked differences between women's and men's roles, rights, and obligations, and many Muslim-majority countries give women different rights than men with regard to marriage, divorce, civil rights, legal status, dress code, and education.
Islamic feminism is a type of feminism that focuses on women in Islam. Nawal El Saadawi is an Egyptian feminist who has written many books about women in Islam.

</doc>
<doc id="64646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64646" title="Chador">
Chador

A chador (Persian چادر) is a piece of clothing. It is for Muslim women. In Iran, women wear a chador in public. The Chador covers all the body except the face. However some religious women, cover their faces with their chador too.
A chador is a full-length semi-circle of fabric open down the front. It is thrown over the head and held shut in front. A chador has no hand openings or closures but is held shut by the hands or by wrapping the ends around the waist.

</doc>
<doc id="64647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64647" title="Vortex mixer">
Vortex mixer

A vortex mixer is small machine used in laboratories to mix small beakers of liquids.
Inside, a vortex mixer has an electric motor which turns a pipe facing upwards. This pipe is attached to a small rubber bowl where one can put a beaker of liquid to be mixed up. The rubber bowl turns quickly and creates a vortex or a spiral flow inside any liquid which is placed on it and is therefore mixed up. Most vortex mixers have controls which let the user control how fast or slow they want the mixer to turn and can also set it to turn continuously for a certain length of time.
Vortex mixers are used in bioscience laboratories to mix two different chemicals for a desired effect or to dilute an acid or an alkali by mixing them with water.

</doc>
<doc id="64648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64648" title="Niqāb">
Niqāb

A Niqab is a piece of clothing. It is for Muslim women. Women who wear niqab in public are called Niqabi. There are many Niqabis in Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar,Yemen and Egypt. Niqab covers all the woman's body including the face. Some niqabs have one or two holes for the eyes.

</doc>
<doc id="64649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64649" title="Hira">
Hira

Hira is a cave. It is on the Arabian Peninsula. Mohammad lived in this cave for forty days. Muslims believed that God spoke to Mohammad in Hira through angel Gabriel. 

</doc>
<doc id="64650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64650" title="Ferdowsi">
Ferdowsi

Hakīm Abul-Qāsim Firdawsī Tūsī (935-1020) () or Ferdowsi is a Persian poet. Ferdowsi was born in Tus. He wrote the "Shāhnāma". Shahnama is the national epic of Iran.

</doc>
<doc id="64651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64651" title="Abu-Mansur Daqiqi">
Abu-Mansur Daqiqi

Hakim Abu Mansur Muhammad Ibn Ahmad Daqiqi Balkhi (935/942-976/980) (Persian: حكیم ابومنصور محمد بن احمد دقیقی بلخی) or Daqiqi was a Persian poet. He was a Zoroastrian. His slave killed him. He wrote the Goshtaspnama.

</doc>
<doc id="64653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64653" title="Category:935 births">
Category:935 births


</doc>
<doc id="64655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64655" title="Category:935">
Category:935


</doc>
<doc id="64657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64657" title="Edward VII">
Edward VII

Edward VII (9 November 1841 – 6 May 1910) was the King of the United Kingdom from 1901 to 1910, which is called the Edwardian period. He was the only British ruler whose royal house was called the House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha. The name was changed to Windsor by his son, George V of the United Kingdom in 1917 and is still used today. Edward was born Albert Edward and was the oldest son of Queen Victoria and her husband, Prince Albert. He was Prince of Wales and heir to the throne for longer than any other person. His mother reigned for 63 years and Edward was 59 years old when he became King. In his younger years as Prince of Wales, he was known as a playboy and popularized many trends in fashion. He was married to Alexandra of Denmark, but had many mistresses. Edward only ruled as King for nine years but made a lasting impression. He became increasingly popular with his people and minister and was credited as the 'peacemaker' for his work in mantaining world stability at a time when War seemed to be looming. He died at the age of 68 in 1910. Four years later the peace he worked so hard to keep was broken with the declaration of the First World War (1914-1918). 
Edward VII was the father of King George V and grandfather of King Edward VIII and King George VI. He is also the great grandfather of the present Queen, Elizabeth II. There are a number of statues of Edward VII around the British isles and Commonwealth Realms. He was given a grand state funeral which the largest gathering of royalty taken place anywhere in the 20th Century. It included the likes of Kasier Wilheim II (who would later be at war with Britain in 1914) and Tsar Nicholas II as well as many others. For the first time in Royal history, Edward lay in state for the people to pay their last respect. A true reflection on his immense popularity. 
Edward VII
1841-1910

</doc>
<doc id="64660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64660" title="Adhesive tape">
Adhesive tape

Adhesive tape is a tape that is coated with adhesive and used to stick objects together. 
Adhesive tape that will stick with application of pressure only (i.e. without activation by water, solvent or heat) is known as pressure sensitive tape. It can consist of a wide variety of tape backings and pressure sensitive adhesives.
Single-sided tapes allow joining of two overlapping or adjoining materials, while double-sided tape (adhesive on both sides) allows joining of two items back-to-back.

</doc>
<doc id="64662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64662" title="Tape">
Tape

Tape refers to a strip of long, thin and narrow matter, usually rolled up. It can also mean any of these:

</doc>
<doc id="64663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64663" title="Roman Polanski">
Roman Polanski

Roman Polanski (born Rajmund Roman Thierry Polanski 18 August 1933 in Paris) is a movie director, producer, writer and actor. In 2003, he won the Academy Award for Best Director for his film, "The Pianist".
Polanski was born in Paris, France but his family moved back to Poland in 1937. His parents were agnostics. The family was persecuted by the Nazis in Poland and forced to live in a ghetto. Polanski's mother died at Auschwitz. He later went to film school at Lodz and graduated in 1959. Polanski won many awards for his short movies and went on to make full-length movies in the United Kingdom and the United States.
Polanski's first marriage was to actress Barbara Lass in 1959; they divorced in 1961.
While filming the movie "Fearless Vampire Killers" he met an actress named Sharon Tate. Polanski married her in 1968. In August 1969, Polanski was in London, and Tate was pregnant. Tate and some of their friends were murdered in Los Angeles, California, by people who followed Charles Manson.
Polanski dated Nastassja Kinski who later starred in his film "Tess".
Polanski's third and current wife is actress Emmanuelle Seigner, who is the mother of his daughter and son.
In 1977, Polanski got in trouble with the law in California when he was caught having sex with a 13-year-old girl called Samantha Gailey (now Geimer). Polanski went to France. In the 1990s, Polanski paid an undisclosed sum of money to the woman, in exchange for her dropping the charges. He was arrested in Switzerland in September 2009. He was arrested at the request of the United States, so Switzerland could extradite him to the United States. On July 12, 2010, the Swiss freed Polanski, and decided not to extradite him to Los Angeles. The Swiss Justice Ministry did not believe the legal strength of the United States extradition request. According to the press release, the Swiss authorities asked for copies of the proceedings that would justify the extradition. 
Polanski is still a fugitive (wanted by the police) in America. However, Geimer has said "I would love to see him resolve it, the sooner, the better...if we could just put this to rest, that would be great". Polanski apologized to Geimer in a film documentary. Bernard Kouchner, a French public official, has denounced the USA's extradition request as "sinister" because it came so long after the event.

</doc>
<doc id="64664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64664" title="Watford">
Watford

Watford is a town in Hertfordshire, England, just north of London. Its population is 79,300 (mid-2005) and it is 21.43 square kilometres in size. It is home to Watford FC football club.

</doc>
<doc id="64665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64665" title="Home Alone">
Home Alone

Home Alone is a 1990 American comedy movie set in Chicago, Illinois. It was written and produced by John Hughes and directed by Chris Columbus. 
Home Alone stars Macaulay Culkin as Kevin McCallister. Kevin is mistakenly left home alone when his family goes on a vacation to France, during Christmas. Harry and Marv (played by Joe Pesci and Daniel Stern) play burglars who rob the house.
Composer John Williams wrote the music for the movie, and some popular songs that already existed were played during the movie as well.
In its opening weekend, "Home Alone" grossed $17 million in 1,202 theaters. The film was nominated for Best Original Score and for Best Original Song.
The film was followed by a commercially successful sequel in 1992, '. "Home Alone 3" (1997) and ' (2012) have completely different characters and actors. "" (2002) has some of the main characters from the first two films, but all roles are played by different actors.

</doc>
<doc id="64666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64666" title="Hijab">
Hijab

Hijab () is the Arabic word for "to cover", and in general, means to be modest. 
The word is used in particular to mean clothing which covers a woman's chest, head and hair. This is often done in Islam for females over the age of puberty. It is worn in the presence of adult males outside their immediate family. It may also be worn in front of adult non-Muslim female outside their immediate family . It is not necessary when females or males are within their immediate family. 
The Arabic word used to specifically mean this is "khimār" (). This "veil" can come in several different types, such as an ordinary veil (which only covers the head), and a niqab or burka, which covers the entire body. There are many styles to wear. Muslim men must also observe standards of modest dress. 
The Quran has no requirement that women cover their faces with a veil, or cover their bodies with the full-body burqa or chador.

</doc>
<doc id="64667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64667" title="Scooby-Doo">
Scooby-Doo

Scooby-Doo is an American long-running animated series that was made for Saturday morning cartoons in many different versions from 1969 to now. The first series, that was called "Scooby-Doo, Where Are You!", was made for Hanna-Barbera Productions. Hanna-Barbera made many versions like it and other shows like it until everything was made in The WB Television Network. Warner Bros. currently handles the production (making) of the show.
Though the show, people in it, and their ages have changed, the most familiar versions of the show have a talking dog named Scooby-Doo and four teenagers: Fred "Freddie" Jones, Daphne Blake, Velma Dinkley, and Norville "Shaggy" Rogers.

</doc>
<doc id="64668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64668" title="Akita Inu">
Akita Inu

The Akita is a breed of dog from Japan. It is usually 60–70 cm high and weighs 35–50 kg. Female Akitas are 5 to 10 kg lighter. Their coat can be many colors.
Akitas originate from Akita Prefecture, in the north of Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="64669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64669" title="Nezami">
Nezami

Nezami (Hakīm Nizām ad-Dīn Abū Muhammad Ilyās ibn-Yusūf ibn-Zakī ibn-Mu'ayyid Nezāmi Ganjavi (11411209) ) was a Turkish poet. Nezāmi was born in Ganja, now Azerbaijan. He wrote five poetry books.
In 1169/1170 the king of Darband sent him the maiden Afaq, and Nizami married her. In 1174 his son Muhammad was born.
Nizami Gencevi wrote five poems. The first of them was "Sirler Xezinesi". The others are "Xosrov ve Shirin", "Leyli ve Mecnun", "Yeddi Gozel" and "Isgendername".

</doc>
<doc id="64670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64670" title="List of Persian poets and authors">
List of Persian poets and authors


</doc>
<doc id="64671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64671" title="Metric (band)">
Metric (band)

Metric is a Canadian band. This band was first made in 1998 in Toronto, Ontario.
Metric is made up of Emily Haines, a singer, and also plays the Synthesizer), James Shaw, who plays the guitar, Josh Winstead, who plays bass guitar, and drummer Joules Scott-Key. Their first CD, called "Old World Underground, Where Are You Now?"came out in 2003. Their new CD, "Live It Out", was released on October 4, 2005.
Haines and Shaw are part of a band called Broken Social Scene, and Haines has been a guest on albums by Stars, KC Accidental, Delerium, The Stills, and Jason Collett.
Their songs "Monster Hospital" and "Police and the Private" have been used on the television show "Grey's Anatomy". "Monster Hospital" has been used in the television show "".
Metric continued to work on their first CD in the first few months of 2001. The album under construction included uptempo songs such as the title track "Grow Up and Blow Away", "Raw Sugar", and "Soft Rock Star", and downtempo songs like "White Gold", "The Twist", and "Rock Me Now". "Parkdale", Haines and Shaw finished the CD in April and by this time had found a new label — Restless Records, the L.A. indie record company that supported They Might Be Giants, Agent Orange, and The Dead Milkmen. 
Metric was heard for the first time by many in August 2001 with the advertisement "Be Afraid", advertising Polaroid's I-Zone Pocket Fortune film. The music used for the advertisement was taken from the song "Grow Up and Blow Away", with the line "Why does it feel so good to die today?" changed to "Why does it feel so good to fly away?". 
In 2003, Metric's first album, "Old World Underground, Where Are You Now?" came out in stores. The album got mostly positive reviews. The group released six songs individually from the album, the most successful being "Combat Baby", which was a free song on iTunes in 2004. As of December 12, 2005 the album went gold in Canada.
Two years later, Metric released their second studio album on October 4, "Live It Out". During this time, Metric was asked and agreed to open for the Rolling Stones in New York City. "Live It Out" has been a success in Canada, already selling twice as many copies as "Old World Underground, Where Are You Now?". The album has gone two times platinum in Canada, selling over 200,000 copies.
The band is currently recording their third album, to come out in October 2007 in Toronto. Information about the album without a name is not yet out to the public.
On June 26, 2007, Last Gang Records bought the songs from Metric's 1999 album Grow up and Blow Away, which had been put off due to delays.
Grow Up And Blow Away (unreleased)
Old World Underground, Where Are You Now?
Live It Out

</doc>
<doc id="64672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64672" title="Rudaki">
Rudaki

Abu Abdullah Jafar ibn Mohammad ibn Hakim ibn Abdurrahman ibn Adam Rudaki Samarghandi (859 - c. 941) () or Rudaki was a Persian poet. He was born in Panjakent, Tajikistan and lived in Samarghand. Rudaki translated the old Indian fable book Panchatantra into Persian verse. His poems are collected in diwan.

</doc>
<doc id="64673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64673" title="Baba Taher">
Baba Taher

Baba Taher () was a Persian poet. He lived in Hamadan, a city in Iran. Baha Taher songs are read in Pahlavi languages. His tomb is in Hamadan, western Iran.

</doc>
<doc id="64674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64674" title="Amir Khosrow">
Amir Khosrow

Hakīm Abul-Hasan Yamīn al-Dīn Khusrow Balkhi Dehlavi (1253-1325) () or Amir Khosrow is a Persian poet. Amir Khusrow lived in Delhi. His poems are in Persian and Hindi. 
Allaudin Khilji (1296 A.D - 1316 A.D) had a court minister named Hazrat Amir Khusro who was highly gifted in music with an exceptionally innovative mind. To put it in brief, his contribution to Hindustani Classical Music is unmatched. It is said that he created the Sitar (probably inspired by the Veena and other string instruments of Persia). The modification of the Pakhawaj into the Tabla is also credited to him.
It has also been said that Amir Khusro introduced many styles of singing including Khayal, Tarana, Ghazal and Qawali. He is credit for some most popular Ragas like Yaman, Poorya and Poorvi.

</doc>
<doc id="64675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64675" title="Hafez">
Hafez

Khwajeh Shams al-Din Muhammad Hafez-e Shirazi (also spelled Hafiz) (born between 1310 and 1337, believed to have died at age 69) () or Hafez is a Persian poet. Hafez was born in Shiraz, Iran. Hafez learnt the Quran by heart at an early age. His poems are collected in Divan e Hafez. William Jones translated his work into English in 1771.
Despite his profound effect on Persian life and culture and his enduring popularity and influence, few details of his life are known, and particularly about his early life there is a great deal of more or less mythical anecdote. Some of the early tazkeras (biographical sketches) mentioning Hafez are generally considered unreliable. One early document discussing Hafez' life is the preface of his Divān, which was written by an unknown contemporary of Hafez whose name may have been Moḥammad Golandām. The generally accepted modern edition of Hafez's Divān is known as "Qazvini-Ḡani", edited by Moḥammad Qazvini and Qāsem Ḡani.
Many semi-miraculous mythical tales were woven around Hāfez after his death. Four of them are:

</doc>
<doc id="64676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64676" title="Forough Farrokhzad">
Forough Farrokhzad

Forough Farrokhzad (January 5, 1935 — February 13, 1967) (Persian:فروغ فرخزاد was an Iranian poetess. She lived in Tehran. In 1967, she died in a car accident. She was thirty-two. Maryam Dilmaghani translated her poems to English in 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="64678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64678" title="Ahmad Shamlou">
Ahmad Shamlou

Ahmad Shamlou (December 12, 1925 – July 24, 2000) () or Shamlou was a Persian poet, writer and journalist. In 1954, he was arrested. He was freed in 1955. Shamlou published more than seventy books. He wrote short stories, novels, plays, essays and poems. He died in Tehran and was buried in Karaj.

</doc>
<doc id="64679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64679" title="Parvin E'tesami">
Parvin E'tesami

Parvin E'tesami (March 17, 1907 - April 5, 1941; ) is an Iranian poetess. She was daughter of Yosuf E'tesami, Iranian poet and writer. She started poetry when she was 9. Alladin Pazargadi translated her works from Persian into English in 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="64688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64688" title="Hafiz">
Hafiz

Hafiz or Hafez may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="64691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64691" title="Category:1253 births">
Category:1253 births


</doc>
<doc id="64692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64692" title="Category:1325 deaths">
Category:1325 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="64694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64694" title="Jihad">
Jihad

Jihad is an Arabic word meaning "to struggle". Muslims (believers in Islam) use this word to talk about defending the faith and protecting their family and nation, as well as defending innocent people. It can also mean fighting with yourself to become a better person. It is an official part of Shi'a Islam, but it is not an official part of Sunni Islam, though some call it the sixth pillar of Islam. In some cases, there have been 'Jihads' that have self immolated themselves, in order to get into heaven. There are suicide bombers, who blow themselves up, because they think that it is right and that they are cleaning the world's filth. This is, however, wrong in Islam. It is a major sin to commit suicide or homicide. Killing another human being in Islam is the equivalent of killing all of humanity. On the contrary, saving another human being's life is the equivalent of saving all of humanity.

</doc>
<doc id="64696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64696" title="Postfix notation">
Postfix notation

Postfix notation is a mathematical notation. It is a way to write down equations and other mathematical formulae. Postfix notation is also known as Reverse Polish Notation. The notation was invented by Charles Hamblin in 1920. He wanted to simplify writing logic equations. He used Jan Łukasiewicz's prefix notation.
When postfix notation is used, no grouping elements (like parenthesis) are needed.
Some computer languages, like Postscript use Postfix notation. It is also used in some models of Hewlett-Packard calculators
With postfix notation, the operations are noted after their arguments. Because of this, postfix is relatively easy to do with computers that have a stack to do calculations.

</doc>
<doc id="64699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64699" title="Infix notation">
Infix notation

Infix notation is the common arithmetic and logical formula notation, in which operators are written infix-style between the operands they act on (e.g. 2 + 2). It is not as simple to parse by computer as prefix notation ( e.g. + 2 2 ) or postfix notation ( e.g. 2 2 + ), but many programming languages use it due to its familiarity.
In infix notation, unlike in prefix or postfix notations, parentheses surrounding groups of operands and operators are necessary to indicate the intended order in which operations are to be performed. In the absence of parentheses, certain precedence rules determine the order of operations. These are explained in the order of operations article.

</doc>
<doc id="64700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64700" title="Category:859 births">
Category:859 births


</doc>
<doc id="64702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64702" title="Category:859">
Category:859


</doc>
<doc id="64703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64703" title="Category:850s births">
Category:850s births


</doc>
<doc id="64704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64704" title="Category:941 deaths">
Category:941 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="64705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64705" title="Fiqh">
Fiqh

Fiqh or Islamic jurisprudence () is an expansion of Sharia law and is meant to be used with fatwas by Islamic clerics (known as 'Ulema' in Arabic) to help Muslims not break Sharia law. Fiqh is a section of Islamic law which deals with acts of Muslim, that includes both worship and daily life actions. 
In Sunni Islam there are four main schools of thought, they are:
The different schools of thought are not different beliefs but different views .
In Shia Islam there is one main school of thought, it is called Jaferi

</doc>
<doc id="64706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64706" title="Category:Islamic dress">
Category:Islamic dress


</doc>
<doc id="64711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64711" title="Category:Japanese singers">
Category:Japanese singers


</doc>
<doc id="64713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64713" title="Dir en grey">
Dir en grey

Dir en grey is a rock band from Japan. They began in 1997. They have recorded twenty eight singles, three EPs and eight albums, of which they have released three in Europe and two in the United States.
Vocal Kyou use growl, falset, mixvoice and hoistle voice in their music. Their music mixes rock and metal with tribal music. Many visual kei bands are influenced by Dir en grey.

</doc>
<doc id="64714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64714" title="Hurricane Wilma">
Hurricane Wilma

Hurricane Wilma was the strongest hurricane ever recorded in the Atlantic Ocean. It destroyed parts of the Yucatán Peninsula and southern Florida during October in the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. Wilma broke several records for both strength and seasonal activity. Wilma was only the third Category 5 ever to develop in the month of October and with the formation of Hurricane Wilma, the 2005 season became the most active on record, exceeding the 21 storms of the 1933 season. Wilma was the twenty-second storm (including the subtropical storm discovered in reanalysis), thirteenth hurricane, sixth major hurricane, and fourth Category 5 hurricane of the record-breaking season.
The meteorological history of Hurricane Wilma, the strongest tropical cyclone known in the Western Hemisphere, began in the second week of October 2005. A big weather system formed across much of the Caribbean Sea and slowly organized to the southeast of Jamaica. By late on October 15, the system had become strong enough for the National Hurricane Center to name it Tropical Depression Twenty-Four.
The depression slowly moved southwestward, and in conditions that were good for strengthening, it strengthened into Tropical Storm Wilma on October 17. In the beginning, development was slow because of its large size, although thunderstorms slowly organized. From October 18, and over the next day, Wilma underwent explosive deepening over the open waters of the Caribbean; in a 30-hour period, the system's central atmospheric pressure dropped from 982 mbar (29.00 inHg) to the record-low value of 882 mbar (26.05 inHg), while the winds increased to 185 mph (300 km/h). At its strongest, the pinhole eye of Wilma was about 3 miles (5 km) in diameter, the smallest known eye in an Atlantic hurricane. After the inner eye died off because of an eyewall replacement cycle, Wilma weakened to Category 4 status, and on October 21, it made landfall on Cozumel and on the Mexican mainland with winds of about 150 mph (240 km/h).
Wilma weakened over the Yucatán Peninsula, and reached the southern Gulf of Mexico before speeding up northeastward. Despite increasing amounts of wind shear, the hurricane re-strengthened to hit Cape Romano, Florida as a major hurricane. Wilma weakened as it quickly crossed the state, and entered the Atlantic Ocean near Jupiter, Florida. The hurricane again re-intensified before cold air and wind shear penetrated the inner core of convection. On October 26, it turned into an extratropical cyclone, and the next day, the remnants of Wilma were absorbed by another extratropical storm over Atlantic Canada.
[{Category:21st century in Mexico]]

</doc>
<doc id="64715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64715" title="Yucatán Peninsula">
Yucatán Peninsula

The Yucatán Peninsula is a peninsula in North America. It separates the Caribbean Sea from the Gulf of Mexico. The peninsula is east of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, a northwestern geographic divider, separating Central America from the rest of North America.
The peninsula includes the Mexican states of Yucatán, Campeche, and Quintana Roo; the northern part of Belize; and Guatemala's northern department of El Petén. Mexican states on the isthmus to the south and west of the peninsula include Chiapas and Tabasco.

</doc>
<doc id="64716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64716" title="Clarksville, Tennessee">
Clarksville, Tennessee

Clarksville is a city in Montgomery County, Tennessee, USA. Clarksville is the county seat of Montgomery County and is Tennessee's fifth largest city. As of the 2005 census estimates, the city had a total population of 123,395. Clarksville is the principal central city of the Clarksville-Hopkinsville metropolitan statistical area, which consists of Montgomery County and Christian County, Kentucky.
The city has several nicknames: "The Queen City", "Gateway to the New South", and "Clarksvegas" (The name of a former bar in town).

</doc>
<doc id="64717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64717" title="Live Earth">
Live Earth

Live Earth was a series of concerts held on July 7, 2007, and were organized by Al Gore, who used to be the vice president. Inspired by Live Aid and Live 8, Live Earth was held to raise awareness about global warming. It was held in cities on every continent in the world, even Antarctica, and stars like Madonna and the Foo Fighters came out to help.
Presenters: 
Presenters:
Presenters:
Presenters:
Presenters:
Presenters:
Presenters:

</doc>
<doc id="64720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64720" title="Wembley Stadium (1923)">
Wembley Stadium (1923)

Wembley Stadium was a sports arena in London, England. It was built in 1923 and was first known as the Empire Stadium, but because the area it was in is named "Wembley," it was renamed "Wembley Stadium." It featured twin towers by the entrance.
As well as being a sports arena, it had also been the site for several concerts. The most famous one is the Live Aid concert held there in July of 1985.
In 2000, Wembley Stadium was closed. In 2003, it was demolished, and a brand-new stadium with the same name was put up in its place.

</doc>
<doc id="64721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64721" title="Inch of mercury">
Inch of mercury

Inches of mercury, inHg or Hg is a non-SI unit for pressure, or a way to measure how hard something is pushing on something else. It is a unit that is still used a lot for counting barometric pressure, or how thick the air is in one place, in weather forecasts and aviation, or anything that has to do with flying in the United States, but is considered a bit old in other countries.
It is the amount of pressure that a column of mercury that is one inch tall has at 32 °F (0 °C) at the standard acceleration of gravity, or how fast things speed up as they are falling because of gravity.
Airplanes that are flying at high altitudes, or that are flying higher than what is called the Transition Altitude, which varies by country set their barometric altimeters, which control the air pressure in their plane, to a standard pressure of 29.92 inHg or 1,013.2 hPa (1 hPa = 1 mbar) no matter what the actual sea level pressure is, in inches of mercury used in the U.S. and Canada, and in other units in other countries. The resulting altimeter readings, or the things that show up on the plane's altimeter are known as flight levels.

</doc>
<doc id="64723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64723" title="Lou Costello">
Lou Costello

Lou Costello, born Louis Francis Cristillo (March 6, 1906 - March 3, 1959), was an American actor and comedian best known as half of the comedy team of Abbott and Costello, with Bud Abbott. 

</doc>
<doc id="64724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64724" title="Kirstie Alley">
Kirstie Alley

Kirstie Louise Alley (born January 12, 1951) is an American actress famous for her role in the TV show "Cheers", where she played Rebecca Howe from 1987-1993, winning an Emmy as the "Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series" for 1991. A year later, she won a Golden Globe for her acting in "Cheers" as well. She won an Emmy in 1994 for her role in the TV-drama "David's Mother". Other roles that have been well-liked by the public and the critics that Alley is known for include: playing Diane Barrows in "It Takes Two" and a single mother in "Look Who's Talking", "Look Who's Talking Too", and "Look Who's Talking Now" (all co-starring John Travolta). Alley has won two People's Choice Awards in the years 1991 and 1998.
Alley was honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 7000 Hollywood Boulevard.
From 1971 until 1977 Kirstie was married to Robert Alley. They began dating in high school and were distant cousins. 
From 1983 until 1997 she was married to Parker Stevenson. They have two children, son William True Stevenson (born September 28, 1992) and daughter Lillie Price Stevenson (born June 15, 1994). William and Lillie were adopted. 
Alley was raised Methodist but is now a member of the Church of Scientology. In 2007, Alley gave $5 million to the Church of Scientology.

</doc>
<doc id="64725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64725" title="Seth Adkins">
Seth Adkins

Seth Elijah Adkins (born October 30, 1989) is an American actor. He made his debut in the mid-1990s as a child artiste in the TV shows Small Talk and Sabrina, the Teenage Witch in 1996 and the films ...First Do No Harm and Titanic in 1997. He later made a successful transition to an adult performer. One of his most recent roles was in Matt Reeves' Let Me In (2010). He is also the current actor for Walt Disney's Pinocchio.
Adkins was born in Albuquerque, New Mexico. He has two elder brothers, Zachary (b. 1978) and Josh (b. 1981). His father is a principal and his mother a former teacher. At an early age and with the support of his parents, Adkins followed his older brother into the acting profession. He graduated in 2008 from the Public Academy for Performing Arts.
Adkins made his debut in 1996, in the shows Small Talk and in Sabrina, the Teenage Witch. He appeared in the series ER, and C-16: FBI, and in the films ...First Do No Harm, Stir, Titanic. He voiced Duby in the film Baby Geniuses. He had a role in the television movie Wuthering Heights, and in the feature films Funky Monkey, Bad News Bears, Privileged, and Let Me In. Adkins also appeared in the television series CSI: Miami and Touched by an Angel, Judging Amy, NCIS: Naval Criminal Investigative Service, and Crash.

</doc>
<doc id="64726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64726" title="Danny Aiello">
Danny Aiello

Daniel Louis Aiello, Jr. (born June 20, 1933) is an Italian-American actor. He has been in many movies. These include "Once Upon a Time in America", "Ruby", ', "Hudson Hawk", "The Purple Rose of Cairo", "Moonstruck", ', "Two Days in the Valley", and "Dinner Rush". He is most famous for his role in the 1989 Spike Lee movie "Do the Right Thing". Aiello was nominated for a "Best Supporting Actor" Academy Award in 1990 for his role as Sal, the pizzeria owner.

</doc>
<doc id="64727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64727" title="Claude Akins">
Claude Akins

Claude Marion Akins was an American actor (born May 25, 1926, in Nelson, Georgia - died January 27, 1994, in Altadena, California). With his big body and deep voice, Akins usually played the clever (or less than clever) tough guy, on the side of good or bad, in movies and television. He is famous as "Sheriff Lobo" in the 1970s TV series "B.J. and the Bear", and later "The Misadventures of Sheriff Lobo", a spinoff series.

</doc>
<doc id="64728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64728" title="Don Adams">
Don Adams

Don Adams (April 13, 1923 – September 25, 2005), born Donald James Yarmy, was an American actor. He was best known for his role as Maxwell Smart (Agent 86) in the TV situation comedy "Get Smart" (1965–1970, 1995), for which he also directed and wrote. Adams won three consecutive Emmy Awards for his role (1967–1969). He was also famous for voicing the cartoon characters Tennessee Tuxedo and Inspector Gadget.

</doc>
<doc id="64729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64729" title="Ben Affleck">
Ben Affleck

Benjamin Géza Affleck-Boldt (born August 15, 1972) is an American actor, movie director, producer, and screenwriter. He became well known in the late 1990s, after acting in the movie "Good Will Hunting". He has since become a Hollywood star having acted in several important movies. Affleck played Batman in the 2016 movie "". He will also play Batman in "Suicide Squad" and "Justice League".
Affleck was born in Berkeley, California and grew up in Cambridge, Massachusetts. His mother, Christine Anne "Chris" Affleck (née Boldt), was a school district employee and teacher. His father, Timothy Byers Affleck, has been a drug counselor, social worker, janitor, auto mechanic, bartender, writer, director, and actor with the Theater Company of Boston. Affleck's mother was a freedom rider in the 1960s; until her retirement, she was a public school teacher in Cambridge, Massachusetts. His younger brother is actor Casey Affleck. He has English, Irish, Scottish, German, Swedish, Swiss, Northern Irish (Scots-Irish) and French ancestry. The surname "Affleck" is of Scottish origin, and his middle name, "Géza", was the name of a family friend. He was raised in a mostly Episcopalian family.

</doc>
<doc id="64732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64732" title="The Cosby Show">
The Cosby Show

The Cosby Show was an American television sitcom starring Bill Cosby, first broadcast on September 20, 1984 and ran for eight seasons on the NBC television network, until April 30, 1992.
The show was about the Cosby family, African-Americans living in Brooklyn, New York City.

</doc>
<doc id="64736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64736" title="Wembley Stadium">
Wembley Stadium

Wembley Stadium is a football stadium in London, England. It was built from 2003 to 2007 in the same spot that the first Wembley Stadium was built. It holds 90,000 seats. The new stadium features an arch that was designed not to cast a shadow over the stadium while games are played and to help hold part of the roof up. The FA Cup final is played at Wembley Stadium and both FA Cup semi-finals as well. It also hosts the League Cup final and several other English cup finals. The England national football team play home matches at Wembley.
As well as sports, the new Wembley Stadium, like the first one, is also used for concerts. Metallica, Muse, and George Michael have performed there. Also, the Concert for Diana was held there on July 1, 2007, and the London Live Earth concert was held there six days later, on July 7.
It also hosts NFL games as part of the NFL International Series. The first NFL game there was the New York Giants and the Miami Dolphins. The Jacksonville Jaguars currently have a deal to play one home game in London from 2013 to 2020. LEANDER KARL `JAHN

</doc>
<doc id="64737" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64737" title="Port Dover Composite School">
Port Dover Composite School

Port Dover Composite School was a public high school in Port Dover, Ontario, Canada. The high school was open to both men and women. There were no school uniforms and it is free for Canadian citizens to attend from ages 14 to 21 years of age. In the past, the school hosted a dinosaur music party in French as well as other special events.
This high school was officially closed on January 31, 2013 due to an increasing amount of elderly people in the area and a decreasing amount of children and young people.

</doc>
<doc id="64744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64744" title="Rouben Mamoulian">
Rouben Mamoulian

Rouben Mamoulian (Armenian: Ռուբեն Մամուլյան) (October 8, 1897 – December 4, 1987) was an Armenian-American movie and theatre director.
Born in Tbilisi, Georgia (ruled at that time by imperial Russia) to an Armenian family, Rouben relocated to England and started directing plays in London in 1922. He moved to America the next year to teach in Eastman School of Music and was involved in directing opera and theatre. In 1930, he became a naturalized citizen of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="64746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64746" title="Ivan Aivazovsky">
Ivan Aivazovsky

Ivan Aivazovsky (Russian: Иван Константинович Айвазовский, Armenian: Հովհաննես Այվազովսկի - Hovhannes Aivazovsky July 29, 1817 – May 5, 1900) was a Russian painter of Armenian descent, most famous for his seascapes, which make up more than half of his paintings.

</doc>
<doc id="64751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64751" title="Thistle tube">
Thistle tube

A thistle tube is made of glass and is used in laboratories to add liquid to beakers of other liquids or sometimes to other pieces of equipment.
A thistle tube is a long hollow pole of glass which has a funnel at the top. Liquid is put into the top and travels down the tube and comes out the thin end of the tube in small drips which can be used anywhere. It is usually quite precise.

</doc>
<doc id="64754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64754" title="World Meteorological Organization">
World Meteorological Organization

The World Meteorological Organization (WMO) is an international organization with a membership of 188 Member States and Territories. It was originally known as the International Meteorological Organization (IMO), which was founded in 1873. In 1950, the United Nations created the WMO for meteorology (weather and climate), operational hydrology and related geophysical sciences. Its headquarters are in Geneva, Switzerland. The current president is Alexander Bedritsky and the current Secretary-General is Michel Jarraud, who were both elected by the 14th World Meteorological Congress in 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="64756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64756" title="Static mixer">
Static mixer

A static mixer is a piece of equipment that is used to mix liquids in laboratories. It has a unique shape.
A static mixer is made up of rectangular plates twisted around at 180° so that they make a double-helix shape.<br>
- Click for a picture<br>
Liquids flow along the curves of the static mixer and also are separated by the smooth sides of the mixer. The mixer can also be turned clockwise, or right, and then quickly turned counter-clockwise, or left. This creates opposite currents in the liquid and mixes it more efficiently.
The static mixer can be used to mix acids and alkalis for a neutralization. It can also be used to mix two liquids that normally wouldn't mix, like oil and water (see emulsion). It separates the particles of the water and oil until they become so small that they mix.

</doc>
<doc id="64757" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64757" title="Komárno">
Komárno

Komárno is a town in the southwest of Slovakia. It is an important, historical town which is famous for having the largest fortification in Europe. The river Vah flows into the Danube at Komárno. The Danube at this point forms the border between the countries Slovakia and Hungary. The Hungarian name for the town is Komárom.
At first there was just one town, with the Danube flowing through the middle of the town. Since the end of World War I, when Czechoslovakia became a separate country from Hungary, the town has been split into two: Komárno is on the left (north) bank of the river, now in Slovakia, and Komárom is on the right (south) bank of the river, in Hungary. Komárno has a population of 37.000 and Komárom has a population of 19.600. The two towns are joined by a bridge.
People have lived in the area of Komárno for thousands of years. The first castle was built in the 10th century. In 1244 a law was made which said that every merchant who sailed a boat down the Danube past Komárno had to stop for several days in Komárno and unload all the cargo so that people could buy it if they wanted. If the merchant did not want to do this he had to pay a large duty (amount of money) to continue his journey. This law was stopped in 1751. 
In the 15th century Komárno had become very important. The rulers and the court of the kingdom of Hungary often stayed there. The fortress was very powerful and they managed to fight off Turkish invadors after the Turks had already captured Esztergom and Buda. The fort was badly damaged in 1783 in an earthquake, but it was built up again because of the Napoleonic wars.
Today Komárno is a nice town to visit. There are many tourist attractions, especially the fort which is on the Hungarian side of the town (Komárom). There are also spa health centres where people can swim or bathe gently in the waters which help to make people who are ill healthy again. Two famous people who were born in Komárno are Mór Jókai, (1825-1904), a famous Hungarian writer, and Franz Lehár (1870-1948) – the composer who wrote popular operettas such as "The Merry Widow". 

</doc>
<doc id="64758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64758" title="Komarno">
Komarno

Komarno (, , ) is a city in the Horodok Raion (district) of the Lviv Oblast (province) in western Ukraine. 4,000 people live there. It was founded in 1324. In the center of town is an old Polish Kostel (Catholic Church). There is also an old wooden church with ancient icons. The river Vereshytsia flows through the town. 
The Hasidic dynasty of Komarno comes from this town.

</doc>
<doc id="64761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64761" title="Correlation">
Correlation

In statistics and probability theory, correlation means how closely related two sets of data are.
Correlation does not always mean that one causes the other. It is very possible that there is a third factor involved.
Correlation usually has one of two directions. These are positive or negative. If it is positive, then the two sets go up together. If it is negative, then one goes up while the other goes down.
Lots of different measurements of correlation are used for different situations. For example, on a scatter graph, people draw a line of best fit to show the direction of the correlation. 
"Strong" and "weak" are words used to describe correlation. If there is strong correlation, then the points are all close together. If there is weak correlation, then the points are all spread apart.
There are ways of making numbers show how strong the correlation is. These measurements are called correlation coefficients. The best known is the Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient. You put in data into a formula and it gives you a number. If the number is 1 or −1, then there is strong correlation. If the answer is 0, then there is no correlation. Another kind of correlation coefficient is Spearman's rank correlation coefficient.
Correlation does not always mean that one thing causes the other thing (causation), because something else might have caused both. 
For example, on hot days people buy ice cream, and people also go to the beach where some are eaten by sharks. There is a correlation between ice cream sales and shark attacks (they both go up as the temperature goes up in this case). But just because ice cream sales go up does not mean ice cream sales cause (causation) more shark attacks or vice versa.
Because correlation does not imply causation scientists, economists, etc. will test their theories by creating isolated environments where only one factor is changed (where this is possible). 
However, politicians, salesmen, news outlets and others often suggest that a particular correlation implies causation. This may be due to ignorance or a wish to persuade. Thus, a news report may attract attention by saying that people who consume a particular product more often have a particular health problem, implying a causation that could be actually due to something else.

</doc>
<doc id="64763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64763" title="Sunscreen">
Sunscreen

Sunscreen (also known as sunblock, suntan lotion) is a lotion, spray or other topical product that helps protect the skin from the sun's ultraviolet (UV) radiation. It reduces sunburn and other skin damage, with the goal lowering your risk of skin cancer. However, in the United States, the term suntan lotion usually means the opposite of sunscreen, and instead refers to lotion designed to moisturize and maximize UV exposure and tanning rather than block it. These are commonly called indoor tanning lotions when designed for use with tanning beds or just suntan lotion if designed for outdoor use and may or may not have SPF protection in them.
The most effective sunscreens protect against both UVB (ultraviolet radiation with wavelength between 290 and 320 nanometres), which can cause sunburn, and UVA (between 320 and 400 nanometres), which damages the skin with more long-term effects, such as premature skin aging. Most sunscreens work by containing either an organic chemical compound that absorbs ultraviolet light (such as oxybenzone) or an opaque material that reflects light (such as titanium dioxide, zinc oxide), or a combination of both. Typically, absorptive materials are referred to as chemical blocks, whereas opaque materials are mineral or physical blocks.

</doc>
<doc id="64768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64768" title="First Council of Nicaea">
First Council of Nicaea

The First Council of Nicaea was held in Nicaea, in Bithynia in 325. Nicea is the city of Iznik in Turkey. The Roman Emperor Constantine I called the bishops of the Roman Empire to the first ecumenical conference of the early Christian Church. It had as most important result the first uniform Christian doctrine, called the Nicene Creed.
With the creation of the creed, a precedent was established for subsequent 'general (ecumenical) councils of Bishops' (Synods) to create statements of belief and church law. The purpose was to define unity of beliefs for the whole of Christendom.
The agenda of the synod were:
The purpose of the council was to disagreements in the Church of Alexandria over the nature of Jesus in relationship to the Father; in particular, whether Jesus was of the same substance as God the Father or merely of similar substance. St. Alexander of Alexandria and Athanasius took the first position; the popular presbyter Arius, from whom the term Arian controversy comes, took the second. The council decided against the Arians (of the estimated 250-318 attendees, all but 2 voted against Arius). But many of the Eastern bishops who were pro-Arian, were prevented from reaching the Council until after the vote had been taken.
Another result of the council was an agreement on the date of the Christian Passover ("Pascha" in Greek; Easter in modern English), the most important feast of the ecclesiastical calendar. The council decided in favour of celebrating the resurrection on the first Sunday after the first full moon following the vernal equinox, independently of the Bible's Hebrew calendar and authorized the Bishop of Alexandria to announce annually the exact date to his fellow bishops.
The Council of Nicaea was historically significant because it was the first effort to come to a consensus in the church through an assembly representing all of Christendom. "It was the first occasion for the development of technical Christology." Further, "Constantine in convoking and presiding over the council signaled a measure of imperial control over the church." With the creation of the Nicene Creed, a precedent was established for subsequent general councils to create a statement of belief and canons which were intended to become guidelines for doctrinal orthodoxy and a source of unity for the whole of Christendom — a momentous event in the history of the Church and subsequent history of Europe.
The First Council of Nicaea was called by Constantine I upon the recommendations of a synod led by Hosius of Cordoba in the Eastertide of 325. To most bishops, the teachings of Arius were heretical and a danger to the salvation of souls. In the summer of 325, the bishops of all provinces came to Nicaea (now known as İznik, in modern-day Turkey), a place easily accessible to the majority of them, particularly those of Asia Minor, Syria, Palestine, Egypt, Greece, and Thrace.
Approximately 300 bishops attended, from every region of the Empire except Britain. This was the first general council in the history of the Church since the Apostolic Council of Jerusalem. In the Council of Nicaea, “The Church had taken her first great step to define doctrine more precisely in response to a challenge from a heretical theology.” The resolutions in the council, being ecumenical, were intended for the whole Church.
Constantine had invited all 1800 bishops of the Christian church (about 1000 in the east and 800 in the west), but only 250 to 320 bishops actually participated. Eusebius of Caesarea counted 250, Athanasius of Alexandria counted 318, and Eustathius of Antioch counted 270 (all three were present at the council). Later, Socrates Scholasticus recorded more than 300, and Evagrius, Hilarius, Jerome and Rufinus recorded 318.
The bishops were given free travel to the council, as well as lodging. These bishops did not travel alone; each one had permission to bring with him two priests and three deacons; so the total number of attendees would have been above 1500. Eusebius speaks of an almost innumerable host of accompanying priests, deacons and acolytes.
A special prominence was also attached to this council because the persecution of Christians had just ended with the February 313 Edict of Milan by Emperors Constantine and Licinius.
The Eastern bishops formed the great majority. Of these, the first rank was held by the three patriarchs: Alexander of Alexandria, Eustathius of Antioch, and Macarius of Jerusalem.
The Latin-speaking provinces sent at least five representatives: Marcus of Calabria from Italia, Cecilian of Carthage from Africa, Hosius of Córdoba from Hispania, Nicasius of Dijon from Gaul, and Domnus of Stridon from the province of the Danube. Pope Silvester I did not attend, telling he was ill, but he was represented by two priests.
Athanasius of Alexandria, a young deacon and companion of Bishop Alexander of Alexandria, was among the assistants. Athanasius eventually spent most of his life battling against Arianism. Alexander of Constantinople, then a presbyter, was also present as representative of his aged bishop.

</doc>
<doc id="64771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64771" title="Wikipedia:Simple English Wiktionary">
Wikipedia:Simple English Wiktionary

Simple English Wiktionary is an online dictionary that can be edited by everyone. It is one of many language versions of Wiktionary. It is made to help people who do not know English well, or need a clearer explanation of the meaning of a word. This dictionary will have all English words, but uses a small group of words to define them. Simple English Wiktionary is made to work with .
The site is a wiki; anybody can change its pages. Like other wikis run by the Wikimedia Foundation, the content on Simple English Wiktionary is free to use and share.
As of January 2016, it has over 24,000 articles (or entries), over 15,000 users and 5 administrators.
The Simple English Wiktionary was created to help four groups of people:
These four groups will probably find the Simple English Wikipedia useful.

</doc>
<doc id="64776" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64776" title="Oscypek">
Oscypek

Oscypek (in Polish, "Oštiepok" in Slovak language) is a smoked cheese from Poland and Slovakia.
Oscypek is created from sheep's milk, or sometimes from cow's milk. Originally oscypek is always created from sheep's milk.

</doc>
<doc id="64778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64778" title="Bigos">
Bigos

Bigos is a traditional dish from Poland and Lithuania. Bigos is created from cabbage (normal and sauerkraut) and meat. Probably bigos has been imported to Poland from king - Jogaila. In very rare cases bigos can be made without meat or cabbage, but the presence of sauerkraut is absolutely essential.

</doc>
<doc id="64779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64779" title="Kaliber 44">
Kaliber 44

Kaliber 44 is a hip hop band from Poland. It was created in 1994 by Piotr Łuszcz ("Magik"), Marcin Marten ("AbraDab") and Michał Marten ("Joka").

</doc>
<doc id="64784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64784" title="Lupin">
Lupin

Lupin, often spelled lupine in North America, is the common name for members of the genus Lupinus in the family Fabaceae. 
The genus includes between 150-200 species, and has a wide distribution in the Mediterranean region - Subgen. Lupinus, and the Americas - Subgen. Platycarpos (Wats.) Kurl.
The species are mostly herbaceous perennial plants 0.3-1.5 m tall, but some are annual plants and a few are shrubs up to 3 m tall, with one, Lupinus jaimehintoniana, a tree 8 m high with a trunk 20 cm in diameter, from the Mexican state of Oaxaca. They have a characteristic and easily recognised leaf shape, with soft green to grey-green or silvery leaves with the blades usually palmately divided into 5–17 leaflets or reduced to a single leaflet in a few species of the southeastern United States; in many species, the leaves are hairy with silvery hairs, often densely so. The flowers are produced in dense or open whorls on an erect spike, each flower 1-2 cm long, with a typical peaflower shape with an upper 'standard', two lateral 'wings' and two lower petals fused as a 'keel'. The fruit is a pod containing several seeds.
In New Zealand lupins have escaped into the wild and grow in large numbers along main roads and streams in South Island. The seeds are carried by car tires and water flow, and unfortunately, some tourist shops in the major tourist areas have been reported to have sold packets of lupin seeds to tourists, with the instructions to plant, water and watch them grow into a giant beanstalk. They are principally blue, pink and violet, with some yellow, and are very attractive, providing colourful vistas with a backdrop of mountains and lakes. The New Zealand environment authorities have a campaign to reduce their numbers, although this seems a hopeless task, especially when faced with such ignorance as mentioned above. In fields they seem to be eradicated by sheep, and hence remain largely restricted to ungrazed roadside verges and stream banks.
5. Diaporthe toxica sp.nov., the cause of lupinosis in sheep. Williamson et al. 1994, Mycological Research 98 (12) 1364-1365

</doc>
<doc id="64785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64785" title="Bar (unit)">
Bar (unit)

The bar (symbol bar), decibar (symbol dbar) and the millibar (symbol mbar, also mb) are units of pressure. They are not SI units, but they are anyhow also used with (although discouraged) for use with the SI. The bar is still used in descriptions of pressure because it is about the same as atmospheric pressure.
The bar, decibar and millibar are known as:
(A pascal is one newton per square meter.)
The word "bar" has its origin in the Greek word "βάρος" (baros), meaning weight. Its official symbol is "bar"; the earlier "b" is now no longer used, but still often seen especially as "mb" rather than the correct "mbar" for millibars.
The bar and millibar were defined by Sir Napier Shaw in 1909 and internationally used in 1929.

</doc>
<doc id="64788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64788" title="Pascal (unit)">
Pascal (unit)

The pascal (symbol: Pa) is the SI derived unit of pressure or stress. It is a measure of perpendicular force per unit area i.e. equal to one newton per square meter. In everyday life, the pascal is maybe best known from meteorological air-pressure reports, where it happens in the form of hectopascal (1 hPa = 100 Pa). In other cases, the kilopascal is more commonly used, for example on bicycle tire labels. One hectopascal corresponds to 0.1 and one kilopascal to about 1% of atmospheric pressure (near sea level).
It is named after the French mathematician and physicist, Blaise Pascal.

</doc>
<doc id="64790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64790" title="Jerez de la Frontera">
Jerez de la Frontera

Jerez de la Frontera is a city in the province of Cádiz, in the region of Andalusia in Spain. It is famous as the home of the wine called sherry, whose name comes from the city's old Arabic name, pronounced "Sherish". 
Jerez de la Frontera, once called Xeres, has a rich history from the days of the Moorish Arab occupation of the Iberian Peninsula. Part of its name, "de la Frontera," means "of the frontier" because it was on the border between Islamic and Christian populations.
The city is well known for breeding and training the world-famous Andalusian horses. Flamenco dance is a popular cultural feature of the city.

</doc>
<doc id="64791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64791" title="Limited government">
Limited government

Limited government is a form of government with roles and powers given, and limited by law, usually in a written constitution. A limited government has only the powers that the people give it. 
Related to this idea is "small government" – a system that put most of its power in smaller groups, such as private businesses and its own citizens. On the other hand, “big government” involves a great amount of intervention by the state.
In Great Britain, the idea of limited government is part of the political tradition and is not written into the Constitution of the United Kingdom. However, in the United States, the idea of limited government is written into the United States Constitution.

</doc>
<doc id="64792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64792" title="Azores">
Azores

The Azores () is an archipelago of nine volcanic islands in the North Atlantic Ocean; they are about west of Lisbon and about southeast of Newfoundland. The islands, and their Exclusive Economic Zone, form the Autonomous Region of the Azores, one of the two autonomous regions of Portugal.
There are nine major Azores islands and several very small islands (islets), in three main groups. They extend for more than and lie in a northwest-southeast direction.
The archipelago is part of the Macaronesia.
Officially, the first islands were "discovered" in the 15th century (in 1431) by Gonçalo Velho Cabral a Captain in the service of Infante Dom Henrique, though credit is also given to the explorer Diogo de Silves (in 1427).
The archipelago was settled over the centuries largely from mainland Portugal. Portuguese settlers came from the provinces of Algarve, Minho, Alentejo and Ribatejo as well as Madeira.
In 1976, the Azores became the Autonomous Region of the Azores (), an autonomous regions of Portugal.
The archipelago is in the Atlantic Ocean between 36º and 43º latitude North and between 25º and 31º longitude West. They have a very humid oceanic climate with relatively small annual variations.
The nine islands are in three natural geographic groups, each group separated by more than of water. These groups are:
The eastern group also has, to the northeast of Santa Maria, a group of very small islands (islets) and reefs that are named "Ilhéus das Formigas" (Islets of the Ants), or just "Formigas" ("Ants"); these smalls islands, together with the "Dollabarat" reef, form the Reserva Natural do Ilhéu das Formigas.
The nine islands have a total area of . Their individual areas vary between of the largest island (São Miguel) to of the smallest (Corvo).
All the islands have volcanic origins, although some, such as Santa Maria, have had no recorded activity since the islands were settled. The last volcano to erupt in the archipelago was the Capelinhos Volcano () in 1957, in the western part of the island of Faial. Earthquakes are common on most of the islands.
The Azores are on place where three of the world's large tectonic plates (the North American Plate, the Eurasian Plate and the African Plate) meet. The westernmost islands of the archipelago, (Corvo and Flores), are in the North American Plate, while the remaining islands are located within the region where the Eurasian plate is separated from the African Plates.
The volcano Mount Pico, on the Pico island, is the highest point in Portugal, at .
Daily maximum temperatures usually range between and . The average annual rainfall increases from east to west, and it ranges from 700 to 1600 annual millimetres (27.6–63 in) on average, reaching on Mount Pico.
The sea around the Azores is warmed by the Gulf Stream and sea water temperature varies from to .
A total of 11 tropical or subtropical cyclones have affected the region in history. Most of them were either extratropical or tropical storms when they impacted the region, although several hurricanes of Category 1 have reached the Azores.
When the Azores became an Autonomous Region of Portugal, the cities of Ponta Delgada, Angra and Horta were considered capital/administrative cities to the regional government: homes to the President (Ponta Delgada), the Judiciary (Angra) and the Regional Assembly (Horta).
The Azores are divided into 19 municipalities (); each municipality is further divided into parishes (), of which there is a total of 156 in all of the Azores. The municipalities, by island, are:
There are five cities () in the Azores:
According to the 2011 Census, the total population in the Azores was 246,746: 121,533 men and 125,213 women. The density for the whole Archipelago is 106 persons/km .
The Azores economy is based mainly on agriculture, fisheries and tourism.
In the agriculture sector, cattle-raising is very important. Some of the most important crops in the Azores are pineapples, grapes, potatoes, tobacco and tea. Fisheries are an important economic activity on all islands. Fishing methods are highly traditional among Azorean fishermen. Industry in the Azores is based mainly on the production of dairy products (milk, cheese) and transformation of fisheries products, such as tuna.
It is tourism, however, that has been growing more in recent years. It is far less developed than those industries of its Macaronesian neighbours, Madeira and Canary Islands.

</doc>
<doc id="64793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64793" title="Wade Robson">
Wade Robson

Wade Jeremy Robson (born 1982) is an Australian professional dancer, choreographer, producer, and songwriter. He has performed as a dancer since the age of 5 with celebrities such as Michael Jackson and Britney Spears, and is also an award-winning choreographer, known for his own MTV show "Wade Robson Project", and the broadcast competition "So You Think You Can Dance". In 1994 he released an album as part of the hip hop group Quo.
On May 1 2013 Robson sued Michael Jackson's estate. He did not sue Jackson because Jackson died in 2009. He said that Jackson sexually abused him from the age of 7 to 14. He said that he would sue Jackson's father Joe for slander if he did not stop saying that Robson is lying.

</doc>
<doc id="64795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64795" title="Adam Stefan Sapieha">
Adam Stefan Sapieha

Adam Stefan Stanisław Bonfatiusz Józef Sapieha (14 May 1867 – 23 July 1951) was a Polish Roman Catholic Church priest and Cardinal. He was a mentor and patron of Pope John Paul II.
Sapieha was born in 1867 in the castle of Krasiczyn. He was the youngest of the seven children of Prince Adam Stanisław Sapieha-Kodenski.
Sapieha was ordained a priest in 1893.
Sapieha was named Bishop of the diocese of Kraków in 1911.
After the Nazi invasion of Poland, Sapieha operate the seminary in secret. Among the students was Karol Wojtyła, the future Pope John Paul II. Wojtyła lived in Sepieha's basement. In 1963, Father Wojtyła became the Auxiliary Bishop in Kraków.
He was created a Cardinal in 1946.
He died on 23 July 1951, at the age of 84. Cardinal Sapieha is buried in the castle of Wawel (in Kraków).

</doc>
<doc id="64796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64796" title="Cardinal (Catholicism)">
Cardinal (Catholicism)

Cardinal is a clerical office in the Roman Catholic Church. Cardinals are counselors of the pope.
Pope Innocent IV granted the use of the red hat to the cardinals in 1245. The red had was a symbol of the cardinal's readiness to shed their blood in the cause of the church. 
The collective name for cardinals is college of cardinals. The Pope is elected by the "college of cardinals". 
When there is no pope, the cardinals directs the day-to-day affairs of the Church.

</doc>
<doc id="64797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64797" title="Faustyna Kowalska">
Faustyna Kowalska

Maria Faustina Kowalska, commonly known as Saint Faustina, born Helena Kowalska (August 25, 1905, Głogowiec, then in the Russian Empire – October 5, 1938, Kraków, Poland) was a Polish nun and mystic. She is now venerated in the Roman Catholic Church as a saint.
Faustina Kowalska, the servant of God's mercy, was the third of ten children. She was born to a poor family. In 1921 after grade school, she started to work to support her family. Around this time she was considering a vocation in the Catholic church. She claimed that God himself was calling her to be a nun. Helena left for Warsaw, and applied to various convents in the capital, only to be turned down each time. She was finally accepted at the convent of the Congregation of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy. She was eventually initiated as a nun on April 30, 1926, with the name Sister Maria Faustina of the Blessed Sacrament.
Saint Faustina claimed she had visited Purgatory. She also said she had seen and spoken to Jesus and Mary several times. Later on, Jesus revealed her purpose; to spread the devotion of the Mercy of God. On February 22, 1931, Jesus was said to have appeared as the 'King of Divine Mercy', wearing a white garment. His right hand was raised in a sign of blessing and the other was touching the garment at the breast. From beneath the garment came two large rays. One ray was red, the other pale. St. Faustina had a picture of this vision painted. With the help of Father Michał Sopoćko, she distributed the images at Kraków and Wilno, and people began to pray before them. Saint Faustina wrote a diary. She did this despite the fact that she could hardly write at all. The diary was later published under the title "Divine Mercy in My Soul: The Diary of St. Faustina". Saint Faustina wanted to found a "Congregation which will proclaim the Mercy of God to the world, and, by its prayers, obtain it for the world". 
In 1936, Saint Faustina became seriously ill. At the time, doctors thought it could be tuberculosis. She was moved to the sanatorium in Pradnik. 
She spent much time in prayer, reciting the Chaplet of Divine Mercy and praying for the conversion of sinners. The last two years of St. Faustina’s life were spent working as much as she could between visits to the sanatorium and time spent sick in bed in the convent. By June of 1938, she could no longer write in the diary, and it became obvious that she would not live much longer. St. Faustina died on October 5. The task of spreading the message of Divine Mercy, already well begun, was continued by her spiritual director, Father Sopoćko. Saint Faustina had never been able to found the religious order which Jesus had asked for, but she had left clear rules for the life of the prospective community, and at last in 1941, the order, now known as the Institute of Divine Mercy, was founded.
Note: With reference to 'religious order' 'able to found' and Saint Sister Faustina please visit Faustinum Association of Apostles of the Divine Mercy for information regarding the apostolic movement which springs from Sr Faustinas' charism and the message of Divine Mercy.
Pope Pius XI accepted The Divine Mercy devotion.
Pope Pius XII promoted The Divine Mercy devotion.
Cardinal Pacelli (who later became Pope Pius XII) defended The Divine Mercy devotion against heretics.
Pope Pius XI, and Pope Pius XII, and St. Faustina's Confessor, and her Spiritual Director, and her Bishop, and Cardinal Prince Adam Sapieha (the Cardinal of Poland), and Cardinal Ottaviani (the Prefect of the Holy Office), all favoured The Divine Mercy devotion.
Faustina was beatified on April 18, 1993 and canonized on April 30, 2000.
Divine Mercy Sunday is celebrated the Second Sunday of Easter (which is the first Sunday after Easter, during Octave).
The fact that her Vatican autobiography directly quotes some of her conversations with Jesus distinguishes her somewhat among other visionaries of Jesus and Mary.

</doc>
<doc id="64802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64802" title="Fleet">
Fleet

Fleet may mean:
A fleet is a collection of ships or vehicles:

</doc>
<doc id="64803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64803" title="Don Giovanni">
Don Giovanni

Don Giovanni is an Italian opera in two acts. It is about the character better known as Don Juan. The music was written by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. The libretto was written by Lorenzo da Ponte. The opera was first performed at the National Theatre in Prague on 29 October 1787. It was a great success. 
"Don Giovanni" is about a libertine and murderer who refuses to repent when given the chance. He is taken alive to Hell. The story was originally a folktale. Plays, operas, and even a ballet were produced on the theme by the time Mozart and da Ponte started work on their opera.
"Don Giovanni" was performed across Europe after its success in Prague. It was performed in the United States in 1826, staged by da Ponte himself. In 1979, Joseph Losey made a movie of the opera. In 2013, "Don Giovanni" was tenth on the Operabase list of the most-performed operas in the world.
The overture opens with a somber musical passage in D minor. This passage is also played when the statue of the Commendatore calls for Don Giovanni to repent at the end of the opera. A quick, bright section in D major follows this slow passage. It is not related to music in opera. It is spirited, vigorous, and robust. It quietly dies away as the curtain rises on the first act.
Act I.
Scene 1. The garden of the Commendatore's house in Seville, Spain. Night. Don Giovanni has failed to seduce Donna Anna. Her father defends her. Don Giovanni kills him in a duel. He runs away with his servant Leporello. Donna Anna and her fiancé Don Ottavio find the dead Commendatore. They promise to bring the murderer to justice.
Scene 2. A street in Seville. Don Giovanni's wife Donna Elvira has just come to Seville from Burgos. She is looking for Don Giovanni. He married her, and then left her. He enters the street with Leporello. He sees Elvira and leaves. Leporello stays behind. He tells Elvira about Giovanni's bad behavior with women.
Scene 3. The countryside near Seville. Don Giovanni takes an interest in a peasant girl named Zerlina. He tries to seduce her. Elvira takes Zerlina away with her. Anna and Ottavio meet Don Giovanni. He does not want to talk to them. He hurries away. They know he is the murderer. They promise again to bring him to justice. Giovanni comes back when they leave. He orders Leporello to prepare a party.
Scene 4. A garden at Don Giovanni's palace. Masetto and Zerlina are going to the party. Masetto doubts Zerlina loves him. She tells him to beat her, if that will make him feel better. The two make up. They go into the palace. Anna, Ottavio, and Elvira come into the garden. Their faces are covered with masks. They promise to bring Don Giovanni to justice. They go into the palace.
Scene 5. The ballroom in Don Giovanni's palace. The guests are having a gay time. Don Giovanni pulls Zerlina into another room. She screams. Don Giovanni comes into the room. He tells everyone that Leporello attacked Zerlina. No one is fooled. Anna, Elvira, and Ottavio take off their masks. Ottavio has a pistol. Don Giovanni runs away.
Act II.
Scene 1. Evening on a street in Seville. Don Giovanni wants to seduce Elvira's maid. He changes clothes with Leporello. When Elvira enters, Leporello is sent off with the lady. She thinks he is Don Giovanni. Giovanni sings a serenade. Masetto and his friends come in. They are looking for Don Giovanni. He beats Masetto and runs off. Zerlina finds Masetto and comforts him.
Scene 2. A nearby street. Leporello wants to get rid of Elvira. She may discover he is not Giovanni. The two hear others coming into the street. They hide behind a wall. Anna, Ottavio, Zerlina, and Masetto open a door in the wall, and find Leporello. They want to punish him. He runs away. Ottavio says he will go to the police.
Scene 3. (This scene is cut in modern performances.) A street. Zerlina threatens Leporello with a razor. A servant ties Leporello to a chair. When Leporello is left alone, he escapes. Zerlina comes back with Elvira and Masetto. They believe Don Giovanni must have helped Leporello escape. Elvira is left alone. She thinks of her love for Don Giovanni. She is certain he will be punished.
Scene 4. A cemetery in Seville. Don Giovanni and Leporello make jokes about Elvira. A strange voice is heard. It tells the two that justice is near. The voice is coming from a statue of the murdered Commendatore. Giovanni orders Leporello to invite the statue to dinner. The two leave to get dinner ready.
Scene 5. A room in Donna Anna's house. Anna is feeling great sorrow over her father's death. Ottavio says his love will comfort her. She is shocked with this suggestion. Ottavio says she is cruel to him. She asks him not to say such things. She tells him that her sorrow is so deep that she can think only of her dead father.
Scene 6. A room in Don Giovanni's palace. Don Giovanni is eating dinner. Elvira begs him to repent and change his way of life before it is too late. He laughs at her, and she leaves. Suddenly, the statue comes into the room. It orders Giovanni to repent. He refuses. Flames rise, and demons scream. The statue takes Giovanni's hand. Hell opens. The two disappear in the flames. Anna, Ottavio, Elvira, Zerlina, and Massetto come into the room with the police. They are looking for Don Giovanni. Leporello tells them that Giovanni has met his end. They are pleased, and make plans for happier days.
"Don Giovanni" is based on a character in European folklore. This character is known as Don Juan. In 1581, the first play about Don Juan was written in Spanish by Juan de la Cueva. Other plays were also written. The most famous Don Juan play was "The Playboy of Seville and His Stone Guest" by a Spanish monk named Tirso de Molina. This play is the source of all the Don Juan stories and plays that were written after it. Da Ponte even used some words from it when he was writing "Don Giovanni".
Traveling actors performed the Don Juan plays in France and Italy . The Don Juan character became well known. There were French, German, and Italian plays. Molière wrote "Dom Juan" in 1665, and Thomas Shadwell wrote an English play in 1676. Carlo Goldoni wrote an Italian play in 1736. Mozart and da Ponte probably knew the Goldoni play.
The first opera was a French one written in 1713. It was a comic opera. Gluck wrote a ballet for Vienna in 1761. Vincenzo Righini wrote an opera that was performed in Vienna and Prague in 1777 ten years before "Don Giovanni". There were other operas written about Don Juan. The best known opera was one by Giovanni Bertati and Giuseppe Gazzaniga. It was performed in Venice in 1787. It was a great success. Da Ponte knew this opera. He made use of Bertati's libretto when he wrote "Don Giovanni".
Mozart and da Ponte first met in Vienna in 1783. At that time, da Ponte promised to write a libretto for Mozart. Three years later, he adapted a French play called "The Marriage of Figaro" to an opera libretto for Mozart. In three months, Mozart had completed the music. "The Marriage of Figaro" had its first performance in Vienna on May 1, 1786. It was a great success.
In January 1787, Mozart went to Prague for the first performance of "Figaro" in that city. The opera was a wild success. The manager of the opera house hired Mozart to write an opera for Prague. In Vienna, Mozart asked da Ponte for a libretto. Da Ponte gave him "Don Giovanni". Mozart started work on this new opera.
Mozart wrote most of "Don Giovanni" in the summer of 1787 in Vienna. Early in October, he went to Prague. He completed the opera in Prague at the Villa Bertramka, the home of friends. The first performance of the opera was postponed. The curtain rose on the world premiere of "Don Giovanni" at the National Theatre in Prague on October 29, 1787. The opera was a great success.
One critic wrote: "On Monday the 29th the Italian Opera performed Maestro Mozart's eagerly awaited "Don Giovanni" ... Music lovers and musicians say that nothing to equal it has every been seen before in Prague ... Mozart himself conducted and he was given three cheers ... The opera is uncommonly difficult to perform ... The crowd of spectators bears witness to its general acclaim."
There are many legends about the making of "Don Giovanni". One legend says Luigi Bassi, the 22 year old singer playing Don Giovanni, wanted more music to sing. He was said to have forced Mozart to rewrite a duet five times. Another legend says Mozart flirted with all three sopranos in the opera. When one would reject his passes, he would simply move on to the next. Another legend says Mozart's wife Constanze kept her husband awake with funny stories the night before the first performance so he could complete the overture to the opera.
Mozart left Prague for Vienna in November 1787. Music lovers in Vienna had heard good reports of "Don Giovanni". The Emperor ordered the opera to be produced at the Burgtheater. Mozart wrote some new music for the characters of Elvira and Ottavio. He also wrote a duet for Zerlina and Leporello. "Don Giovanni" was first performed in Vienna on May 7, 1788. Mozart's sister-in-law Aloysia Lange sang Donna Anna.
Legend says the performance in Vienna ended with Don Giovanni going to Hell. The final scene for Anna, Elvira, Zerlina, Ottavio, Masetto, and Leporello was probably cut. Mozart wrote some new music for the Vienna performance. He may have had to cut the last scene to keep the performance within a certain length of time. The opera was not as successful in Vienna as it was in Prague. It was dropped at the Burgtheater after fifteen performances.
"Don Giovanni" was performed all over Germany. It was performed in Poland in 1789. It was performed in German in Amsterdam and St Petersburg. The opera was popular in France, in both Italian and French versions. The first performance of "Don Giovanni" in Italy was at Bergamo in 1811. It was performed in Rome the same year. Its first performance in England may have been an amateur performance. In 1817 though, it was presented in both English and Italian. Lorenzo da Ponte produced the first American performance of "Don Giovanni" in New York City in 1826.
In 1979, Joseph Losey made a movie of the opera. Baritone Ruggero Raimondi played Don Giovanni. Edda Moser, Kiri Te Kanawa and Teresa Berganza played the three ladies in the opera. The movie was made in Venice instead of Spain. It used Renaissance architect Andrea Palladio's Villa Capra near Venice as its setting.
Vincent Canby wrote in the "New York Times" on November 6, 1979: " ... the climactic confrontation between the Don and the Commendatore is surprisingly tepid visually. I've seen better descents into hell at our own Metropolitan Opera and in any number of Hammer horror pictures. Mr. Losey and his associates haven't destroyed "Don Giovanni," but then they haven't illuminated it either. Their film is a busy, disorienting spectacle, superbly sung ... "
The Earl of Harewood writes: ""Don Giovanni" is too full of arias, many of them famous, for its own dramatic good. Perhaps it is a problem with most eighteenth-century opera. Singers demanded them, the public expected them; and of course the aria ... is a potent operatic weapon, the moment for the composer to comment in depth on the drama he has set going. But ... arias hold up the action in a way it is sometimes hard to defend, because you feel it was the singer who wanted it so."
He points to Ottavio's "Il mio tesoro", his "Dalla sua pace", and Anna's "Non mi dir" as each being a "magnificent opportunity for singer", but wonders how much they actually contribute to the drama. But Zerlina's "Batti, batti" and Anna's "Or sai chi l'onore" are quite different. These arias contribute to the drama and move it forward.
Nicholas Kenyon writes: "The power "Don Giovanni" unleashes is almost too great; if it is an uneven work then it is only imperfect in the way that "King Lear" is imperfect, from an excess of feeling. As Abert summarized it, in spite of the finale, 'the point of the opera is not to proclaim a universal moral, but to depict the decisive battle between two tremendous forces.
"We sense the ultimate connection between even the most restless, passion-ridden human existence and the whole universe.' Like "Figaro", "Giovanni" has held the stage from its premiere through to the present; it has fitted the nineteenth-century's wish for a Romantic, powerful Mozart and the twentieth-century's for a politicised, critical Mozart".

</doc>
<doc id="64804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64804" title="Category:Compositions by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart">
Category:Compositions by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart


</doc>
<doc id="64806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64806" title="The Magic Flute">
The Magic Flute

The Magic Flute (German: Die Zauberflöte, K. 620) is a singspiel in two acts with music by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and a German libretto by Emanuel Schikaneder. 
It premiered in Vienna on 30 September 1791 at Schikaneder's theater, the Freihaus-Theater auf der Wieden. The story has traditional fairy tale themes and Masonic elements. 
Prince Tamino has got lost in the forest and now finds himself in a country which is ruled by the Queen of the Night. A huge monster chases him and he is very frightened. He falls down in a faint. Three ladies who work for the Queen of the Night come and kill the monster. Then they see the handsome prince and they argue about which one of them will stay to look after him.
The three ladies go off and Papageno enters. Papageno is a birdcatcher whose job is to catch birds for the Queen of the Night. He is a happy, simple young man. Tamino wakes up, sees him and asks him who he is. Papageno introduces himself. He has not noticed the dead monster. Tamino sees that the monster is dead and asks him who killed it. Papageno suddenly notices it and then decides to pretend that he killed it himself. The three ladies hear what he says and they come and punish him by giving him a stone instead of bread and wine, and by padlocking his mouth so that he cannot speak. Then they give Tamino a portrait of Princess Pamina. She is the daughter of the Queen of the Night. They tell him that Pamina has been captured by an evil man called Sarastro. In fact, Sarastro is a good man, and he is looking after Pamina because her mother, the Queen of the Night, is evil. The prince does not know this. He is already in love with the princess just from looking at her picture, and decides to go and her.
The three ladies give the Prince a magic flute which will protect him if he finds himself in danger. They promise Papageno that he, too, will find a lovely wife for himself if he goes with Tamino. They take off his padlock and give him a set of magic bells which will help him if he is in danger. They are told that three lovely boys will show them the way.
In the next scene we see Princess Pamina who is being guarded by a cruel Moor called Monostatos. He has tied the princess up. Papageno arrives and both men are frightened of one another. Monostatos runs away, Papageno unties the rope around the princess and tells her about the prince who is on his way to rescue her.
In the next scene Tamino finds himself in a holy place. The three boys have guided him there. They tell him he must be patient and silent. He meets a priest who tells him he must not think that Sarastro is cruel. He tells him that Pamina is alive. Tamino is very happy to hear this, takes his flute and plays. The animals from the forest come round him. Pamina and Papagena are caught by Monostatos. He is about to tie them up, but Papageno plays his magic bells and, when they hear the music, Monostatos and all the animals cannot help dancing and they disappear, still dancing. Sarastro enters. He tells Pamina once more that she must stay with him to learn how to live a good, virtuous life. She must not become evil like her mother. Monostatos enters with Tamino whom he has caught. Tamino and Pamina see one another and embrace. Sarastro says that Monostatos must have a beating. He says that Tamino and Pamina cannot have one another yet. First they will have to go to the temple and go through some trials to show that they are good.
Sarastro explains to the priests that Tamino and Pamina will have to go through the trials to show that they are worthy of one another. If they can do this then they will be able to defeat the evil power of the Queen of the Night.
Tamino and Papageno go through the trials together. Tamino remains calm and brave. Papageno is frightened and finds it difficult to keep quiet, but he continues because he has been promised that a girl called Papagena will be waiting for him.
In the first trial the Three Ladies try to make them think that the dark place they are in will lead them to death. In the second trial they see Monostatos about to rape Pamina. The Queen of the Night explains why she wants power. She says that Tamino and Pamina will be cursed unless Sarastro is killed. Tamino realizes that this is all part of the trial and he must not do anything. Papageno is given food and drink by Papagena who is disguised as an old lady. Tamino plays his flute. Pamina appears but turns her back on him. The Queen of the Night sings a very famous song in this section. It is famous because it reaches the highest ranges of a female voice. 
Tamino and Pamina have to go through the last trial together. Papagena enters and dances, then, when Papageno promises to be true, she throws off her disguise and disappears. Pamina thinks her mother is going to use her dagger, but at the last moment the boys save her and take her to Tamino. Tamino plays the flute as they go together through fire and water. The chorus sing in triumph.
Papageno cannot call Papagena back with his shepherd pipe. The three boys remind him about his magic bells. He plays them and Papagena appears. They are united.
In the last scene Monostatos and the Queen of the Night enter to do battle, but they are defeated. Good triumphs over evil.
Mozart belonged to a group of Freemasons. The Magic Flute is full of Masonic symbols. For example: the number three is an important number in masonry and there are lot of things in the opera that happen in threes: there are three long chords at the beginning of overture, and the three chords appear again in the scene in the temple. Even the key is E flat major which has a key signature of three flats. There are three ladies, three young boys and three trials. The scenery used in the early productions make it look as if the story comes from Egypt or somewhere in the Orient. Mozart and Schickaneder meant this to have a Masonic meaning. The trials are similar to the rituals in Masonic ceremonies.

</doc>
<doc id="64808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64808" title="George Chuvalo">
George Chuvalo

George Louis Chuvalo, also known as Jure Čuvalo CM, was a Canadian heavyweight boxing champion and the multiple contender for the heavyweight title in the 1960s and 1970s. He was never knocked off his feet in ninety-three professional fights between 1956 and 1979.
Chuvalo was inducted into the Canadian Sports Hall of Fame in 1990 and the World Boxing Hall of Fame in 1997. He was made a Member of the Order of Canada in 1998 and was awarded a star on Canada's Walk of Fame in 2005.
He went to Sarajevo for the revealing of a statue in his honor in Ljubuški on Sunday, December 18, 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="64815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64815" title="Guest worker">
Guest worker

Guest workers are people brought into a country to work in different industries.
They are used to fill a shortage in labour that most often cannot be done locally. Guest workers often do not have the same rights as normal workers. In some countries guest workers are not allowed to stay long periods of time. In Germany there are many guest workers from Turkey. Turkish guest workers have formed their own communities in the German cities where they live. Turkish guest workers have been in Germany since the 1950s.
Migrant worker

</doc>
<doc id="64816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64816" title="Tropical Storm Lee (2005)">
Tropical Storm Lee (2005)

Tropical Storm Lee was a weak tropical storm that hardly reached tropical storm status for a short time while over the central Atlantic Ocean during late August and early September 2005. Lee was the twelfth named storm of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season.
Tropical Storm Lee formed east of the Lesser Antilles as a tropical depression on August 28. On the next day, the depression weakened into a tropical low. The low then moved north and became stronger. It became a tropical storm for a short time on August 31. Lee quickly weakened again into a remnant low and was absorbed by a cold front on September 2.
A tropical wave moved off the coast of Africa on August 24. It developed into an area of low pressure as it moved across the Atlantic Ocean. It strengthened into Tropical Depression Thirteen on August 28 while 960 miles (1550 km) east of the Lesser Antilles.
Because of wind shear, the depression began to fall apart. It quickly weakened into a tropical low late on August 29. It had been predicted that this was likely to happen, but the National Hurricane Center (NHC) instead chose to forecast a little bit of strengthening in the future.
The low slowly moved northwards, then turned to the northeast because of another non-tropical system. As it moved to the northeast, the low began to become organized and began to re-strengthen on August 31. That afternoon, the depression strengthened further into "Tropical Storm Lee". It got to its strongest point with winds of 40 mph (65 km/h), in between Bermuda and the Azores. While Lee was thought to have been a tropical storm for only 6 hours originally, it was later learned that Lee stayed as a tropical storm for 12 hours instead.
Lee quickly weakened into a remnant low. It moved to the west of the non-tropical system that was near it. On September 1, the two systems began join together. Lee began to fall apart while it was being destroyed by the non-tropical system. By the next day, the remnant low was absorbed by a cold front.
Because Lee stayed far away from land, it did not cause any damage or kill any people.
When Tropical Storm Lee formed on August 31, it was the second earliest time in a season for the development of the 12th named tropical storm. It formed two days after the record held by Hurricane Luis in 1995. This made it one of the few storms of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season to not hold a record for the earliest formation of the "n"th storm. Also while this was the first use of the name "Lee" to name an Atlantic storm, after the retirement of Hurricane Lenny in 1999, Lee had previously been used to name 3 storms in the Western Pacific Ocean. Because Lee did not cause any damages or kill any people, its name was not retired by the World Meteorological Organization and will be on the list of names for the 2011 Atlantic hurricane season.

</doc>
<doc id="64817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64817" title="Lesser Antilles">
Lesser Antilles

The Lesser Antilles (also known as the Caribbees) are a group of islands between the eastern edge of the Caribbean Sea and the western Atlantic Ocean. They are east and south of the Greater Antilles. Some of the islands are also just off the northern coast of South America.

</doc>
<doc id="64818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64818" title="Cold front">
Cold front

A cold front is a meteorological word that is used to describe the movement of a cooler air mass into an area of warmer air. The air with greater density moves under the less dense warmer air, lifting it, which can cause a line of showers and thunderstorms, or a squall line to form when there is sufficient moisture. This upward motion causes lowered pressure along the cold front. On weather maps, the surface position of the cold front is marked with the symbol of a blue line of triangles/spikes pointing in the direction of its movement. Cold fronts can also move up to twice as fast as warm fronts.

</doc>
<doc id="64823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64823" title="Separating funnel">
Separating funnel

A separating funnel (also called a separation funnel) is a piece of laboratory equipment. It is usually made of glass, and is used to separate two liquids, for example, oil and water. They always separate out, and this is how to remove one from the other:
"For this example, oil and water will be used."<br>
A mixture of oil and water is put into a separating funnel and then shaken and then left until it becomes stable again. The liquid with higher density, (in this case water), goes to the bottom of the separating funnel (because it is heavier than oil). <br>
When this is done, the bottom of the separating funnel is opened and the water flows out, leaving only the oil.
A separating funnel is a cone shape made from glass but has a half circle, or hemisphere, on top. It has a stopper at the top and tap or hole at the bottom. The size of one can be between 50 millilitres and 3 litres.

</doc>
<doc id="64824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64824" title="Plate reader">
Plate reader

Microplate readers (also called plate readers) are laboratory equipment used to see any biological, chemical or physical change in samples of chemicals in microtiter plates.
Most of the time, a very bright lamp shines light to the microtiter well and the chemicals react in special ways which can be measured using special equipment.
Other ways to measure certain things are:
Today, plate readers come with tools for data analysis.
Plate readers are used for:
Using these plate readers can help human scientists do their work more efficiently. Plate readers are used mostly in research, to find drugs, and to help test the purity of chemicals in pharmacies and laboratories.

</doc>
<doc id="64825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64825" title="Microtiter plate">
Microtiter plate

A microtiter plate (sometimes called a microplate) is a flat plate with lots of "wells" used as small test tubes. 
A microtiter plate is used mostly in laboratories and pharmacies. A microtiter plate could have 6, 24, 96, 384 or even sometimes 1536 wells arranged in rows. Some microplates, used in the industry, have been built with 3456 or sometimes 9600 wells for maximum efficiency. Each well of a microplate can only hold very small amounts of liquid.
The first microplate was made in 1951 by a Hungarian man called Dr. G. Takatsky, who made a microtiter plate with 6 rows of 12 wells (so 72 wells). Microtiter plates started being used in bulk in the late 1950s, a man called John Liner from USA had made a different, but better version. By 1990 more than 15 companies were making microtiter plates. 
In 1996, the Society for Biomolecular Screening (SBS) wanted to make the microplate have standards to live up to. And so in 2003, microplates had to have a certain diameter and depth.
Instrument companies have made plate readers which can detect specific biological, chemical or physical changes in chemicals in these plates.

</doc>
<doc id="64833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64833" title="Bulgarian language">
Bulgarian language

Bulgarian ("", [ˈbɤ̞lɡarski ɛˈzik]) is an Indo-European language. It is spoken mainly in Bulgaria and parts of Macedonia, Serbia, Ukraine and Moldova. The Bulgarian language is similar to the Macedonian and the Serbian languages, which are part of the South Slavic branch of Slavic languages. There are nearly 7 million people in 2011 who use Bulgarian as their main language. 
Bulgarian is a part of the so-called Balkan "Sprachbund" or linguistic group, which also includes Greek, Macedonian, Romanian, Albanian and Torlakian dialect of the Serbian language. This does not mean the languages are necessarily related, but that they share certain loanwords and grammatical characteristics due to frequent contact over the years.

</doc>
<doc id="64835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64835" title="Erlenmeyer flask">
Erlenmeyer flask

An Erlenmeyer flask or conical flask is a kind of flask with a base in the shape of a cone and a short neck. It was first invented in 1861 by a German chemist named Richard Erlenmeyer. Erlenmeyer Flasks are used in laboratories. 
This type of flask is used as a container for chemical substances, or to heat or boil liquids. It does not allow liquids to spill easily. It is also used in titration.

</doc>
<doc id="64836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64836" title="Girlfriend">
Girlfriend

A girlfriend is a term that can mean either a female partner in a non-marital relationship, or just a female friend. Girlfriends can also mean a group of females who are close friends.

</doc>
<doc id="64839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64839" title="Native">
Native

Native could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="64840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64840" title="The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius">
The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius

The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius is an American computer animated television series. It was shown on the Nickelodeon television network until 2006 (with re-runs airing from April-June 2010 and again in January-May 2011) and currently on Nicktoons. It is a spinoff of the 2001 film, "" and later has its own spinoff starring Sheen Estevez called "Planet Sheen" which became its own series in October 2, 2010.
The series is about a young genius named Jimmy Neutron (James Isaac Neutron) who experiments with laboratory equipment which causes trouble to Retroville. He often has to undo the problems this creates.

</doc>
<doc id="64842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64842" title="Concordia, Kansas">
Concordia, Kansas

Concordia is a city in north-eastern Kansas, USA. It has been the county seat of Cloud County since 1871.

</doc>
<doc id="64843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64843" title="Indigenous peoples">
Indigenous peoples

Indigenous people means the first people who lived in any region, and not later immigrants.
Indigenous people can also be described as aborigines, native people, first people, first nations and autochthonous. 
The United Nations prefers the phrase "Indigenous peoples" to these descriptions. The other descriptions sometimes sound negative. (pejorative)
Very often, indigenous people were forced into slavery or badly treated by settlers and immigrants. Indigenous people were oppressed in colonial times. Colonial settlers often robbed the indigenous treasures and lands. Indigenous people were often made slaves, or killed by colonial settlers.
Colonialism often wanted indigenous people to believe that they were lower social class than the new settlers. This is propaganda. 
Indigenous people can grow up believing that they are lower social class, or less important. Indigenous people sometimes have to fight for their own land, their own history, human rights and equality.

</doc>
<doc id="64844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64844" title="Migrant worker">
Migrant worker

A migrant worker is someone who regularly works away from home, if they even have a home.
The United Nations' use of this term overlaps with 'foreign worker'. In the United States, the term is commonly used broadly to describe people who move frequently to find work or, more narrowly, those who earn low wages performing manual labor in the agriculture field.
Migrant workers are often forced into poor situations. Some are illegal immigrants and can be expelled if found. They are supported by the International Labour Organization. In 1990, the United Nations also adopted the Convention on the Rights of All Migrant Workers to protect them.
Often migrant workers can boost regional economy by spending their wages there.
Open borders support migrant workers. In Europe for example countries that recently joined European Union have seen massive outflow of workers to the countries with higher wages. Some people who work in foreign countries are called "expatriates"'.

</doc>
<doc id="64846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64846" title="Unicode">
Unicode

Unicode is a digital code for computers that lets them show text in different languages. Unicode standards are promoted by the Unicode Consortium and based on ISO standards. Their goal is to replace current and previous character encoding standards with a single worldwide standard for all languages. There are almost 100,000 characters in the latest definition of Unicode.
Unicode was developed in the 1990s and integrated earlier codes used on computer systems.
Unicode provides many printable characters, such as letters, digits, diacritics (things that attach to letters), and punctuation marks. It also provides characters which do not actually print, but instead control how text is processed. For example, a Newline and a character that makes text go from right to left are both characters that do not print.
Unicode considers a graphical character (for instance é) as a code point (alone or in sequence [e+ ‘] ). Each code point is a number with many digits which can be encoded in one or several code units. Code units are 8, 16, or 32 bits. This allows Unicode to represent characters in binary.
There are different ways to encode Unicode, the most common ones are:
UTF8 is the most common of these for exchange. It is used for internet, electronic mail, Java also uses a variant of it.

</doc>
<doc id="64847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64847" title="Low pressure area">
Low pressure area

A low pressure area, or low for short, is a word used in meteorology (the study of weather) that means a place where the atmospheric pressure is lowest compared to the surrounding area. Storms like tropical cyclones, extratropical cyclones, subtropical cyclones, and subpolar cyclones are called "low-pressure cells" in some English-speaking countries.

</doc>
<doc id="64849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64849" title="Hill fort">
Hill fort

A hill fort is an ancient fortified refuge or defended settlement. It was usually in a place that rises from the surrounding area, given the name. This is done to exploit the rise for military advantage. The fortification usually follows the shape of the hill. Usually it is made of one or more lines of earthworks. There may also be stockades or defensive walls, and external ditches.Maiden Castle in Dorset is the largest of around 1000 hill forts built in Britain in the Iron Age. In a hill fort, the entrance through the inner ramparts had massive timber gates. The inner rampart was 14m high and topped by a fence of huge, upright timbers. It was faced with big, limestone blocks. 
Hill forts were built since the Stone Age. They are most common during later periods though:
There are many different kinds of hill forts, they were very common. In Europe, the Celts used them for a very long time.

</doc>
<doc id="64854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64854" title="Troy, Michigan">
Troy, Michigan

Troy, Michigan is a city in Michigan, United States. It is a suburb of the larger city of Detroit, and has over 80,000 residents. Many companies have offices in the city. It is where the world headquarters for Kmart used to be.

</doc>
<doc id="64866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64866" title="Gin">
Gin

Gin is a type of alcoholic drink with a high amount of alcohol in it, usually about 35-50% alcohol by volume. It was invented in the Netherlands in the 17th century, and soon became very popular in England. This became a problem when many people drank themselves to death, because gin was cheap to make and contained so much alcohol.
Gin is flavored with juniper berries. Today, gin is usually a dry liquor, which means that it is not very sweet. Gin is also very popular in cocktails - two of the most common of these are the Gin & Tonic (gin mixed with tonic water) and the martini (gin mixed with vermouth, usually with an olive added). Gin is still one of the most popular liquors to this day.

</doc>
<doc id="64870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64870" title="Prostitution">
Prostitution

A prostitute (also called "hooker", "whore", "ho", "street walker", "sex worker" or "escort") is a person, most of the time a woman, who has sex with people for money. Prostitution is sometimes called the "world's oldest profession". There are written records of it in almost every culture and society. 
Some prostitutes walk the streets looking for customers. They are usually called "streetwalkers" and are the most noticeable type of prostitutes. Others work in bars and nightclubs. Others may work at a building called a brothel. Other prostitutes may work from their homes or from an apartment rented for the purpose, and have their clients (customers) contact them by phone or on the internet. Some prostitutes may have a boss (a person they work for and who they may give part of the money they make to), who may be called a "madame" (if they are a woman) or a "pimp" (if they are a man). 
Not all prostitutes have a boss; some get business through an escort agency, which is a business or person the prostitute pays to advertise for them and get clients for them. Many prostitutes just work for themselves. The city of Amsterdam is famous for its prostitutes in the Red-light district (a part of a city where prostitution is common). In the Red-light district, some of the prostitutes sit in windows to show that they are available for business.
The legal status of prostitution varies from country to country. Many countries have laws about prostitution. Some countries have made prostitution illegal. There are four main approaches to handling prostitution:
Examples:
In some countries, like Turkey, prostitution is legal if done with a license from the government but illegal on the streets. In some Muslim countries prostitution is not only illegal, it is punished by death. In Japan, only certain sex acts are legal; vaginal sex for money is against the law while oral sex for money is legal.
There are some places, where prostitution is legal, but advertising for it is not. One such example is Germany. In the Netherlands, both prostitution and advertising for it are legal. "Covert advertising" is still done (covert means hidden). It can take different forms:
There are different problems surrounding prostitution, some of them are shortly outlined below.
Prostitution in some form or other has always existed, and probably will always exist. One of the problems is that some of the activities linked to prostitutions are dangerous, and sometimes illegal. Where it is illegal, it is often controlled by criminals, who run brothels as they run a black market. There is also the problem of human trafficking, prostitutes are often forced to work. They are also prone to being exploited. Some people say that making prostitution legal where it is not will not solve these problems. The same people would run the businesses, but they would no longer be criminals. The situation for the prostitutes would probably not change much, as the ways the former criminals run these businesses would not change much either. Other people see a different problem: Legalizing prostitution would lead to some legal prostitution, that would well-regulated, and probably worked well. On the other hand, there would also be the illegal prostitution, which would not change much.
One of the first targets of law enforcement actions against illegal prostitution is to find the people who force people into prostitution. This is called sexual slavery. Sex trafficking is when people are taken somewhere in order to be a prostitute. It might be done by forcing them or by tricking them in some way. Sex trafficking is one type of Human trafficking. Some people have called human trafficking "the fastest growing form of modern-day slavery", and the third largest and fastest growing criminal industry in the world.
According to a study done in 2006, approximately 800,000 people are trafficked across national borders each year, and millions trafficked inside their own countries. This includes all types of human trafficking, although trafficking for prostitution is thought by some to make up a large portion of trafficking. Because it is illegal, it is hard to find out the real number of women or children forced into sex work. The study estimated that eighty percent of transnational victims are women and girls and up to half of them may be minors (meaning not adults). 
Children are sold into the global sex trade every year. Often they are kidnapped or orphaned. In some cases they are even sold by their own families. According to the International Labour Organization, the problem is well known in Thailand, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Vietnam, Cambodia, Nepal and India. 
The main causes of human trafficking are poverty, war, and other social issues. Some women are made to believe promises of a better life, sometimes by people who are known and trusted to them. Traffickers may own legitimate travel agencies, modeling agencies and employment offices in order to gain women's trust. Others are simply kidnapped. Once overseas it is common for their passport to be taken away by the trafficker and to be warned of the consequences should they attempt to escape. This may include beatings, rape, threats of violence against their family and death threats. It is common, particularly in Eastern Europe, that should they manage to return to their families they will only be trafficked once again. 
Globally, forced labour generates $31bn, half of it in the industrialised world, a tenth in transition countries, the International Labour Organization says in a report on forced labour. Trafficking in people has been made easier by porous borders and advanced communication technologies, it has become increasingly transnational in scope and highly lucrative within its barbarity. 
In some countries counselling, accommodation and specialist care exists to help trafficked people escape. In other countries, this support is lacking and individuals are often treated as illegal immigrants and deported.
One of the big problems is that of child prostitution. Many prostitutes are children. This means that people caught with these prostitutes may also face charges of having sex with a child. In most countries, prostitutes do need to be of a certain age, which is usually higher than the age of consent. Usually, having sex with a child is punished harshly.
Certain people travel to other countries to have sex with children, which is forbidden where they live. Many countries have changed their laws so they also apply outside their territory. The crime is usually not discovered, so these laws are rarely enforced.

</doc>
<doc id="64871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64871" title="Girl">
Girl

A girl is a young female human, either child or adolescence. Little girls still have the body of a child. It is not until they reach puberty (perhaps around age 11 to 13) that their bodies start to mature and they become a woman. During puberty, a girl develops breasts, their hips and shoulders widen and they begin to have periods.
Although girls typically have a vagina, some intersex children with ambiguous genitals, and genetically male transgender children may also be classified or self-identify as a "girl". 
The word "girl" was used a long time ago by some people called Anglo Saxons. Sometimes older people still refer to grown up women as "girls", especially in expressions such as "a night out with the girls". 
The opposite of a girl is a boy. A boy is a male child who will grow into a man.
The way girls are brought up will be vary a lot between different cultures. In Western cultures, a girl traditionally wears a dress or skirt. However, many girls wear trousers (pants) these days, like boys, especially when dressed informally. Girls often grow their hair longer than boys, although this can vary a lot according to quickly changing fashions.
Traditionally, girls play with dolls a lot. They are also more interested in clothes than boys, and they like dressing up and making up. Boys often prefer rough games and enjoy playing with mechanical things such as toy cars and trains. People today have long discussions about whether this is because they are born like that, or because that is the way society expects them to behave.
The traditional colour for a girl is pink. For boys it is blue. When a baby is born in a hospital it usually gets a pink or blue tag on its wrist or ankle, according to whether it is a girl or a boy.
Some names are girls' names, while others are boys’ names. There are some names which can be for girls and boys (although they may be spelt differently, e.g. "Jo" for a girl and "Joe" for a boy).
In some countries such as Britain, "old girl" means a grown up who used to be a pupil at a particular school (e.g. "She is an old girl of Cransbury High School"). Used in any other way, "old girl" sounds rude (unlike "old boy" which always sounds friendly).

</doc>
<doc id="64872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64872" title="Family Guy">
Family Guy

Family Guy is an American animated comedy television series created by Seth MacFarlane. It first was shown on FOX in 1999. The series did not become popular until shown again on Cartoon Network and TBS, and episodes were sold on DVD & Blu-ray. Fox chose to cancel the series because it was not very popular. After many DVDs were sold, Fox started showing it again on May 1, 2005. It is aimed at adults.
The series is about the lives of Peter Griffin, his wife Lois, and their three children: 19-year old Meg, 16-year old Chris, and very smart 3-year-old Stewie; and also their dog, 27-year old Brian, who talks and acts like a human. The Griffins live in a fictional city named "Quahog", Rhode Island. The show puts humor into common everyday situations and is famous for their style of comedy that always makes fun of past American culture. These scenes are called "cutaway gags", because they have unrelated stories, and they do not affect the show's stories in any way. The show also uses a lot of profanity and sex scenes. Brian died later on the show and was replaced by an Italian-accent talking dog, Vinny, but he returned after two episodes.
In 2009, a spin off show from "Family Guy" was created called "The Cleveland Show" with Cleveland Brown as the main character.
The series was nominated for many Emmy Awards. Family Guy is the first animated series to be nominated for an Emmy Award for Best Comedy Series since "The Flintstones" in 1961.

</doc>
<doc id="64873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64873" title="Myspace">
Myspace

Myspace is a social networking website owned by News Corp. Digital Media where people can communicate using messages, video and photo uploads, blogs, social groups, and music. Myspace was founded in 2003 and is the 24th most popular website in the world. MySpace is popular with young people. MySpace's head office is in New York City.
Some people think Myspace is a bad site, because it makes personal information very easy to find. Many parents do not like Myspace. They would like it to shut down. Myspace says that they are a safe place for all people, and has rules to keep people safe.
NBC's Dateline has a "To Catch a Predator" series that talks about Myspace's safety problems. Although Myspace has many contradictions against them, they have not shut down.
Myspace Inc. is a web page where individuals can communicate, and exchange information with their network of friends. Users can set up a personal profile, which can be changed, and new graphics and pictures and additional material can be added. All members can upload pictures to share with their friends, and others have permission to comment on their pictures and uploaded materials.
Also the user can choose to play games on, and post blogs to share with their friends and family.
Myspace has users all over the world which includes: 

</doc>
<doc id="64874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64874" title="RuneScape">
RuneScape

RuneScape is a video game that is played on the Internet. Multiple people play "RuneScape" all at the same time, which makes it a Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game (or MMORPG). It began in 2001, and is owned by Jagex Ltd. It is set in a fantasy land.
The game first started in 2001 as "Runescape" (now referred to as "RuneScape Classic"), but the code and graphics engine was rewritten in 2004 to form "Runescape 2. "Again, in 22 July 2013, the game was rewritten as "RuneScape 3," which is the version playable today. The game is designed to allow players all over the world to connect and play together in real-time. There may be over 100,000 people playing the game at any one time, and even more at peak times such as weekends.
The game was originally made by Andrew Gower. He created a game named "DeviousMUD" in 1998. DeviousMud used two dimensional graphics. It was only briefly released to the public before being taken down. RuneScape is entirely made of three dimensional graphics. 
Jagex was formed soon after. It stands for Java Gaming Experts. Andrew Gower is head of development. It was renamed to Just About the Game Experience.
The "RuneScape" world has many different areas and places where players can explore and do activities such as quests or training a skill. "RuneScape" skills are abilities that players can train to be able to do special things. Smithing is an example of a skill that can allow a player to create metal items.
"RuneScape" is an online game. Like most free online games, the free version is basic, and there is an option to become a paying member and buy more features. "RuneScape" members who pay get to explore a world three times as big. "RuneScape" is played on 172 servers. Each server can have up to 2,000 people playing on it at a time. 
As an optional service one can become a Member. Members get a larger area to play in, and go past the level 5 trial that free players get in the 10 members skills, 6 times the space in the game's bank, and access to member only weapons, tools, armor and quests. There are over one million (1,000,000) members in "Runescape".
Like most MMORPGs, "RuneScape" has weapons, armor and shields. Weapons, armor and shields can be made out of many things. Common materials for items include bronze, iron, steel, black, mithril, adamantite, rune, granite, and dragon. Some of these materials can be obtained by mining rocks that contain ore. Players can then create items from the ore by smelting the ore using the smith skill into bars and then use the bar and smith it also using the smithing skill. There are also other armors that can not be made but must be gotten through methods such as trade or quests. Some members only weapons have special abilities to help the player, such as the abyssal whip and the dragon scimitar. Mages use magic to protect themselves and others so they use a light clothing. Rangers usually wear dragon-skin to protect themselves from opponents.
"RuneScape" has skills to train, including 16 free to play skills and 10 members skills. Players can train their skills by doing different actions. Skills are usually trained by collecting a resource, like logs, and doing something with them such as burning them. All of the skills can be leveled up to a max of 99 and Dungeoneering has a max of 120. All are also able to be trained to 200,000,000exp.
The Current Skills as of the 26th August 2013:
Attack,
Strength,
Defence,
Range,
Prayer,
Magic,
Runecrafting,
Construction,
Dungeoneering,
Divination,
Constitution,
Agility,
Herblore,
Thieving,
Crafting,
Fletching,
Slayer,
Hunter,
Mining,
Smithing,
Fishing,
Cooking,
Firemaking,
Woodcutting,
Farming,
Summoning.
"RuneScape" has a Player Killing part in the game. Player killing takes place in the Wilderness, a large area north of all major cities. Player killing also takes place in some mini-games but it is different from main player killing because in mini-games, there are different rules that control player killing. Player killing was limited to only minigames on December 10, 2007. However, Wilderness player killing was reinstated on February 1, 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="64875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64875" title="Jagex">
Jagex

Jagex (Java Gaming Experts) is a company that makes computer games. Its most famous game is "Runescape".

</doc>
<doc id="64877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64877" title="MediaWiki:Deletedcontributions">
MediaWiki:Deletedcontributions

Deleted changes

</doc>
<doc id="64887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64887" title="Ella Enchanted">
Ella Enchanted

Ella Enchanted is a Newbery Honor book. It was written by Gail Carson Levine. It was published in 1997. It is also the title of the American movie based on the novel, released April 9, 2004. The movie was directed by Tommy O'Haver and starred Anne Hathaway and Hugh Dancy. The story is a retelling of "Cinderella" featuring various mythical creatures including elves, ogres, dwarves and giants.

</doc>
<doc id="64888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64888" title="Exploitation">
Exploitation

Exploitation means using things that are available in order to benefit from it. It is usually used in a bad sense, although it can be used in a good sense as well.
If a person exploits a situation it means that they realize that they can use the situation to do something which will be good for them. Very often this also means that it will be bad for other people.
People, especially proletariat can be exploited. This means that someone else uses the people's knowledge or skills in order to make them do something for them. Socialists (or communists) often talked about the "exploitation of the masses" when they were saying that Capitalism was bad. They meant that a few rich people were using all the working people to do hard work for them so that they themselves could become rich.
Exploiting people still goes on today.

</doc>
<doc id="64893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64893" title="People (magazine)">
People (magazine)

People is a weekly American magazine of celebrity and human interest stories. It is published by Time Inc. As of 2006, it had a circulation of 3.75 million. It was named "Magazine of the Year" by "Advertising Age" in October 2005, for very good editorial, circulation and advertising. "People" ranked #6 on Advertising Age's annual "A-list" and #3 on Adweek's "Brand Blazers" list in October 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="64899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64899" title="Eye of Horus">
Eye of Horus

The Eye of Horus was an important symbol in ancient Egypt. It was the symbol of protection and Royal Power from Ra or Horus.
Horus was an ancient Egyptian sky god in the form of a falcon. The right eye represents a peregrine falcon's eye and the markings around it. This includes the "teardrop" marking sometimes found below the eye. As the wadjet (also udjat or utchat), it also represented the sun, and was associated with the Sun God Ra (Re). The "mirror image", or left eye, represented the moon and the God Tehuti (Thoth). 
In the ancient Egyptian measurement system, the Eye Of Horus defined an Old Kingdom rounded off number one(1) = 1/2 + 1/4 + 1/8 + 1/16 + 1/32 + 1/64, by throwing away 1/64.

</doc>
<doc id="64905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64905" title="The Great Khali">
The Great Khali

Dalip Singh Rana (born August 27 1972) is an Indian professional wrestler, actor and powerlifter. He is better known by his ring name The Great Khali. He was working for the WWE. Before he started his professional sports career, he was an officer in the Punjab state police.
Under the ring name "Giant Singh", Dalip Singh became a pro wrestler for All Pro Wrestling in the United States. He made his first appearance in October 2000.
On May 28, 2001, Brian Ong died while training with Singh. Ong had already suffered one concussion but was told to continue training. A second concussion was deadly for him. Because Singh caused his death, Ong's family brought a lawsuit against All Pro Wrestling. APW was made to pay the Ong family over $1.3 million.
On January 2, 2006, Singh started working for WWE. He was assigned to Deep South Wrestling for training. Singh first appeared on WWE television on April 7, 2006. He attacked The Undertaker during his match with Mark Henry. Khali had his first WWE match on April 21, 2006 against Funaki.
In July of 2006, Khali was removed from a match against the Undertaker because of elevated liver enzymes. On August 4, 2006, he returned to SmackDown. On August 29, 2006, it was reported that Khali would be out of action for several months due to surgery on both knees.
In 2007, Singh was feuding with Batista in July before The Great American Bash. The two were scheduled for a match on PPV on Sunday, July 22, 2007. However, Edge had to give up the World Heavyweight Championship because of a pectoral injury. Khali had won the championship in a 20-man battle royal at the July 17 taping of SmackDown! He then went on to defend his title successfully against Kane and Batista at the Great American Bash.
In 2005, Singh starred in the movie "The Longest Yard" as Turley, one of the prison's inmates. On March 16 2007, Singh starred in the 2007 remake of "Get Smart", a movie based on the 1960s classic TV show, alongside The Rock.
He married Harminder Kaur on February 27, 2002.,

</doc>
<doc id="64922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64922" title="Ani (god)">
Ani (god)

In Etruscan mythology, Ani is god of the sky. He is shown as living in the highest heaven. He is sometimes shown with two faces, possibly showing a link with the Akkadian god Anu and the Roman god Janus.

</doc>
<doc id="64926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64926" title="Tecophilaea">
Tecophilaea

Tecophilaea is a genus of plants in the family "Tecophilaeaceae". It has two species. One of them, Chilean Blue Crocus ("T. cyanocroccus"), is at risk (IUCN Red List).

</doc>
<doc id="64929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64929" title="Propolis">
Propolis

Propolis ' „for“ y ' „city“ is a wax-like resinous substance collected by honey bees from tree buds (e.g. poplar) or other plant-related sources and used as cement and to seal cracks or open spaces in the beehive. It can also kill bacteria.

</doc>
<doc id="64945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64945" title="Home and Away">
Home and Away

Home and Away (often called H&A) is an Australian soap opera that has been made in Sydney by the Seven Network since July 1987. The show first aired on 17 January 1988 with a two hour pilot. It is set in Summer Bay, a fictional town in New South Wales.
Some of the characters in the show are John, Braxton, Heath, Alf, Irene and Matilda.

</doc>
<doc id="64946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64946" title="Anthony Hopkins">
Anthony Hopkins

Sir Philip Anthony Hopkins CBE (born 31 December 1937) is a Welsh actor of movies, theater and television. He is very famous for many roles in movies, especially as Hannibal Lecter in "The Silence of the Lambs". He has won an Academy Award, three BAFTA Awards, two Emmys and the Cecil B. DeMille Golden Globe Award.
Hopkins was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 1993 for services to the arts. He gained US citizenship in 2000, whilst retaining his British citizenship. He received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2003, and was made a Fellow of the British Academy of Film and Television Arts in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="64948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64948" title="Turner Classic Movies">
Turner Classic Movies

Turner Classic Movies (TCM) is a cable television channel featuring commercial-free classic movies, mostly from the Turner Entertainment and Warner Bros. film libraries, which include many MGM, United Artists, RKO and Warner Bros. titles. 

</doc>
<doc id="64949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64949" title="Internet Broadway Database">
Internet Broadway Database

The Internet Broadway Database (IBDb) is an online database of Broadway theatre productions and their personnel. It is operated by the Research Department of the League of American Theatres and Producers, a trade association for the North American commercial theatre community.

</doc>
<doc id="64952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64952" title="Brigitte Bardot">
Brigitte Bardot

Brigitte Bardot (French IPA: ) (born 28 September 1934) is a French actress, former fashion model, singer, animal rights activist, and considered one of the most important sex symbols of the 1950s and 1960s. She was one of the few actresses from Europe to which the American media paid attention.
Born in Paris, into a well to do family, her father was an industrialist and her mother a housewife. She received a strict education but was allowed to take ballet lessons hoping to become a professional classical dancer. 
In 1949, at the suggestion of a family friend, she began working as a fashion model and ended up making the cover of "Elle" magazine in May 1950. This led to her being noticed by movie director Yves Allegret who offered her a role in one of his movie. The movie was never made but during the audition she met his young assistant Roger Vadim. Her family was strongly against the relationship but finally gave in and they married in 1952. 
That same year, she began her acting career and appeared in two films; "Le trou normand" and "Manina, fille sans voile". 
In the ensuing years, she appeared in small parts in various movies in France, Italy and England. Her career really took off in 1956, when she appeared in Vadim's movie "Et Dieu créa la femme" ("An God created Woman"), written especially for her, which made her an instant star and an international sex-symbol. From then on, her every move made headlines around the world. In 1958, she bought a house "La Madrague" in Saint Tropez, then a quiet fishermen village, which has since then become a highly touristic destination. 
Other notable movies have included; "En cas de malheur" (1958), "La vérité" (1960), considered by many her best role, "Vie Privée" (1962), "Le mépris" (1963), "Viva Maria" (1965), etc. She also enjoyed success as a singer but mostly through recordings and television appearances. 
In 1973, she decided to retire from entertainment and devote herself to her real passion the animal rights, which she continues today. She created her own foundation in 1986. 
During the 1990s, she published her autobiography and other books in which she spoke openly about her political views on such things as immigration and Islam in France, mixed marriages and homosexuality, which created considerable controversy. She has angered many people who are part of these groups and was fined for incitation to racial hatred.
Bardot had four husbands and many other romantic partners. After her divorce from Vadim in 1957, she married actor Jacques Charrier in 1959, with whom she had her only child, a son Nicolas, born on 11 January 1960. They divorced in 1962. Her third husband, from 1966–1969, was German millionaire Gunter Sachs. She has been married to Bernard d'Ormale, a right-wing political organizer, since 1992.

</doc>
<doc id="64953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64953" title="Farben Lehre">
Farben Lehre

Farben Lehre is a Polish punk rock band. The band was started in 1986 in Płock, Poland.

</doc>
<doc id="64954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64954" title="Billy Crystal">
Billy Crystal

Billy Crystal (born March 14, 1948) is a Golden Globe Award-nominated and Emmy Award-winning American actor, writer, producer, comedian, singer, movie director and television host. He became famous in the 1970s for playing Jodie Dallas on the ABC Comedy-drama, "Soap". Crystal was a castmember of Saturday Night Live. He became a Hollywood movie star during the late 1980s and the 1990s, appearing in the box office successes "When Harry Met Sally..." and "City Slickers".

</doc>
<doc id="64956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64956" title="Carmen Electra">
Carmen Electra

Tara Leigh Patrick (born April 20, 1972), professionally known as Carmen Electra, is an American glamour model, actress, television personality, singer, dancer and sex symbol.

</doc>
<doc id="64957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64957" title="Calista Flockhart">
Calista Flockhart

Calista Kay Flockhart (born on November 11, 1964) is an American actress. She was nominated for an Emmy Award. Flockhart won a Golden Globe award in 1998. She was on soap operas and other television shows. She is famous for her role as the main character in the 1997-2002 television show, "Ally McBeal". She played Sally Field's daughter, Kitty Walker, on the successful ABC drama, "Brothers & Sisters". She played a political campaign adviser.

</doc>
<doc id="64959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64959" title="Dwight Schultz">
Dwight Schultz

William Dwight Schultz (born November 24, 1947 in Baltimore, Maryland) is an American stage, television and movie actor. He is known for his roles as Captain "Howling Mad" Murdock on the hit 1980s action show "The A-Team", and Reginald Barclay in ', ' and the movie "".
At the moment, he hosts a conservative talk radio podcast called "Howling Mad Radio."

</doc>
<doc id="64960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64960" title="Fred Savage">
Fred Savage

Frederick Aaron Savage (born July 9, 1976) is an Emmy Award and Golden Globe Award-nominated American actor and television director. He is best known for his role as Kevin Arnold in "The Wonder Years".

</doc>
<doc id="64961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64961" title="Gene Kelly">
Gene Kelly

Eugene Curran Kelly (August 23, 1912 – February 2, 1996), better known as Gene Kelly, was an American dancer, actor, singer, director, producer, and choreographer. 
Kelly was a great example of 20th century filmed dance, famous for his energetic and athletic dancing style, his good looks and the likeable characters that he played on screen. Although he is probably most famous today for his act in "Singin' in the Rain", he was the most important actor in the Hollywood musical movie industry from the mid 1940s until its decadence in the late 1950s. In 1999, the American Film Institute named Kelly among the Greatest Male Stars of All Time, ranking at No. 15.

</doc>
<doc id="64964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64964" title="Islamic fundamentalism">
Islamic fundamentalism

Islamic fundamentalism is supporting usage of Islamic laws, based on the Quran and hadiths in law.

</doc>
<doc id="64965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64965" title="Golden Globe Award">
Golden Globe Award

The Golden Globe Awards are American awards for motion pictures and television programs, given out each year during a formal dinner. Run since 1944 by the (HFPA), the awards are a major part of the film industry's "awards season" which ends each year with the Oscars and Screen Actors Guild Awards. The broadcast of the Golden Globe Awards generally ranks as the third most-watched awards show each year, behind only the Oscars and Grammys. The Golden Globes has grown to one of the highest honors for actors and actresses.
The Golden Globes are awarded early in the year, based on votes from (as of 2005) 86 part-time journalists living in Hollywood and who work for media based outside of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="64967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64967" title="AllMusic">
AllMusic

Allmusic, which was known as All Music Guide (AMG) before, is a database about music. It is owned by All Media Guide. All Music was created in 1991 by popular-culture archivist Michael Erlewine and mathematician Vladimir Bogdanov, Ph.D., as a guide for people who wish to buy music. The next year, they published a book too, and they do it again every year since then. All Music was created before the World Wide Web and was possible to consult first as a Gopher site.

</doc>
<doc id="64971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64971" title="The Lord of the Rings movie series">
The Lord of the Rings movie series

The Lord of the Rings is a set of three fantasy movies: "The Fellowship of the Ring" (2001), "The Two Towers" (2002) and "The Return of the King" (2003). The movies were based on J. R. R. Tolkien's book "The Lord of the Rings".
The movie trilogy was directed by Peter Jackson. The screenplay was written by Fran Walsh, Philippa Boyens, and Peter Jackson. It was distributed by New Line Cinema.
It was first live-action "Lord of the Rings" movies that were made. They were filmed together in New Zealand from October 1999 to December 2000, and released separately in December 2001-2003 by Warner Bros.
The cast includes:
The "Lord of the Rings" movies were changed in several things from the book; among them where changes in the plot and motivation of the characters, and parts of the story were cut. A few sets of changes that many consider major were: "The Old Forest", "In the House of Tom Bombadil", and "Fog on the Barrow-Downs", from "The Fellowship of the Ring", and "Many Partings", "Homeward Bound", & "The Scouring of the Shire" from "The Return of the King". These were left out, and other passages changed, for reasons of dramatic flow and practical limits on what could be presented in three movies. The scripts are not exactly true to the story in the volumes of the book, yet have most of its most important elements. Yet, some major parts of the books were left out of the movies, and others significantly changed.

</doc>
<doc id="64972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64972" title="Gary Coleman">
Gary Coleman

Gary Wayne Coleman (February 8, 1968 - May 28, 2010) was an American actor. Coleman was an African American who was born in Zion, Illinois, with a kidney disease causing nephritis. Nephritis is an autoimmune destruction of the kidney. The disease stopped his growth at an early age. Because of this, he was only tall. His height was his most notable feature. He received two kidney transplants, one in 1973 and one in 1984. He then needed dialysis every day. He was adopted. He was famous for his role as Arnold Jackson in the American sitcom "Diff'rent Strokes". He died of a hemorrhage cause by an accidental fall in Provo, Utah.

</doc>
<doc id="64973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64973" title="Cameo appearance">
Cameo appearance

A cameo role or cameo appearance (often shortened to just cameo) is a brief appearance of a known person in a work of the performing arts, such as plays, movies, video games and television. Such a role does not have to be an actor: short appearances by movie directors, politicians, athletes, and other celebrities are common.

</doc>
<doc id="64976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64976" title="George Peppard">
George Peppard

George Peppard, Jr. (October 1, 1928 – May 8, 1994) was an American movie and television actor. 
He had a major role early in his career when he acted with Audrey Hepburn in "Breakfast at Tiffany's" (1961), but he is probably more well known for his role as "Col. John "Hannibal" Smith" in the 1980s television show "The A-Team", where he was the leader of the group, who was often smoking a cigar.
Peppard had lung cancer and died of pneumonia. 

</doc>
<doc id="64977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64977" title="Rotten Tomatoes">
Rotten Tomatoes

Rotten Tomatoes is a website dedicated to reviews, information, and news of movies. The name derives from the vaudeville-era cliché of throwing tomatoes and other products at stage performers if a performance was particularly bad. The company has been owned by Flixster, a Warner Bros. company, since May 2011.
As of 2007, the website's editor-in-chief is Matt Atchity.
Rotten Tomatoes was launched on August 12, 1998, as a spare time project by Senh Duong. His goal in creating Rotten Tomatoes was "to create a site where people can get access to reviews from a variety of critics in the US".

</doc>
<doc id="64980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64980" title="Halle Berry">
Halle Berry

Halle Maria Berry (born August 14, 1966) is an American actress. Berry has received Emmy and Golden Globe awards, and was awarded the Academy Award in 2002 for her role in "Monster's Ball". She is the only African American woman to have won the Academy Award for Best Actress. Berry was ranked No. 1 on People's "50 Most Beautiful People in the World" list in 2003. In March 2014, she launched her own TV production company, 606 Films.
Academy Awards 
Golden Globe Award
Emmy Award 
Golden Raspberry Awards
Screen Actors Guild Award

</doc>
<doc id="64981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64981" title="Golden Raspberry Awards">
Golden Raspberry Awards

The Golden Raspberry Awards or Razzies, first awarded in 1981, were made by John J. B. Wilson in 1980, with the goal of being the opposite of the Academy Awards by dishonoring the worst movies. It is usually a plastic raspberry spray-painted gold and mounted on a plastic base, however Bill Cosby accepted a custom-made one made out of 24 carat (99.99%) gold and Italian marble.
Today, awards are voted by the membership of the "Golden Raspberry Award Foundation" (GRAF), and anyone can become a member of the foundation, something that does not happen with the Academy Awards. Usually, nominations are made public one day before the Motion Picture Academy says its Oscar nominations, and the awards are presented one day before the Oscar ceremony.
The term "raspberry" is used as a joke, as in "blowing a raspberry."

</doc>
<doc id="64983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64983" title="Blowing a raspberry">
Blowing a raspberry

Blowing a raspberry or making a Bronx cheer is to make a noise made to make fun of a person or persons, made by sticking out the tongue between the lips and blowing to make a sound similar to flatulence. The term "Bronx Cheer" is used sarcastically because it's not a cheer, it is used to show disapproval. The term was created as a reference to Bronx, New York, and the call used by spectators in Yankee Stadium. It can be classified phonetically as a "linguolabial trill".

</doc>
<doc id="64984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64984" title="Joshua Jackson">
Joshua Jackson

Joshua Carter Jackson (born June 11, 1978) is a Canadian actor. He has appeared in American television and movies, and is famous for his role as "Pacey Witter" in the television series "Dawson's Creek" and "Charlie Conway" in "The Mighty Ducks" movie series.

</doc>
<doc id="64986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64986" title="John Wayne">
John Wayne

John Wayne (May 26, 1907 – June 11, 1979) was an Academy Award-winning, American movie actor. He has become a symbol of American man.
Born with the name Marion Robert Morrison in Winterset, Iowa. Wayne was Scotch Irish on his father and Irish on his mother's side. During Wayne's childhood, he moved to Palmdale, California then to Glendale, California. While attending Wayne started working in small local movie companies. And also started playing football in high school and participated in the Glendale school team before being recruited by the University of Southern California (USC).
Wayne began his movie career in the 1920s. In 1928, he played an extra in John Ford's "Four Sons". In 1930, he had his first leading role in "The Big Trail".
Wayne was nominated for an Academy Award for "Sands of Iwo Jima". One of his most important roles was that of Ethan Edwards a desperate man looking for his niece kidnapped by Comanche in the 1956 western movie "The Searchers", directed by John Ford.
"The Alamo" was nominated for several Academy Awards. It won the award for Best Sound. Wayne received an Academy Award and Golden Globe Award for his role in "True Grit". His last role was in "The Shootist". 
In 1999, the American Film Institute named Wayne thirteenth among the Greatest Male Stars of All Time. A Harris Poll released in 2007 placed Wayne third among America's favorite movie stars, the only star on the list who has died and the only one who has appeared on the poll every year.
Wayne had lung cancer in the 1960s. He had a lung removed and recovered. He died of stomach cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="64992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64992" title="Tropical Storm Tammy (2005)">
Tropical Storm Tammy (2005)

Tropical Storm Tammy is the nineteenth named storm of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. Tammy was a tropical storm that only existed for a total of two days and brought minor damages to the southeastern United States. It peaked with 50 mph (85 km/h) just before making landfall on the northern Florida coast. Most of the damages were losses from FEMA that totaled up to $30 million.
Tammy formed from a strong non-tropical low on October 5 just off the Floridan coast. It moved north, peaking with 50 mph (85 km/h) winds jus before making landfall on Atlantic Beach, Florida on October 6 dissipating shortly after. Tammy's remnants were absorbed by a cold front in the Gulf of Mexico.
A tropical wave left the African coast on September 24 and crossed the Atlantic without strengthening or changing. But on October 2, the wave began to strengthen and organize itself while north of the Lesser Antilles. It continued to strengthen as it moved through the Bahamas and early on October 5, it became a well-organized tropical disturbance off the coast of eastern Florida.
As the system already had tropical-storm force winds, it was immediately named "Tropical Storm Tammy", also skipping tropical depression status. The forecasts from the National Hurricane Center stated that Tammy would travel north possibly parallel to the coast, which also meant that it is uncertain where Tammy wold make landfall.
Tropical Storm Tammy strengthened a little bit more to its peak with 50 mph (85 km/h) winds before it made landfall near Atlantic Beach, Florida later that same day. Tammy then moved inland over Georgia and soon weakened to a tropical depression before losing all of its strength on October 6.
The remnant low slowly movedsouth towards the Gulf of Mexico before being absorbed by a cold front (which also picked up the remnants of Subtropical Depression Twenty-two), which affected much of the northeastern United States over the next few days. The NHC watched the system to see if any of the low level circulation would redevelop over the Gulf of Mexico but unfavorable upper-level winds did not allow any restrengthening, as it was predicted.
A tropical storm warning was given out at short notice for the coast from Cocoa Beach, Florida to the Santee River, South Carolina as soon as Tropical Storm Tammy formed on October 5. Tammy moved inland the southern end of the warning zone, eventually moving north to Altamaha Sound, Georgia before all warnings were discontinued on October 6.
Tropical Storm Tammy caused minor damage. The main concern with Tammy was flooding. The highest sustained wind recorded with Tammy was 50 mph, reported a few miles northeast of the center. The highest wind gust reported with Tammy was near 60 mph. Several areas in northeast Florida and southern Georgia reported sustained winds of 40 mph+ due to Tammy's large wind field. Rainfall totals related with Tammy were mostly in the 3-5 inch range, though some isolated amounts received 10 inches of rain.
In Georgia, Several homes were damaged because of flooding. Also in Georgia, several roads were washed out and two pond dams were broken. Storm surge related with Tammy was in the 2-4 feet range. Many boardwalks were washed away and there was some beach erosion in Florida, Georgia, and South Carolina. In addition to the flooding, an F0 tornado was reported, which caused moderate roof damage and broke trees in Brunswick, Georgia. Total damages from Tammy was around $30 million (2005 USD). 16,500 people were reported in southeast Georgia without power during the height of the storm.
The remnant low of Tammy was absorbed by a larger extratropical low which moved north and Tammy's moisture helped create a different storm over the northeast U.S., killing ten people and causing moderate damage.
When Tropical Storm Tammy formed on October 5, it was the earliest ever in the season that the twentieth storm formed, breaking the previous record held by Storm 20 from 1933 by 21 days. Tammy was only the second Atlantic storm to be named with the letter 'T', after Tanya in 1995. This was also the first time Tammy had been used to name any tropical cyclone worldwide. Because Tammy caused minor damages in general, its name was not retired by the World Meteorological Organization and will be on the list of names for the 2011 Season.

</doc>
<doc id="64993" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64993" title="Manuchehri">
Manuchehri

Abu Najm Ahmad ibn Qaus Manuchehri Damghani (c. 982 – 1040) () or Manucheri was a Persian poet. He was from Damghan in Iran. His poems are collected in a Diwan.

</doc>
<doc id="64994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64994" title="Piranshahr">
Piranshahr

Piranshahr () is a city in northwest of Iran. The people of Piranshahr are mostly Kurds who consider themselves to be descendants of the Medes, one of the three Aryan tribes who migrated to Iran. Piranshahr is the capital of Mokrian district. Piranshahr have a population of 5 millions persons.

</doc>
<doc id="64995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64995" title="Rumi">
Rumi

Jalal ad-Din Muhammad Rumi (30 September 1207 – 17 December 1273), also named "Mawlānā", which means "Our Master", is one of the Islamic world's greatest poets. He is usually known in the English-speaking world simply as Rumi. He was a Sufi mystic, philosopher and lover of humanity. His followers began a school of mysticism to encourage and celebrate his teachings—the Sufi branch known to many Westerners as the 'Whirling Dervishes', but whose proper name is the Mevlevi order. 
Jalâluddîn Rumi was born in 1207 in Balkh Persia in what is today Afghanistan. His father Bahauddin was a famous religious teacher and mystic who received a position at the university in Balkh. When Mongols invaded Persia, Rumi left Persia for Konya, which was then under the Persian empire. By the time he made it to Konya his mother had died, and he was married with one a son.
'Mevlâna' (Our Master) had had his early spiritual education under the tutelage of his father Bahauddin and later under his father’s close friend Sayyid Burhaneddin of Balkh. Mevlâna grew both in knowledge and consciousness of God over the years. Eventually Sayyid Burhaneddin told Mevlâna that he was now ready and a mature Sufi and scholar and that the 'next stage' of his spiritual development would soon occur. And so Sayyid predicted the coming of Shams of Tabriz, the central event and love of Rumi’s life.
At the age of thirty-seven Mevlâna met the spiritual vagabond and holy-man, Shams. It was his meeting with this dervish on 15 November, 1244 that completely changed his life. Much has already been written about their relationship. Prior to this encounter Rumi had been an eminent professor of religion and a highly attained mystic; after this he became an inspired poet and a great lover of humanity. Shams’ companionship with Rumi was brief. Despite the fact that each was a perfect mirror for the other, Shams disappeared, not once but twice. The first time, Rumi’s son Sultan Veled searched for him and found him in Damascus. The second disappearance, however, proved to be final, and it is believed that he may have been murdered by certain orthodox Muslim theologians, and other people of Konya who resented his influence over Mevlâna.
Shams convinced Rumi that at certain moments it was possible to commune directly with God: Rather than believers simply being interpreters of the word of God, they could in fact experience his presence directly. 
The effect on Rumi was immediate: abandoning his familial and scholarly responsibilities he devoted all his time to learning as much as possible from Shams. However, the mystic came and went without explanation, and vanished permanently in 1248. From then on, Rumi devoted himself to poetry, and primarily to the topic of love. His verses, inspired by Shams—more than 30,000 in all—were collected in a work that he called "Diwan-i Shams-i-Tabriz" ('The Divan of Shams of Tabriz'). Stylistically, Rumi favoured the well established, "ghazal," a traditional Persian meter of up to twelve rhyming lines; and to a lesser extent, the "Rubai" quartrain form.
Rumi seems to have been permanently engaged in a search of divine inspiration and love. He saw and found his 'Muse' in various human and natural aspects of existence. After the "Divan" he completed his great masterpiece or "magnum opus", the "Mathnavi-i Ma'navi" ('The Mathnavi/Treatise Devoted to the Intrinsic Meaning of All Things'), which was dictated in its entirety to his student Hissam-ud-din Chelebi over the course of many years. 
Although there had been a substantial Islamic mystical tradition prior to Rumi, it is fair to comment that his poetry transformed both thinking and ritual in this regard. For example, the famous centripetal dance of the dervishes - the "sema" ritual - is said to have its inspiration in Rumi's own movements around a pole in his garden as he mourned for his companion Shams. In time, these actions were adapted into Sufic practise by Rumi and then handed down to his favoured disciples who institutionalized them into the activities of the Mevlevi Order that they founded in their Master's honour.
Rumi died on December 17, 1273 AD and his "Urs" (Spiritual anniversary/festival) is held every year on 8th December at his "Turbe" (shrine) in Konya.
Mevlana's main works, all in Persian language, are
In recent times, Mevlana Rumi remains as fresh and vital as ever. The love poetry of Rumi has found great favour in the West as well as amongst the newer generation of Muslim youth throughout the Muslim world. For Turks, Afghanistanis, Iranians, Tajiks, and other Central Asian Muslims as well as the Muslims of South Asia, Rumi's importance is considered to transcend religious, national and ethnic borders. With his works being translated into many languages everywhere, other cultures and people in the world are now also approaching and understanding Rumi more deeply and at times, even trying to follow his teachings and 'Way'.
15. * See Maulana Jalaluddin Muhammad Rumi (1207-1273) in "Great Poets of Classical Persian" by R M Chopra, 2014, Sparrow Publication. ISBN 978-81-89140-75-5

</doc>
<doc id="64997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64997" title="Abu-Shakur Balkhi">
Abu-Shakur Balkhi

Abu-Shakur Balkhi (born 915 in Balkh) (Persian: بوشکور بلخی) or Boshakor Balkhi was a Persian poet. He lived in the Samanid era in central Asian Persia and wrote the Afarin Nama in 944. He died in Balkh, now in modern Afghanistan.

</doc>
<doc id="65000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65000" title="Nasir Khusraw">
Nasir Khusraw

Abu Mo’in Hamid al-Din Nasir ibn Khusraw Qubadiani Marvzi (1004-1088) () was a Persian poet. He was born in a village near Balkh in modern Afghanistan. He knew about science, medicine, mathematics, astronomy and astrology. He had studied Arabic, Turkish, Greek, Hindi, Sindhi,Hebrew and Persian. He wrote the Safarnama. In Safarnama, Naser Khosrow described his journey to Mecca, Cairo and Jerusalem and many other cities. His poems are collected in a diwan. He died in Yamagan, a village in Afghanistan.

</doc>
<doc id="65004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65004" title="Anvari">
Anvari

Hakīm Awhad ad-Din Ali ibn Mohammad Khavarani Anvari Abivardi (1126-1189) () or Anvari is a Persian poet. He was born in Abivard (a village between Iran and Turkmenistan) and died in Balkh (now in Afghanistan). He studied science and literature in Tun, a city in Iran. He studied science, astronomy, medicine and literature. Anvari knew Persian, Arabic, Turkish, Hindi, and even Hebrew. Anwari's poems are collected in a Diwan. He was known as the king of poets in Seljuk empire royal house.

</doc>
<doc id="65015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65015" title="Category:Wikipedia doppelganger accounts">
Category:Wikipedia doppelganger accounts

This category is for legitimate sock puppets.

</doc>
<doc id="65017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65017" title="Old World Underground, Where Are You Now?">
Old World Underground, Where Are You Now?

Old World Underground, Where Are You Now? is a 2003 album by Canadian band Metric. There are six videos that came out for this album between 2003/04, they are (directors in brackets): 
"Combat Baby" was also a single in the UK.
All tracks written by Metric.
Metric's official website has short clips of this album on their music page.
Lyrics for this album can be found on Metric's website.

</doc>
<doc id="65020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65020" title="Mohammad Reza Pahlavi">
Mohammad Reza Pahlavi

Mohammad Reza Pahlavi (, October 16, 1919 – July 27, 1980) was the last Shah of Iran. He was the Shah of Iran from 1941 until the Iranian Revolution in 1979. After the 1979 revolution, the government of Iran changed into an Islamic republic.

</doc>
<doc id="65021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65021" title="Mehdi Bazargan">
Mehdi Bazargan

Mehdi Bazargan (; September, 1907 in Bazargan - January 20, 1995) or Mahdi Bazargan was an Iranian scholar. He protested against the Shah regime in Iran. He was jailed many times for political reasons. Bazargan was Iran's first prime minister after the Iranian Revolution in 1979. He was against the United States Embassy hostage taking. He was also against the continuation of Iran-Iraq war. He resigned on November 4, 1981. Bazargan died of a heart attack on January 20, 1995 when he was travelling from Tehran to Zürich, Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="65033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65033" title="Gazelle">
Gazelle

Gazelles are a kind of antelope. They are in the genera "Gazella", "Eudorcas" and "Nanger".
Gazelles are mostly found in the grasslands and savannas of Africa, but they are also found in southwest Asia. Gazelles are known as fast animals. They can reach high speeds for long periods of time. They usually live in herds. They eat plants and leaves. They show a special way of running slowly and jumping high when they are chased by lions or cheetahs.
Gazelle comes from from the Arabic "ghazăl" ().

</doc>
<doc id="65034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65034" title="American Idiot (album)">
American Idiot (album)

American Idiot is the 7th album by the American punk rock band Green Day. It was released in 2004. The following songs are on the album:

</doc>
<doc id="65041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65041" title="First Division">
First Division

1st Division or First Division can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="65054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65054" title="Kabyle language">
Kabyle language

Kabyle is a Berber language (Kabyle: "", "taqbaylit", pronounced ) spoken by the Kabyle people. There are 3,123,000 speakers worldwide, the majority in Algeria, where there are more 2,000,000 speakers.
Kabyle was (with some exceptions) rarely written before the 20th century; however, in recent years a small but increasing body of literature has been printed. The originally oral poetry of Si Mohand and Ait Menguellet are particularly notable in this respect.

</doc>
<doc id="65056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65056" title="Slackware">
Slackware

Slackware is a GNU/Linux distribution which is famous for being stable, fast and suitable for older computers. Slackware is the oldest Linux distribution that is still supported. 
It does not offer any graphical tools for configuration; rather, the person must change it on his or her own using the Command Line Interface and by editing text files.
The newest version is Slackware 14.0.

</doc>
<doc id="65062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65062" title="Tropical Storm Bret (2005)">
Tropical Storm Bret (2005)

Tropical Storm Bert was a weak storm that only lasted from June 28 to June 29. Bret hit the eastern coast of Mexico on June 29 before dying inland. Bret was also the second storm of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season.
Tropical Storm Bert formed close to land over the Bay of Campeche on June 28 before making landfall on Mexico a few hours later on June 29. Bert killed a total of two people.
Tropical Depression Two formed from a tropical wave over the Bay of Campeche on June 28, and quickly strengthened and became a tropical storm. Bret then began to move steadily closer to land during the next few hours before making landfall near Tuxpan, Veracruz in eastern Mexico early on June 29 with 40 mph (65 km/h) winds.
Bret quickly weakened as it continued inland, making heavy rain over the eastern coast of Mexico before dissipating over the mountains in central Mexico late on June 29.
Damages in Mexico totaled up to $9 million (2005 USD).
Most of the damage came from floods and landslides caused by the heavy rain. Several towns were flooded very badly, including Naranjos and Chinampa (south of Tampico). This was mainly because of the overflowing of the Río Tancochin. A total of about 3,000 homes were damaged.
Two people were reported dead because of Bret. Two people inside a car were killed when the car was swept away by the floodwaters in Naranjos.

</doc>
<doc id="65071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65071" title="Tropical Storm Harvey (2005)">
Tropical Storm Harvey (2005)

Tropical Storm Harvey was a strong tropical storm that moved across the Atlantic Ocean from August 2 to August 8. Harvey was the eighth named storm of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. The storm caused no damages.
Harvey formed from a tropical wave to the southwest of Bermuda on August 2 and passed close to Bermuda on August 4, bringing heavy rain to the island. The storm then began to move east and away from Bermuda, which the storm then reached its strongest strength with 65 mph (100 km/h) before becoming an extratropical cyclone on August 8. The system stayed in the northern Atlantic Ocean for a few more days before it died out later.
A tropical wave moved west from the African coast on July 22 and went across the Atlantic Ocean without becoming stronger. When the wave came across the Leeward Islands on July 28, the National Hurricane Center began to watch the system closely for any possible strengthening, which did not happen at that time. By August 2, conditions had become more favorable and Tropical Depression Eight formed about 350 miles (595 km) southwest of Bermuda.
The depression strengthened into Tropical Storm Harvey the next day. But a lot of wind shear gave Harvey some subtropical characteristics and also made the official forecasts to underestimate the future strength of the storm.
Harvey passed 45 miles (75 km) south of Bermuda early on August 4, with winds of 60 mph (90 km/h), before removing its subtropical characteristics to become a "fully tropical" storm. As it moved northeast away from the island, the storm strengthened more to its strongest with winds of 65 mph (100 km/h). Without any notice, more wind shear did not cause Harvey to weaken somewhat, although the storm's path did become confusing. Harvey became a strong extratropical storm during the night on August 8. The storm lived for a few more days before dissipating northwest of the Azores on August 14.
As Tropical Storm Harvey came closer to Bermuda, a tropical storm warning was given out late on August 2. Because it was considered possible for the storm to continue gaining strength, a hurricane watch was given out the next day. As the storm began move away from Bermuda on August 4, the hurricane watch and the tropical storm warning were cancelled.
Harvey brought heavy rain to Bermuda, with just over 5 inches (130 mm) reported at Bermuda International Airport. The rain caused some flooding of the roads. Also, there was a report of 45 mph (75 km/h) winds over Bermuda. The storm did not cause any bad damage or kill any people on the island.
When Tropical Storm Harvey formed on August 3, it was the earliest time ever in a season that the eighth tropical storm formed. It beat the previous record held by a storm in. This was the fourth time that the name Harvey had been used to name a tropical cyclone in the Atlantic. It was also the sixth time worldwide. However, because Harvey did not cause any bad damage, the name was not retired by the World Meteorological Organization and will be used again during the 2011 season.

</doc>
<doc id="65073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65073" title="Flash Gordon">
Flash Gordon

Flash Gordon is a science fiction adventure story that began as a comic strip in 1934. Since then, the Flash Gordon story has been made into movies, TV shows and a radio show. 
In the story, Flash Gordon and Dale Arden blast off into space in a rocket invented by the strange Dr. Hans Zarkov. They travel to the planet Mongo, where the evil Emperor Ming plans to take over the Earth. Flash, Dale and Zarkov have to make friends with the other people on Mongo, to battle Ming and stop his plans.
A new "Flash Gordon" TV show premieres on the Sci Fi Channel in August 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="65076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65076" title="Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 12">
Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 12

Hello, it is that guy again, with his very good article process. Of the for very good articles, items 1, 4, and 7 cannot be checked automatically. The rest of the checks can be done automatically. This would allow to write a bot, that browses through the articles, and proposes some of those which meet the criteria. This would allow for the proposition process to get going. I could write such a bot, if there is the need.
Any oppositions? -- 16:45, 23 June 2007 (UTC)
Voice your opinion at . I will be updating momentarily. 00:25, 28 June 2007 (UTC)
Konnichiwa! (That's Japanese for Hello.) I was wondering, do you think I would make a good administrator? 02:58, 28 June 2007 (UTC)
I wasn't requesting for adminship. If I was, I would go to . 18:28, 29 June 2007 (UTC)
Can we get the same buttons that are on the English wikipedia, please? Redirect, strikethrough etc.
Thanks, -- 05:42, 30 June 2007 (UTC)
I really don't care either way because I've gotten used to just typing it out. -- 13:17, 1 July 2007 (UTC)
Is there Featured Article status (or anything similar) in Simple? 14:29, 1 July 2007 (UTC)
Is this possible? -- 22:38, 1 July 2007 (UTC)
The image on the article ladder (which I put there myself some time ago) does not work anymore. This is odd, as the image is still on commons, like it was before. There is no "image missing" message either. The same thing happened on the Ernest Hemingway article. Does anyone have an idea what would cause this? -- 09:32, 2 July 2007 (UTC)
I was wondering if someone would expand these articles. Thanks. 19:11, 2 July 2007 (UTC)
To spread the word about our wiki, do you think there should be a tag in EWP that says "this article can be viewed in simple english" or something like that? -- 23:43, 2 July 2007 (UTC)
I was setting up my Babel box when I noticed there was not a template for Icelandic. I was wondering if it would be to much trouble for someone to make one, and if so, I'd like to make one on my own (but don't know how).
Can anyone please tell me how to add a interwiki link to simple wiktionary. Eg. how can I link "proportion" to simple wiktionary? Thank you. 16:37, 10 July 2007 (UTC)
Hello community. I perosnally do not consider Listing-type articles as a core responsibliity. This is especially the case if they turn out to be lists of redlinks. Therefore, please think twice before creating such lists -- 21:02, 10 July 2007 (UTC)
There recently were articles about a few settlements that were on the brink of notablity (and therefore noted for deletion). It is true that we are a small project, and should therefore give priorities to more notable settlements at the moment. Usually, this notability comes from one or more of the following:
In general, I think we should not create articles for settlements with less than 5.000 people, if no other criterion applies. However, once the article has been created the focus should be to merge it into a bigger one, or to extend it, rather than deleting it. -- 21:02, 10 July 2007 (UTC)
A guideline regarding settlements has been proposed, as below. Guideline will be in place till this WP reaches 20.000 pages of content. 
"To be added to SimpleWP, a settlement must currently fulfil any of the following criteria:
Please select among the following, to be put in where the dots are
Vote is by simple majority; any named editor can vote; in the case of a stalemate an Administrator decides. -- 14:42, 16 July 2007 (UTC)
It looks like 73% are favourable to the idea to limit the ceration of new settlemenrs (That are not notable otherwise) to a certain population. Of the different numbers proposed, 10k people has won the most support. Almost one in three however thinks that we do not need such a limitation at the current time. -- 16:57, 23 July 2007 (UTC)
I recently got an account on Wikimedia toolserver. I'm going to use it to gather statistics about different wiki projects. It can include Simple English Wikipedia as well. If you have an idea, post it on my talk page. - 09:07, 14 July 2007 (UTC)
Hi all! I'm currently focusing my work on movie & TV actors and actresses. Therefore, I've noticed that, while we do normally employ the very useful and templates, we are lacking others to simplify the task of linking to TV.com, which is also a very popular database. For this reason, I've taken the liberty of importing and adapting the English Wikipedia TV.com templates to suit our own needs. I've created them at and , along with detailed and simple instructions of use. I'd like your input before starting to use it in large scale. Please, feel free to comment and share your thoughts. Best regards, - 06:40, 18 July 2007 (UTC)
I hope you are not tired of questions about the goals of Simple English Wikipedia (SWP) yet ...
This wikipedia has a number of goals, of which I want to focus on one which I think is very important, but which seems to be neglected somewhat. The page linked in the title names "translation of articles" as one of the main goals of SWP. These translations, naturally, go in two directions:
It is a good idea to keep this in mind when deciding on the notability of some topics. In particular, if an article doesn't exist on EnWP that doesn't mean that its subject matter is not notable enough for SWP. -- 09:01, 18 July 2007 (UTC)
Most of the articles in should be moved to wiktionary, shouldn't they? -- 12:02, 19 July 2007 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="65079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65079" title="2 (number)">
2 (number)

2 (Two; ) is a number, numeral, and glyph. It is the number after 1 and the number before 3. In Roman numerals, it is II.
Two has many meanings in math. For example: formula_1. An integer is "even" if half of it equals an integer. If the last digit of a number is even, then the number is even. This means that if you multiply 2 times anything, it will end in 0, 2, 4, 6, or 8.
Two is the smallest, first, and only even prime number. The next prime number is three. Two and three are the only prime numbers next to each other. The even numbers above two are not prime because they are divisible by 2.
Fractions with 2 in the bottom do not yield infinite.
Two is the framework of the binary system used in computers. The binary way is the simplest system of numbers in which natural numbers (0-9) can be written.
Two also has the unique property that 2+2 = 2·2 = 2 and 2! + 2 = 2.
Powers of two are important to computer science.
The square root of two was the first known irrational number.

</doc>
<doc id="65081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65081" title="Regina, Saskatchewan">
Regina, Saskatchewan

Regina is the capital and second largest city of Saskatchewan, Canada. It is in the eastern prairie region of Western Canada. It is nicknamed "The Queen City" because it was named after Queen Victoria, i.e. Victoria Regina, in 1882, by her daughter Princess Louise, who was the wife of the then-Governor General the Marquess of Lorne.
Regina was also previously the seat of government for the North-West Territories, which were once formed part of today's Saskatchewan and Alberta provinces, and also of the District of Assiniboia. Regina is expected to enter a new period of strong economic growth due to Saskatchewan's agricultural and mineral resources coming into new demand.
The Saskatchewan Roughriders of the Canadian Football League are the only professional sports team in Regina. They play their home games in Regina at Mosaic Stadium. Regina also has the Regina Pats of the Western Hockey League and the University of Regina's Regina Cougars/Regina Rams of the CIS.

</doc>
<doc id="65083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65083" title="Success">
Success

Success may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="65086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65086" title="Parachute">
Parachute

A parachute uses drag to slow something moving in air. It is often an umbrella shaped device on which people or things can float slowly and safely down to the ground from a great height, such as an aircraft.
The word parachute comes from the French words "parer" meaning to protect and "chute" meaning fall carefully down making sure you are safe. Drogue parachutes are used to aid horizontal deceleration of a vehicle (a fixed-wing aircraft, or a drag racer), or to provide stability (tandem free-fall, or space shuttle after touchdown).
Parachutes are used in a sport called skydiving. Paratroopers are soldiers who attack by jumping from an airplane.
The word "parachute" comes from "para", meaning "against" or "counter" in Ancient Greek, and "chute", the French word for "fall". In many other languages, the word refers to "falling-screen", such as German "Fallschirm". Some modern parachutes are classified as semi-rigid wings, which are maneuverable and can make a controlled descent to break on impact with the ground.
The inventor Leonardo Da Vinci sketched a parachute in his "Codex Atlanticus" (fol. 381v), in about 1485. Leonardo's canopy was held open by a square wooden frame. The feasibility of Leonardo's pyramidal design was successfully tested in 2000 by the Briton Adrian Nicholas and again in 2008 by another skydiver. According to the historian of technology Lynn White, these conical and pyramidal designs, much more elaborate than early artistic jumps with rigid parasols in Asia, mark "the origin of the parachute as we know it".
The parachute package is called "rig". It consists of backpack, harness and canopy. The backpack is the container in which the parachute is stored, and which opens up when the parachute is deployed. The harness is the strapping on which the backpack is attached to the jumper. Modern harnesses have leg straps, vertical (upwards) straps and chest strap which can be tightened snug. The fabric part of the parachute is called "canopy". It is attached to the harness by lines, which themselves attach to four straps called "risers". The canopy may be round, bell-like, resembling like a jellyfish, or the canopy may be a mattress-like, resembling a wing profile. Most army parachutes are bell parachutes, while most recreational, rescue and professional parachutes are wing parachutes. 
Usually the backpack contains not just one but two parachutes: "main" parachute, which is opened normally, and "reserve" parachute, which is opened in an emergency situation, such as when the main does not open or is tangled. The use of reserve parachute have saved thousands of jumpers who would otherwise have died.
Old-fashioned bell parachutes were opened by pulling a rip cord. Modern parachutes do not have rip cords anymore, but the skydiver simply throws a small auxiliary (helper) parachute called "pilot chute" into air. This small auxiliary chute then pulls the main parachute canopy out of its pod in the backpack and it inflates (fills with air) automatically.
A parachute is carefully folded, or "packed" to ensure that it will open reliably. If a parachute is not packed properly it may result in death since the main parachute might fail to deploy (open and develop) correctly or fully. In the U.S. and many developed countries, emergency and reserve parachutes are packed by "riggers" who must be trained and certified according to legal standards. Sport skydivers are always trained to pack their own primary "main" parachutes. Many skydivers never let anyone else to pack their parachutes because they know the rig is correctly packed when they have done it themselves.
Parachutes can malfunction in several ways. Malfunctions can range from minor problems that can be corrected in-flight and still be landed, to catastrophic malfunctions that require the main parachute to be cut away using a modern 3-ring release system, and the reserve be deployed. Most skydivers also equip themselves with small barometric computers (known as an AAD or automatic activation device like Cypres, FXC or Vigil) that will automatically activate the reserve parachute if the skydiver has not deployed a parachute to reduce his rate of descent by a preset altitude.

</doc>
<doc id="65087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65087" title="United States Capitol">
United States Capitol

The United States Capitol is the building where the United States Congress meets. It is the center of the legislative branch of the U.S. federal government. It is in Washington, D.C., on top of Capitol Hill at the east end of the National Mall. 
The capitol has a large dome in the center, above a rotunda—a large space that is shaped like a circle. There are two "wings" that are connected to the rotunda on opposite sides. The north wing is where the Senate meets and the south wing is where the House of Representatives meets. These wings are also called "chambers". On the top floors of the chambers are "galleries", or balconies where people can watch the Senate and House of Representatives from above.
The Statue of Freedom is on top of the capitol.
The first capital city of the United States was New York City. At this time, Congress met in City Hall (Federal Hall) from 1785 to 1790. When the capital was moved to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, from 1790 to 1800, the Philadelphia County Building (Congress Hall) became the capitol. In 1800, the capital moved again to Washington, D.C., and a new capitol building was built.
The capitol was designed by William Thornton. Construction started in 1793, but it was not completely finished until almost twenty years later. The Senate started to meet in the capitol in 1800, when the Senate wing was finished. The House started to meet in the capitol in 1807, even though the House wing was not finished until 1811. 
At that time, it was not as big as it is now. The dome in the center of the building was smaller and made of wood. In 1814, the capitol was set on fire by the British Army during the War of 1812. In the 1850s and 1860s, the capitol was fully repaired, and the wooden dome was replaced with a larger iron dome. The walls of the Senate wing were painted with many murals about events in American History. Inside the rotunda, a large fresco was also painted on the ceiling during the repair. 
The Supreme Court also met in the Capitol until its own building was completed in 1935.

</doc>
<doc id="65090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65090" title="Strut bar">
Strut bar

A car's strut bar or strut brace is to prevent body roll by bracing the top of the strut towers together.

</doc>
<doc id="65091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65091" title="Front-wheel drive">
Front-wheel drive

Front-wheel drive, or FWD, is a car setup, where the car's power is at the front wheels. This makes the car safe in wet and snowy conditions, because it has better traction, or grip, to the road. But, FWD can cause uneven weight, which may cause brakes to fail if used for large periods of time.

</doc>
<doc id="65092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65092" title="Rear-wheel drive">
Rear-wheel drive

Rear-wheel drive, or RWD, is when a car uses its rear wheels to move. This is good for dry roads, and for acceleration, or how fast you move forward, as the weight is pushed backwards on the back wheels. But, RWD cars can spin out, also called oversteer or fishtail. This can cause crashes if the driver is new and not familiar with RWD cars.

</doc>
<doc id="65097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65097" title="Wireless">
Wireless

The word wireless is used to refer to any type of electrical or electronic operation which is done without a "hard wired" connection. Wireless communication is the transfer of information over a distance without the use of wires. The distances involved may be short (when using a television remote control) or very long (thousands or even millions of kilometers for radio communications).
One of the most popular wireless technology is the mobile phone, with more than 6.8 billion subscriptions worldwide as of 2013. The term wireless technology is generally used for mobile information technology (IT) equipment. Examples include mobile phones, personal digital assistants (PDAs), Global Positioning System (GPS) units, garage door openers, wireless computer mice and keyboards, satellite television and cordless telephones.
The world's first wireless telephone conversation happened in 1880, when Alexander Graham Bell and Charles Sumner Tainter invented photophone, a telephone that made conversations wirelessly using light beams. In 1946, a driver in Saint Louis, Mo. placed the first cell phone call in history. The cell phone was invented by Bell Labs and future AT&T CEO, H.I Romnes. 

</doc>
<doc id="65098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65098" title="MediaWiki:Movepage-moved">
MediaWiki:Movepage-moved

"$1" has been moved to "$2".<br>
<br>
Please check to make sure that no pages redirect to it. Any redirects should link to the new page name.

</doc>
<doc id="65108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65108" title="Centrifuge">
Centrifuge

A centrifuge is a device with a motor in it, which is used to spin an object with high speed. This high speed spinning forces the object outwards. This force is used for several purposes:

</doc>
<doc id="65119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65119" title="Shah">
Shah

Shah () is a Persian word which means the king or ruler of a country. This word is used in different countries in the world, including Iran, India, Pakistan and Afghanistan. Presently the term "Shah" is used as a surname commonly by many people in India, Pakistan and Afghanistan who are Hindu, Moslem and Jain. Many Indian names which have "Shah" in them; the most famous of them is Shah Jahan, who as the Emperor of India ordered the creation of Taj Mahal. One possible etymology of the chess term "checkmate" is the Persian "shah mat", meaning "the king cannot escape"
The term "Shah" often means Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, Shah of Iran from 1949 to 1979.

</doc>
<doc id="65120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65120" title="Approval voting">
Approval voting

Approval voting is a voting system used for elections. In approval voting, each person can vote for any number of candidates they like. The votes for each of the candidates are counted, and summed up. The candidate or candidates with most votes are chosen as the winners of the election.
Supporters argue it to be better than plurality voting because voters can vote for the lessor of evils advertised by the media but also for their favorite candidates. If their goal is just to vote against a candidate, they can do so more forcefully by approving all other candidates. Ballots can easily be hand counted if voters do not trust computers, which might be needed for Instant Runoff Voting. Vote spoiling is not an issue with approval voting, so many candidates may run for office.
Opponents argue that voters still have some of the problems of plurality voting, which is that they do not know if they will need to compromise their vote or not(tactical voting). Giving approval to a compromise candidate could result in that compromise candidate winning, when their favorite would have won had they not given approval to the compromise candidate. It is possible for 51% of voters (a majority) to view a candidate as their first choice but for that candidate to lose to a compromise candidate because many of those voters approved the compromise candidate as well. Not knowing whether or not to compromise is a problem with all voting systems when at least three strong candidates run.

</doc>
<doc id="65125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65125" title="Agar plate">
Agar plate

An agar plate is a Petri dish that contains agar and some nutrients (food for the microorganisms). It is used to grow microorganisms. For example, a blood sample of a patient may be put on agar plate, to let the bacteria that made the patient sick grow. These bacteria can then be identified using a microscope to let the doctor choose the appropriate treatment of the patient.
When microorganisms grow on the agar plate, they form colonies. Each colony has similar genetic characteristics. 
There are many types of agar plates that are used, but the two main types are defined and undefined. An undefined plate's nutrients aren't exactly known, but everything in a defined plate is accounted for.

</doc>
<doc id="65126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65126" title="Mansur Al-Hallaj">
Mansur Al-Hallaj

Abū al-Mughīth Hossein ibn Manūr Al Hallāj (c. 858 - March 26, 922) () or Hallaj was a Persian poet and writer. Hallaj was born in Shūshtar, Iran. Hallaj memorized the Quran when he was young. He taught Sufism in Baghdad. Muslim scholars were against his teachings. He was imprisoned in Baghdad for eleven years. In the end, he was tortured and he was beheaded by Abbasid rulers.

</doc>
<doc id="65128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65128" title="Again">
Again

"Again" is the name of many songs:

</doc>
<doc id="65129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65129" title="Conical measure">
Conical measure

A conical measure is a piece of laboratory equipment which is used to store and mix liquids.
A conical measure is a conical, or in the shape of a cone. It has a wide top so that liquids can be poured in more easily and marks on the side of it to help measure the amount of liquid more easily. They can be made of plastic or glass.
A conical measure can be used in any pouring, measuring or mixing of liquids. This means that it is useful in:
They are also useful in homes as a measuring cup for cooking.
Conical measures are not very accurate, but are easy to use and to mix liquids in.

</doc>
<doc id="65130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65130" title="Unsuri">
Unsuri

Abu Al Qasim Hasan ibn Ahmad Unsuri Balkhi (d. 1039/1040) () or Unsuri was a Persian poet. He was born in Balkh, in modern Afghanistan. He became the poet of Sultan Mahmud Ghaznavi. Mahmud Ghaznavi called him "King of Poets". All of his poems are in Persian. His poems are collected in a Divan.

</doc>
<doc id="65131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65131" title="Ali Shariati">
Ali Shariati

Ali Shariati Mazinani (1933-1977) (Persian: علی شريعتی مزینانی) or Shariati was an Iranian Muslim philosopher, sociologist, poet and writer.
Shariati was born in 1933 in Mazinan, Iran.He stuided sociology in the University of Paris.He returned to Iran in 1964. When he returned to Iran, the Shah regime arrested and imprisoned him for political reasons. He was released in 1965. Shariati began teaching at the University of Mashhad.He began lecturing at the Hosseiniye Ershad institute in 1967. The Shah regime, arrested him again. And when he was freed in 1975, he was not allowed to teach or publish anything. Shariati decided to leave the country for England. Three weeks later he died in Southampton.He was buried in Damascus,Syria.

</doc>
<doc id="65132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65132" title="Kisai Marvazi">
Kisai Marvazi

Abul Hasan Abu Ishaq Kasa'i Marvazi (953 - 10th century) 
() or Kasai is a Persian poet. He was born in Marv. He was a poet in the court of Mahmud Ghaznavi. He converted to Shia Islam. He has praised Ali ibn Abi Talib many times in his poems. All of his poems are in Persian. His poems are collected in a Diwan.

</doc>
<doc id="65133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65133" title="Farrokhi Sistani">
Farrokhi Sistani

Abul Hasan Ali ibn Julugh Farrukhi Sistani (c. 980 - 1037 or 1038) () or Farrokhi is a Persian poet. Farrokhi was the best poet in the court of Mahmud Ghaznavi. All of his poems are in Persian. His poems are collected in a Divan.

</doc>
<doc id="65135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65135" title="Mu'izzi">
Mu'izzi

Amir Abdollah Muhammad Mu'izzi (1048-1125) was an 11th century and 12th century poet. He was from Persia, and was the poet laureate of Sanjar. He was from the village of Nisa. He is considered one of the great masters of the Persian panegyric qasideh.
He lived in the courts of Malik Shah I and Sultan Sanjar. His "divan" of 18,000 distichs remain. Anvari says Mu'izzi copied the verses of other poets (this cannot be proven for certain). Anvari himself is known to have copied Mu'izzi's verses. Mu'izzi is said to have died by an arrow shot by the King's son in 1125 for unknown reasons. He was accidentally shot by Sanjar.
Ghazel of Mu'izzi in Tajik:
translation -

</doc>
<doc id="65136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65136" title="Khaqani Shirvani">
Khaqani Shirvani

Afzal ad- Din Badil Ibrahim ibn Ali Nadjar Khaqani Shirvani (1120-1190) () or Khaghani Shirvani was a Persian poet. His most famous poem is "The Arch of Madain"(). He wrote the poem book "Tohfat-ul Iraqein" (in Persian: تحفه العراقين meaning A Gift from the Two Iraqs) in his journey to Mesopotamia. The Shirvanshah ordered his officers to imprison him. Khaghani was in prison for nearly five years. In prison, he wrote the poems called Habsiyye (, meaning "The Prison Book"). After he was freed, he moved to Tabriz. Khaghani died in Tabriz.

</doc>
<doc id="65137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65137" title="The Seasons (Haydn)">
The Seasons (Haydn)

The Seasons (German: "Die Jahreszeiten") is an oratorio by Joseph Haydn. An oratorio is a long musical work with orchestra, choir and solo singers. It usually tells a story from the Old Testament of the Bible. "The Seasons" is different. It is about the four seasons of the year. It describes nature and people's relationship to nature during the year.
"The Seasons" was the last big work that Haydn composed. He composed it in 1801. By this time he was the most famous composer in Europe. Mozart had died ten years earlier, and Beethoven was a young man who was just starting to become famous. Haydn was nearly 80 years old and his health was not good. Although he lived another eight years "The Seasons" was the last big work he wrote. Soon after he had composed it he stopped composing altogether.
Haydn had only written one big oratorio before "The Seasons". This was an oratorio called "The Creation". It had been performed in 1798 and was very popular all over Europe. The libretto (the words) had been written by Baron Gottfried van Swieten who was an Austrian nobleman who liked music. He had helped Mozart in his career and now he was helping Haydn. He wanted Haydn to write a second oratorio, so he wrote the libretto for "The Seasons". He used a long English poem with the same title by James Thomson (1700-1748). He made it much shorter and changed it so that it was suitable to be set to music, and he translated it into German. 
Haydn took two years to write the music. It was first performed in Vienna on 24 April 1801. The audience liked it, although not as much as "The Creation". One problem was that Haydn was not very happy about the libretto. He thought that oratorios should be about serious, dramatic stories from the Bible or from classical mythology, not about everyday life. Van Swieten was not very happy when Haydn criticized it, but he did not change it, and Haydn did his best to make the work interesting.
The oratorio is divided into four parts, one for each of the seasons: Spring, Summer, Autumn and Winter. Each part lasts at least half an hour and consists of the usual recitatives (which tell the story), arias (songs), choruses (for the choir) and ensemble numbers (for the soloists together and often the chorus as well). There are three soloists (instead of the usual four). They represent three simple country people. There is a soprano called Hanne, a tenor called Lucas and a bass called Simon. Hanne is supposed to be Simon's daughter. There is no storyline in the normal sense: it is a series of poems and thoughts about nature during the year. 
The opening of "Spring" describes winter going away and spring awakening. There is a chorus which sounds very pastoral (like the countryside) with its 6/8 rhythm and drones (like country bagpipes). Simon then sings about the farmer sowing his seed. He is accompanied by a bassoon which sounds like a lively farmer tilling the earth. There is a gentle hymn of praise with a fugue which sounds like one from Mozart's Requiem. Hanne invites the girls and Simon invites the men to go to the fields and admire the earth, water and air. A chorus praises God.
The music describes the countryside. The farmer is called to work in the morning (the oboe wakes him up). The sun rises. Again we thank God for nature. By midday it has become very hot. Later there are insects buzzing and we hear a shepherd playing on his pipe (the oboe). Everything is very dry at first, then there is a storm. The timpani make the sound of the thunder. When the storm has finished everyone is happy. We hear the birds singing, the frog croaking and the evening bell chimes eight times. The day's work is done.
The words at first are about hard work and the rewards for hard work (Haydn thought these were strange words to set to music). Then there is a duet for a loving young couple (Lucas and Hanne). This is the only time that the soloists feel like real characters in a story and talk to one another. Autumn is the hunting season, so there is hunting music. It sounds quite old-fashioned (like Baroque music). The bassoon is the hound (the dog). The hounds become hungry and the music gets faster and faster until, suddenly, the dogs and the music stop. There is a gunshot (timpani) as the deer is shot. Autumn finishes with a drinking chorus.he
At first, there is thick winter fog. Then there is a short song (short because nothing grows in winter). Then there is a story about a traveller who is lost in the snow and comes to a cottage where he finds shelter. Hanne and the chorus sing a song about a spinning wheel. Many other composers later wrote music which describes a spinning wheel turning. There is another song which tells a story about a rich nobleman who tries to make love to a country girl but she escapes by riding off on his horse so he is left with no horse and no girl. At times this music sounds quite like the music in Mozart's opera "The Magic Flute". Simon sings an aria which compares the seasons with the different stages of life (the seasons are used as a metaphor). Finally the chorus sing about the dawn of life in heaven. The oratorio and the seasons start all over again. The soloists, who have been three country people, are now three angels. There is a final hymn of praise.

</doc>
<doc id="65138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65138" title="Sohrab Sepehri">
Sohrab Sepehri

Sohrab Sepehri (; October 7, 1928 - April 21, 1980) was an Iranian poet and painter. He was born in Kashan, Iran. His poems are in Persian. His most famous poetry book is Hasht Ketab (Eight Books). His poems have been translated to French, English, Arabic, Italian, Swedish, Hindi and Russian. Sohrab Sepehri died in Tehran.

</doc>
<doc id="65142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65142" title="Shabestari">
Shabestari

Mahmud Shabestari(1288-1340) () is a Persian Sufi poet. He was born in Tabriz. His most famous poem is called "Gulshan-i Rāz"( meaning A Secret Rose Garden). "Gulshan-i Rāz" is an important Sufi text.

</doc>
<doc id="65143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65143" title="Jami">
Jami

Nur ad-Din Abd ar-Rahman Jami (, August 18, 1414–November 19, 1492), or Jami, was a Persian Sufi poet. He was born in Jam, Persia. He studied science, Arabic literature, natural sciences, Islamic philosophy and Indian literature in Herat University. He went to Samarqand and completed his studies there. Jami wrote eighty seven books, in Persian and Arabic. Some of his books have been translated to English. His poems are collected in a Divan.

</doc>
<doc id="65144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65144" title="Category:Compositions by Joseph Haydn">
Category:Compositions by Joseph Haydn


</doc>
<doc id="65145" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65145" title="Category:Oratorios">
Category:Oratorios


</doc>
<doc id="65146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65146" title="Category:Compositions by musical form">
Category:Compositions by musical form


</doc>
<doc id="65150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65150" title="Saadi">
Saadi

Sheikh Muslih-ud-Din Mushrif-ibn-Abdullah Saadi Shirazi(1184-1291) () or Saadi was a Persian poet. He was born in Shiraz,Iran. He went to Baghdad to study Arabic literature and Islamic sciences in Nizamiyya University of Baghdad. He travelled to Anatolia, Syria, Egypt, and Iraq. His most famous poetry book is the Bostan ( meaning The Orchard). He also wrote the Golestan ( meaning The Rosery). His poems are in Persian and Arabic.

</doc>
<doc id="65152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65152" title="Saint-Paul, Réunion">
Saint-Paul, Réunion

Saint-Paul, Réunion is the second largest city in Réunion. The largest is Saint-Denis. In 2008, a train which connects Saint-Paul to Saint-Denis and the main international airport in Réunion will be completed. 

</doc>
<doc id="65158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65158" title="Iraj Mirza">
Iraj Mirza

Jalalolmamalek pesar-e Gholam-Hossein Mirza (October 1874 - 14 March 1926) () or Iraj Mirza () was an Iranian poet. He was born in Tabriz, Iran.
His most famous poems are Satan (in Persian: "Ebleess"), Mother (in Persian: "Maadar"), Woman's picture (in Persian "Tassvir-e-Zan"), Story of the Hijab (in Persian "Daastaan-e Chaador") and the story of Zohreh and Manouchehr (in Persian: "Daastaan e Zohreh o Manouchehr").
He died in Tehran on 14 March 1926. His tomb is in Shemiran, north of Tehran.

</doc>
<doc id="65160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65160" title="Federal">
Federal

Federal could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="65163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65163" title="Federalism">
Federalism

Federalism is a political philosophy in which a group of people are bound together, with a governing head. In federalism, the authority is divided between the head (for example the central government of a country) and the political units governed by it (for example the states or provinces of the country).
Currently, several countries in the world have a federal government; examples are United States of America, Canada, Switzerland and Austria. The European Union can be called a sort of federal government as well.
In the United States Constitution for example, the federal government and state governments both have power. When states and the federal government do not agree on something, the Supreme Court can decide who is right.

</doc>
<doc id="65165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65165" title="Federation">
Federation

A federation is a union of a number of self-governing states or regions, which are joined together under a central government. The central government is not able to do a lot of things that central government in more centralized states can. These things are done by the states (or regions) in a federalized state.
The United States of America is a federation. The federal (central) government has the highest executive role, but the states have their own special rules in some special cases.
Australia became a Federation in 1901.
After the 1971 civil war, Pakistan became a Federation adopted in the 1973 Constitution of Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="65166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65166" title="Federal republic">
Federal republic

A federal republic is a federation of states, with a republican form of central government. It differs from a unitary state in that in a federal republic, the authorities of the state governments cannot be taken back by the central government.
Many countries have a federal republic government; for example, the Federal Republic of Brazil, the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of India, the United Mexican States, the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, and the United States of America. As this list shows, some of these countries use "Federal Republic" in their name, and some do not. Federal Republics usually have presidents.
There can be more than one type of Federal republic. For example, the United States is a Constitutional Democratic Federal Republic.

</doc>
<doc id="65171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65171" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/header">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/header


</doc>
<doc id="65172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65172" title="Square (disambiguation)">
Square (disambiguation)

A square is a shape with four equal sides and four equal angles.
Square may also mean:
A town square or market square is an open area commonly found in the heart of a traditional town. Notable squares include:
Other locations called "Square" include:

</doc>
<doc id="65173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65173" title="Square (algebra)">
Square (algebra)

In mathematics, a square of a number means the result of multiplying the number by itself. For example, the square of 6 is 6×6 = 36.
Squaring a number can also be written as 6 = 36.
Many of the units of area are squares. For example, a "square meter" means the area equal to the area of a rectangle which is one meter tall and one meter wide.

</doc>
<doc id="65176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65176" title="Pan (moon)">
Pan (moon)

Pan is a moon of Saturn. It is the closest moon to the planet, orbiting 133,600 km above Saturn's cloud tops. It was discovered in 1990 by Mark Showalter. He discovered Pan when he was analysing the photos taken by Voyager 2. It orbits inside the Encke gap which it has made Saturn's A Ring.
Pan was named after the Greek god Pan on 16 September 1991. It is also known as .
Its mass is in the range formula_1.

</doc>
<doc id="65177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65177" title="Tropical Storm Franklin (2005)">
Tropical Storm Franklin (2005)

Tropical Storm Franklin was a strong tropical storm that stayed in the western Atlantic Ocean for much of its life. Franklin was the sixth named storm of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season and almost became a hurricane two times.
Tropical Storm Franklin formed north of the Bahamas on July 21 and moved steadily across the western Atlantic while coming close to Bermuda on July 26. Later, Franklin became an extratropical cyclone near Newfoundland, before being absorbed by another non-tropical system. Franklin caused no damages and killed no people while it stayed in the ocean during most of its life.
A tropical wave formed west from the African coast late on July 10. The wave entered the Bahamas on July 21 and strengthened into Tropical Depression Six while 70 miles (110 km) east of Eleuthera. Initially the storm was predicted to move in a clockwise loop and slowly move to the west in response to a high pressure system. Several models showed the possibility of the storm to change westward and move into central Florida. Anyhow, soon after the depression formed, it strengthened into Tropical Storm Franklin.
Tropical Storm Franklin suffered a lot of wind shear related with the development of Tropical Storm Gert, which made the forecasters at the National Hurricane Center to say that Franklin could be destroyed in the next few days. However the shear stopped as Franklin moved to the northeast, allowing the storm to strengthen. The forecasters now said that Franklin could "attain and maintain hurricane strength" and make a close approach to Bermuda.
Shortly after on July 23, Tropical Storm Franklin reached its strongest point with 70 mph (110 km/h) winds.
Franklin moved unevenly to the east while weakening as shear increased again. The NHC predicted that the storm would dissipate, but Frnaklin stopped weakening on July 25 with Franklin a minimal tropical storm. The storm passed to 200 miles (325 km) to the west of Bermuda on July 26 and moved slowly northwards into the warmer waters of the Gulf Stream. The shear also reduced once again allowing Franklin to re-strengthen somewhat, with winds reaching 60 mph (95 km/h) on July 28. Meanwhile, Franklin began to accelerate to the northeast becoming an extratropical cyclone on July 30 to the south of Newfoundland. The extratropical storm passed close to the southern tip of Newfoundland later that day and was absorbed by a larger system on July 31.
As Tropical Storm Franklin was forming, a tropical storm warning was issued for the northwest Bahamas, but it was cancelled as Franklin moved north and away from the islands. A tropical storm watch was given out to Bermuda on July 25 but was also cancelled a day later when Franklin moved away.
Tropical Storm Franklin developed very close to land in the Bahamas and passed close to Bermuda, but there were no reports of tropical storm force winds overland, with the strongest gust recorded on Bermuda being 37 mph (60 km/h). After Franklin became an extratropical storm, it affected parts of southeastern Newfoundland, bringing about 1 inch (25 mm) of rain to the area. There were no damages or fatalities reported from Tropical Storm Franklin.
When Franklin formed on July 21, it was the became earliest tropical cyclone ever in a season that the sixth tropical storm formed, breaking the previous record held by storm 6 from 1936 by 14 days. This was the first use of Franklin to name a tropical storm after the retirement of Hurricane Floyd from 1999. Because Frank filed to cause any deaths or damages, its the name was not retired by the World Meteorological Organization and will be on the list of names for the 2011 Season.

</doc>
<doc id="65178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65178" title="Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archives">
Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archives


</doc>
<doc id="65179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65179" title="Atlas (moon)">
Atlas (moon)

Atlas is a moon of Saturn. It was discovered by Richard Terrile from photos taken by Voyager 1 in 1980. It was named after the Atlas in Greek mythology. It orbits just outside Saturn's "A ring".

</doc>
<doc id="65180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65180" title="Prometheus (moon)">
Prometheus (moon)

Prometheus is a moon of Saturn. It was discovered by Stewart Collins from Voyager 1 photos in 1981. It was named after the god of the same name in Greek mythology. The moon acts as a shepherd satellite for the inner part of Saturn's "F ring".

</doc>
<doc id="65181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65181" title="Category:Saturn's moons">
Category:Saturn's moons


</doc>
<doc id="65183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65183" title="Chris Daughtry">
Chris Daughtry

Christopher Adam "Chris" Daughtry (born December 26, 1979) is an American singer. He is best known for being the fourth-place finisher on "American Idol". He is also the lead singer of Daughtry. His band released their first album in 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="65185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65185" title="Pandora (moon)">
Pandora (moon)

Pandora is a moon of Saturn. The moon is named after Pandora in Greek mythology. It is the outer shepherd satellite of Saturn's "F ring", the inner satellite being Prometheus. Pandora has many craters in its surface.

</doc>
<doc id="65186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65186" title="Daphnis (moon)">
Daphnis (moon)

Daphnis is a moon of Saturn. It is a tiny moon, measuring 6 to 8 km in diameter. It is discovered by the Cassini-Huygens space probe in 2005. It orbits inside the Keeler Gap in Saturn's rings.

</doc>
<doc id="65187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65187" title="Melinda Doolittle">
Melinda Doolittle

Melinda Marie Doolittle (born October 6, 1977) is an American singer. She is best known for being the third-place finalist on "American Idol".

</doc>
<doc id="65188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65188" title="Epimetheus (moon)">
Epimetheus (moon)

Epimetheus is a moon of Saturn. It was discovered by Richard Walker in 1966. At first, Epimetheus was thought to be same as Janus, another moon that orbits at the same distance from Saturn. It was confirmed by Voyager 1 in 1980 that they were two separate moons.

</doc>
<doc id="65189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65189" title="Janus (moon)">
Janus (moon)

Janus is a moon of Saturn. It was discovered by Audouin Dollfus in 1966. Astronomers were first mistaken that another moon, Epimetheus, was the same as Janus. Voyager 1 confirmed in 1980 that there were two moons that share the same orbit.

</doc>
<doc id="65190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65190" title="Enceladus (moon)">
Enceladus (moon)

Enceladus is a moon of Saturn. It is the sixth largest of Saturn's moons, and it has a diameter of 500 km. Enceladus is within Saturn's E ring and likely contributes material to it. The moon is made mostly out of water ice, so it reflects light very well. It reflects almost 100% of the sunlight that strikes the moon.William Herschel discovered Enceladus on August 28, 1789. In 2014, NASA reported that its Cassini spacecraft found evidence for liquid water on Enceladus. Scientists now think that there is a large underground ocean of liquid water, around 10 km thick, near Enceladus' south pole. There are also cryovolcanoes (cold volcanoes) near the south pole. These volcanoes shoot large jets of water vapor, other volatiles, and some solid particles like sodium chloride crystals and ice particles into space. Some of these substances become part of Saturn's E Ring.

</doc>
<doc id="65191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65191" title="Tethys (moon)">
Tethys (moon)

Tethys (pronounced "TEE-this") is a large moon of the planet Saturn.
It was discovered by Giovanni Domenico Cassini in 1684. It was one of the first Saturnian moons discovered.
Tethys' mass is 617,551,805,221,061,000,000 kg, its density is 0.973 g/cm and its volume is 634,264,255 km.
It has a very large crater on its surface, called Odysseus. It is named after a Greek warrior king in Homer's two great works, "The Iliad" and "The Odyssey". There is also a very long valley called Ithaca Chasma. It is 100 km wide and 2000 km long.
Tethys takes 45.3 hours to orbit (go around) Saturn and orbits Saturn 294,660 km away. Tethys is tidally locked in phase with its parent planet - one side always faces toward Saturn.

</doc>
<doc id="65193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65193" title="Tropical Storm Jose (2005)">
Tropical Storm Jose (2005)

Tropical Storm Jose was a tropical storm that lived for a very short time from August 22 to August 23. Jose was the tenth named storm of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season which made landfall in eastern Mexico.
Tropical Storm Jose formed off the coast of Mexico in the western Gulf of Mexico on August 22 and made landfall on eastern Mexico the next day while at its strongest point with 60 mph (95 km/h) winds. Jose then quickly dissipated while inland and caused heavy rain. Jose killed a total of eight people (6 directly and 2 indirectly) who were all killed by landslides and caused $45 million in damage. 
On August 17 a tropical wave, probably from the same wave from which Tropical Depression Ten had developed from earlier in the month, began to organize in the central Caribbean. Convection steadily increased as it moved to the Yucatán Peninsula. The system then weakened while overland, and by the time when it entered the southweatern Gulf of Mexico on August 21 it hardly had any convection. However early in the morning of August 22 under highly favorable upper-level conditions, convection quickly increased and the system became Tropical Depression Eleven about 110 miles (175 km) east of Veracruz, Mexico. The depression quickly strengthened as it moved to the west, becoming Tropical Storm Jose just six hours later after forming.
The global model guidance originally failed to predict the storms track well, with some models showing that it would somehow stop offshore. Jose continued to strengthen as it moved towards the coast and made landfall in the state of Veracruz early on August 23 with winds at its strongest at 60 mph (90 km/h). As Jose made its landfall an eye was beginning to form, although the storm was still short of hurricane strength. Tropical Storm Jose quickly weakened after landfall and dissipated that afternoon in the mountains of central Mexico only 24 hours after forming.
Because Tropical Storm Jose formed so close to shore, there was only a lead time of less than 9 hours on the tropical storm warning given out on September 22 for the Veracruz coastline. The area covered by the warning was also enlarged southwards as Jose intensified, before being cancelled soon after landfall on September 23. The advisories that were given out by the National Hurricane Center stated that rainfall from Jose was the probably the biggest threat.
Tropical Storm Jose was responsible for damaging crops, highways and homes; flooding many areas in several cities in the state of Veracruz and 80,000 people had to be in shelters. The government of that state estimated the damages caused by the storm to be about $45 million (2005 US dollars). An estimated 120 citites were affected by the rains, but the majority of the damage was limited to eight of them: Martínez de la Torre, Misantla, Nautla, San Rafael, Vega de la Torre, Actopan, Cardel and Úrsulo Galván. Damage to the highway infrastructure was estimated at $33 million (2005 USD).
It was also reported that the storm damaged at least 16 thousand homes and about 250 square kilometres (60 thousand acres) of land used for cattle. In addition, over 420 square kilometres (103 thousand acres) of various crops, including sugar cane, corn and bananas, were flooded. Many boats were also lost as a result of Jose. 90 active medical brigades were sent to the region to reduce the risk of infections to the affected people living in the destroyed area.
In addition, Jose was responsible for killing people six directly. One of these deaths was the result of a landslide that killed a man in Xalapa, Veracruz. The other five deaths were also due to landslides in Oaxaca.
<br><br><br>
When Tropical Storm Jose formed on August 22, it was the earliest date for the formation of the tenth tropical storm in an Atlantic hurricane season, breaking the previous record held by Tropical Storm Jerry from 1995 by 1 day. This was also the third time the name "Jose" had been used to name a tropical cyclone in the Atlantic. As Tropical Storm Jose create any major damages, its name was not retired by the World Meteorological Organization and will be on the list of names for the 2011 season.

</doc>
<doc id="65195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65195" title="Category:1992 births">
Category:1992 births


</doc>
<doc id="65197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65197" title="Category:1184 births">
Category:1184 births


</doc>
<doc id="65198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65198" title="Category:1184">
Category:1184


</doc>
<doc id="65199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65199" title="Category:1291 deaths">
Category:1291 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="65200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65200" title="Category:1290s deaths">
Category:1290s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="65201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65201" title="Category:1414 births">
Category:1414 births


</doc>
<doc id="65202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65202" title="Category:1414">
Category:1414


</doc>
<doc id="65203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65203" title="Category:1492 deaths">
Category:1492 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="65204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65204" title="Category:1288 births">
Category:1288 births


</doc>
<doc id="65205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65205" title="Category:1340 deaths">
Category:1340 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="65206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65206" title="Category:1340s deaths">
Category:1340s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="65207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65207" title="Category:1120 births">
Category:1120 births


</doc>
<doc id="65208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65208" title="Category:1120">
Category:1120


</doc>
<doc id="65210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65210" title="Thread">
Thread

Thread could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="65211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65211" title="Hurricane Cindy (2005)">
Hurricane Cindy (2005)

Hurricane Cindy was a tropical cyclone that reached minimal hurricane strength for a very short time in the Gulf of Mexico during July and made landfall in Louisiana. It was the third named storm and first hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. Cindy was originally thought to have been a strong tropical storm at its strongest strength, but was upgraded to a Category 1 hurricane in the post-storm analysis.
Hurricane Cindy formed on July 3 just east of the Yucatán Peninsula in the Caribbean Sea. The depression soon made landfall on the peninsula and weakened before entering in the Gulf of Mexico on July 4. The storm restrengthened as it moved north becoming a hurricane just before making landfall on southern Louisiana on July 5. The storm weakened as it moved inland and became extratropical on July 7. 
Cindy was responsible for a total of 3 deaths in the United States and`for bringing heavy rains to Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Maryland. An unusually strong F2 tornado formed from Cindy's remnants and caused a lot of damage in Hampton, Georgia. Cindy also caused flooding and a very big blackout in New Orleans, Louisiana, which encouraged the people to evacuate when Hurricane Katrina destroyed the city in the next month. 
On June 24 a strong tropical wave formed off the African coast and moved quickly west across the Atlantic Ocean without any strengthening. The wave steadily became more organized as it came to the Caribbean Sea and late on July 3 it strengthened into Tropical Depression Three about 80 miles (130 km) east of Chetumal, Mexico. The models originally had difficulty predicting the future path of the depression and the forecasts from the National Hurricane Center agreed with this, predicting that the depression would maybe hit Texas. Anyhow, the depression developed quickly before making landfall on Yucatán Peninsula early on July 4 with 35 mph (55 km/h) winds. Cindy then began to lose its most of its strength and organization as it moved inland.
A new center of organization began forming later on July 4 when Cinday entered the Gulf of Mexico. This reorganization caused a notable change in the models, which now predicated a landfall in Louisiana. The depression moved north in the Gulf of Mexico and became a Tropical Storm Cindy early on July 5. Weakened shear allowed Cindy to strengthen more as it approached Louisiana and was a minimal hurricane with 75 mph (120 km/h) winds for a very short time when it made landfall near Grand Isle late on July 5. While it was thought that Cindy did not originally reach hurricane strength, but post-season reanalysis confirmed the upgrade.
Hurricane Cindy weakened back into a tropical storm as it crossed over southeastern Louisiana and Breton Sound before making a second landfall near Waveland, Mississippi with 50 mph (85 km/h) winds on July 6. Cindy moved to the northeast over Mississippi and Alabama, weakening to a tropical depression that day. The depression became extratropical over South Carolina on July 7 and moved to the northeast dissipating in the Atlantic Ocean on July 9.
About 300,000 homes and businesses in southeast Louisiana and the Mississippi coastline lost electrical power while a storm surge of 4–6 feet (1.2-1.8 meters) affected the same area, causing some beach erosion in southern Louisiana.
In New Orleans, Louisiana, wind gusts reached 70 mph (110 km/h), many trees were destroyed or uprooted and various street flooding was reported. As thousands lost electrical power, the city experienced its worst blackout since Hurricane Betsy 40 years earlier. Although at the time, Cindy was still listed as a "Tropical Storm" by the weather service, many in New Orleans thought that Cindy was a hurricane, and referred to it as "Hurricane Cindy" before it was officially upgraded.
Even though Cindy had weakened to a depression and was deep inland, Cindy's effects were still felt; some parts of Atlanta Motor Speedway and Tara Field airport in Hampton, Georgia suffered heavy damage from an F2 tornado created by the storm. Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport in Atlanta had over 5 inches (130 mm) of rain on July 6, its sixth-highest one-day rainfall since 1878; most rain fell during just two hours (8 to 10 p.m. EDT). This is more rain than the area normally gets in all of July. Many other places, such as Slidell, Louisiana, Gulfport, Mississippi, Mobile, Alabama, and Salisbury, Maryland, also saw over 5 inches (125 mm) of rain.
Cindy was also reported to have caused three deaths – two in Georgia (one direct) and another in Alabama.
Many people in the New Orleans metropolitan area thought Cindy would only create minimal effects from the storm, but found themselves cleaning up the mess and were without power for days after Cindy's strike. The experience encouraged many people to evacuate when the much more powerful Hurricane Katrina was heading towards the city less than two months later.
When Tropical Storm Cindy formed on July 5, it was the seventh time that the name had been used to name a storm in the Atlantic. Because Cindy did not cause any major damages, its name was not retired by the World Meteorological Organization and will be on the list of names for the 2011 season.

</doc>
<doc id="65212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65212" title="Category:1037 deaths">
Category:1037 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="65213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65213" title="Category:1037">
Category:1037


</doc>
<doc id="65215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65215" title="Category:953 births">
Category:953 births


</doc>
<doc id="65216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65216" title="Category:953">
Category:953


</doc>
<doc id="65220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65220" title="Category:858 births">
Category:858 births


</doc>
<doc id="65221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65221" title="Category:858">
Category:858


</doc>
<doc id="65222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65222" title="Category:922 deaths">
Category:922 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="65223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65223" title="Category:922">
Category:922


</doc>
<doc id="65224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65224" title="Category:Heads of state">
Category:Heads of state

This category includes articles on the actual position in any nation. Pages about individuals who held the position should not be included. A list of all people to hold a specific position is in keeping with the category.

</doc>
<doc id="65228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65228" title="Single">
Single

Single can mean the following:

</doc>
<doc id="65231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65231" title="Cartridge (electronics)">
Cartridge (electronics)

A cartridge means an object that adds different functions or content to an electronic device (like a video game cartridge), or that refills something the device needs (like an ink cartridge for a printer).
A cartridge is easy to use. For example, an ink cartridge is easier to use than a bottle of ink. This is because all the ink is inside the cartridge.
A cassette is a small cartridge. The words have similar meanings.

</doc>
<doc id="65233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65233" title="Hurricane Epsilon">
Hurricane Epsilon

Hurricane Epsilon was a Category 1 hurricane that lasted a long time in the central Atlantic Ocean during late November and early December. Epsilon was one of the strongest and longest living hurricanes recorded so late during the year. It was also the twenty-seventh tropical or subtropical storm and fifteenth hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season.
Epsilon formed from a non-tropical low that steadily became a tropical storm on November 29. The storm became a hurricane on December 2, in a highly unfavorable climate for a regular tropical cyclone. Anyhow, Epsilon managed to stay as a hurricane for a few more days while confusing and frustrating forecasters at the National Hurricane Center before dissipating on December 8.
Tropical Storm Epsilon developed out from an extratropical storm in the central Atlantic Ocean on November 29 that had slowly gained tropical characteristics similar to Tropical Storm Delta. It was far east from Bermuda at the time and never would get close to land. Epsilon steadily strengthened into a strong tropical storm before it weakened a little bit on December 1. The official forecasts from the National Hurricane Center predicted Epsilon would weaken further in the highly unfavoritable environment before becoming an extratropical system again. Unexpectedly, Tropical Storm Epsilon strengthened again on December 2 and became a hurricane over cooler waters about 21–24°C (70–75°F) with continuing wind shear; which are the conditions that are highly unfavorable for a regular tropical cyclone. The official forecasts continued to predict weakening and dissipation but Epsilon did not follow the forecaster's predictions, and remained at hurricane strength for several more days. At one point on December 4 it was thought that Epsilon had weakened into a tropical storm for a short time, but later post-analysis showed that Epsilon had never weakened at all. Hurricane Epsilon then strengthened further to its peak intensity of 85 mph (135 km/h) just several hours later.
Hurricane Epsilon frustrated many forecasters back in NHC, and the because Epsilon continued to deny any weakening made NOAA hurricane forecaster Dr. Lixion Avila to say "There are no clear reasons — and I am not going to make one up — to explain the recent strengthening of Epsilon…". This means "I don't know why the storm has gained strength, and I am not going to make up a reason". The storm kept its hurricane strength for five days while most of the six-hourly forecasts during that period called for it to weaken below that hurricane strength. Dr. Avila also claimed that Epsilon had developed a structure similar to one of an annular hurricane, which somehow helped it to keep its strength even though poor conditions still existed.
On December 7, wind shear began to cause Hurricane Epsilon to weaken. The storm lost strength, and it became a tropical storm on the next day. It continued weakening into a tropical depression on December 8, and it dissipated soon after that.
Because Hurricane Epsilon stayed far out at sea and never came near land, no warnings or watches were sent out by the National Hurricane Center. No ships in the ocean reported high winds from Epsilon. Also, the storm caused no damage or deaths.
When Tropical Storm Epsilon formed on November 29, it was the first known time that the 27th tropical or subtropical storm had formed in the Atlantic Ocean during one hurricane season. Hurricane Epsilon was only the 6th ever Atlantic hurricane in December. Epsilon spent more time as a hurricane during December than any other Atlantic storm. This broke the old record held by Hurricane Lili in 1984.

</doc>
<doc id="65242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65242" title="EFL Cup">
EFL Cup

The EFL Cup, known for most of its history as the Football League Cup and also known in the past by several sponsored names, is a national association football competition in England, with a few clubs in Wales also playing. It is like the FA Cup, but has fewer teams, and starts and ends earlier in the season.
Unlike the FA Cup, which is open to hundreds of clubs belonging to The Football Association, which runs football in England, the EFL Cup is open only to the 92 teams in the top four divisions of English football—those playing in the top-level Premier League and the English Football League, which includes the next three lower divisions.
Note: * means "after extra time"

</doc>
<doc id="65243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65243" title="The Football Association">
The Football Association

The Football Association (the FA) is the organization that controls English football. 
Formed in 1863, it is the oldest football association in the world. It is responsible for overseeing the amateur and professional game in England and the islands of Jersey, Guernsey and the Isle of Man. 

</doc>
<doc id="65249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65249" title="Tropical Storm Alpha (2005)">
Tropical Storm Alpha (2005)

Tropical Storm Alpha was the twenty-third tropical or subtropical storm of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. Alpha was the first tropical cyclone to be named with Greek alphabets after the season's list of names ran out.
Tropical Storm Alpha formed in the eastern Caribbean Sea on October 22 where it steadily moved towards Hispaniola, later making landfall on the island on October 23. Alpha then quickly weakened and dissipated over the Atlantic Ocean on the next day. Alpha caused a total of 43 deaths in the island (being the sixth deadliest storm of the season).
A tropical wave, which had formed off from the western African coast on October 15, moved to the Caribbean Seaand reached the Windward Islands on October 19. The wave slowly strengthened and organized into a tropical depression about 180 miles southwest of San Juan, Puerto Rico, on October 22. Later that day, despite wind shear from powerful Hurricane Wilma nearby, it strengthened into a tropical storm as it moved west-northwestward. On the morning of October 23, it made landfall on the Dominican Republic with 50 mph (85 km/h) winds, then moved over to Haiti.
As it crossed Hispaniola, Alpha was weakened to a tropical depression because of the island's tall mountains. A cold front pulled Alpha northward where it moved into the Atlantic Ocean and began to travel alongside Hurricane Wilma to the southwest. On the afternoon of October 24 Alpha became disorganizied into a remnant low, which also made the National Hurricane Center to stop giving out tropical cyclone reports for the system. Later, Alpha's remnant were absorbed by Hurricane Wilma.
A total of 43 people have been reported dead because of Tropical Storm Alpha, while 26 were from the direct effects of the storm.
Government officials in the Dominican Republic ordered the evacuation of at least 30,000 people living in places where flooding was possible. About 1,000 people remained in shelters. Alpha caused nine deaths in the Dominican Republic alone, including two fishermen who went missing at sea during the storm and a fourteen year old boy who was swept away by floodwaters in the town of Guaricanos.
A river in Haiti overflowed its banks and flooded a neighborhood in the Port-au-Prince suburb of Carrefour, killing seventeen people; including two were electrocuted, one drowned, and five were swept to their deaths by the water. Also, twenty-three people were reported missing, including nineteen from the town of Leogane, sixteen of whom were later confirmed dead, bringing the death toll in Haiti to 33. This is a much lower death toll than originally feared; tropical systems which affect Haiti such as Hurricane Jeanne from 2004 were usually among the deadliest as the badly-deforested Haiti, which is extremely vulnerable to landslides and lacks basically any form of tropical alert system.
At least 400 homes were damaged by the storm, including twenty-three homes that were washed away.
One unconfirmed report told that a child was swept out to sea by Tropical Depression Alpha. 
Since the 2005 season had already used up all the assigned hurricane names, the Greek alphabet was used and the storm was named Alpha once it reached tropical storm strength. The name Alpha has been used before in the Atlantic for a subtropical storm, but the 2005 season was the first time to have a "Tropical Storm" Alpha.
At the time it was thought that Alpha was the twenty-second storm of the season, and so was the storm which broke the 1933 season's record for most storms in just one season. However post-season analysis revealed that there was also an earlier subtropical storm, which made Alpha the twenty-third storm of the season. Alpha was the first tropical storm to be assigned a Greek-alphabet name after the list of hurricane names were all used up. This was just one of many records set by the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season.

</doc>
<doc id="65252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65252" title="Büchner funnel">
Büchner funnel

A büchner funnel is a piece of laboratory equipment which is used to filter or separate a liquid from a solid. It is named after an industrial chemist called Ernst Büchner.
A Büchner funnel can be made out of porcelain, glass or plastic. On the top there is a container with a hole in the bottom. This container is put on top of a Büchner flask with a hole in the top and a hole in the side. In between the container and the Büchner flask there is a piece of filter paper which lets through liquids but not any solids. Attached to the hole in the side there is a vacuum which sucks the air out of the Büchner flask. This means that when any mixture is poured into the top, the liquid is sucked through the filter paper and the solid is left stuck in the filter paper.
A Büchner flask is used in chemistry to take unwanted solids out of any liquids. The advantages of using a Büchner flask over just a piece of filter paper held over a beaker is that the solid is dried as more and more liquid is sucked off of it by the vacuum. Most of the time it needs to be dried again in an oven, but sometimes no further drying is needed.

</doc>
<doc id="65253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65253" title="Hurricane Alicia">
Hurricane Alicia

Hurricane Alicia was the first named storm and first hurricane of the 1983 Atlantic hurricane season. Alicia was the season's strongest and deadliest storm. It killed a total of 21 people and caused $2.6 billion (1983 dollars) in damage. Alicia was the most destructive Texan hurricane since Hurricane Carla from 1961.
Hurricane Alicia formed from Tropical Depression Three on August 15 in the Gulf of Mexico and slowly moved west towards Texas, where it made landfall on August 18 at its strongest point with 115 mph (185 km/h) winds. Alicia quickly weakened into a tropical depression before dissipating overland on August 21.
A mesoscale low formed off the Alabama and Mississippi coasts on August 14 with a weak frontal trough that had formed off of New England. Pressures were high in the Gulf of Mexico, but the low strengthened into Tropical Depression Three on August 15. A ship located within 60 miles of the depression reported a pressure of 1015.5 millibars and the storm was upgraded to Tropical Storm Alicia late on August 15. With the high Gulf pressures, Alicia was unable to gain size, so it stayed very small, but created faster winds, and became a Category 1 hurricane on August 16. Steering currents were weak during Alicia's lifetime over water. A new frontal ridge had formed on August 17 which caused the storm to slowly move in a westerly direction. Alicia continued west until the frontal ridge had collapsed to the east.
Alicia then began to take a more northern drection August 18 to Port Arthur, Texas. During that time, the hurricane began to gain strength at about 1 mbar an hour, peaking at 963 mbar with winds of 115 mph (185 km/h) on the morning of the 18th. Just before landfall, Alicia showed a rare "double eye" feature for a few hours. The storm made landfall in Texas as a category 3 hurricane at about 1:45 a.m. CDT on Thursday, August 18. Alicia weakened very quickly after landfall, losing tropical characteristics and began to speed up to the northwest, finally losing its identity in the southeast Nebraska on August 21.
Several hurricane watches and warnings were given out that were related with Alicia. The first ones were a gale warning and a hurricane watch for the area of Corpus Christi, Texas to Grand Isle, Louisiana which was given out on August 16. On August 17, a hurricane warning was issued for Corpus Christi to Morgan City, Louisiana and later for Port Arthur, Texas. Originally, however, residents did not take the warnings seriously. Galveston Mayor E. Gus Manuel, against the advice of Texas Governor Mark White, ordered the evacuation of only low-lying areas.
30 percent of Galveston's population evacuated the island when Hurricane Allen threatened the eastern Texas coastline in 1980; only 10 percent of the population living behind the seawall chose to leave when Alicia made landfall. Throughout the day, however, as increasing winds began to cause damage in Galveston, people grew more worried. The mayor finally ordered a widespread evacuation of the island after midnight on August 18, but by then the bridges to the mainland were no longer usable as they have been broken.
The city of Galveston reported 7¾ inches of rain, Liberty reported 9½ inches, and Greens Bayou reported almost 10 inches of rain. Centerville reported over 8 inches with Normangee and Noxia reporting over 7 inches. Maximum rainfall in the Houston area in Harris County was about 10-11 inches. 8 inches of rain was reported in Leon County and 9 inches in the Sabine River area. High gusts were also reported throughout Texas with a maximum gust of 125 mph reported on the Coast Guard cutter Buttonwood (WLB-306) stationed at the northeastern part of Galveston Island. Pleasure Pier reported tides of 8.67 feet with Pier 21 reported a little over 5½ feet. Baytown, Texas reported 10–12 feet tides, and 12.1 feet at Morgan City, the highest recorded by Alicia.
Twenty-three tornadoes were reported that were either related or caused by Alicia, fourteen of those were located in the Galveston and Hobby Airport area. The other nine were concentrated around Tyler to Houston, Texas, ranging around F2 on the Fujita scale. An oil spill occurred around Texas City and an ocean-going tugboat capsized 50 miles of the Sabine Pass coast. The Coast Guard Air Station Houston (AIRSTA) weathered Alicia with minimal damage, and afterwards AIRSTA's helicopters helped residents with evacuation, supply, and survey flights.
The Galveston NWS office (temporarily) lost its radar. Houston suffered billions of dollars in damage. Thousands of glass panes in downtown skyscrapers were shattered by gravel blown off of rooftops. Houston Lighting and Power reported that about 750,000 homes were without electricity after Alicia hit. Many stores had to stay closed for days afterward due to risks of falling glass in the area.
In Galveston, the western beach had its public beach boundary shifted back about 150 feet. An entire wall of the Flagship collapsed. About 5 feet of sand was scoured, leaving beachfront homes in a natural vegetation state. The beachfront homes after Alicia were in violation of the Texas Open Beaches Act and the Attorney General's office forebade the repair or rebuilding of those homes. The Corps of Engineers stated that if the Galveston Sea Wall was not there, that another $100 million dollars in damage could have occurred. Also, if Alicia was the size of Hurricane Carla from 1961, damage could have easily double or possibly tripled. Alicia also did damage to chemical and petrochemical plants in Houston.
Hurricane Carla in the 1961 Atlantic hurricane season hit a less populated area as where with Alicia hit a more populated area. Had Alicia been the size or strength of Carla, damage could have easily doubled or tripled.
Heavy amount of rainfalls were recorded with 8-14 centimeters in the southern-central part of Texas from a curved path. Rains reached up to 5 inches in the same area, however rainfall was limited to that area. Kansas only got 1-3 inches which were recorded in the eastern to central parts of the state. The southeast part of Nebraska received one inch of rain from Alicia's remnants. Michigan, Iowa, Minnesota, Louisiana and Wisconsin all received one inch of rainfall.
Hurricane Alicia brought useful rains to the southern Great Plains, which had been suffering from a drought for much of the summer of 1983. In the end, Hurricane Alicia killed 21 people and caused $2 billion in damage ($5.27 billion in 2006 dollars).
There was heavy amount of rainfalls were recorded with
The Red Cross had to provide food and shelter to 63,000 people in the hurricane's wake, costing to about 166 million dollars. FEMA gave out $32 million (1983 USD) to Alicia's victims and local governments. $23 million of that was to go picking up trash and wrecked objects spread after Alicia. More than 16,000 people wanted help from FEMA's disaster service centers. The Small Business Administration, aided with 56 volunteers, interviewed over 16,000 victims, and was predicted that about 7000 loan applications would be requested. The Federal Insurance Agency had closed over 1318 flood insurance cases from Alicia's effects, however only 782 received final payment.
On September 23 and September 24, 1983, in the wake of Alicia, two subcommittees of the U.S. House of Representatives had trials in Houston. The hearing on September 23 were to examine the main problems of the National Weather Service during Alicia, the effectiveness of the N.W.S in current events, and the use of the National Weather Service. The second hearing, which occurred on September 24, was to talk about the damage and recovery efforts during Alicia.
On the September 23 hearing, witnesses agreed that the National Weather Service did well before and during the emergency caused by Alicia. N.W.S. forecaters also gave evidence in which they said they thanked themselves that their predictions were well "on target" and that the local emergency plans worked so well, which saved many lives. Mayor Gus Manuel on Galveston said that the NWS did an excellent job during Alicia. He was also very impressed about their landfall predictions on August 17, before Alicia made landfall.
On the September 24 hearing, evidence was brought upon which demonstrated the need improving to the readiness to cope with disasters, such as Alicia. Mayor Manuel mentioned that his town needed 
stronger building codes, which were under review.
The name Alicia was retired in the spring of 1984, becoming the 30th storm name to be retired and will never again be used for an Atlantic hurricane. It was replaced with Allison in the 1989 season. The name Allison was coincidentally retired after doing major damage to the same the area in 2001.

</doc>
<doc id="65258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65258" title="Hanging Gardens of Babylon">
Hanging Gardens of Babylon

The Hanging Gardens of Babylon, and the walls of Babylon (near present-day Al Hillah in Iraq) were one of the Seven Wonders of the World. They were built by Nebuchadnezzar II around 600 BC. He is told to have built the gardens to please his wife, Amytis of Media. She wanted to see the trees and plants of her homeland. The hanging gardens were destroyed in an earthquake after the 1st century BC.
Some people do not believe the Hanging Gardens were real. In ancient writings the Hanging Gardens of Babylon were first described by Berossus, a Chaldean priest. He lived in the late 4th century B.C. Greek historians later wrote more about them.
Recent archaeological digs of the palace in Iraq have uncovered evidence of a building with vaults and a well nearby. However, the place of the palace complex is different from where Greek historians said they were, which was on the banks of the Euphrates River. Also recently, there have been digs on the banks of the Euphrates River of some large 25 meter-thick walls.

</doc>
<doc id="65259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65259" title="Statue of Zeus at Olympia">
Statue of Zeus at Olympia

The Statue of Zeus at Olympia, Greece was designed by Phidias about 432 BC. Phidias built his workshop at Olympia to construct this statue and probably stayed there the rest of his life. The statue was housed in the Temple of Zeus. With the base, it stood seven times larger than life or about 12.40 meters. The face, arms, and feet were made of ivory. The robe, sandals, the beard and hair were made of gold. He wore a silver olive wreath on his head. The throne was made of gold, bronze, ebony, ivory, and gems. It was decorated with scenes from mythology. This Zeus was the kindly Zeus rather than the fierce and powerful Zeus. The Roman emperor Caligula wanted the statue sent to Rome. He planned to take the head off and replace it with an image of his own. The statue does not survive. It was probably shipped to Constantinople about 393 AD and destroyed in a fire there in 475 AD. The statue was one of the Seven Wonders of the World. 

</doc>
<doc id="65260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65260" title="Parachute (disambiguation)">
Parachute (disambiguation)

Parachute could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="65261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65261" title="Tense">
Tense

Tense may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="65262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65262" title="Temple of Artemis">
Temple of Artemis

The Temple of Artemis (Greek: Ἀρτεμίσιον "Artemision", Latin: Artemisium), also known as Temple of Diana, was a temple dedicated to Artemis (or Cynthia). It was completed around 350 BC at Ephesus (in present-day Turkey) under the Achaemenid dynasty of the Persian Empire. Only ruins remain of the temple. It was one of the Seven wonders of the World.
The Temple of Artemis was near the ancient city of Ephesus, about 50 km south from the modern port city of İzmir, in Turkey.
Most of the description of the Temple of Artemis comes from Pliny, though there are different accounts and the actual size varies.
Pliny said the temple was 115 meters long and 55 meters wide. He said it was made almost completely of marble. It was about three times as big as the Parthenon by area. The Temple has 127 Ionic-styled columns. Each of them are 17.6 meters in height.
The Temple of Artemis had many fine artworks. bronze sculptures by famous Greek sculptors Polyclitus, Pheidias, Cresilas, and Phradmon were in the temple. Paintings and gilded columns of gold and silver were also in it. The sculptors often competed at creating the best sculpture. Many of these sculptures were of Amazons, who are said to have founded the city of Ephesus.
Pliny said that Scopas, who also worked on the Mausoleum of Mausollos, worked carved reliefs into the temple's columns.
Athenagoras of Athens names Endoeus, a student of Daedalus, as the sculptor of the main statue of Artemis in Ephesus.
The Temple of Artemis was at a flourishing region. It was used as a religious institute. Merchants and travellers came to it from all over Asia Minor. The temple was influenced by many beliefs. It can be seen as a symbol of faith for many different peoples. The Ephesians worshiped Cybele. They joined many of their beliefs into the worship of Artemis. Artemisian Cybele became very different from the Roman goddess Diana. The cult of Artemis attracted thousands of worshipers from far-off lands. They all gathered at the site and worshipped her.

</doc>
<doc id="65263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65263" title="Büchner flask">
Büchner flask

A Büchner flask (also called a vacuum flask, a filter flask, a side-arm flask or a kitasato flask) is a flask made of glass.
A Büchner flask has thick walls so that a pressure change will not break it. It has a hole in the top where a Büchner funnel can be put and a small tube in the side where a vacuum can be attached. The small tube has barbs on it so that the vacuum will not weaken.
A Büchner flask can be used with a Büchner funnel for separating solids and liquids. Water is poured into the Büchner funnel and the liquid passes through filter paper and is sucked up by a vacuum attached to the side of the Büchner flask, while the solid stays behind in the Büchner funnel.
The Büchner flask can also be used as a vacuum trap in a vacuum line to ensure that no fluids are carried over from the aspirator or vacuum pump (or other vacuum source) to the evacuated apparatus, or vice versa.
It is commonly thought to be named after the Nobel Laureate, Eduard Buchner, but it is actually named after the industrial chemist Ernst Büchner.

</doc>
<doc id="65264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65264" title="Mausoleum at Halicarnassus">
Mausoleum at Halicarnassus

The Mausoleum at Halicarnassus, or Tomb of Mausolus, was a tomb built between 353 and 350 BC at Halicarnassus (present Bodrum, Turkey). It was bult for Mausolus, a satrap in the Persian Empire, and Artemisia II of Caria, who was both his wife and his sister.
The building was designed by the Greek architects Satyros and Pythius of Priene. It was about 45 meters (135 feet) tall. Each one of the four sides was decorated with sculptural reliefs created by one of four Greek sculptors — Bryaxis, Leochares, Scopas and Timotheus. It was such an accomplishment that Antipater of Sidon said it was one of the Seven Wonders of the World. The word "mausoleum" has come to be used generically for any grand tomb.

</doc>
<doc id="65265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65265" title="Category:Seven Wonders of the World">
Category:Seven Wonders of the World

This category is for the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World and the Seven Wonders of the Modern World.

</doc>
<doc id="65266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65266" title="Colossus of Rhodes">
Colossus of Rhodes

The Colossus of Rhodes was a huge iron and bronze statue of the Greek god Helios. It was built on the Greek island of Rhodes (approximate coordinates 36°27'04"N, 28°13'40"E). It was built by Chares of Lindos, a student of Lysippos. It was built between 292 and 280 BC. It was one of the Seven Wonders of the World. Before being destroyed in an earthquake, the Colossus of Rhodes was 70 cubits tall, over 30 metres (100 feet), making it the tallest statue of the ancient world.

</doc>
<doc id="65267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65267" title="Lighthouse of Alexandria">
Lighthouse of Alexandria

The Lighthouse of Alexandria, or the Pharos, was a tall tower built between 285 and 247 BCE. It was built on the island of Pharos in Alexandria, Egypt to serve as a lighthouse for sailors. The top of the tower had a mirror that reflected sunlight during the day; a fire was lit at night.
The word for "lighthouse" in some languages is "pharos" or its equivalent 
Legend holds that Ptolemy I Soter would not allow Sostratus to put his name on the tower, but the architect left the following inscription on the base's walls:
ΣΟΣΤΡΑΤΟΣ ΔΕΞΙΦΑΝΟΥ ΚΝΙΔΙΟΣ ΘΕΟΙΣ ΣΩΤΕΡΣΙΝ ΥΠΕΡ ΤΩΝ ΠΛΩΙΖΟΜΕΝΩΝ</small>. (Sostratus of Cnidus, son of Dexiphanes, to the Gods protecting those upon the sea.)
These words were hidden under a layer of plaster, on top of which was chiseled another inscription honoring Ptolemy the king as builder of the Pharos. After centuries the plaster wore away, revealing the name of Sostratus.
With a height estimated at between 115 and 145 meters (384 – 469 ft), it was among the tallest man-made structures on Earth for many centuries. It was identified as one of the Seven Wonders of the World by Antipater of Sidon. It was the third tallest building after the two Great Pyramids (of Khufu and Khafra). It was destroyed by earthquakes.
Divers discovered remains of the lighthouse in fall 1994 on the floor of Alexandria's Eastern Harbour. Some of these remains were brought up and were lying at the harbour on public view at the end of 1995. An episode of the PBS television series "Nova" chronicled the discovery. Later satellite imaging has revealed further remains. It is possible to go diving and see the ruins.

</doc>
<doc id="65274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65274" title="Category:2000 albums">
Category:2000 albums

Albums released in 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="65275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65275" title="Category:2000 in music">
Category:2000 in music


</doc>
<doc id="65276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65276" title="Category:2006 albums">
Category:2006 albums

Albums released in 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="65277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65277" title="Telesto (moon)">
Telesto (moon)

Telesto is a tiny moon of Saturn. It was discovered by a number of astronomers in 1980, based from some observations from the Earth. It was named after Telesto in Greek mythology. Telesto orbits around Saturn together with much larger moon Tethys. Thus, Telesto is also known as a Trojan moon. The moon leads at a point 60 degrees in front of Tethys in its orbit. Another small moon, Calypso, orbits with Telesto.

</doc>
<doc id="65278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65278" title="Category:2006 in music">
Category:2006 in music


</doc>
<doc id="65279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65279" title="Category:2007 albums">
Category:2007 albums

Albums released in 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="65280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65280" title="Category:2007 in music">
Category:2007 in music


</doc>
<doc id="65281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65281" title="Calypso (moon)">
Calypso (moon)

Calypso is a small moon of Saturn. It was discovered by a few astronomers in 1980, based on observations from the Earth. It is named after Calypso in Greek mythology. Calypso is a Trojan moon, as it orbits together with larger moon Tethys. It orbits behind Tethys by 60 degrees in its orbit around Saturn. Telesto is another moon which shares Calypso's orbit. Calypso was named after Calypso, a nymph in Greek mythology.

</doc>
<doc id="65282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65282" title="Category:1126 births">
Category:1126 births


</doc>
<doc id="65283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65283" title="Category:1126">
Category:1126


</doc>
<doc id="65285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65285" title="Category:1004 births">
Category:1004 births


</doc>
<doc id="65286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65286" title="Category:1004">
Category:1004


</doc>
<doc id="65287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65287" title="Category:1000s births">
Category:1000s births

Note that the year 1000 is actually the last year in the 10th century; 1001 is the first year in the 11th century.

</doc>
<doc id="65288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65288" title="Category:1088 deaths">
Category:1088 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="65289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65289" title="Category:1088">
Category:1088


</doc>
<doc id="65290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65290" title="Pallene (moon)">
Pallene (moon)

Pallene is a small moon of Saturn. It was discovered by the Cassini Imaging Science Team in 2004. It orbits between two larger moons, Mimas and Enceladus. Pallene is about 4 km in diameter.

</doc>
<doc id="65292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65292" title="Methone (moon)">
Methone (moon)

Methone is a small moon of Saturn. It was discovered by the Cassini Imaging Science Team in 2004, the same time as a close-by moon, Pallene. It is only about 3 km in diameter.

</doc>
<doc id="65293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65293" title="Dione (moon)">
Dione (moon)

Dione is the fourth largest moon of Saturn. It has a diameter of 1,123 km (698 miles). It was discovered in 1684 by Giovanni Domenico Cassini. It is named after the titan Dione in Greek mythology. The moon has many craters and ice cliffs. It is tidally locked with Saturn, meaning the same face of Dione always faces Saturn.

</doc>
<doc id="65294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65294" title="Helene (moon)">
Helene (moon)

Helene is a moon of Saturn. It shares its orbit with larger moon Dione. It leads in front of Dione in its orbit around Saturn by 60 degrees. It was discovered in 1980 by a couple of astronomers based on observations from the Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="65295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65295" title="Polydeuces (moon)">
Polydeuces (moon)

Polydeuces is a small moon of Saturn. Its diameter is only 3.5 km. It shares its orbit with larger moon Dione. It was discovered by the Cassini Imaging Science Team in 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="65296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65296" title="Category:1207 births">
Category:1207 births


</doc>
<doc id="65297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65297" title="Category:1273 deaths">
Category:1273 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="65298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65298" title="Category:1273">
Category:1273


</doc>
<doc id="65299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65299" title="Boyfriend">
Boyfriend

A boyfriend is a male partner in a romantic relationship which is not a marriage (for example, a couple who is dating). Partners in a non-married relationship are sometimes called "significant others".
Using the word "boyfriend" to mean "a male partner or lover" was first done in 1906. It became popular in the 1920s, when people started to go out on dates rather than have romantic meetings at home.

</doc>
<doc id="65301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65301" title="Aspirator">
Aspirator

An aspirator is a device that makes vacuum, because of the Venturi effect. In the aspirator, fluid flows through it. The tube gets more thin, making the fluid flow faster, and making the pressure smaller. Then, vacuum is taken from it. The aspirator is also known as an ejector or a filter pump.
The most common type of aspirator is the water aspirator. It is used in laboratories for chemistry and biology. The aspirator has a fitted tee, which is attached to a faucet. It has a hose barb on one side. The flow of water passes through the straight part of the tee, which restricts the water flow at the intersection with the hose barb. The vacuum hose should be connected to this barb.
The strength of the produced vacuum is limited by the vapour pressure of the flowing water. However, the strength of the vacuum is not limited if a gas is used as the working force.

</doc>
<doc id="65302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65302" title="Venturi effect">
Venturi effect

The Venturi effect is a case where fluid flows through a tube that is narrow. The velocity of the fluid increases as it flows through the narrower tube while the pressure decreases, due to conservation of energy. The effect is an example of Bernoulli's principle.
With the B.E. a simple flow of either A. Fluids, or B. Air, will cause pressure. Within an amount of time, this will cause a decrease in pressure and have the potential of creating energy.

</doc>
<doc id="65303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65303" title="Santa Fe, Argentina">
Santa Fe, Argentina

Santa Fe is the capital city of the province of Santa Fe in Argentina. As of 2001, about 369,000 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="65304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65304" title="Geography of Argentina">
Geography of Argentina

Argentina is almost 3,700 km long from north to south, and 1,400 km from east to west (maximum values). It can be divided into three parts: the Pampas in the central part of the country, Patagonia in the southern part down to Tierra del Fuego; and the Andes mountain range along the western border with Chile, with the highest point located in the province of Mendoza. Cerro Aconcagua, at 6,960 metres (22,834 ft), is the Americas' highest mountain.
The most important rivers include the River Plate, Paraguay, Bermejo, Colorado, Uruguay and the largest river, the Paraná.

</doc>
<doc id="65305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65305" title="List of retired Atlantic hurricane names">
List of retired Atlantic hurricane names

This article is about a list of retired Atlantic hurricane names. Atlantic hurricane names only get retired if and when they are notable enough by causing a lot of damage or killing many people. They can also be retired if and when a government or country requests the name to be retired.
Below is a list of Atlantic hurricane names retired.
1950s: Carol, Edna, Hazel, Connie, Diane, Ione, Janet, Audrey, Gracie
1960s: Donna, Carla, Hattie, Flora, Cleo, Dora, Hilda, Betsy, Inez, Beulah, Camille
1970s: Celia, Agnes, Carmen, Fifi, Eloise, Anita, David, Frederic
1980s: Allen, Alicia, Elena, Gloria, Gilbert, Joan, Hugo
1990s: Diana, Klaus, Bob, Andrew, Luis, Marilyn, Opal, Roxanne, Cesar, Fran, Hortense, Georges, Mitch, Floyd, Lenny
2000s: Keith, Allison, Iris, Michelle, Isidore, Lili, Fabian, Isabel, Juan, Charley, Frances, Ivan, Jeanne, Dennis, Katrina, Rita, Stan, Wilma, Dean, Felix, Noel, Gustav, Ike, Paloma 
2010s: Igor, Tomas, Irene, Sandy, Ingrid, Erika, Joaquin

</doc>
<doc id="65312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65312" title="Category:User hr-4">
Category:User hr-4


</doc>
<doc id="65313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65313" title="Category:User hr-3">
Category:User hr-3


</doc>
<doc id="65314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65314" title="Category:User hr-2">
Category:User hr-2


</doc>
<doc id="65315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65315" title="Category:User hr-1">
Category:User hr-1


</doc>
<doc id="65316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65316" title="Asturian language">
Asturian language

The Asturian language is the native language of Asturias. About 150,000 people speak it in Asturias. This language is very similar to Leonese Language, spoken in other territories that once made up the Kingdom of León (León, Western Zamora, Salamanca and Northwestern Cáceres where is called extremaduran), and to Mirandes Language, spoken in Miranda do Douro in Portugal. In Asturias, primary and secondary students can choose to study it. 

</doc>
<doc id="65320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65320" title="Classical mythology">
Classical mythology

Classical or Greco-Roman mythology usually means the mythology, and the related polytheistic rituals and practices, of Classical Antiquity. 
Roman religion joined with Greek religion over time. This began when Greeks first colonized Italy in the eighth century BC. The two traditions had joined to the point of being almost the same by the first century BC. See

</doc>
<doc id="65321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65321" title="Jun Kazama">
Jun Kazama

Jun Kazama is a video game character made for the "Tekken" series.
Jun Kazama enters the tournament in order to save Kazuya Mishima and stop his crimes. However, she became pregnant by him and had a son, Jin Kazama. 
She also appears in the new Tekken Movie (2009).. Where she will be portrayed by Tamlyn Tomita
Jun is an officer of the WWWC, a wildlife protection organization. She is called "The Chosen One" by her family. She is psychic and feels a weird power in Kazuya Mishima, which is the Devil Gene turning him into a devil version of himself. At the WWWC's orders, she goes out to put Kazuya into jail, who kills peaceful animals. 
When the King of Iron Fist Tournament 2 was about to end, Jun feels an even more powerful Devil Gene inside Kazuya.
During the King of Iron Fist Tournament 2, Jun became pregnant by Kazuya. Devil (the devil version of Kazuya/the Devil Gene inside Kazuya) goes into Jin (Jun's unborn baby). One night, Jun gets attacked by Ogre and now is either missing or possibly dead.
Jun is a playable character in "Tekken Tag Tournament".
Tekken Tag Tournament has nothing to do with the Tekken storyline.
In "Tekken 4", her figure appeared in the ending of Jin to prevent him from killing his grandfather, Heihachi. Whether it was her soul or Jin's vision is still questionable, since her status is labeled as missing.
In the optional "Devil Within" minigame, Jin finds clues that lead him to believe that Jun is alive, but it turns out to be Ogre, the alien opponent that is responsible for Jun's disappearance.
Harada (Maker of Tekken) recently posted on fan site (Tekken Nation) forums that Jun Kazama is still alive, and if he gets the right amount of requests he will bring her back to Tekken...
"About JUN, there seem to be a lot of fans that think that Jun has died in the official storyline. That isn't exactly true.
From Jin's perspective in the story, he believes his mother, Jun, has died. This is the correct interpretation."
"Everyone says: bring jun back".
I heard it from the same person millions of times.
However, "Everyone", ... is it true??
If my followers (of twitter) increase, if a lot of opinions of the person were able to be heard, i'll think about it 

</doc>
<doc id="65331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65331" title="Allen Klein">
Allen Klein

Allen Klein (December 18, 1931 - July 4, 2009) is an American businessman. He studied to become an accountant, and made his living as the of many celebrities, musicians in particular. 
Klein was born in Newark, New Jersey and was of Hungarian Jewish descent. He married a woman named Betty, after he graduated from college. He first became well-known when he helped a singer, Bobby Darin, to recover money owed to him by his record label. Darin received a $100,000 check for unpaid , and split it with Klein. Klein was called the "Robin Hood" of popular music, liked by artists but hated by the companies they worked for.
Klein bought a struggling record label, Cameo-Parkway, and tried to make it more profitable. When he got into legal trouble for "talking up" the value of shares in the company, he changed his plans. He merged Cameo-Parkway with his own accounting firm, creating a company called ABKCO (for Allen and Betty Klein and Company).
Among Klein's clients were pop singers Connie Francis, Steve Lawrence and Eydie Gorme, R&B singer Sam Cooke, folk musician Donovan, record producer Phil Spector, and rock bands Herman's Hermits, The Animals, The Rolling Stones and The Beatles. While he helped his clients with money matters, and to make new contracts that paid them better, not all his business choices were the best for his clients. Klein ended up owning much of the music of the Rolling Stones, the Animals and other artists, which cut into their long-term earnings. The artists also sometimes lost the of the businesses they dealt with, because of Klein's work for them.
Klein played a role in the breakup of the Beatles. He impressed John Lennon enough to sign up with him overnight, and Lennon persuaded George Harrison and Ringo Starr to go along. Paul McCartney, though, decided to let his wife Linda's father Lee Eastman become his manager. Eastman and Klein did not get along, and Eastman treated Lennon and his wife Yoko Ono poorly. Disagreements on what the Beatles should be doing with their company Apple Corps, and their own business interests, helped to tear the band apart.
After the Beatles broke up, Lennon, Harrison and Starr liked the things Klein did for them less and less, and eventually split with him, giving Klein a final payment of about £3.5 million for his services. Later, Klein got into tax trouble, and served a two-month jail sentence for .
Klein continued his career, and ABKCO continued to issue records from the old Cameo-Parkway label, and the artists Klein had managed. Nearly all the records were taken off the market for many years, making classic songs like "96 Tears" (by ? and the Mysterians), "So Much In Love" by the Tymes, and "Bristol Stomp" by the Dovells impossible to buy.
Klein's son Jody became the controller of ABKCO, when Klein's health became poor. In 2005, ABKCO finally began to issue compact discs of the music owned by the company. Klein died in Manhattan of complications from Alzheimer's disease in July 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="65333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65333" title="Category:1125 deaths">
Category:1125 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="65334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65334" title="Category:1125">
Category:1125


</doc>
<doc id="65335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65335" title="Category:1945 establishments">
Category:1945 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="65337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65337" title="Category:User ga">
Category:User ga


</doc>
<doc id="65338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65338" title="Category:User gd-1">
Category:User gd-1


</doc>
<doc id="65339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65339" title="Category:User gd">
Category:User gd


</doc>
<doc id="65340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65340" title="Category:User ga-3">
Category:User ga-3


</doc>
<doc id="65341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65341" title="Category:1209 deaths">
Category:1209 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="65342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65342" title="Category:Australian musicians">
Category:Australian musicians


</doc>
<doc id="65344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65344" title="Category:Martial arts movies">
Category:Martial arts movies


</doc>
<doc id="65350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65350" title="Mark David Chapman">
Mark David Chapman

Mark David Chapman (born May 10, 1955 in Fort Worth, Texas) is an American prisoner. He is best known as the murderer of musician John Lennon.
Chapman grew up in Georgia, and was a fan of The Beatles when they first became famous. He learned to play guitar and wanted to become a musician. He later became a Christian, and his values changed. He came to believe the Beatles were a bad influence on people, John Lennon in particular, because of Lennon's views on God and religion. When Lennon released his song "Imagine" in 1971, many Fundamentalists did not like it. Chapman parodied the song, singing it as "Imagine John Lennon dead."
As years went by, Chapman had little success and much trouble in his personal life. His hopes to become a were dashed when a civil war started in the country where he went on a mission. He returned to the United States, and later moved to Hawaii. He married a Japanese woman, as Lennon had done, but the marriage was not happy. Chapman worked a low-paying job, as a .
In 1980, after years of retirement, Lennon made a new album, "Double Fantasy", with his wife Yoko Ono. Chapman learned from a book where Lennon lived in New York City, and that it was not hard to find him around town. Chapman flew to New York a few times that fall, thinking about what he wanted to do. He thought about committing suicide, before deciding finally he wanted to kill Lennon. He felt that doing this would somehow lessen the problems in his own life.
On December 8, 1980, Chapman again visited New York, actually meeting Lennon and Ono as they left home to go to a recording session. Lennon signed a copy of "Double Fantasy" for Chapman, and a photographer took a picture of the two men together. Chapman waited around until they returned. As Lennon entered their apartment building, Chapman drew a pistol, called out to Lennon, then shot him several times. Lennon collapsed, and died later on the way to a hospital from blood loss.
Chapman did not try to get away, and was reading a book, "The Catcher in the Rye", when police came to the scene. They arrested Chapman, who later pled guilty to Lennon's murder, telling the court God had told him to do so. He was sentenced to twenty-five years to life in prison in 1981. He later wrote to Yoko Ono, trying to apologize to her and explain his actions, but she never answered. In 1985, an actor named Mark Lindsay Chapman lost the chance to portray Lennon in a movie about his life with Ono, because his name was similar to that of Lennon's killer.
When Chapman became eligible for parole, he applied but was turned down. Yoko Ono gave a statement to the court, telling them that Lennon's death still hurt her and their son Sean Lennon every day, and they still felt his loss. She reminded them of how Chapman's act was only one among many celebrity and murders, and that paroling Chapman might give others the idea that what he did was acceptable. The court heard her words, and Chapman continues to be refused parole.
Lennon's murder was echoed in December 1999 when a young man, Michael Abram, broke into the home of another former Beatle, George Harrison, carrying a knife. He wanted to kill Harrison for many of the same reasons Chapman killed Lennon. Harrison and his wife Olivia fought back, however, with Olivia striking Abram with a lamp, and the pair holding him down until police arrived. Harrison was stabbed by Abram, but he recovered. Abram was sent to a mental hospital.
It is believed that Chapman will never leave prison in his lifetime, because of the impact of his crime and the many death threats he has received over the years from other inmates and Beatles fans. His name has been used in arguments promoting gun control, claiming that he would not have killed Lennon if he could not get a gun. Many fans of Lennon have threatened to kill Chapman if he was ever released from prison. In 2000, Chapman claimed that Lennon would have wanted him to be free, saying 'I think he would be liberal, I think he would care,'

</doc>
<doc id="65358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65358" title="Diana, Princess of Wales">
Diana, Princess of Wales

Diana, Princess of Wales (Diana Frances; née Spencer; 1 July 1961 - 31st August 1997) was the first wife of Charles, Prince of Wales. She was one of the most famous women in the world.
Diana was born on 1 July 1961 as Diana Frances Spencer. Her father was Earl Spencer. She left school when she was 16 and moved to London when she was 18.
In 1981, Diana married Prince Charles at St. Paul's Cathedral. They had two sons, Prince William and Prince Harry. 
Charles and Diana separated in 1992, and divorced in 1996. Diana said Camilla Parker-Bowles was responsible for the problems with her marriage. Diana was the first commoner to marry an heir to the British throne in 300 years. Charles' brothers also married commoners: Andrew, Duke of York, married Sarah Ferguson in 1986, and his youngest brother, Edward, Earl of Wessex, married Sophie Rhys-Jones in 1999. 
Diana's great-grandmother was an American heiress.
Princess Diana was well known for her charity work. She campaigned to end land mines. She also helped to make the lives of people with AIDS better.
Diana and her boyfriend, Dodi Al-Fayed, died in a car crash in Paris, in the early morning of 31 August 1997. Many people left flowers, candles, cards and personal messages for her in public places. She had a big funeral in London on the 6th September. 
Concerts for Diana took place shortly after her death. The concerts involved Elton John and numerous others. Elton John released a remake of his song, "Candle in the Wind" in memory of Diana.
Diana's full title, once divorced, was "Lady Diana Mountbatten-Windsor, Princess of Wales and Countess of Chester, Duchess of Cornwall, Duchess of Rothesay, Countess of Carrick, Baroness of Renfrew, Lady of the Isles, Princess of Scotland". Legally, she was still entitled to use her previous royal courtesy titles as long as she remained unmarried.

</doc>
<doc id="65365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65365" title="Category:British royalty">
Category:British royalty


</doc>
<doc id="65366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65366" title="Hornswoggle">
Hornswoggle

Dylan Mark Postl (born May 29, 1986) is an American midget professional wrestler. He is better known by his ring name Hornswoggle. Postl is currently working for the WWE. He was the last WWE Cruiserweight Champion ever. Postl originally wrestled under the name of "The World's Sexiest Midget" Shortstack.
Prior to working on "SmackDown!", Postl was best known for his work with NWA Wisconsin where he won its X Division Championship.
Postl signed with World Wrestling Entertainment in May 2007. He is the fourth wrestler from NWA Wisconsin to sign with WWE. The others were Daivari, Ken Kennedy and CM Punk.
Postl first showed up as the leprechaun partner of the Irish wrestler Finlay on "SmackDown!" during the May 26 episode. After Finlay’s victory over Paul Burchill, a little man (Postl) crawled out from under the ring and jumped on Burchill. Finlay pulled him off, only to slam him back down onto Burchill again. For the next few weeks the as-yet unnamed man continued to appear from under the ring after matches.
Eventually, "SmackDown!" commentator Michael Cole began calling him the Little Bastard. The name became popular and became his "official" name. Commentator JBL refused to call him "Little Bastard". JBL said, "he "might" have parents". He instead called him a leprechaun. This was confirmed in one edition of "SmackDown!" by Finlay.
Little Bastard soon became meaner. He started attacking during Finlay's matches even though it upset Finlay. Many times, Finlay either physically shoved Little Bastard back under the ring or was forced to tackle him before he could hit the person he was wrestling. At one point, Little Bastard attacked Finlay, biting Finlay when Finlay tried to stop him from attacking Gunner Scott.
Little Bastard was an important part of Finlay winning the United States Championship when he tossed him a shillelagh to knock out champion Lashley to win the match.
On February 23, his name was changed to Hornswoggle on WWE's website and all references to the name "Little Bastard" were removed. The name change became official on the March 2 episode of "SmackDown!". Postl attacked JBL and Michael Cole. Afterwards, Finlay told Cole that Little Bastard's name is Hornswoggle. Despite this, Cole continues to occasionally refer to Hornswoggle as "Little Bastard".
On July 22, 2007 at The Great American Bash Hornswoggle won the WWE Cruiserweight Championship. The other people in the match and commentators did not know that he was a participant in the match until the pin and he was given the belt. This made him the first person with dwarfism to win a Championship in WWE history. Hornswoggle is both the lightest and the shortest wrestler to win the Cruiserweight Championship in WWE history. He is also the smallest wrestler to win any title in WWE.
Postl was drafted to ECW on June 25, 2008 as part of the 2008 WWE Supplemental Draft.

</doc>
<doc id="65375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65375" title="Ink cartridge">
Ink cartridge

An ink cartridge is a small container that contains ink. The manufacturers of Inkjet printers use special cartidges for their printers. There may be one cartridge per color. Sometimes, there is also just one cartridge for several colors.

</doc>
<doc id="65376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65376" title="Tezpur">
Tezpur

Tezpur is a town in Assam, India. It is on the northern bank of the river Brahmaputra. In a census taken in 2004, about 58,240 people lived there.
Moreover the Bharali River is an anglers delight as angling / water rafting are allowed during winter seasons. Chariduar also host a number of Tourist Lodge amidst of tea garden.
ECO camps are also present in Bhalukpung / Nameri.
Tezpur has a central university (Tezpur University), apart from numerous colleges and schools.It has now received the tag "UNIVERSITY AT PAR EXELLENCE" from UGC (university grants commission). Tezpur also has many school, colleges of very high repute. Darrang college, Tezpur College are the leading colleges.
The Assam Valley School, situated at around 15 km from Tezpur is a very high standard residential school established by Williamson Magor Group. The school was ranked as the 7th best boarding-school in the country in a survey by an independent magazine. Further, it earned national laurel out of the board performance of its once Head Boy, Gaurav Agarwal, who topped the country in the ISC board in 2008-2009 with 98 percent. Gaurav had, in his class X board exams, secured the first rank in northeast India. In general too the school posts high standards in academics.
Other schools viz. Don Bosco High School,Sacred Heart High School, St. Joseph's Convent High School, Govt Boys Higher Secondary School, Govt Girls Higher Secondary School, Bengali Boys' H S School, Bengali Girls' High School, Guru Nanak Model School, Tezpur Academy, Children's Paradise School and Carmel Residential School are the leading institutes offering good education in the town of Tezpur.Situated by the side of the National Highway[NH-37] at Nikamul,Tezpur, Don Bosco High School has been doing exceptionally good in the educational sector producing exceptional results in the High School Leaving Certificate(H.S.L.C) conducted by the Board Of Secondary Education Assam(SEBA).

</doc>
<doc id="65383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65383" title="D.Gray-man">
D.Gray-man

D.Gray-man (ディー・グレイマン "Dī Gureiman") is a manga series by Katsura Hoshino. It is a Gothic-fiction manga first serialized in 2004 in "Weekly Shōnen Jump". It is an ongoing series and is currently up to 126 chapters. There is also a novel series called "Reverse" that tells the characters' backgrounds. As of May 1, 2007, VIZ Media has released the first five volumes in the United States. An anime version began airing on October 3, 2006 in Japan, but has yet to be seen in North America.
Many characters and their designs were from some of Katsura Hoshino's previous works and drafts, such as "Zone", "Book-man", and "Continue", and her assistants. Earlier titles considered for the manga were "Dolls", "Chronoa", and "Zone".

</doc>
<doc id="65384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65384" title="Kyoto Station">
Kyoto Station

Kyoto Station (京都駅, "Kyōto-eki") is the most important transportation center in Kyoto, Japan. It has Japan's second-largest train station building (after Nagoya Station). It is also one of the country's largest buildings, with a shopping mall, hotel, movie theater, Isetan department store, and several local government facilities under one 15-story roof. It also housed the Kyoto City Air Terminal until August 31, 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="65386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65386" title="Stefan Kießling">
Stefan Kießling

Stefan Kießling (born 25 January 1984) is a German football player. He plays for Bayer Leverkusen and Germany national team.
170||44
170||44
!Total||3||0

</doc>
<doc id="65387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65387" title="Bacteria bed">
Bacteria bed

A bacteria bed is a layer of sand which is used to clean air or water from bacteria and other microorganisms. It is actually a type of filter.

</doc>
<doc id="65388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65388" title="Filter">
Filter

A filter is a device used to remove unwanted parts from something. For example, removing solid particles from a liquid. Filter can also mean the act of filtering: it can be used as a verb. The different branches of science and technology often mean a particular kind of device when "filter" is mentioned.
The simplest filter is the kind called filter paper. Liquids can pass through the paper. Solid particles are stopped.
More advanced filters are possible. Two that are often used to make water more pure are activated carbon and zeolites.
Filters are used to remove unwanted items and/or impurities in the substance you are filtering.
The most usual thing meant by filter in electrical science is a wave filter. One common kind lets through some frequencies and stops all others. This is a band pass filter. For instance, in a radio it can select the radio station the listener wants to hear. The frequency of that station is passed, but all others are rejected.
There are many other uses, including use in telephones and audio, see: audio crossover.
There are digital filters which can be used to filter things besides frequencies. A common use is to improve the quality of pictures. For instance, there are filters which can make the edges of objects look more clear.
Optical filters act on light. They change it certain ways. This can be used for photographic filters.
Filters can be made from mechanical components. They will do very similar things to electric filters. Most especially, mechanical filters can be wave filters. That is, they can block some frequencies and pass others. Because of this, electric filters are sometimes made by first making a mechanical filter. The electric wave is turned into a mechanical movement, then passed through the filter, then turned back in to an electric wave. This kind of filter is often made from quartz crystals.
A device which changes electrical signals into mechanical signals is called a transducer. A device which changes mechanical signals into electrical signals is also a transducer, but one of a different kind.
An internet filter removes certain kinds of information. For example, certain words can be blocked.

</doc>
<doc id="65392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65392" title="Guwahati">
Guwahati

Guwahati is the largest city in the north eastern region of India.
It houses the capital complex of the Legislative Assembly of Assam. The first bridge across the Brahmaputra river is situated at the northwest perimeter of the city. Guwahati serves as the gateway to the rest of the Seven States of Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura.

</doc>
<doc id="65393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65393" title="Henry Clay">
Henry Clay

Henry Clay, Sr. (April 12, 1777 – June 29, 1852) was an American politician from Kentucky. He served in the House of Representatives (as Speaker), in the Senate, and was Secretary of State. He ran for President several times but never won. He started the Whig Party to oppose Andrew Jackson. He wanted the United States to fight the British in the War of 1812. He helped pass the famous over slavery leading up the Civil War, including the Missouri Compromise and the Compromise of 1850. He is considered to be one of the greatest Senators in United States history.
Henry Clay was born on April 12, 1777, at the Clay farmhouse in Hanover County, Virginia, in a story-and-a-half frame house. It was an above-average home for a common Virginia planter of that time. At the time of his death, Clay's father owned more than 22 slaves, making him part of the planter class in Virginia (those men who owned 20 or more slaves).
Henry was the seventh of nine children of the Reverend John Clay and Elizabeth Hudson Clay. His father, a Baptist minister nicknamed "Sir John," died four years after his birth in 1781. The father left Henry and his brothers two slaves each, and his wife 18 slaves and of land. Henry Clay was a second cousin of Cassius Marcellus Clay, who became an abolitionist in Kentucky.
The widow Elizabeth Clay married Capt. Henry Watkins, who was a loving stepfather. Henry Watkins then moved the family to Richmond, Virginia. Elizabeth had seven more children with Watkins, having sixteen.
His stepfather secured Clay employment in the office of the Virginia Court of Chancery, where he showed a skill for law. There he became friends with George Wythe. Wythe chose Clay as his secretary. After Clay was employed as Wythe's faculty for four years, the chancellor took an active interest in Clay's future; he arranged a position for him with the Virginia attorney general, Robert Brooke. Clay received no formal legal education but, as was customary at the time, "read the law" by working and studying with Wythe, Chancellor of the Commonwealth of Virginia (also a mentor to Thomas Jefferson and John Marshall, among others) and Brooke. Clay was admitted to practice law in 1797.
After starting his law career, on April 11, 1799, Clay married Lucretia Hart at the Hart home in Lexington, Kentucky. She was a sister to Captain Nathaniel G. S. Hart, who died in the Massacre of the River Raisin in the War of 1812.
Clay and his wife had eleven children (six daughters and five sons): Henrietta (1800–1801), Theodore (1802–1870), Thomas (1803–1871), Susan (1805–1825), Anne (1807–1835), Lucretia (1809–1823), Henry, Jr. (1811–1847), Eliza (1813–1825), Laura (1815–1817), James Brown, (1817–1864), and John (1821–1887).
Seven of Clay's children died before him and his wife. By 1835 all six daughters had died of many conditions, two when very young, two as children, the other two as young women: from whooping cough, yellow fever, and complications of childbirth. Henry Clay, Jr. was killed at the Battle of Buena Vista during the Mexican-American War.
Lucretia Hart Clay died in 1864 at the age of 83. She is buried with her husband in Lexington Cemetery. Henry and Lucretia Clay were great-grandparents of the suffragette Madeline McDowell Breckinridge, a family member of John C. Breckinridge, who was Vice President of the United States during James Buchanan's presidency.

</doc>
<doc id="65394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65394" title="Daniel Webster">
Daniel Webster

Daniel Webster (January 18, 1782 – October 24, 1852) was an important American statesman. He first became famous because of his defense of New England shipping interests. In his life, he became more and more nationalistic, and convinced many people to become nationalists too. This made Webster one of the most famous orators and powerful Whig leaders of the Second Party System. Webster did not like slavery, but he thought it was more important for the Union (the United States) to stay together than anything else.
Webster became the northern member of a group known as the "Great Triumvirate". They included his colleagues Henry Clay from the west and John C. Calhoun from the south. His "Reply to Hayne" in 1830 was generally seen as "the most eloquent (powerful, fluent, well-spoken) speech ever delivered in Congress."
Webster tried to keep the nation from civil war, and make them have a firm peace. His efforts did not succeed, but he was still respected for them. He was officially named by the U.S. Senate in 1957 as one of its five best members.
Daniel was born on January 18, 1782. His parents were Ebenezer and Abigail Webster (née Eastman) in Salisbury, New Hampshire, now part of the city of Franklin. He and his nine siblings grew up on his parents' farm. Daniel Webster's great-great-grandfather was Thomas Webster (1631–1715). Thomas Webster was born in Ormesby St. Margaret, Norfolk, England and settled in New Hampshire. As Daniel was a "sickly (unhealthy) child", his family often let him have whatever he wanted. They also exempted (gave freedom from duty) him from working on the farm.
Daniel Webster became a lawyer and politician. He was elected to Congress as a Federalist. He supported free trade, opposed both Abolitionism and the expansion of slavery, and opposed the War of 1812 and other policies of the Democrats. When the Federalist party declined, he joined with other former Federalists and National Democrats to form the Whig Party (United States). Always Webster supported the unity and harmony of the nation against various divisive schemes.

</doc>
<doc id="65398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65398" title="The Catcher in the Rye">
The Catcher in the Rye

The Catcher in the Rye is a novel by author J. D. Salinger. It was first published in 1951.
The book is about a young man, Holden Caulfield, who travels home after being expelled from an exclusive preparatory school. Instead of going directly home, Caulfield takes a wandering trip, thinking about what he wants to tell his family, and how best to deal with being kicked out of school. Caulfield narrates the story himself, to a psychoanalyst. (Hints are made as the story moves forward, that he is in a mental hospital. At the end of the book this is revealed.)
The book contains many profanities, and many people do not like the book for that reason. It was banned in many places. Other people see the profanity as Caulfield's way of showing his feelings of frustration with life. Many young people, boys in particular, relate to the story and its language, and feel that Caulfield would understand them if he knew them. For this reason, many schools require their students to read it.

</doc>
<doc id="65399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65399" title="Category:Kyoto">
Category:Kyoto


</doc>
<doc id="65400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65400" title="Category:1951 books">
Category:1951 books

books!

</doc>
<doc id="65402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65402" title="Category:Printers">
Category:Printers


</doc>
<doc id="65411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65411" title="Category:Templates generating hCards">
Category:Templates generating hCards


</doc>
<doc id="65412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65412" title="Category:Function templates">
Category:Function templates


</doc>
<doc id="65414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65414" title="Category:Wikipedia templates by style">
Category:Wikipedia templates by style


</doc>
<doc id="65417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65417" title="Evan Lysacek">
Evan Lysacek

Evan Lysacek (born June 4, 1985) is an American figure skater. He grew up in Chicago, Illinois. Lysacek has trained all over the world, including in Switzerland and in Moscow. He now trains in El Segundo, California under his trainer Frank Carroll. Carroll at one time trained Michelle Kwan.
Lysacek won the United States Figure Skating Championships in 2007. He has won two bronze medals at the World Figure Skating Championships. He has also won the Four Continents Figure Skating Championships twice. Lysacek has won three silver medals at the World Junior Figure Skating Championships. That, followed immediately by his two bronze medals at the senior World Championships, meant that until 2007, he had won a medal at every World Championship he had ever entered.

</doc>
<doc id="65418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65418" title="Richard Childress Racing">
Richard Childress Racing

Richard Childress Racing is a NASCAR racing team that is owned by Richard Childress. The team has operated for over 10 years and won over 100 races in the Sprint Cup Series. The team has also won 6 Sprint Cup series Championships. Notable drivers who have raced for Richard Childress Racing include Dale Earnhardt, and the current drivers are Paul Menard, Austin Dillon and Ryan Newman.

</doc>
<doc id="65419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65419" title="Bobby Darin">
Bobby Darin

Walden Robert Cassotto (May 14, 1936 – December 20, 1973), better known as Bobby Darin, was an American pop singer, most famous during the 1950s. His hits included "Mack the Knife", "Dream Lover", "If I Were a Carpenter", "Splish Splash", and "Beyond the Sea". He also helped Wayne Newton begin his musical career.
Allen Klein, an accountant who became an artist manager, first came to public attention when he audited Darin's payments, and discovered Darin had been underpaid. His record company paid up, and Darin split the money with Klein.
Darin was married to actress Sandra Dee from 1960 to 1967. They had a son, named Dodd. Darin died late in 1973 after heart surgery.
In 2004, a movie, "Beyond the Sea", was made about Darin's life and career. Actor Kevin Spacey, a longtime Darin fan, produced and starred in the movie, with Kate Bosworth as Sandra Dee.

</doc>
<doc id="65420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65420" title="Sasha Cohen">
Sasha Cohen

Alexandra Pauline "Sasha" Cohen (born October 26, 1984) is an American figure skater. She is the 2006 U.S. National Champion, 2003 Grand Prix Final Champion, and 2006 Olympic silver medalist.

</doc>
<doc id="65421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65421" title="Justification (theology)">
Justification (theology)

In Christian theology, justification is God's act of pardoning someone's sins, because of their belief in Christ.
The "concept" of justification is found in several of both Old Testament, and New Testament books. Protestants believe justification is the line that divided the Roman Catholics from the Protestants during the Reformation

</doc>
<doc id="65424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65424" title="Jury nullification">
Jury nullification

Jury nullification means a knowing and deliberate ignoring of evidence or a refusal to apply the law as explained in the jury instructions. A jury may feel the application of the law is unfair, unjust or is immoral in some way. Or, they may want to "send a message" about some social issue. Jury nullification is not a legal function of a jury and is not usually considered to be consistent with a jury's duty to judge a case on the facts and the law.
It is clear that juries do have the power to nullify. But do they have the right to nullify is another question. Once the verdict of "Not Guilty" is returned, double jeopardy applies and the defendant cannot be tried again. If a judge learns that a juror intends to nullify the verdict, the judge has the right to remove that juror. Typically, jurors are not told by the court that they have the power to nullify. That has both good points and bad. Judges fear if they told jurors they would have jury anarchies on their hands with jurors doing whatever they please. However, jury nullification can provide valuable feedback and can sometimes do some good if used wisely.
Jury nullification goes back to the beginnings of the jury system in England as established by the Magna Carta in 1215. The practice came to the United States during the colonial period. The case thought to be the precedent for jury nullification in the US is that of John Peter Zenger in 1735. He was put on trial for seditious libel. Zenger had criticized the governor in his newspaper, "The Weekly Journal". Trying everything he could to insure a guilty verdict, the governor even had Zenger's lawyers disbarred to prevent him from having legal representation. But the jury refused to convict him, going against the judge's orders.
Along with a history of jury nullification in the US, there is also a history of discriminatory acquittals. 
An example of discriminatory acquittal is when jury nullification is used to punish female rape victims by allowing their rapists to go free. The same is true of female victims of domestic violence. The "appropriateness" of a female victim's behavior in court can a great deal to do with how a jury will act, according to studies on the subject. Another example is the 1991 case of Rodney King. King was an African-American man who was beat up by police officers on videotape. The jury acquitted the police officers of beating him up even though they watched the video in court.
Jury nullification can be a way for a jury to express their own prejudice and bias. Examples include all-white juries enforcing Jim Crow laws on black defendants while letting white defendants who committed racial crimes against blacks go free. Also, it can seem unfair to allow one defendant to go free for committing the same crime while another defendant is convicted, just because one jury decided to nullify the law. This challenges the concept of equal protection under Fourteenth Amendment.
In the 1895 Supreme Court decision "Sparf v. United States" the Court ruled that judges did not have an obligation to tell jurors about jury nullification. The decision did not say judges could not tell jurors about nullification or that jurors did not have that power. They only said judges were not required to tell jurors. This led to the now common practice of judges in the U.S. penalizing defense attorneys who try in any way to present a nullification argument.
When a jury lets guilty people go free, it is called jury nullification. When a prosecutor decides not to charge a guilty person of a crime, it is called "prosecutorial discretion". Prosecutors are legal professionals while jury members are not. However prosecutors are also politicians and may make politically motivated decisions or may be corrupt. Judges will often instruct a jury to return a verdict based on the merits of the case and not the merits of the law. But one argument is that juries have a responsibility to decide if they think the law is wrong in a particular case. 
A person who overreacts when seeing someone commit a crime may be guilty of a crime themselves. For example, if a child is killed by a drunk driver and the father then kills the drunk driver, according to law the father may be guilty of murder. The same is true if a man seeing someone sexually assaulting his wife or daughter and beats the attacker to death (in many jurisdictions). A jury is made up of people who live in a community. They can decide to let someone go free if they think is it safe to do so. 

</doc>
<doc id="65428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65428" title="Tropical Storm Gamma">
Tropical Storm Gamma

Tropical Storm Gamma was the twenty-fourth named storm of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. Gamma formed in the eastern Caribbean Sea but quickly died a few days later from wind shear. On November 18, it restrengthened and became a tropical storm for a few more days before dying off the coast of Honduras on November 20. Although Gamma never made any landfall, it caused minor damages in the Lesser Antilles and medium damages in Honduras.
The National Hurricane Center began monitoring a tropical wave that would later become Gamma around November 11, but the system did not develop into a tropical depression until after it had passed the Lesser Antilles on November 13. At that time, the storm was called Tropical Depression Twenty-Seven and was predicted to strengthen into a strong tropical storm or a weak hurricane as it moved across the Caribbean Sea. However, a second system developing in the southwestern edge of the Caribbean began pushing wind shear onto the depression on November 14, then weakening the depression into a tropical low; advisories were then temporarily stopped. On later reanalysis, it was found that the depression had probably become a tropical storm by November 15 at 0600 UTC for less than 6 hours, but was not named during the time.
As the remnants of Twenty-Seven moved west, the system in the southwestern Caribbean moved onto land in Nicaragua and quickly weakened, reducing wind shear on the remnant low. Near Honduras, the two systems combined and rapidly gained the characteristics of a tropical cyclone on November 18, when it was upgraded directly to a tropical storm and given the name "Gamma". It is clearly unknown whether the remnant low of Gamma absorbed the low pressure system or happened the other way, but forecasters at the National Hurricane Center though that it was more likely that Gamma absorbed the other system. (If it were determined to be the other way around, the previously mentioned Tropical Storm Twenty-Seven would have been a separate and unnamed tropical storm.)
Gamma strengthened a little bit more to reach its maximum strength of 50 mph (85 km/h) winds during that day, but a trough moving into the Gulf of Mexico stopped any more strengthening. Gamma stayed just north of the coast of Honduras for about a day, then weakened to a tropical depression as it was beginning to be absorbed into the front as it entered the Caribbean. On November 20, wind shear had destroyed Gamma and advisories were stopped, although the low level circulation of Gamma survived for an extra 36–48 hours. Later, the last remnants of Gamma were absorbed into the approaching front. Gamma never made landfall as a tropical storm.
Because the storm was not predicted to make landfall (and it did not), few preparations were taken in Honduras for the storm. But non-stop rainfall for more than a day as Gamma wandered offshore created floods that forced more than 23,000 people to leave their homes.
As of January 24 2006, a total of forty-one people were reported dead (while thirty-seven killed directly) as a result of Tropical Storm Gamma, mostly in Honduras, with 13 missing in Honduras.
Thirty-four people died in Honduras with at least thirteen other people missing. All deaths were because of flooding and mudslides rather than wind damage since tropical storm-force winds did not affect the mainland.
According to the COCEP (the Honduran civil emergency committee) dozens of bridges were washed away and about 2,000 homes were destroyed. According to the NHC, 10 bridges were destroyed from flooding, and 7 were damaged. And 5,200 acres worth of banana crops were also destroyed, causing $13-18 million (2005 USD) in damage. In addition, an unofficial report of 4.44 inches of rain was reported on Roatan Island.
Five fishermen who were at sea during Tropical Storm Gamma have been reported missing and, as of November 25, were thought to be dead after five unidentified bodies were found on the Honduran coast. Three people were killed in a plane crash from Gamma's outer rain bands; it was thought that the weather was a part of the reason. Other effects to Belize were minimal.
Two people were killed by a mudslide in St. Vincent and the Grenadines from Tropical Depression Twenty-Seven (which would eventually become Tropical Storm Gamma) when the system came close to the island. Seven homes were also destroyed by flood waters in the area and others were damaged.
Other effects across the rest of the Lesser Antilles were minimal and were no worse than that of a normal rain event. Also, two fishermen who were reported dead in Jamaica were thought to have been killed by Gamma.
After Gamma slowly moved away from land, Honduran government officials carried out helicopter rescues for people and families trapped by flood waters, as UN agencies began airlifting food and water to the impacted areas .
The government of Andalucía, in Spain, donated 40 million lempiras to aid in disaster efforts, and the United States sent helicopters to help in the delivery of food to the people affected by the storm.
Because damage was minimal, Gamma was not retired and will be used again whenever the regular list of names is all used up in the future.
After all of the twenty one assigned hurricane names for the 2005 season were used up after Hurricane Wilma, the Greek alphabet was used, starting with Tropical Storm Alpha. This storm was named "Gamma" once it was known to have reached tropical storm strength (after it restrengthened). This was the first time that the name Gamma had been used for a tropical cyclone.
Because Gamma was the only twenty-fourth tropical storm to form in any single Atlantic hurricane season, Gamma also holds the record for being the earliest twenty-fourth tropical storm, reaching tropical storm strength on November 18. Gamma also extended the 2005 season's record for tropical storms to twenty-four, which was also enlarged four more times and ended at twenty-eight storms after Tropical Storm Zeta and a post-season addition of an unnamed subtropical storm which went originally unnoticed in October. Also, Gamma tied the record set during the 1992 Pacific hurricane season for most storms in a single basin monitored by NOAA.

</doc>
<doc id="65433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65433" title="Jason Alexander">
Jason Alexander

Jason Alexander (born Jason Scott Greenspan on September 23, 1959) is an American actor. He is famous for his role as "George Costanza" on the television series "Seinfeld".

</doc>
<doc id="65434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65434" title="Khandi Alexander">
Khandi Alexander

Khandi Alexander (born 4 September 1957) is an American dancer, choreographer, and movie and television actress.
She played the character "Catherine Duke" on "NewsRadio" and the character "Jackie Robbins" on "ER". She is best known for the character "Alexx Woods", a coroner on the CBS drama "". She is currently appearing in the HBO series "Treme".

</doc>
<doc id="65435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65435" title="Kirsten Dunst">
Kirsten Dunst

Kirsten Caroline Dunst (born April 30, 1982) is a German-American actress, famous for her roles in "", "The Virgin Suicides", "Marie Antoinette", and "Bring It On", as well as Mary Jane Watson in the "Spider-Man" movie series. She was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for being the main heroine of many films. She is also known as "the hero."

</doc>
<doc id="65436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65436" title="Mary Tyler Moore">
Mary Tyler Moore

Mary Tyler Moore (December 29, 1936 – January 25, 2017) was an Academy Award-nominated American actress, activist and philanthropist.
She is famous for "The Mary Tyler Moore Show" (1970–1977), where she played the role of "Mary Richards", a single woman who worked as a news producer at WJM-TV in Minneapolis, and for her role as "Laura Petrie", wife of television comedy writer "Rob Petrie" (played by Dick Van Dyke) on "The Dick Van Dyke Show" (1961–1966).
Moore was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes when she was 33. In 2011, she had brain surgery to remove a brain tumor. In 2014 friends reported that she had heart and kidney problems and was nearly blind. In October 2015, Moore's former co-star Dick Van Dyke said on an episode of "Larry King Now" that Moore was in poor health and unable to communicate.
In January 2017, she was hospitalized from a diabetic-related condition. Her condition worsened and was placed on a respirator the previous week. She died on January 25, 2017 in Greenwich, Connecticut from diabetic-related pneumonia complications, aged 80.

</doc>
<doc id="65437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65437" title="Pamela Anderson">
Pamela Anderson

Pamela Denise Anderson (born July 1, 1967 in Ladysmith, British Columbia, Canada) is a Canadian-American actress, sex symbol, glamour model, producer, television personality, and author. 
Anderson started her career in Labatt Beer commercials. She was then offered to pose for Playboy and appeared in five issues. Anderson was the Playmate of the Month in February 1990. Anderson was a sex symbol in the 1990s. In 1993 she joined the cast of "Baywatch". Anderson has been a contestant in two series of "Dancing with the Stars" and in the 2013 series of "Dancing on Ice".
For a time, she was known as Pamela Anderson Lee during her marriage to the drummer for Mötley Crüe, Tommy Lee. The couple had two sons. She later married Kid Rock and Rick Salomon. She is a dual citizen: Canadian and American. In 2002, she stated that she has been diagnosed with hepatitis C.
Anderson is a vegan and an animal rights' activist.

</doc>
<doc id="65438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65438" title="Sandra Bullock">
Sandra Bullock

Sandra Annette Bullock (born July 26, 1964) is an American movie actress. She became famous in the 1990s, after roles in successful movies, including "Speed" and "While You Were Sleeping". After that, she became a very respected actress, especially after 2004 movie "Crash". She is the 14th richest female celebrity with a fortune of around $85 million. She filed for divorce from her husband in April 2010 after reports of unfaithfulness by him.
Sandra Annette Bullock was born in Arlington, Virginia, which is a suburb of Washington, D.C. Her parents are called John Bullock and Helga Meyer, and she has a sister called Gesine. Sandra's mother was German, and Sandra spent lots of time in Germany when she was a child. She went to Washington-Lee High School and was a cheerleader. She went to East Carolina University. She then moved to New York City to try to become an actress.
Sandra Bullock first appeared in some TV movies, such as "Hangmen" and "Bionic Showdown". She also appeared in the movies "Love Potion No. 9" and "Demolition Man", which were quite successful movies. She then appeared in "Speed" and "While You Were Sleeping", which made her famous. She then starred more successful movies like "Miss Congeniality", "Two Weeks Notice", "Crash" and "The Lake House". Recently, she starred in the movies "The Proposal" and "The Blind Side". She received an Academy Award for her role in "The Blind Side".
Sandra Bullock has been in relationships with Tate Donovan, Matthew McConaughey and Ryan Gosling. She then married Jesse James in 2005, but divorced him in 2010 after reports that he cheated on her.
Bullock has one son, a boy named Louis Bardo Bullock. She adopted him in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="65449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65449" title="Miami Ink">
Miami Ink

Miami Ink is an American television show on TLC about a tattoo shop in Miami, Florida.

</doc>
<doc id="65461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65461" title="Edmontonia">
Edmontonia

Edmontonia was a armoured dinosaur, of the nodosaur family from the Upper Cretaceous of Canada. 
It was heavy and tank-like at about 6.6 m (22 ft) long. It had bony plates on its back and head, many sharp spikes along its back and tail and four large spikes jutting out from its shoulders on each side. To protect itself from predators, it may have crouched down on the ground to protect its defenceless underbelly.

</doc>
<doc id="65488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65488" title="Adaminaby, New South Wales">
Adaminaby, New South Wales

Adaminaby () is a town in southeast New South Wales, Australia on the Snowy Mountains Highway. The first town of Adaminaby was in the way of a new dam built on the Eucumbene River as part of the Snowy Mountains Scheme. In 1957 more than 100 buildings were relocated to a new site 10 kilometres away where they would not be flooded.
The name, Adaminaby is an Aboriginal word meaning a camp, or a resting place. The town first started during the gold rush to Kiandra, New South Wales|Kiandra in 1860. It was first called Seymour, but the name was changed to Adaminaby in 1886.

</doc>
