<doc id="280300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280300" title="Cam Newton">
Cam Newton

Cameron "Cam" Jerrell Newton (born May 11, 1989) is an American football quarterback. He played college football at Auburn University, where he won a BCS National Championship in 2011. He is now quarterback for the Carolina Panthers of the National Football League (NFL).
Newton was born in Savannah, Georgia to parents Cecil and Jackie Newton. His father also played professional football in the NFL. He grew up in College Park, Georgia. He attended Seaborn Lee Elementary School and then Camp Creek Middle School. In 2003, he attended Westlake High School in Fulton County, Georgia, where he played football and basketball.
In 2007, as a freshman at the University of Florida, Newton earned the spot over fellow freshman quarterback John Brantley as the back-up for star quarterback and eventual Heisman Trophy winner Tim Tebow. He played in five games and threw for 40 yards on 5-of-10 passing and ran the ball 16 times for 103 yards and three touchdowns. In 2008, during his sophomore season, Newton played in the season opener against Hawaii. He then suffered an ankle injury and decided to take a medical redshirt season.
On November 21, 2008, police arrested Newton for stealing a laptop computer from a student at the University of Florida. He was subsequently temporarily suspended by the team after the laptop was in fact found to be in his possession. Investigators tracked the stolen laptop to the athlete. Newton tossed the computer out his dorm window in an attempt to hide it from the Police. (A friend scooped up the laptop and hid it behind a dumpster at a nearby school building). Newton was suspended indefinitely and announced his intention to transfer three days before Florida's national championship win over Oklahoma. All criminal charges against Newton were dropped after he completed a court-approved pretrial diversion program. Foxsports.com reported that Newton left the University of Florida after the fall semester in 2008 rather than face suspension or expulsion in part because of three instances of academic cheating.
In January 2009, Newton transferred to Blinn College a junior college in Brenham, Texas. In fall 2009, he was quarterback for the team. The team won the 2009 NJCAA National Football Championship. Newton then wanted to transfer to a four-year college, and his father allegedly sought money from the schools competing for Newton's attendance. Newton transferred to Auburn University where he also played quarterback.
Newton spent much of the second half of the 2010 football season haunted by allegations that his father, Cecil Newton, who wanted a fair amount of money money in return for his son playing for a major-college team. If true, this would violate National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) rules. In early November, officials with Mississippi State University charged that Cecil Newton said that it would take "more than just a scholarship" to secure his son's services. This demand was apparently spread by Kenny Rogers, a recruiter who formerly played for the Bulldogs, to John Bond, his former teammate at MSU. Rogers later said in a Dallas radio interview that Cecil Newton said it would take "anywhere between $100,000 and $180,000" to get his son to transfer to MSU. Auburn maintained throughout the scandal that they were not involved in any pay-for-play scheme, and that Cam Newton was allowed to play.
On December 1, the NCAA announced that Auburn had declared Cam Newton to be ineligible. Auburn found evidence that Cecil Newton did in fact solicit Mississippi State for money in exchange for Cam Newton's athletic service. Auburn immediately asked the NCAA to reinstate Newton. The NCAA quickly reinstated Newton, declaring him eligible for the 2010 SEC Championship Game three days later. The NCAA said that there was not sufficient evidence that Cam Newton or anyone from Auburn had any knowledge of Cecil Newton's actions. Auburn subsequently limited the access Cecil Newton had to the football program as result of NCAA findings. Also due to increased pressure by the media and the NCAA investigation, Cecil Newton announced he would not attend the Heisman Trophy Ceremony. The NCAA reinstatement did not clear Cecil Newton of any wrongdoing. The NCAA action did make Cam Newton eligible to win the Heisman Trophy. He won the award with 2,263 points and 729 first-place votes.
In October 2011, the NCAA closed its 13-month investigation into the Auburn University recruitment of Newton. The NCAA conducted over 50 interviews, and reviewed bank records, IRS documents, telephone calls, and e-mail messages. The NCAA found nothing that would indicate Auburn participated in a pay-for-play in recruiting Newton to become an Auburn student. The NCAA would say that the charges failed to "meet a burden of proof, which is a higher standard than rampant public speculation online and in the media". The NCAA's Stacey Osburn would say "We've done all we can do. We've done all the interviews. We've looked into everything, and there's nothing there. Unless something new comes to light that's credible and we need to look at, it's concluded." 
Newton was selected 1st overall by the Carolinia Panthers in the 2011 NFL Draft. On July 29, 2011, Newton signed a four-year deal worth over $22 million that is fully guaranteed. He was the number one quarterback for the team, above Jimmy Clausen and Derek Anderson. In his first NFL game on September 11, 2011, Newton was 24–37 passing for 422 yards, 2 touchdowns and 1 interception in a 28–21 road loss to the Arizona Cardinals. With a quarterback rating of 110.4, he also rushed for a touchdown, and became the first rookie to throw for over 400 yards in his first career game. His 422 passing yards broke Peyton Manning's rookie record for most passing yards on opening day.
In his second career game, his team lost 30–23 to the defending Super Bowl champion Green Bay Packers. Newton broke his own record, set the weekend previously, with 432 yards passing, throwing and rushing for a touchdown. Newton's 854 passing yards in the first two games of the season was the most in league history by a rookie. Newton broke the NFL record of 827 set by Kurt Warner in the 2000 season and stood as the most by any quarterback in the first two weeks of the season until New England's Tom Brady broke the mark again later in the day with 940. He also became the only player to begin his career with consecutive 400-yard passing games He broke the Carolina Panthers franchise record of 547 yards previously held by Steve Beuerlein. After Newton's second career game, Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers commented "I think someone said in the locker room that I'm kind of glad we played him early in the season because when he figures it out fully, he's going to be even tougher to stop." Newton's three additional interceptions against the Packers tied him for the most interceptions thrown in the league. He passed a total of 1,012 yards in the first three games.
The Panthers won for the first time in the season against the Jacksonville Jaguars 16–10. Newton threw for 158 yards and one touchdown. The Panthers played the Atlanta Falcons, losing 31–17 while passing for 237 yards with no passing touchdowns. Newton's three interceptions returned him to leading the NFL in interceptions. On October 23, 2011, the Carolina won over the Washington Redskins, 33-20. Newton completed 18 of 23 passes for 256 yards and a touchdown. Newton also ran for 59 yards and a touchdown. Despite his bad interception count, Newton was voted the 2011Offensive Rookie of the Year.

</doc>
<doc id="280308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280308" title="Anna Louise Strong">
Anna Louise Strong

Anna Louise Strong (November 24, 1885 – March 29, 1970) was an American journalist and activist who reported on communist movements in the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China. She also supported these movements.
Strong was born on November 24, 1885 in Friend, Nebraska. Her father, Sydney Dix Strong, was a minister in the Congregational Church and was a missionary. She was a very smart child and went through school very fast. She then went to Europe to study other languages.
She first attended Pennsylvania's Bryn Mawr College from 1903 to 1904, then graduated from Oberlin College in Ohio, where she later returned to speak many times. In 1908, at the age of 23, she finished her education and received a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Chicago with a thesis later published as "The Social Psychology of Prayer". She supported child welfare, and traveled around speaking about it. When she came toSeattle to speak about it in May 1914, more than 6,000 people came per day. At least 40,000 people came on her last day in Seattle. 
Strong was 30 years old when she returned to Seattle to live with her father, then pastor of Queen Anne Congregational Church. She liked the progressive politics that were popular there, which supported organized labor. 
Strong also enjoyed mountain climbing. She organized cooperative summer camps in the Cascades and led climbing groups up Mt. Rainier.
When Strong ran for the Seattle School Board in 1916, she won easily because she was helped by women's groups and organized labor and because she was known as an expert on child welfare. She was the only female board member. She argued that the public schools should offer social service programs for poor children and that these programs should be community centers. But there was little she could do: Other members chose to devote meetings to things that Strong felt were less important, such as plumbing in the schools. 
In the year of her election, 1916, the Everett Massacre happened . Strong was hired as a stringer by the "New York Evening Post" to report on the bloody conflict between the IWW (or "Wobblies") and the army of armed guards hired by Everett mill owners to keep them out of town. At first, she was just somebody who was watching without taking a side. However, she soon started taking the side of workers' rights and speaking about this belief. 
Strong's endorsement of left-wing causes made her different from the other people on the school board. She was against war, and when the United States entered World War I in 1917, she spoke out against the draft. On one hand, the PTA and women's clubs joined her in opposing military training in the schools. On the other hand, the Seattle Minute Men, many of whom were veterans of the Spanish-American War, said that she was unpatriotic. 
The anti-war beliefs of the Wobblies led to many of them being arrested at the Seattle office where Louise Olivereau, a typist, was mailing things to draftees that told them to think about becoming conscientious objectors and not enter the draft. In 1918, Strong stood by Olivereau's side in the courtroom, as the typist-activist was tried for sedition, found guilty, and sent to prison. 
Strong's fellow school board members started recall campaign to get Strong removed from the school board, and they won. She showed up at their next meeting to argue that they should choose a woman to replace her. The school board decided to do this, but they said that they wanted a mainstream, patriotic representative, and a mother with children in the schools. They replaced Anna Louise Strong with Evangeline C. Harper, a well known country club woman.
Strong because known as part of the city's labor-owned daily newspaper, "The Union Record", writing forceful pro-labor articles and saying good things about the new Soviet government. On February 6, 1919, two days before the beginning of the Seattle General Strike of 1919, she wrote in an editorial: "We are undertaking the most tremendous move ever made by labor in this country, a move which will lead — NO ONE KNOWS WHERE!" The strike shut down the city for four days and then ended as it had begun — peacefully and with its goals still unclear.
Not knowing what to do, she took her friend Lincoln Steffens' advice and in 1921 travelled to Poland and Russia serving as a correspondent for the American Friends Service Committee. The reason she was going was to give the first foreign relief to the Volga famine victims. After a year of that, she was named Moscow correspondent for the International News Service. Strong saw many things in Europe which inspired her to write. Some of her works include "The First Time in History" (preface by Leon Trotsky) (1924), and "Children of Revolution" (1925). After remaining in the area for several years, Strong grew to become an supporter of socialism in the newly formed Soviet Union. In 1925, during the era of the New Economic Policy in the USSR, she came back to the United States to make businessmen interested in investing in industry and development in the Soviet Union. During this time Strong, also gave many speeches and became well known as an authority on "soft news" (such as how to get an apartment) about the USSR.
In the late 1920s, Strong travelled in China and other parts of Asia. She became friends with Soong Ching-ling and Zhou Enlai. She wrote some more books about her travels, including "China's Millions" (1928), "Red Star in Samarkand" (1929). 
In 1930 she came back to Moscow and helped start "Moscow News", the first English-language newspaper in the city. She was managing editor for a year and then became a featured writer. She married Soviet official and fellow socialist Joel Shubin in 1932. Much like Strong, Shubin was a man passionately dedicated to his work and the two were often apart because of work, and would ultimately spend little time together before Shubin's death in 1942.
While living in the Soviet Union, she became more happy with the Soviet government and wrote many books praising it. They include: "The Soviets Conquer Wheat" (1931), an updated version of "China's Millions: The Revolutionary Struggles from 1927 to 1935" (1935), the best-selling autobiographical "I Change Worlds: the Remaking of an American" (1935), "This Soviet World" (1936), and "The Soviet Constitution" (1937). 
In 1936 she returned once again to the United States. Quietly and privately upset with news in the USSR (The "Great Purges"), she continued to write for leading periodicals, including "The Atlantic Monthly", "Harper's", "The Nation" and "Asia". A visit to Spain resulted in "Spain in Arms" (1937); visits to China led to "One Fifth of Mankind" (1938). In 1940 she published "My Native Land". Other books include "The Soviets Expected It" (1941); the novel "Wild River" (1943), set in Russia; "Peoples of the U.S.S.R." (1944), "I Saw the New Poland" (1946) (based on her reporting from Poland as she accompanied the occupying Red Army); and three books on the success of the early Communist Party of China in the Chinese Civil War. 
While in the USSR she travelled throughout the huge nation, including the Ukraine, Kuznetsk, Stalingrad, Kiev, Siberia, Central Asia, Uzbekistan, and many more. She also travelled into Poland, Germany, and Britain. While in the Soviet Union, Strong met with Stalin, Molotov, and many other Soviet officials. She interviewed factory workers, farmers, and pedestrians. 
In World War II, when the Red Army began its advance against Nazi Germany, Strong stayed in the rear following the soldiers through Warsaw, Łódź and Gdańsk. In great part because of her overtly pro-Chinese Communist sympathies she was arrested in Moscow in 1949 and charged by the Soviets with espionage. She later returned to the USSR in 1959, but settled in China until her death. 
Strong met W. E. B. Du Bois, who visited Communist China during the Great Leap Forward in the late 1950s. Neither ever supported famine-related criticisms of the Great Leap. Strong wrote a book titled "When Serfs Stood Up in Tibet" based on her experience during this period, which include the Chinese invasion of Tibet. 
Partly from fear of losing her passport if she came back to the USA, she moved to China until her death in 1970, publishing a "Letter from China." During that time, she got to know Zhou Enlai very well, and also knew Mao Zedong. She lived in the old Italian Legation which had been changed into flats for the leading "foreign friends".
Anna Louise Strong died in Beijing, on March 29, 1970.

</doc>
<doc id="280321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280321" title="Winona, Minnesota">
Winona, Minnesota

Winona is a city in southeast Minnesota just west of the Mississippi River. Winona State University serves the region.

</doc>
<doc id="280324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280324" title="For Your Entertainment">
For Your Entertainment

For Your Entertainment is the first studio album by American Idol season 8 runner-up artist Adam Lambert. The album was recorded during the summer and fall of 2009 and was released on November 23, 2010 in the United States. The album was released under RCA Records. The album was produced by Dr Luke, Max Martin, Linda Perry, and Ryan Tedder. It his #1 on the U.S. "Billboard" 200 chart and #29 on the 2010 Year-End U.S. "Billboard" 200 chart. 
The album was first released in the United Kingdom, on November 20, 2009, to generally positive reception. The album was released internationally with "Time for Miracles", "Master Plan", "No Boundaries", "Down the Rabbit Hole" and "Voodoo" as bonus tracks. The CD was also released in a "Tour Edition", featuring the bonus tracks, live performances, music videos, and the making of "If I Had You"'s music video.
The album was released with a different cover, the same image of the title track artwork. The only difference it's that "Adam Lambert" and "For Your Entertainment" are above, instead of being down.

</doc>
<doc id="280326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280326" title="Ingredient">
Ingredient

An ingredient is a part that forms part of a mixture (in a general sense). For example, in cooking, recipes specify which ingredients are used to prepare a specific dish. Many commercial products contain a secret ingredient that is purported to make them better than competing products. In the health industry, an active ingredient is that part of a recipe that yields the effect required by the buyer.
National laws usually require prepared food products to show a list of ingredients, and require that certain "bad things" be listed.
In most developed countries, the law requires that ingredients be listed according to their weight in the product. If an ingredient itself consists of more than one ingredient (such as the cookie pieces which are a part of "cookies and cream" flavor ice cream), then that ingredient is listed by what percentage of the total product it occupies, with its own ingredients showed next to it in brackets.

</doc>
<doc id="280327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280327" title="Chainsaw">
Chainsaw

A chainsaw (or chain saw) is a portable mechanical saw, typically powered by a two-stroke engine. It is used for cutting trees, to fell snags, to cut firebreaks in wildland fires, and to harvest firewood. Special chainsaws are used for cutting concrete.
A chainsaw has several parts, including:
As chainsaw carving has become more popular, the makers of chansaws are making special short, narrow-tipped bars for carving. These are called "quarter tipped," "nickel tipped" or "dime tipped" bars, based on the size of the round tip.

</doc>
<doc id="280328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280328" title="Orion (spacecraft)">
Orion (spacecraft)

Orion is a spacecraft built by Lockheed Martin for NASA. Each Orion spacecraft will be able to carry up to six astronauts. The Orion vehicle will be launched on the Space Launch System, but the first launch (EFT-1) was on the Delta IV Heavy.
Orion will launch from Launch Complex 39B at Kennedy Space Center, the same launch site used by the Space Shuttle and the Saturn V. Orion is meant to take humans to asteroids and Mars.
Orion was first made for the Constellation program in 2004, as the Orion CEV (Orion Crew Exploration Vehicle). It was meant to be launched on the Ares I rocket. Then it would be able to go to the International Space Station. It was also planned to go to a spacecraft launched in pieces on different Ares V rockets, and the spacecraft with the Orion would go to the Moon, Mars, or another place.
On October 11, 2010, Constellation was cancelled. They created a new program and a new rocket called the Space Launch System, and changed the name of Orion to the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle. This rocket will launch Orion for going to asteroids and Mars.

</doc>
<doc id="280331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280331" title="Bracket">
Bracket

Brackets are tall punctuation marks used in matched pairs within text. They are used in mathematics and in literature (written language). They are sometimes used to set apart or interject other parts of the text. They are noted as left/right: the "left bracket" is "[" and the "right bracket" is "]".
In the American English, "bracket" usually refers specifically to the "square" or "box" type. In British English, "bracket" normally refers to the "round" type, which is called a "parenthesis" mark in American usage.
Parentheses are the curved brackets "(  )". They are also called "round brackets", "curved brackets", "oval brackets", or, colloquially, "parens".
Parentheses have several different meanings, such as:
There are also other uses for parentheses.
Parentheses enclose text which could be left out, without destroying or altering the meaning of a sentence. In most writing, overuse of parentheses is usually a sign of a badly structured text. A milder effect may be obtained by using a pair of commas around the text, although if the sentence contains commas for other uses, then visual confusion may result.
Parentheses may be used in formal writing to add more information, such as in:
They can also note "either singular or plural" for nouns, such as in the word "claim(s)".

</doc>
<doc id="280333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280333" title="Theogony">
Theogony

The Theogony (Greek: Θεογονία, "Theogonía", the birth of the gods) is a poem by Hesiod. It was written in the 8th or 7th century BC, and uses the same dialect of Ancient Greek as Homer. This dialect is known as Epic dialect today. With the exception of the Illiad and the Odyssey, the Theogony is the oldest known source of Greek mythology. 
The poem is a synthesis of different Greek stories and traditions. It is a story that tells how the gods came to be and how they established permanent control over the cosmos. It is the first Greek mythical cosmogony. In the beginning, the state of the universe is chaos - a dark indefinite void. Everything else appeared from divine chaos. 

</doc>
<doc id="280339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280339" title="Musaceae">
Musaceae

The Musaceae are a family of flowering plants in the order Zingiberales. The family is native to the tropics of the Old World. The plants are large herbs with very big leaves; the lower parts of the leaves form a false stem so they look as trees.
The species of this family are native to the tropics of Africa, East Asia, Australia and South Pacific; some of them, like bananas and plantains, are grown in all tropical countries for their fruits.
These are perennial herbaceous plants; they are not very tall. The lower parts of the big leaves are closely packed making a false stem ("pseudostem") that is not made of wood. The true stems grow underground; it is called a rhizome or a corm. The false stems die after flowering and producing fruits and are replaced by new false stems rising from the underground corm.
The flowers have bracts and grow in groups (inflorescences) and are pollinated by insects, birds, bats and treeshrews.
Fruits are berries with many hard seeds but the fruits of commercial bananas and plantains do not have seeds because they are steriles.
The French botanist Antoine Laurent de Jussieu created this family in 1789.
There are three genera in this family:
Acceptance of "Musella" has varied; , the World Checklist of Selected Plant Families considers it a synonym of "Ensete".
In addition to banana and plantain fruits and their products (including alcohol, meal), "Musa" species and varieties are important sources of fibre (abacá, Manila hemp).

</doc>
<doc id="280340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280340" title="Zingiberales">
Zingiberales

Zingiberales is an order of flowering plants. The order has been widely recognised by the taxonomists, at least for the past few decades. This order includes many familiar plants like ginger, cardamom, turmeric, galangal and myoga of the Zingiberaceae or ginger family, and bananas and plantains of the Musaceae or banana family, along with arrowroot of the Marantaceae or arrowroot family.

</doc>
<doc id="280341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280341" title="Category:Zingiberales">
Category:Zingiberales


</doc>
<doc id="280343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280343" title="Category:Liliaceae">
Category:Liliaceae


</doc>
<doc id="280346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280346" title="Zingiberaceae">
Zingiberaceae

Zingiberaceae, or the Ginger family, is a family of flowering plants consisting of aromatic perennial herbs with creeping horizontal or tuberous rhizomes, comprising ca. 52 genera and more than 1300 species, distributed throughout tropical Africa, Asia, and the Americas.

</doc>
<doc id="280350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280350" title="TWAS">
TWAS

Nobel Laureate Abdus Salam of Pakistan led a group of scientists in starting TWAS in 1983. This group of important and respected scientists knew that scientific research in developing countries was not good enough and wanted to improve it. TWAS meant Third World Academy of Sciences. The name was changed to TWAS, the academy of sciences for the developing world in 2004. TWAS is a science academy uniting 1,000 scientists in some 70 countries. Its main goals are promoting the ability to do science and excellence for sustainable development in the South (see North-South divide). Its headquarters are at the Abdus Salam International Centre for Theoretical Physics (ICTP) in Trieste, Italy.
The founding members of TWAS therefore decided to set up an organization that would help to: 
The Italian government has supported TWAS financially since it began. The director general of UNESCO and the president of TWAS signed an agreement. UNESCO has managed TWAS finance and staff since 1991.
These are some of the original fellows. They started TWAS in 1983.

</doc>
<doc id="280353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280353" title="For Your Entertainment (song)">
For Your Entertainment (song)

For Your Entertainment is the debut mainstream single by pop singer/songwriter and runner up of American Idol's 8th season "Adam Lambert". It is the lead single for the album "For Your Entertainment". The song was released commercially on November 3, 2009. The single was written by Claude Kelly and Dr. Luke. It's set to be his first U.K single and his third Australian single. 
On October 28, 2009, Lambert announced via Twitter that his lead single from his debut album would be "For Your Entertainment", a song that was produced by Dr. Luke. The following day, Lambert announced that the single would debut on Ryan Seacrest's radio show on October 30, 2009.
The song became available as a legal download in the United States on November 3, 2009 and on November 15, 2009 in the United Kingdom.
On November 24th, 2009 UK dance music group comprising producers Lee Dagger and Marc JB and vocalist Katherine Ellis called "Bimbo Jones" remixed "For You Entertainment" and released it on iTunes Store. It also has a short edit for radio mainstream.
On December 1st, 2009 RCA/Jive released American producer Brad Walsh's remix of the song "For Your Entertainment" on iTunes on Adam Lambert's "Remixes" EP. The remix also opened Adam's Glam Nation tour and was on an E! commercial.
The music video premiered on Lambert's official website on November 24, 2009. It was directed by Ray Kay. The video was filmed in a one-day shoot, on November 15 at The Alexandria, an old hotel which is now an apartment building in downtown Los Angeles.
The video opens with a nighttime street level shot in a city. As the camera pans down below the ground, Lambert is shown walking into an underground club, filled with scantily clad men and women. As he begins singing, he walks through the crowd and interacts and dances with others. Mixed with dancing are close up shots of Lambert and various dancers. Towards the end of the song, Lambert begins to play with his band and the video shows everyone in the club dancing. As the song ends, the camera pans back up to the street level where life is continuing on, completely oblivious of what is going on below the streets.

</doc>
<doc id="280354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280354" title="No Boundaries (song)">
No Boundaries (song)

"No Boundaries" is a song originally written for season 8 "American Idol" winner Kris Allen. The song was covered by Allen in 2009 for the finale and winning of season 8. The song was officially released by Kris Allen on May 20, 2009. 
The song was written by Kara DioGuardi, Cathy Dennis, and Mitch Allen. Kris Allen's version of this single was produced by independent producer Emanuel Kiriakou.
Adam Lambert, runner-up of "American Idol"'s 8th season, covered the song in late May. He released it as his own on June 9, 2009. Lambert's version was going to be featured on his first studio album, but it was replaced by his soon to be released single "Time for Miracles".

</doc>
<doc id="280355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280355" title="Purdue University">
Purdue University

Purdue University, in West Lafayette, Indiana, U.S., is the flagship university of the six-campus Purdue University System. Purdue was founded on May 6, 1869, as a land-grant university, accepted a donation of land and money from Lafayette businessman John Purdue to establish a college of science, technology, and agriculture in his name. The first classes were held on September 16, 1874, with three buildings, six instructors, and 39 students. Today, Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any university in Indiana as well as the second largest international student population of any public university in the United States. 
Purdue offers both undergraduate and graduate programs in over 210 major areas of study. Purdue has produced multiple Nobel Prize winners, CEOs of Fortune 500 companies, and NFL Super Bowl MVPs. The university has been highly influential in America's history of aviation, and Purdue's aviation technology and aeronautical engineering programs remain among the highest rated and most competitive in the world. In the mid-20th century, Purdue's aviation program expanded to encompass advanced spaceflight technology giving rise to Purdue's nickname, "Cradle of Astronauts". 
Purdue's tenured faculty comprises sixty Academic Deans, Associate Deans, and Assistant Deans; 63 Academic Department Heads; 753 Professors; 547 Associate Professors and 447 Assistant Professors. Purdue employs 892 non-tenure-track faculty, Lecturers, and Postdoctorals at its West Lafayette campus. Purdue employs another 691 tenured and 1,021 Non-Tenure Track Faculty, Lecturers, and Postdoctorals at its Regional Campuses and Statewide Technology.
Purdue University generated a record $333.4 million in sponsored research funding during the 2007–08 fiscal year with participation from National Science Foundation, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the U.S. departments of Agriculture, Defense, Energy, and Health and Human Services.

</doc>
<doc id="280362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280362" title="Whataya Want from Me">
Whataya Want from Me

Whataya Want from Me is the 2nd single released off the album "For Your Entertainment" by Season 8 runner-up of American Idol "Adam Lambert". The song was written by Pink, Max Martin, and Shellback and was recorded by Pink for her fifth studio album, Funhouse, but did not make it to the final cut. It was produced by Max Martin and Shellback, who have collaborated with Pink, Britney Spears, Katy Perry, and fellow Idols Kelly Clarkson, Daughtry, Allison Iraheta and Carrie Underwood. The song received a Grammy nomination for Best Male Pop Vocal Performance. 
The track was originally recorded and co-written by Pink for the album Funhouse but did not make the final cut. On November 18, 2009, Lambert announced via his official website that his second single from his debut album would be "Whataya Want from Me". The song was the second single announced before the CD was officially available to the public. The song became available as a legal download in the United States on November 20, 2009 when his CD was officially released. The song was also included on Now That's What I Call Music! #34 and was covered in the Kidz Bop series.
In 2010, it was announced that Pink's recording on the song will appear on her first greatest hits compilation, Greatest Hits... So Far!!!.
The music video for "Whataya Want from Me" was directed by Diane Martel and shot on December 20, 2009. It premiered on January 15, 2010, on VH1. The video features Lambert becoming frustrated with the very intrusive camera man. There are also performance clips throughout the video of Lambert performing with his band. One scene in the video features Lambert making his way through a crowd of paparazzi and fans into a car. At the beginning of the song, Adam switches the TV off, and then begins singing "slow it down, whataya want from me," leading one interpretation to be that what he was watching was actually the AMAs.
"Whataya Want from Me" debuted at number 72 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 on the week of January 2, 2010.[34][35] Following his appearance as a mentor on American Idol (season 9), the song reached #10, becoming Lambert's second Top 20 single (the first being his cover of "Mad World", which peaked at #19) and first Top 10 single on the Billboard Hot 100. 
The song was originally written and recorded for pop artist Pink. The song was supposed to be featured on the album "Funhouse" in 2008, however never made it to its final cut. Lambert was offered the song to be a single and later ended up being featured as the 2nd track on his album "For Your Entertainment".
The Fonzerelli's Electro House Club released their remixed version of the song "Whataya Want from Me" on November 27th, 2009 and was released for radio mainstream on January 5th, 2010. 
Brad Walsh previously remixed Lambert's "For Your Entertainment" and "Time For Miracles". On November 27th, 2009, Walsh's remix of the song hit mainstream and was released for digital download on iTunes Store. The remixed version of the song by Brad was cut down in a shortened version for radio mainstream.
On November 27th, 2009, American DJ, producer and remixer Jason Nevins released his remixed version of the song "Whataya Want from Me" on iTunes Store.

</doc>
<doc id="280365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280365" title="If I Had You (Adam Lambert song)">
If I Had You (Adam Lambert song)

If I Had You (styled as If I Had U) is "Adam Lambert's" 3rd official mainstream single released of his debut album, "For Your Entertaintment". The song was written by Max Martin, Shellback, and Savan Kotecha for Lambert's debut album, For Your Entertainment. It was released as the third single on May 5, 2010.
James Montgomery from MTV describes the video as having "a clearing in the forest, one packed with party people — of all races, colors, creeds and proclivities, naturally — who are all in the midst of a totally excellent celebration. (Most of said party people are actually Lambert's friends, from his days performing with L.A.'s "Zodiac Show.")" Montgomery states the message of the video is "Humanity can, in fact, put their differences aside and just dance."
The video premiered June 14, 2010 on VH1 and "takes the late-night wilderness party motif of Jennifer Lopez's classic "Waiting for Tonight" clip and adds more lasers, guyliner, thrashy dance moves, silver top hats and outrageously spiky shoulder pads." Bryan Barber directed the video, which was inspired by Lambert's self-proclaimed "psychedelic" experience at Burning Man.
Remixes of the song include an instrumental remix and a radio edit. As well DJ's and producer's like Jason Nevins, Dangerous Muse, and Morgan Page.

</doc>
<doc id="280369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280369" title="Capri pants">
Capri pants

Capri pants are a type of pants. They are shorter than normal pants; they end between the knee and lower leg. 
They were first made in 1948 by Sonja de Lennart, a clothes designer from Prussia. They were popular in the 1950s and 1960s, but went out of style until the 2000s, when they became popular again.
Some pants have a zipper at the knee, allowing them to be converted into shorts. This design allows people to change between shorts and pants in variable weather conditions.

</doc>
<doc id="280370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280370" title="Fever (Adam Lambert song)">
Fever (Adam Lambert song)

Fever is a song by international pop singer/songwriter Lady Gaga. The song, however, was given to Adam Lambert to be released off the album "For Your Entertainment" for mainstream radio in New Zealand. The song hit #3 on the New Zealand Pop chart in September 2010. The song was released by Lambert on August 3rd, 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="280371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280371" title="Sleepwalker (song)">
Sleepwalker (song)

"Sleepwalker" is a song by Adam Lambert released off his debut album "For Your Entertainment". The song was written by frontman of OneRepublic, Ryan Tedder, as well as Aimee Mayo, and Chris Lindsey. It was produced by Tedder and was released in Canada and New Zealand for radio mainstream on June 15, 2010. 

</doc>
<doc id="280372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280372" title="Time for Miracles">
Time for Miracles

Time for Miracles is a song written and composed by Alain Johannes and Natasha Schneider and produced by Rob Cavallo. "Adam Lambert" is the singer for the song and was released as a single off the album "For Your Entertainment". It was also released as a promotional single for the 2009 action-thriller movie "2012". The single was released on October 18th, 2009 for promotional release and on November 3rd, 2009 for radio mainstream. 
Before "Time for Miracles" was released to the public, it had already garnered positive reviews.
Brian May of Queen was able to listen to the full track and praised the song as "truly sensational" and complimented Lambert's vocals, stating, "Adam's voice reaches out with sensitivity, depth, maturity, and awesome range and power that will make jaws drop all around the world."
On the chart week ending November 7, 2009, "Time for Miracles" debuted at #50 on the Billboard Hot 100. In the United States, the song has sold 124,000 legal digital downloads.

</doc>
<doc id="280394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280394" title="2010–11 Philippine floods">
2010–11 Philippine floods

Strong rain in some places in the Central part of Visayas and Eastern section of Luzon and Mindanao caused floods. By January 12, the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) pegged those affected at 235,867 families or 1,230,022 people in 1,267 villages in 137 towns and 10 cities in 23 provinces.
The causes of flood was blamed by a stationary front or called tail-end of cold front and wind convergence.
PAGASA reported that the cold front will past at the places of Eastern Visayas and Central Visayas also the wind convergence
The first reports of flooding were at the Bicol Region provinces of Albay and Sorsogon. In late December, Albay governor Joey Salceda had placed his province under a state of emergancy after the rains caused the deaths of two people and the displacement of 4,000. He has also issued a mandatory evacuation on residents in affected areas. Fears of lahar flows from the recently active Mayon Volcano had been dismissed. In adjacent Sorsogon, 170 families had already been evacuated.
At the start of the new year, the cold front moved to the central part of the Philippines, stretching a rain band from Southern Leyte to Misamis Oriental. PAGASA forecast more rain until January 6 in these areas. At least five deaths have been confirmed in these areas: three children died after being buried by a landslide in Saint Bernard, Southern Leyte, while two others drowned in the same province. The town and five other municipalities in the province had also been without power. Several towns in Eastern Samar and Northern Samar have also reported flooding. Elsewhere, minor landslides were reported in Hinabangan, Samar and Tacloban. In Cebu City, a flight going to Siargao had been canceled, and landslides have also been reported.
More than 2,000 people have been displaced in the Caraga due to the rains. A landslide claimed a life of a person in Monkayo, Compostela Valley, while three girls were reported missing in the area.
On January 6, the cold front that affected Caraga and Eastern Visayas moved to Bicol and brought rains anew. This caused the evacuation of 8,200 people in the region.
By January 6, Butuan, Agusan del Sur towns of Bunawan and San Francisco, and Surigao del Sur were placed under state of calamity as additional seven deaths were recorded. Flood damage to government infrastructure in Caraga was at 141 million Philippine pesos (US$3.2 million).
More than 80% of the evacuees in Albay were sent home after conditions improved on January 7. Classes that were suspended on January 6 reopened the next day except for schools that were used as evacuation centers. Meanwhile, the floods subsided in Davao del Norte and Compostela Valley, but it destroyed the crops of some 2,100 farmers. The NDRRMC pegged the damages to agriculture and infrastructure nationwide at 183 million pesos (US$4.1 million).
As of January 23, 2010 the death toll from the floods has risen to 68 with 26 others still missing.
Another causes of flooding was the Wind Convergence.On January 26 heavy rain bought by the northeast monsoon fall down Cebu.
Salceda urged PAGASA to assign names to weather systems that are not storms that cause disruptions. Secretary of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) Rogelio Singson also said in a DWIZ interview that PAGASA "should draw up a classification system, not just for typhoons but also for massive rainfall." PAGASA for their part had already installed automatic weather stations, and established a community-based early warning system.
The Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP), which had been in a decades-long insurgency, instructed its military arm the New People's Army to help in relief operations. The government and the CCP ended their ceasefire on January 3.

</doc>
<doc id="280395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280395" title="Ryan White">
Ryan White

Ryan White (born March 17, 1988) is a Canadian professional ice hockey centre currently with the Montreal Canadiens organization of the National Hockey League (NHL).
White spent four seasons, from 2004–05 to 2007–08, in the Western Hockey League with the Calgary Hitmen. He was drafted by the Montreal Canadiens in the third round, 66th overall, in the 2006 NHL Entry Draft. Following his WHL career, White was assigned to the Canadiens' minor league affiliate, the Hamilton Bulldogs of the American Hockey League (AHL), where he recorded 29 points in 80 games as a rookie in 2008–09. 
White made his NHL debut in a call-up with the Montreal Canadiens on November 5, 2009 against the Boston Bruins, recording an assist. He was called up once again for a game against the Ottawa Senators the following month on December 8. White played the entirety of the first period before being pulled from the game after the NHL noticed he was playing, despite the Canadiens not having properly reported his call-up to the league before the 5 p.m. deadline.

</doc>
<doc id="280397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280397" title="Ken Wregget">
Ken Wregget

Kenneth Wregget (born March 25, 1964) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey goaltender. He won the Stanley Cup in 1992 with the Pittsburgh Penguins. 
He played for the Toronto Maple Leafs, Philadelphia Flyers, Pittsburgh Penguins, Calgary Flames, and Detroit Red Wings of the National Hockey League from 1983 through 2000. He played one season for the Manitoba Moose of the International Hockey League in 2000–2001 before retiring at the age of 37.
Wregget played for three seasons with the Lethbridge Broncos of the Western Hockey League and won the Del Wilson Trophy as the WHL's top goaltender in 1984. In 1983, he joined the St. Catharines Saints, the Toronto AHL affiliate, after being drafted by the Toronto Maple Leafs in the third round of the 1982 NHL Entry Draft, 45th overall. He split time for two seasons between St. Catharines and the Maple Leafs. The 1986–87 season was his first full year in the NHL.
In 1992, he was traded from the Philadelphia Flyers to the reigning champion Pittsburgh Penguins along with Kjell Samuelsson and Rick Tocchet in exchange for Mark Recchi. Wregget was generally backup to Penguins goaltender Tom Barrasso, although Wregget was regarded as a solid goaltender in his own right. There was frequent speculation that Wregget would take over as the starting goaltender.
Wregget's best season came in 1994–95 when he played in 38 games and compiled a 25–9-2 record with a 3.21 goals against average and a .903 save percentage while also leading the NHL in wins. He was also the goaltender who faced the first penalty shot ever awarded during an overtime period in NHL playoff history (1996). He stopped Washington Capitals star Joé Juneau, extending what was the third-longest game in NHL history, the longest game since 1936. The Penguins finally won 3–2 in the fourth overtime period.
In 2009, he was inducted into the Manitoba Hockey Hall of Fame.

</doc>
<doc id="280398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280398" title="Eau Claire, Wisconsin">
Eau Claire, Wisconsin

Eau Claire is a city in west central Wisconsin just south of Chippewa Falls.
There is a campus of University of Wisconsin System. The Eau Claire river flows into the Chippewa river in this town. The city started as a lumber town and wood was transported over the river. The name is from the French "eau claire" (clear water).

</doc>
<doc id="280402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280402" title="Isles of Scilly">
Isles of Scilly

The Isles of Scilly form an archipelago off the southwestern tip of the Cornish peninsula of Great Britain.
The islands have had a unitary authority council since 1890, and are separate from the Cornwall unitary authority. Some services are combined with Cornwall and the islands are still part of the ceremonial county of Cornwall.
The islands are designated an 'Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty'. They have been dangerous for ships, and there are 530 known shipwrecks around the archipelago.
Scilly has been inhabited since the Neolithic. Its history has been one of subsistence living until the early 20th century (people lived from what they could get from the land or the sea). Farming and fishing continue today, but the main industry now is tourism.
It is likely that until relatively recent times the Isles were much larger with many of them joined into one island, named Ennor. Rising sea levels flooded the central plain around 400–500 AD, forming the current islands.
Evidence for the older large island includes:
Offshore, midway between Land's End and the Isles of Scilly, is the supposed location of the mythical lost land of Lyonesse, referred to in Arthurian literature.
Scilly has been identified as the place of exile of two heretical 4th century bishops, Instantius and Tiberianus, who were followers of Priscillian.
The Isles of Scilly form an archipelago of five populated islands and many other small rocky islets (around 140 in total) lying 45 km (28 mi) off Land's End. They are all composed of granite of early Permian age.
The position of the islands causes great contrasts. The warming effect of the sea means they rarely have frost or snow. This allows local farmers to grow flowers earlier than would grow on mainland Britain. The chief agricultural product is cut flowers, mostly daffodils.
Exposure to Atlantic winds means that spectacular winter gales lash the islands from time to time. This is reflected in the landscape. On Tresco, the lush sub-tropical Tresco Abbey Gardens shelter on the southern end of the island, but the low heather and bare rock get the wind on the exposed northern end.

</doc>
<doc id="280405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280405" title="Calluna">
Calluna

Calluna vulgaris (known as Common Heather, or simply heather) is the sole species in the genus Calluna in the family Ericaceae. 
It is a low-growing perennial shrub growing to tall, or rarely to . It is found widely in Europe and Asia Minor on acidic soils in open sunny situations and in moderate shade. 
Heather is the dominant plant on most heaths and moorland in Europe, and in some bog vegetation and acidic pine and oak woodland. It is tolerant of grazing and regenerates following occasional burning. It is often managed in nature reserves and grouse moors by sheep or cattle grazing, and also by light burning.
The flowers emerge in late summer; in wild plants these are normally mauve, but white-flowered plants also occur occasionally.
Heather is an important food source for various sheep and deer which can graze the tips of the plants when snow covers low growing vegetation. Willow Grouse and Red Grouse feed on the young shoots and seeds of this plant. Both adults and larvae of the Heather Beetle "Lochmaea suturalis" feed on it, and can cause damage. The larvae of a number of Lepidoptera species also feed on the plant.
Heather honey is a highly valued product in moorland and heathland areas, with many beehives being moved there in late summer. It has a strong taste, and an unusual texture. It is thixotropic, being a jelly until stirred, when it becomes a syrup (like other honey), but then sets again to a jelly. This makes the extraction of the honey from the comb difficult, and it is therefore often sold as comb honey.
Heather is seen as iconic of Scotland, where the plant grows widely. When poems like "Bonnie Auld Scotland" speak of "fragrant hills of purple heather', when the hero of "Kidnapped" flees through the heather, when heather and Scotland are linked in the same sentence, the heather talked about is "Calluna vulgaris".

</doc>
<doc id="280406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280406" title="Piperales">
Piperales

Piperales is a botanical name for an order of flowering plants. It necessarily includes the family Piperaceae but otherwise has been treated variously over time. Well-known plants which may be included in this order include black pepper, kava, lizard's tail, birthwort, and wild ginger.

</doc>
<doc id="280407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280407" title="Category:Piperales">
Category:Piperales


</doc>
<doc id="280409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280409" title="Piperaceae">
Piperaceae

The Piperaceae, also known as the pepper family, is a large family of flowering plants. The group contains roughly 3,610 currently accepted species in five genera. The vast majority of peppers can be found within the two main genera: "Piper" (2000 species) and "Peperomia" (1600 species).

</doc>
<doc id="280417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280417" title="Carson Cistulli">
Carson Cistulli

Carson Cistulli is a poet and a journalist. He was born on December 23, 1979 in New Hampshire. He writes about himself and life. One important part of his life is baseball. Another important part of his life are books. He really likes the French poet Arthur Rimbaud and the American philosopher Ralph Waldo Emerson. He is also a radio host.
Carson started writing when he was a child. He read a lot of poetry when he was away from home at a boarding school called Milton Academy. One of his favorite poets was Kenneth Koch. When he grew up he went to school at Columbia University in New York City, the school where Kenneth was a teacher. When talking to a newspaper Carson said that he was "delighted" to study with Kenneth. Carson said, "if you’re a musician and your favorite musician is Bob Dylan you can’t just show up at Bob Dylan’s house. You can’t just [meet and talk to] Bob Dylan. The poetry world is like that. [Sometimes you can meet and talk to famous poets.]"

</doc>
<doc id="280424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280424" title="Eastern wallaroo">
Eastern wallaroo

The eastern wallaroo, "Macropus robustus", sometimes called the, common wallaroo, the red wallaroo, or just wallaroo lives on the sides of the Great Dividing Range. This runs for more than 3,000 km along the eastern and south-eastern coast of Australia. There are four subspecies of Eastern Wallaroo: 

</doc>
<doc id="280426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280426" title="Chrysler Town &amp; Country">
Chrysler Town &amp; Country

Chrysler Town & Country is a family minivan made by Chrysler. It was first sold in 1990. This vehicle is a luxury variant for Dodge Grand Caravan, the Volkswagen Routan and Chrysler Grand Voyager. The design has been changed several times.

</doc>
<doc id="280427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280427" title="Marjoram">
Marjoram

Marjoram ("Origanum majorana", Lamiaceae) is a somewhat cold-sensitive perennial herb or undershrub with sweet pine and citrus flavours. In some middle-eastern countries, marjoram is synonymous with oregano, and there the names sweet marjoram and knotted marjoram are used to distinguish it from other plants. 

</doc>
<doc id="280428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280428" title="Sidewise Award for Alternate History">
Sidewise Award for Alternate History

The Sidewise Awards for Alternate History were established in 1995. These awards are for the best alternate history stories and novels of the year.
The awards are named after the 1934 short story "Sidewise in Time" by Murray Leinster. In the story, a strange storm makes parts of the Earth exchange places with similar places from other timelines.
Steven H Silver, Evelyn C. Leeper, and Robert B. Schmunk created the award. The number of judges has changed in different years. There have been three to eight judges, including judges in the UK and South Africa.
There are two Sideways awards. The Short-Form award is for writing that is shorter than 60,000 words. The Long-Form award may be for writing that is longer than 60,000 words. This can include a novel or a complete series of novels. The judges may also give a Special Achievement Award, but this is not required every year. Special Achievement awards are for writing that was published befor1995. The awards are given each year, usually at Worldcon.

</doc>
<doc id="280431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280431" title="Gardner Dozois">
Gardner Dozois

Gardner Raymond Dozois (born July 23, 1947) is an American science fiction author and editor. He was editor of "Asimov's Science Fiction" magazine from 1984 to 2004. He has won several Hugo and Nebula awards. He won as an editor and as a writer of short fiction.
Dozois was born July 23, 1947 in Salem, Massachusetts He was in the Army from 1966 to 1969 as a journalist. He then moved to New York City to work as a science fiction editor. Dozois has said that one reason he started reading fiction was to escape his isolated home town.
He was badly injured in a traffic accident while going home from a Philadelphia Phillies game in a taxi in 2004. He missed Worldcon for the first time in many years because of the accident. He did make a full recovery. On July 6, 2007, Dozois had a planned heart surgery. A week later, he experienced problems and had another operation to put in a defibrillator.
He lives in Philadelphia.
Dozois has mostly written short stories. He won the Nebula Award for best short story twice: once for "The Peacemaker" in 1983, and again for "Morning Child" in 1984. His short fiction has been collected in "The Visible Man" (1977), "Geodesic Dreams" (a best-of collection), "Slow Dancing through Time" (1990, with other authors), and "Strange Days" (2001, another best-of collection). He has written fewer novels. He wrote one novel by himself, "Strangers" (1978). He wrote, "Nightmare Blue" (1977) with George Alec Effinger. Dozois also wrote "Hunter's Run" (2008) with George R. R. Martin and Daniel Abraham. After he became editor of "Asimov's", Dozois's wrote less fiction. But, recently he began writing more. His 2006 novelette "Counterfactual" won the Sidewise Award for best alternate-history short story. Dozois has also agreed to write short fiction reviews for "Locus".
Dozois has mainly worked as an editor. He won 15 Hugo Awards for Best Professional Editor. That is more than anyone else, nearly every year between 1988 and his retirement from "Asimov's" in 2004. He also worked in the 1970s with magazines such as Galaxy Science Fiction, If, Worlds of Fantasy, and Worlds of Tomorrow.
Dozois is well known for publishing books that collect many short stories. After leaving "Asimov's", he continued as the editor of the series "The Year's Best Science Fiction". This has been published each year since 1984. He has also edited a long series of themed anthologies with Jack Dann. Each book has a title that explains the theme, such as "Cats", "Dinosaurs", "Seaserpents", or "Hackers".
Dozois has always said he was especially interested in adventure SF and space opera. He calls these two sub-genre "center-core SF".
Michael Swanwick published a book-length interview with Dozois in 2001. The book was called "Being Gardner Dozois" and was about each published piece of fiction Dozois ever wrote. Swanwick had written some stories together with Dozois. In 2002, the interview was named as a possible Hugo Award for Best Related Book winner. It won the 2002 Locus Award for Non-Fiction.

</doc>
<doc id="280434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280434" title="Linear equation">
Linear equation

In mathematics, a linear equation is a type of equation. In a linear equation, both terms have to be constant. A linear equation is the equation of a straight line. This type of equation is written in the form:
y = mx + b 
or (y - y1) = m(x - x1)
where : m = the rate of change, or slope. 
The slope is how fast the line moves up or down. Larger numbers will make the slope steeper. 
If m is a negative number, then the line will appear to fall or go down the page when read from left to right. 
If m is a positive number, then the line will appear to climb the page when read from left to right. 
b = the y-intercept of the function. 
This is where the function crosses the y - axis of the coordinate plane.The first equation is called slope-intercept form, because in it, the slope (m) and y-intercept (b) are easily found.The second equation is called point-slope form, because in it, a point on the graph (x1, y1) and the slope (m) are easily found.

</doc>
<doc id="280435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280435" title="Matt Duchene">
Matt Duchene

Matt Duchene (born January 16, 1991 in Haliburton, Ontario) is a Canadian professional ice hockey centre for the Colorado Avalanche of the National Hockey League (NHL). He was picked by the Avalanche with the third overall pick in the 2009 NHL Entry Draft. He played in the OHL with the Brampton Battalion.

</doc>
<doc id="280436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280436" title="2081 (movie)">
2081 (movie)

2081 is a science fiction short film set in 2081. It was shown for the first time at the Seattle International Film Festival on May 29, 2009. Chandler Tuttle wrote and directed the film. It is based on the short story "Harrison Bergeron" by author Kurt Vonnegut. There are few actors in the film. The Kronos Quartet and Czech Philharmonic Chamber Orchestra performed thesoundtrack written by Lee Brooks.
IMDb ranks the movie in the top 10 Most Popular Short movies. 
"2081" shows a dystopian future in America. Amendments to the Constitution give great power to a member of government called the United States Handicapper General (HG). The HG's job is to make sure everyone is equal in every way. In this satire that means putting weights on strong people and making beautiful people look ugly. 
"2081" was produced for $100,000. It was produced in 2009.
"2081" was first shown at the Seattle International Film Festival in May 2009. The film was released on DVD on January 25, 2010.
As of January 2011, RottenTomatoes.com lists no professional reviews of "2081" and a 65% user rating. The IMDB user community gave the movie a weighted average rating of 6.9 / 10.
Reviewer Robert Ring described the film as "An amazing twenty-six minutes..." and that each scene adds to the one before. He said that some people would call the film an Orwellian warning. But he thinks it is better to call it a story about how important it is to be an independent person, even if that means life is terrible. He wrote, "This is a great film." 
Revolution Science Fiction magazine called the movie "stirring and dramatic". They added that the short movie moves quickly to the main point of the story and is a good version of the story.
The movie blog Filmonic compares the film to "Children of Men".

</doc>
<doc id="280438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280438" title="Crystal Gayle">
Crystal Gayle

Crystal Gayle (born Brenda Gail Webb, January 9, 1951 in Paintsville, Kentucky) is an American country singer. She had twenty one country hits in the 1970s and 1980s. She is the younger sister of singer Loretta Lynn. Crystal Gayle has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, near Loretta Lynn's star.

</doc>
<doc id="280440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280440" title="Joannie Rochette">
Joannie Rochette

Joannie Rochette (born January 13, 1986 in Montreal, Quebec) is a French-Canadian figure skater and six time Canadian campion who is known for her powerful, dynamic and musical skating abilities that she has gained through years of experience. According to Postmedia Network Inc. newspaper Rochette has been able to succeed in her skating career while maintaining a healthy diet, exercising, always being hydrated and training hard as she is serious about being healthy under duress.
Postmedia Network Inc.newspaper claims that she emotionally captured her audiences attention during the 2010 Winter Olympics performance right after her mother died while arriving in Vancouver. Postmedia network newspaper quoted her stating that she was "not prepared either emotionally or physically" to compete in the World Championships. However, regardless of her emotional state, Rochette decided to courageously step out into the skating rink and complete her final performance making her mother proud. Rochette won a bronze medal in the 2010 Winter Olympics for her performance that year.
Rochette was born in Montreal, Quebec on January 13, 1986, she was the only child of Thérèse  and Normand Rochette
. Joannie's father, Normand, trained young hockey players and he was the first to introduce Joannie to figure skating at a very young age of twenty-two months 
. Growing up in île Dupas, Quebec, Joannie seriously began taking skating lessons when she was only six years of age. Joannie's interests other than skating growing up were yoga, trampoline, ballet, reading, dancing and music. One of Rochette's tragic moments was on February 21, 2010, two days before the ladies' figure skating contest at the Winter Olympics in Vancouver, her mother, Thérèse Rochette, died of a heart attack at Vancouver General Hospital after coming to see her in the contest. However, even after this sudden death, Rochette stayed in the contest and skated in her mother's honour. At her mother's funeral, she placed her Olympic bronze medal on the casket for some time.
When asked in the National Post newspaper if her mother showed any symptoms of heart disease before her death Rochette stated " My grandfather had heart disease and he was not quite active, he was a heavy smoker and didn’t live a very healthy lifestyle". Rochette is currently participating in many events to create awareness about heart disease and the ways in which individuals can live an active lifestyle to prevent these types of diseases.
Joannie Rochette started skating at a young age and made her first appearance in Canadian skating between the year of 2000 and 2001 where she was announced winner of the Novice and Junior titles back to back 
. Rochette continued with the following year winning a bronze metal in her Senior debut 
. Rochette has also received several awards and medals such as the ISU Grand Prix Circuit and has earned the Grand Prix Final three times in a row 
. In 2006, Rochette's long dream of taking part in the Olympic Games in Turin, Italy came true. Rochette was placed in fifth place among several of other competitors.
Before becoming a Canadian Champion, Rochette won second place at the 2003 Canadian Championships which led her to the World Championships
. She returned every year since then and was placed in the top ten five times. In 2006, Rochette decided to participate in the Stars On Ice tour and describes her experience as a good way to skate outside of a competing environment
. Rochette continued to skate in 2008 and was able to win both the Skate Canada and the Trophée Eric Bompard with her performances. Before competing in the 2010 Olympics competition, Rochette participated in the 2009 Canadian Champion and won her fifth national title, this successful event led her to compete in the 2010 Olympics competition.
In 2010, Rochette's dream came true when she turned twenty-four as she performed in front of thousands at the 2010 Winter Olympics. This was a significant accomplishment as she displayed strength and courage while performing after having gone through a tragic moment of her mother's death. The Global News newspaper quoted Rochette saying "If I was going to compete, might as well do it well, and I knew that's what my mom would have wanted me to do". Rochette was able to complete an outstanding performance and received a bronze medal. After her 2010 Winder Olympics performance, Rochette received several awards such as Canada's flag bearer for the closing ceremonies and the named co-recipient of the Vancouver 2010 Terry fox award.
Since the 2010 Winter Olympics, the National post newspaper asked Rochette what she has been doing in the time spent after her win at the Olympics, Rochette stated that she has been skating in a less competitive environment where she can concentrate on her own abilities and perform in her personal way. She also claimed that she is with Stars on Ice doing shows in the U.S, Canada and Japan. Rochette also stated that she has been doing some minor independent shows and sometimes does conferences. 
Rochette is presently a spokesperson for the "iheartmom" campaign at the University of Ottawa Heart Institute, which tries to prevent heart disease in women.

</doc>
<doc id="280442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280442" title="Duval County, Florida">
Duval County, Florida

Duval County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. It was formed on August 12, 1822. As of 2008, 850,962 people lived there. Duval County's seat is Jacksonville.

</doc>
<doc id="280444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280444" title="Brevard County, Florida">
Brevard County, Florida

Brevard County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. It was formed on March 14, 1844. In 2000, 476,230 people lived there. Brevard County's seat is Titusville.

</doc>
<doc id="280445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280445" title="Collier County, Florida">
Collier County, Florida

Collier County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. It was formed on May 8, 1923. As of 2007, 315,839 people lived there. Collier County's seat is Naples.

</doc>
<doc id="280446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280446" title="Highland Boundary Fault">
Highland Boundary Fault

The Highland Boundary Fault is a geological fault that crosses Scotland diagonally from Arran and Helensburgh on the west coast to Stonehaven in the east. It separates two distinctly different regions: the Highlands from the Lowlands.
The geological history of Scotland can be understood as the result of two great tectonic events. The first was the formation of the global super-continent Pangaea, the second was the break-up of Pangaea to form the continents we know today.
The fault is the middle of three great faults which run south-east to north-west across Scotland. In the north there is the Great Glen Fault, and in the south the Southern Uplands Fault. Further south, just over the border with England, is the Iapetus Suture, where the palaeo-Iapetus Ocean closed. These four major geological signs mark the ancient history of Scotland.
The Highland Boundary Fault was active during the Caledonian orogeny. This was a plate tectonic collision which took place from Mid Ordovician to Mid Devonian periods (520 to 400 million years ago), during the closure of the Iapetus Ocean. 
The fault allowed the Midland Valley to descend as a major rift by up to 4000 metres and there was subsequently vertical movement. This movement was later replaced by a horizontal shear. A complementary fault, the Southern Uplands Fault, forms the southern boundary for the Central Lowlands.

</doc>
<doc id="280448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280448" title="Columbia County, Florida">
Columbia County, Florida

Columbia County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. It was formed on February 4, 1832. As of 2000, 56,513 people lived there. Columbia County's seat is Lake City.

</doc>
<doc id="280449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280449" title="Glades County, Florida">
Glades County, Florida

Glades County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida, and was formed on February 4, 1832. As of 2000, 10,576 people lived there. Glades County's seat is Moore Haven.

</doc>
<doc id="280450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280450" title="Hendry County, Florida">
Hendry County, Florida

Hendry County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida, and was formed on February 4, 1832. As of 2000, 36,210 people lived there. Hendry County's seat is La Belle.

</doc>
<doc id="280451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280451" title="Lake County, Florida">
Lake County, Florida

Lake County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida, and was formed on May 27, 1887. As of 2000, 210,528 people lived there. Lake County's seat is Tavares.

</doc>
<doc id="280456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280456" title="San Fernando, Chile">
San Fernando, Chile

San Fernando (in ) is the capital of the province of Colchagua, in the central zone (central part) of Chile. San Fernando is the second most populated urban center of the Region of O'Higgins. It is located near to the Tinguiririca River, in the valley of Colchagua, San Fernando is 1,112 feet (339 m) above the level of the se. San Fernando was founded in 1742, and became the provincial capital in 1840.
According to the census of 2002, by the National Statistics Institute, San Fernando covers an area of 2,441.3 square kilometers, and has 63,732 inhabitants (31,157 men and 32,575 women).

</doc>
<doc id="280457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280457" title="Leon County, Florida">
Leon County, Florida

Leon County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. It was formed on December 29, 1824. As of 2008, 264,063 people lived there. Leon County's seat is Tallahassee.

</doc>
<doc id="280460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280460" title="Liberty County, Florida">
Liberty County, Florida

Liberty County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida, and was formed on December 29, 1824. As of 2000, 7,021 people lived there. Liberty County's seat is Bristol.

</doc>
<doc id="280464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280464" title="2011 Egyptian revolution">
2011 Egyptian revolution

In the 2011 Egyptian revolution, many demonstrations and riots were held in Egypt. It is also called The Day of Anger and The Day of Revolt. It started on January 25, 2011.
Before the demonstrations began, there was an uprising in Tunisia. In the weeks after that, demonstrations and riots began in Egypt. The people who started these protests hoped that people would be encouraged to mobilize (or start working together to protest) because of the Tunisian uprising. Protests happened in Cairo, Alexandria, Suez and Ismailiya. 
On the first day of the protests, the Egyptian government censored most of the media (like newspapers and news stations) inside Egypt. The government also tried to block most social media websites, which the protesters had used to spread news about the events. On January 28, an internet and cell phone "blackout" began across Egypt. However, before dawn the next morning, the blackout for cell phones was ended.
By January 29, about 1,000 people had been arrested. Also, at least 1,030 protestors had been hurt, and at least 53 deaths had been reported.
People demonstrated and protested about many different things. Some of these things were police brutality, state of emergency laws, not having free elections, corruption, limits on freedom of speech, high unemployment, low minimum wages, not having enough housing, food price inflation, and poor living conditions.
Mohamed ElBaradei said that one of the revolution's goals could be to force Hosni Mubarak to quit. ElBaradei was seen as someone who would probably be a leader in a new government.
Before 2011, protests were common, but they were always local; they did not spread to different parts of the country. However, on January 25, 2011, major protests and riots broke out all over the country. January 25 became the "Day of Anger". Egyptian opposition groups (groups working for change) and other activists had picked this date for a major demonstration. The 2011 protests have been called "unprecedented" for Egypt. This means that nothing like the protests had ever happened before. The protests have also been called "the largest display of popular dissatisfaction in recent memory". These were the largest demonstrations seen in Egypt since the 1977 Egyptian Bread Riots. For the first time, Egyptians from different social backgrounds, economic backgrounds, and faiths joined together to protest.
During the protests, the capitol city of Cairo was described as "a war zone". In the port city of Suez, there were many violent clashes. The Egyptian government used different methods to try to break up and limit protests. Anti-riot police groups used shields, rubber bullets, batons, water cannons, and tear gas. At times, they also used live ammunition. Most of the police response to the protests was non-lethal. However, some people were killed. The government turned off internet access and set a curfew. The government argued that they needed to make sure there was as little disruption from the protests as possible. They said this was needed to keep order and to keep Islamic fundamentalist groups from rising up.
Many people across the world became interested in the protests in Egypt. This was partly because of things like Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube. Activists, and people interested in the protests, were able to use these social media platforms, and others. They used these platforms to talk to each other, work together, and keep records of what was happening. As the protests got more publicity, the Egyptian government tried harder to limit people's access to the internet, especially social media.
On February 11, Mubarak resigned from the presidency. On 24 May, he was ordered to stand trial on charges of premeditated murder of peaceful protesters. He was found guilty and sentenced to life imprisonment.

</doc>
<doc id="280467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280467" title="Scottish Highlands">
Scottish Highlands

The Scottish Highlands is an historic region of Scotland. It is the area to the north of the Highland Boundary Fault. The fault separates the hard igneous and metamorphic rocks to the north from the softer sedimentary rocks of the Scottish Lowlands in the south. 
The Highlands are divided in two parts. The Great Glen divides the Grampian Mountains to the southeast from the Northwest Highlands. 
The area is generally sparsely populated, with many mountain ranges, and includes the highest mountain in the British Isles, Ben Nevis. 
Before the 19th century the Highlands was home to a much larger population but, for several reasons, the area is now one of the most sparsely populated in Europe. The average population density in the Highlands and Islands is lower than that of Sweden, Norway, Papua New Guinea and Argentina.
The reasons for the low population include the harsh nature of the land. Also, the outlawing of the traditional Highland way of life after the Jacobite Rising of 1745, the infamous Highland Clearances, and mass migration to urban areas during the Industrial Revolution all had their effects.
People from this region are traditionally called highlanders.
Like the Scottish islands, the Highlands are a stronghold of Protestant churches. There is the Kirk (the national Presbyterian Church of Scotland), but the Wee Frees (Free Church of Scotland, several versions) are the typical religion of the Highlands and Islands. Old-style observance of the Sabbath is typical of these areas.

</doc>
<doc id="280469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280469" title="Dick Scobee">
Dick Scobee

Francis Richard "Dick" Scobee (May 19, 1939 - January 28, 1986) was an American astronaut. He was flying as the commander of Space Shuttle "Challenger" when the shuttle exploded. In the explosion, Scobee and six other astronauts were killed. 
Scobee was selected for NASA's astronaut program in January 1978 and he completed his training in August 1979. In April 1984, Scobee piloted the "Challenger" mission STS-41-C, which successfully deployed one satellite and repaired another. 
He was elevated to the role of spacecraft commander for the STS-51-L mission ("Challenger" mission). The mission was designed to deploy a satellite to study the approaching Halley's Comet and to inaugurate the Teacher in Space Project. It was delayed several times due to bad weather and technical glitches. When they did the mission, an O-ring seal failure destroyed the shuttle 73 seconds into the flight, killing Scobee and the other six members of the crew; the tragedy was viewed live on national television and prompted several days of national mourning.
Scobee is survived by his wife Virginia June Kent, and two children, Kathie R. (Scobee) Fulgham and Brigadier General Richard W. Scobee, USAF.

</doc>
<doc id="280471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280471" title="Category:Geography of Scotland">
Category:Geography of Scotland


</doc>
<doc id="280473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280473" title="Category:Islands of Scotland">
Category:Islands of Scotland


</doc>
<doc id="280476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280476" title="Category:United Kingdom general elections">
Category:United Kingdom general elections


</doc>
<doc id="280483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280483" title="Bay laurel">
Bay laurel

The Bay Laurel ("Laurus nobilis", of the Lauraceae family) is also known as 'Sweet Bay', 'Bay Tree', 'True Laurel', 'Grecian Laurel', 'Laurel Tree', or simply Laurel. 
It is an aromatic evergreen tree or large shrub with green, glossy leaves, native to the Mediterranean region. It is the source of the bay leaf used in cooking.

</doc>
<doc id="280486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280486" title="Scottish Lowlands">
Scottish Lowlands

The Scottish Lowlands is the part of Scotland not referred to as the Highlands.
That is everywhere south and east of the Highland Boundary Fault, between Stonehaven and Helensburgh (on the Firth of Clyde). 
Geographically, Scotland Lowlands are divided into two distinct areas: the Central Lowlands, and the Southern Uplands. 
The southernmost counties of Scotland, nearest the border with England, are also known as the Borders. 
The Central Lowlands or Midland Valley is a geologically defined area of relatively low-lying land in southern Scotland. It consists of a rift valley between the Highland Boundary Fault to the north and the Southern Uplands Fault to the south. The Central Lowlands are one of the three main geographical sub-divisions of Scotland, the other two being the Highlands and Islands which lie to the north and west and the Southern Uplands, which lie south of the second fault line.
The Midland Valley has fertile low-lying agricultural land and significant deposits of valuable coal and iron have led to the Central Lowlands being much more densely populated than the rest of Scotland. 
The major cities of Glasgow, Edinburgh, Stirling and Dundee all lie in the Central Lowlands, and over half of Scotland's population lives in this region.
The Southern Uplands is the least populated of mainland Scotland's three major geographic areas. They lie south of the Southern Uplands Fault line that runs from Ballantrae on the Ayrshire coast northeastwards to Dunbar in East Lothian on the North Sea coast, a distance of some . The term is used both to describe the geographical region and to collectively denote the various ranges of hills within this region.
The Southern Uplands Fault in Scotland is a fault that runs from Girvan (or more specifically from the Rhins of Galloway) to Dunbar on the East coast. It marks the southern boundary of the Scottish Midland Valley.

</doc>
<doc id="280490" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280490" title="Grampian Mountains">
Grampian Mountains

The Grampian Mountains or Grampians are one of the three major mountain ranges in Scotland, occupying a considerable portion of the Scottish Highlands in northeast Scotland. They occupy almost half the land-area of Scotland.
The Grampians extend southwest to northeast between the Highland Boundary Fault (south) and the Great Glen (north). This includes the Cairngorms and the Lochaber hills. The range includes Ben Nevis (the highest point in the British Isles at 1,344 metres above sea level) and Ben Macdui (the second highest at 1,309 metres).
The mountains are composed of granite, and metamorphic rocks such as gneiss, marble, schists and quartzite. The other major mountain ranges in Scotland are the Northwest Highlands and the Southern Uplands.

</doc>
<doc id="280493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280493" title="Northwest Highlands">
Northwest Highlands

The Northwest Highlands are the northern third of Scotland, which is separated from the Grampian Mountains by the Great Glen. The Caledonian Canal, which extends from Loch Linnhe in the west, via Loch Ness to the Moray Firth in the north splits this area from the rest of the country. 
The Highlands are formed on Lewisian gneiss, the oldest layers of rock in Scotland. There are impressive rock islands of dark red or gray Torridonian sandstone which stick up out of the gneiss. Some of the peaks, such as Beinn Eighe and Canisp, are topped with light gray or white Cambrian quartzite.
The city of Inverness, known as the "Capital of the Highlands", is by far the largest settlement in the region. It is the administrative centre for the Highland Council area.
This area's climate varies with altitude. It has wet, warm summers, average under 17C (62.6F). The winters are mild at low altitude but become snowier and colder with higher elevation. 
Mountains may have up to 6 months of snow. Naturally the area would be a vast birch, pine and montane shrub forest, such as those surviving in Glen Affric. Snow may lie from more than a month to 105 days, but not at coastal or very low altitudes.
The region has steep, glacier-carved mountains, valleys and interspersed plains. Many islands (which also vary widely) lie off the coast. 
Elevations of around 800 metres or over are common, as are mountains exceeding 1000 metres. 
The Northwest Highlands are typically not quite as cold as the Cairngorms. Considering its terrain and its latitude of about 57 to 58 degrees North, the area is surprisingly warm: this is due to the mild influence of the Gulf Stream. The aurora borealis is sometimes visible on winter nights, weather permitting, especially at the climax of the 11 year cycle.
Bordering the region to the north east is the lowland area of Caithness.
The region has a very low population density. Significant settlements are Kyle of Lochalsh, Mallaig, Dingwall, Dornoch, and Ullapool.
Geologically, the Northwest Highlands includes the Hebrides, especially Lewis and Harris.
The main outcrops of the Lewisian complex are on the islands of the Outer Hebrides, including Lewis, from which the complex takes its name. It is also exposed on several islands of the Inner Hebrides, small islands north of the Scottish mainland and forms a coastal strip on the mainland. 
The Lewisian complex or Lewisian Gneiss is a suite of Precambrian metamorphic rocks that outcrop in the northwestern part of Scotland, forming part of the Hebridean Terrane. These rocks are of Archaean and Paleoproterozoic age, ranging from 3.0–1.7 billion years ago. 
They form the basement on which later sediments were deposited. The Lewisian consists mainly of granitic gneisses. Rocks of the Lewisian complex were caught up in the Caledonian orogeny, appearing in the hanging walls of many of the thrust faults formed during the late stages of this tectonic event.
Its presence at the seabed and beneath Palaeozoic and Mesozoic strata west of Shetland has been confirmed by shallow boreholes and hydrocarbon exploration wells. 
Basement rocks of similar type are found at the base of the Moine Supergroup, sometimes with well-preserved unconformable contacts. These form part of the Lewisian, so the Lewisian complex extends at least as far southeast as the Great Glen Fault.
The Highlands are formed from the remains of the old Caledonian mountain range in northern Europe, the Caledonian orogeny. This included what is now Scandinavia (Norway, Sweden), Scotland, Wales, Normandy and Brittany in France. 

</doc>
<doc id="280497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280497" title="Exposé (group)">
Exposé (group)

Exposé is an American pop-rock group. The group was formed in 1984. Members of the group included Ann Curless, Jeanette Jurado and Gioia Bruno. They had success in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Exposé are the first music group to have four top 10 hit songs on the Billboard Hot 100. The group have had over 25 million records worldwide.

</doc>
<doc id="280498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280498" title="Caper">
Caper

The caper ("Capparis spinosa"), is a perennial winter-deciduous species that bears rounded, fleshy leaves and big white to pinkish-white flowers. A caper is also the pickled bud of this plant. Caper bush is present in almost all the countries and is included in the floristic composition of most of them but whether it is indigenous to this region is uncertain. Although the flora of the Mediterranean region has considerable endemism, the caper bush could have originated in the tropics, and later been naturalized to the Mediterranean basin.

</doc>
<doc id="280499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280499" title="Category:Medicinal plants">
Category:Medicinal plants


</doc>
<doc id="280506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280506" title="Titan stick insect">
Titan stick insect

The Titan stick insect is one of the largest stick insects in Australia. It has a brown body with spikes on its neck. The Titan stick insect can reach up to 27 cm in length, and takes the form of a stick as a disguise to predators.
The Titan stick insect can be found in two states of Australia; Queensland and New South Wales.
The Titan Stick insect reproduces through sexual reproduction and lay eggs that hatch.

</doc>
<doc id="280507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280507" title="Physique">
Physique

Physique is the makeup (build, constitution, figure, form, shape) of a person's body. Constitution or body type refer to a number of classification systems used to empirically or theoretically classify the body shape of human individuals.

</doc>
<doc id="280508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280508" title="Category:Physiques">
Category:Physiques


</doc>
<doc id="280512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280512" title="Saitama, Saitama">
Saitama, Saitama

The city was founded on May 1, 2001, and was designated on April 1, 2003 as a government ordinance. For the histories of Urawa, Ōmiya and Yono before the merger, see
Urawa-ku and Saitama, Ōmiya-ku and Saitama and Yono and Saitama, respectively.
On April 1, 2005, it merged with the city of Iwatsuki to its east, which became a new ward, Iwatsuki-ku.
The city is 20 to 30 km north of central Tokyo. This is the center of the Kantō Plain. The city is mostly below 20 m above sea level. There are no mountains or hills in the city.
Saitama has ten wards ("ku"), which were assigned official colours as of April 2005:
Manufacturing includes automotive (Honda manufactures the Honda Legend here), food, optical, precision and pharmaceutical products. Iwatsuki is famous for manufacturing of "hinamatsuri" dolls and ornate "kabuto" (samurai helmets).
Saitama is a regional transportation hub for both passengers and freight.
Ōmiya Station is the biggest railway hub in the prefecture.
The closest major airports are Haneda Airport and Narita International Airport, both about two hours away.
Omiya Law School
Saitama has two J. League football (soccer) teams: the Urawa Red Diamonds and Omiya Ardija.
The name "Saitama" originally comes from the Sakitama (埼玉郡) district of what is now the city of Gyōda in the northern part of what is now known as Saitama Prefecture. "Sakitama" has an ancient history and is mentioned in the famous 8th century poetry anthology Man'yōshū. The pronunciation has changed from Sakitama to Saitama over the years.
With the merger of Urawa, Ōmiya, and Yono it was decided that a new name, one fitting for this newly-created prefectural capital, was needed. The prefectural name "Saitama" (埼玉県) was changed from kanji into hiragana, thus Saitama City (さいたま市) was born. It is the only prefectural capital in Japan whose name is always written in hiragana, and belongs to the list of hiragana cities.
However, Saitama written in hiragana (さいたま市) actually finished in second place in public polling to Saitama written in kanji (埼玉市). Despite this, government officials decided to name the new city Saitama in hiragana, not kanji. In third place in the poll was Ōmiya (大宮市). In fourth was Saitama (彩玉市), written with an alternative kanji for "sai" (彩) which means "colorful". The "sai" (埼) used in the prefectural name is a rare form of a common character (崎) that means cape or promontory.
Saitama has six sister cities.

</doc>
<doc id="280521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280521" title="Eino Tamberg">
Eino Tamberg

Eino Tamberg (May 27 1930— December 24 2010) was a composer and musician from Estonia. He was famous for the variety of works he wrote including symphonies, concertos, operas and ballets. he was a student of the Tallinn Conservatory, where he later taught composition.
He was given many awards including:
These are some of the works written by Tamberg:

</doc>
<doc id="280522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280522" title="Marilu Henner">
Marilu Henner

Mary Lucy Denise Henner, better known as Marilu Henner, is an American actress, author and producer. She is best known for her role in the television sitcom "Taxi". The actress was born in Chicago, April 6, 1952.
Henner has been a contestant in two seasons of "The Celebrity Apprentice".

</doc>
<doc id="280523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280523" title="Danny Woodhead">
Danny Woodhead

Danny Woodhead (born January 25, 1985 in North Platte, Nebraska) is an American football running back for the New England Patriots of the National Football League (NFL). Woodhead made his NFL debut with the New York Jets in 2008 and was signed by the New England Patriots on September 18, 2010.
Danny Woodhead at nfl.com

</doc>
<doc id="280524" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280524" title="Andean condor">
Andean condor

The Andean condor ("Vultur gryphus"), is a vulture-like bird species found in the Andes mountains and adjacent Pacific coasts of western South America. It is the largest flying land bird in the Western Hemisphere and the heaviest member of the order Ciconiiformes. The condor is primarily a scavenger, feeding on carrion, and belongs to the New World vulture.
Although about 5 cm shorter (beak to tail) on average than the California condor, the Andean condor is undoubtedly larger in wingspan: 108-122 in (274–310 cm). It is also heavier: up to 24-33 lb (11–15 kg) for males and 16-24 lb (7.5–11 kg) for females. Overall length can range from 46 to 53 inches (117 to 135 cm). Measurements are usually taken from specimens reared in captivity.

</doc>
<doc id="280525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280525" title="Category:Birds of South America">
Category:Birds of South America


</doc>
<doc id="280527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280527" title="Lost Horizon (novel)">
Lost Horizon (novel)

Lost Horizon is a 1933 novel by English writer James Hilton. In this book, Hilton imagined a special place high in the mountains of Tibet. It was a utopian city where people could live to be hundreds of years old. This perfect place was called Shangri-La.
Hugh Conway is a member of the British diplomatic service. He finds inner peace, love, and a sense of purpose in Shangri-La. People there live a very long time. One theme of the book is the possibility of another world war and war preparations. This was actually happening at the time. The story is similar to travel stories in the Tibetan borderlands by Joseph Rock in the "National Geographic" magazine. The remote communities he visited, such as Muli are similar to Hilton's fictional Shangri-La. The Muli town of Zhongdian has its name to Shangri La (Chinese: Xianggelila).
The book describes how war on the ground would move into the air. Life and all special things could be lost, even history. Maybe Shangri-la would protect these important things for later when the world was tired of war. That was the real purpose of the city.
Conway survived the trench warfare of WWI. This strongly affected his emotions. He was exhausted and felt older than he really was. He is strongly attracted to life at Shangri-La because the monks understood him.
The origin of the eleven numbered chapters of the novel is explained in two opening and closing sections. The narrator is a neurologist.
This neurologist friend named Rutherford were eating dinner at Tempelhof, Berlin with their old school-friend Wyland. The topic of Hugh Conway comes up in conversation. He was a British consul in Afghanistan, who disappeared mysteriously. Rutherford tells the narrator later that evening that he met Conway in a French mission hospital in Chung-Kiang (probably Chongqing), China. Conway had amnesia, but recovered his memory. He told Rutherford his story, then disappeared again.
Rutherford wrote down Conway's story and gave it to the neurologist. That story became the main part of the novel.
In May, 1931, during the British Raj in India, 80 white residents were evacuated to Peshawar because of a revolution. Conway, the British consul, age 37; Mallinson, his young vice-consul; an American, Barnard; and a British missionary, Miss Brinklow are in an airplane. The plane is hijacked and flown over the mountains to Tibet. After a crash landing, the pilot dies. But, he told the four to get help at the nearby lamasery of Shangri-La. They do not know where they are, but Conway thinks they passed the Himalayas and are near the Kuen-Lun (i.e. Kunlun).
Chang lives at Shangri-La and speaks English. He takes the four to the lamasery. It has modern conveniences, like central heating; bathtubs from Akron, Ohio; a large library; a grand piano; a harpsichord; and food from the valley below. Above is Karakal, a mountain more than high. Karakal mean "Blue Moon".
Mallinson wants to hire help and leave, but Chang stops him politely. The others eventually decide they are happy to stay. Miss Brinklow will teach the people a sense of sin. Barnard wants to hide form the police and look for gold. Conway likes the quiet life of study.
Lo-Tsen is a Manchu woman at the lamasery. She seems very young. She does not speak English but plays the harpsichord. Mallinson falls in love with her. Conway does too.
Conway meets the High Lama. He learns that the lamasery was built by a Catholic monk named Perrault from Luxembourg in the early eighteenth century. The lamasery has since then been joined by others who have found their way into the valley. Once they enter the valley, they age slowly. If they leave the valley, they age quickly and die. Conway guesses that the High Lama is Perrault, now 300 years old. He is correct.
Later, the High Lama says that he is finally dying. He wants Conway to lead the lamasery. Meanwhile, Mallinson has arranged to leave the valley with Lo-Tsen and workers to carry their food and belongings. They are waiting for him outside the valley, but Mallinson cannot cross the dangerous route by himself. He convinces Conway to go along. This ends Rutherford's story.
The last time Rutherford saw Conway, it seemed he was preparing to return to Shangri-La. Rutherford tells the neurologist that he tried to follow Conway and check his stories of Shangri-La. He found the Chung-Kiang doctor who had treated Conway. The doctor said Conway had been brought in by a Chinese woman who was ill. She soon died. The doctor told Rutherford the woman was very old. Rutherford thought the old woman was Lo-Tsen. She had aged quickly after leaving Shangri-La.
The book was published in 1933. It only became popular after Hilton's next book, "Goodbye, Mr. Chips", was published in 1934. "Lost Horizon" then became a huge success. In 1939, it was published in paperback, as Pocket Book #1. Because of its number-one position in what became a very long list of pocket editions, "Lost Horizon" is often called the first American paperback book. This is not correct. The first pocket-sized, paperback book sold in many stores in America was Pearl Buck's "The Good Earth" by Pocket Books in 1938 as an experiment.
U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt named the Presidential hideaway in Maryland after Shangri-La. Now it is called Camp David. Roosevelt also lied to the public and said that the Doolittle Raid came from Shangri-La. This became the idea to name an aircraft carrier USS Shangri-La.
The book has been made into two movies:
The book was also made into the unsuccessful 1956 Broadway musical "Shangri-La".
Hilton's novel was adapted for BBC Radio 4 in three hour-long episodes under its Classic Serial banner. It was broadcast 20 September to 4 October 1981. Barry Campbell directed. Derek Jacobi played Hugh Conway.
The novel is important in the book "Deadeye Dick" by Kurt Vonnegut.

</doc>
<doc id="280529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280529" title="Black vulture">
Black vulture

The black vulture ("Coragyps atratus"), also known as the American black vulture, is a bird in the New World vulture family.
Its range is from the southeastern United States to Central Chile and Uruguay in South America. It is a common and widespread species, but less so than the turkey vulture, which breeds well into Canada and south to Tierra del Fuego. Despite the similar name and appearance, this species is unrelated to the Eurasian black vulture.

</doc>
<doc id="280530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280530" title="Alabaster (disambiguation)">
Alabaster (disambiguation)

The term alabaster could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="280531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280531" title="Mark Dayton">
Mark Dayton

Mark Dayton (born January 26, 1947) is the current Governor serving in Minnesota. He was the United States Senator from Minnesota 2001 to 2007. He is of the Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party.
In January 2017, Dayton was diagnosed with prostate cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="280534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280534" title="Daryn Colledge">
Daryn Colledge

Daryn Colledge (born February 11, 1982 in Fairbanks, Alaska) is an American football guard.
Colledge won Super Bowl XLV in 2011 with the Packers.

</doc>
<doc id="280537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280537" title="Welcome to Paradise">
Welcome to Paradise

Welcome to Paradise is a song by rock band Green Day. It first appeared on their second album "Kerplunk". But a new version appeared on the album "Dookie".
The song is about the urban life of people in West Oakland and it's based on the band members lives in a rundown warehouse in West Oakland.
The song was written by Billie Joe Armstrong.
The music video shows Billie Joe (Green Day's singer) playing a West Oakland citizen who watches a dangerous notoriety caused by a group of thugs then he goes home to watch the citizens and what they do each day.
The "Kerplunk" version has a slower sound and the "Dookie" version is more fast paced and also both versions have slightly different lyrics. The original version of the song from "Kerplunk" was not a single but the "Dookie" version was.
The album cover for "Dookie" in fact, shows a comedic depiction of chaos happening in West Oakland.
In the booklet for the "Dookie" album a cartoonish drawing in West Oakland is shown.

</doc>
<doc id="280543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280543" title="CP violation">
CP violation

CP Violation is the way that nature breaks the laws that say that when you change a system by C symmetry or P symmetry then some descriptions of the system should stay the same before and after the change. The 'violation' is that they don't stay the same and the amounts are not conserved. CP symmetry says that the laws of physics should act the same on a particle and on its antiparticle (Charge conjugation symmetry) and if it was also turned around like in a mirror (P symmetry.) 
The 1964 nobel prize was given to James Cronin and Val Fitch for finding CP violation in the way neutral kaons decay.

</doc>
<doc id="280544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280544" title="Parity">
Parity

In physics, parity is a transformation in which the mirror image of a system (meaning experiment) is considered. If the system behaves in the mirror image as it normally would, it is said to respect parity symmetry, usually shortened to "P symmetry." Most types of physics respects P symmetry. One type of interaction that often does not respect this symmetry is the weak interaction.

</doc>
<doc id="280545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280545" title="Charge conjugation">
Charge conjugation

Charge conjugation describes a type of symmetry of nature. To preform a charge conjugation, one would exchange all particles with their corresponding antiparticles. This action would create a physical system where everything would be the same except the electromagnetic charge would be reversed. For example, one could make an antihydrogen atom with an antiproton and an antielectron. This would result in an atom with a negatively charged nucleus orbited by a positively charged positron. The masses of the nucleus and the lepton orbiting the nucleus would remain unchanged. If the behavior of the system (such as the atom mentioned above) remains unchanged after charge conjugation, the system is said to be symmetric with respect to charge conjugation. This symmetry is also known as "C symmetry."

</doc>
<doc id="280550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280550" title="Another Love Song (Insane Clown Posse song)">
Another Love Song (Insane Clown Posse song)

"Another Love Song'" is a 1999 midwest hip hop song by the American Horrorcore band Insane Clown Posse and is the first single from their fifth studio album "The Amazing Jeckel Brothers", which was released in 1999. The song was produced by Insane Clown Posse and Mike Clark. The main music for "Another Love Song" comes from the 1996 single "Jack-Ass" from Beck.

</doc>
<doc id="280551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280551" title="Category:Insane Clown Posse songs">
Category:Insane Clown Posse songs

Songs by the American horrorcore band Insane Clown Posse

</doc>
<doc id="280553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280553" title="Great Glen">
Great Glen

The Great Glen is a series of glens in Scotland. It runs 100 kilometres from Inverness on the Moray Firth to Fort William at the head of Loch Linnhe.
The Great Glen follows a large geological fault known as the Great Glen Fault. It bisects the Scottish Highlands into the Grampian Mountains to the southeast and the Northwest Highlands to the northwest.
The Glen is a natural travelling route in the Highlands of Scotland, which is used by both the Caledonian Canal and A82 road, which link the city of Inverness on the east coast with Fort William on the West. 
It was important in controlling the Highland Scottish clans, particularly in the Jacobite uprisings of the 18th century. This is recognised by the towns of Fort William (population ~10,000) in the south, Fort Augustus (popln. 600+) in the middle of the Glen, and Fort George (to this day an army barracks), just to the north of Inverness. These settlements were built by the British Army to control the Highlands in the 17th/18th centuries. 
Fort William is now a significant town. Despite the difficult terrain, Fort William has rail connection with Glasgow in the south and Mallaig on the north-west coast. It is a tourism centre. The Caledonian Canal connects it with Inverness.
Much of the Glen is taken up with a series of lochs, with rivers connecting them. The Caledonian Canal also uses the lochs as part of the route, but the rivers are not navigable. 
From northeast to southwest, the natural water features along the Great Glen are: 
The watershed, or water-divide, lies between Loch Oich and Loch Lochy. Loch Linnhe to the south of Fort William is a sea-loch into which both the River Lochy and Caledonian Canal emerge. At the north end, the River Ness empties into the Moray Firth.
The Great Glen Fault is a long strike-slip fault that runs through its namesake the Great Glen in Scotland. The fault is actually much longer, and over 400 million years old. It extends in both directions beyond mainland Scotland.
Aligned northeast to southwest, the Great Glen Fault extends further southwest in a straight line into northwestern Ireland, directly through Lough Foyle, Donegal Bay and Clew Bay. 
To the northeast the fault continues, before becoming obscured by the effects of Mesozoic rifting to the north of Shetland.
The fault continues on the North American side of the North Atlantic Ocean, but is no longer part of a continuous fault. The complete fault was broken when the Mid-Atlantic Ridge formed 200 million years ago. 
The North American side of the fault runs the length of northwestern Newfoundland, Canada, and on into the Gulf of St. Lawrence. It is at least 300 miles (480 km) long.
The Great Glen Fault has a long history of movements. It formed towards the end of the Caledonian orogeny (mountain building) associated with the collision of tectonic plates at the end of the Silurian period, and continued into the early Devonian. The likely age range of the fault is 430–390 million years ago. 
The second main phase of movement was during the Carboniferous. The exact timing is uncertain but associated folds within the Devonian are cut by members of the Upper Carboniferous to Lower Permian dyke swarm. The Great Glen Fault had its final phase of movement during the Upper Cretaceous to early Tertiary. The displacement is estimated to be 64 miles (104 km).
Weathering along the fault zone during Quaternary glaciation formed the famous Loch Ness. 
The fault is mostly inactive today, but occasional moderate tremors have been recorded over the past 150 years.

</doc>
<doc id="280560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280560" title="Bizzar">
Bizzar

Bizzar is the sixth studio album by American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse and is the second half of "Bizaar". It was released on October 31, 2000. The producer of the album were Mike E. Clark. While on the Howard Stern show, ICP talked with Sharon Osbourne who bet $50, 000 they could not sell more than 200,000 copies, and that it would be subsequently dropped from its distributor. Violent J predicted that the group's next album would sell at least 500,000 units and they sold 400,000 units but Sharon never paid them. They left Island Records after "Bizaar" and "Bizzar" because their contract expired.

</doc>
<doc id="280602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280602" title="The Wraith: Shangri-La">
The Wraith: Shangri-La

The Wraith: Shangri-La is the eighth studio album by American horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on November 5, 2002. The producer of the album was Mike Puwal. The album was the sixth and final of the "Joker Cards" in the Dark Carnival mythology. The album peaked at number 15 on the Billboard 200 and peaked number 1 on the Top Independent Albums in both 2002 and 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="280620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280620" title="Hell's Pit">
Hell's Pit

Hell's Pit is the ninth studio album by American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on August 31, 2004. The producer of the album was Mike Puwal. The album was the final of the "Joker Cards" chapter of the Dark Carnival mythology. The album peaked at number 12 on the Billboard 200, peaked number 1 on the Top Independent Albums and peaked at number 1 on the Top Internet Albums.

</doc>
<doc id="280621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280621" title="The Tempest (album)">
The Tempest (album)

The Tempest is the tenth studio album by American horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on March 20, 2007. The producer of the album was Mike E. Clark.
The album peaked at number 20 on the Billboard 200, peaked number 1 on the Top Independent Albums and peaked at number 20 on the Top Internet Albums.

</doc>
<doc id="280622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280622" title="Bang! Pow! Boom!">
Bang! Pow! Boom!

Bang! Boom! Pow! is the eleventh studio album by American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on September 1, 2009. The producer of the album was Mike E. Clark. The album is the first in a set of six new Joker's Cards since the conclusion of the original Joker's Cards. The music video for their song, "Miracles" became viral and was known for being parodied on Saturday Night Live which Insane Clown Posse called "A huge honor".
The album peaked at number 4 on the Billboard 200, peaked number 1 on the Top Independent Albums and peaked at number 3 on the Top Rap Albums.

</doc>
<doc id="280623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280623" title="The Mighty Death Pop!">
The Mighty Death Pop!

The Mighty Death Pop! is the twelfth studio album by American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on August 14, 2012. The Mike E. Clark produced the album. The album is the second in a set of six Joker's Cards since the conclusion of the original Joker's Cards. The album features guest singers such as Hopsin and Tech N9ne on the song ""Skreem!". They released their first single "Chris Benoit"" from the album and it's about the professional wrestler Chris Benoit who died in a murder-suicide after he killed his wife and son.

</doc>
<doc id="280624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280624" title="Category:Insane Clown Posse albums">
Category:Insane Clown Posse albums

Albums by Insane Clown Posse

</doc>
<doc id="280626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280626" title="Mike E. Clark">
Mike E. Clark

Mike E. Clark is a record producer and DJ. Mike E. Clark has worked with famous musicians and groups like Insane Clown Posse, Kid Rock and George Clinton. He is best known for working with Insane Clown Posse. As of 2012 he has produced all twelve of their albums.

</doc>
<doc id="280627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280627" title="Miracles (Insane Clown Posse song)">
Miracles (Insane Clown Posse song)

"Miracles'" is a 2010 midwest hip hop song by the American Horrorcore band Insane Clown Posse and is the first single from their eleventh studio album "Bang! Pow! Boom!", which was released in 2009. The song was produced by Insane Clown Posse and Mike Clark. The song is also known becoming an internet meme.
The music video for the song became viral, and was parodied by Saturday Night Live which Insane Clown Posse called "a huge honor".

</doc>
<doc id="280630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280630" title="Insane Clown Posse discography">
Insane Clown Posse discography

This article presents the discography of the hip hop/horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse.

</doc>
<doc id="280631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280631" title="Beverly Kills 50187">
Beverly Kills 50187

Beverly Kills 50187 is the first EP by American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on July 16, 1993. The producers of the EP were Mike E. Clark, Insane Clown Posse, Esham and Chris Conley. The EP featured the only appearance of member Greez-E, who appears on the songs "In the Haughhh!" and "17 Dead". The EP's name is a parody of Beverly Hills 90210.

</doc>
<doc id="280637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280637" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Template:Blp">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Template:Blp


</doc>
<doc id="280654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280654" title="Betaucourt">
Betaucourt

Betaucourt is a commune. It is found in the region Bourgogne-Franche-Comté in the Haute-Saône department in the east of France.

</doc>
<doc id="280655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280655" title="Betoncourt-lès-Brotte">
Betoncourt-lès-Brotte

Betoncourt-lès-Brotte is a commune. It is found in the region Bourgogne-Franche-Comté in the Haute-Saône department in the east of France.

</doc>
<doc id="280656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280656" title="Bassigney">
Bassigney

Bassigney is a commune. It is found in the region Bourgogne-Franche-Comté in the Haute-Saône department in the east of France.

</doc>
<doc id="280664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280664" title="Rosids">
Rosids

The rosids are a large clade of flowering plants. It includes about 70,000 species, more than a quarter of all angiosperms. 
The rosids are divided into 17 orders. These orders together make up about 140 families. The rosids and the asterids are by far the largest clades in the eudicots.
Fossil rosids are known from the Cretaceous period. Molecular clock estimates indicate that the rosids originated in the Aptian or Albian stages of the Cretaceous, between 125 and 99.6 million years ago (mya).
Three different definitions of the rosids are in use. Some authors include the order Saxifragales in the rosids. Others exclude it.

</doc>
<doc id="280666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280666" title="Commelinales">
Commelinales

Commelinales is the botanical name of an order of flowering plants. It's considered that the Commelinales together with Zingiberales evolved in the Late Cretaceous around 80 millions of years ago. Two of the best-known genera in the order are "Commelina" and "Tradescantia".It is made of the families Commelinaceae,Haemodoraceae,Hanguanaceae,Phylidraceae,and Pondteriaceae.Another name for this plant order is Haemodorales.

</doc>
<doc id="280668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280668" title="White Center, Washington">
White Center, Washington

White Center is a place in King County, Washington, United States. It is near Seattle and Burien. It is connected to Burien and has been ever since April 1, 2010. There were 13,495 people living in White Center in 2010.
About 99.71% of White Center is land and .29% is water.
There are 7,542 homes in White Center. Though, 35.6% have children that are under 18 living in the homes. Another 6.7% are seniors age 65 and older in a home by themselves.
White Center is a part of the Highline School District. Schools cover most of the Southwestern King County. Elementary schools include Beverly Park Elementary, Mount View Elementary, Southern Heights Elementary, and White Center Heights Elementary. Secondary schools include Cascade Middle School, New Start High School, and Evergreen High School. Evergreen has three "small schools" on its campus, namely the Arts & Academic Academy, the Health, Science, & Human Services School, and the Technology, Engineering, & Communications Schools.

</doc>
<doc id="280670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280670" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Cascade Middle School (King County, Washington)">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Cascade Middle School (King County, Washington)


</doc>
<doc id="280681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280681" title="Toni Collette">
Toni Collette

Antonia "Toni" Collette (born 1 November 1972) is an Australian actress and singer. She was born in Blacktown, New South Wales, a suburb of Sydney.
Collette's acting career began during the early 1990s. She starred in several Australian movies, including: "Muriel's Wedding", "In Her Shoes", "Little Miss Sunshine" and "The Black Balloon". In 2013 she had a convincing starring role as an American mother in the Nat Faxon and Jim Rash Hollywood coming of age comedy "The Way, Way Back". She is the lead singer of rock band Toni Collette & the Finish.

</doc>
<doc id="280687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280687" title="King vulture">
King vulture

The king vulture ("Sarcoramphus papa"), is a large bird found in Central and South America. This vulture lives predominantly in tropical lowland forests stretching from southern Mexico to northern Argentina. It is the only surviving member of the genus Sarcoramphus, although fossil members are known.
Large and predominantly white, the king vulture has gray to black ruff, flight, and tail feathers. The head and neck are bald, with the skin color varying, including yellow, orange, blue, purple, and red. The king vulture has a very noticeable yellow fleshy caruncle on its beak.

</doc>
<doc id="280688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280688" title="Turkey vulture">
Turkey vulture

The turkey vulture ("Cathartes aura"), is a bird found throughout most of the Americas. It is also known as the turkey buzzard (or just buzzard), and in some areas of the Caribbean as John crow or carrion crow. 
It is one of three species in the genus "Cathartes", ranging from southern Canada to the southernmost tip of South America. It lives in open and semi-open areas, including subtropical forests, shrublands, pastures, and deserts.

</doc>
<doc id="280689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280689" title="Ford Escape">
Ford Escape

The Ford Escape is a compact crossover SUV that is manufactured by the Ford Motor Company. It was introduced during 2000 as a 2001 model year SUV. The Ford Escape is also available in a hybrid version. The current Escape is actually a European based model that is sold in Europe as the Ford Kuga (not to be confused with the similar sounding Cougar)

</doc>
<doc id="280690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280690" title="Battle of Wuhan">
Battle of Wuhan

The Battle of Wuhan was a Japanese attack on the Chinese city of Wuhan during the Second Sino-Japanese War. The battle started on February 1938 and ended on October 1938. The city of Wuhan had a military base with 1,100,000 Chinese soldiers. The Japanese, planned to encircle and invade Wuchang. In October, the Chinese army was able to retreat out of Wuhan.

</doc>
<doc id="280694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280694" title="Tatsu (roller coaster)">
Tatsu (roller coaster)

Tatsu ("Dragon") is a steel rollercoaster at Six Flags Magic Mountain in Valencia, California, United States. It was opened (people could go on it) on May 13, 2006. It is one of the coasters considered to be Six Flags Magic Mountain's signature roller coaster. The roller coaster is located in the Samurai Summit section of the park. It is a flying type coaster, which means it is suspended below the track, with riders secured so that their backs are parallel to the track. The maximum speed of the ride is 62 mph and it also broke records with a 124-foot (38 m) pretzel loop. It is also the only flying type to feature a Zero-gravity roll.
Tatsu has been featured on three different shows:

</doc>
<doc id="280696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280696" title="Alaska Airlines">
Alaska Airlines

Alaska Airlines () is a large airline from the United States. They are headquartered in Seattle, Washington, where they have one of their four hubs. Alaska Airlines also has hubs in Anchorage, Alaska, Los Angeles, California and Portland, Oregon. The company was named the top "Traditional Carrier" in customer satisfaction for the third year in a row by J. D. Power and Associates. As of 2016, it goes to 104 cities and has 164 airplanes.
Alaska Airlines began in 1932 with the name "McGee Airways". McGee Airways was combined with several other airlines in 1934 and this created "Star Air Lines". The name was finally changed to "Alaska Airlines" on May 2, 1944. Starting in 1947, Alaska Airlines bought many new planes. In the 1950s, Alaska Airlines started flying many worldwide charter (irregular) flights. The government later said that Alaska Airlines could only fly in the state of Alaska. In 1961, Alaska Airlines started flying to the Continental United States. In the 1970s, Alaska Airlines started flying charters to the Soviet Union. In 1972, Alaska Airlines introduced its famous "Eskimo" logo which is still used today. In 1985, Alaska started flying to many new cities in the West Coast of the United States. In 1988, Alaska Airlines started its first flights to Mexico. In the 1990s, Alaska Airlines became the first to sell tickets on the internet, to have self-service check-in and to have GPS on its planes. On January 31, 2000, an Alaska Airlines plane crashed in the Pacific Ocean. That crash led to many changes at the airline over the following years. Alaska Airlines introduced a brand new logo on January 25, 2016. Alaska Airlines and Virgin America announced plans to merge on April 4, 2016. The United States government still has to give permission to the 2 airlines to merge. 

</doc>
<doc id="280702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280702" title="Okeechobee County, Florida">
Okeechobee County, Florida

Okeechobee County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida, and was formed on May 8, 1917. As of 2008, 40,334 people lived there. Okeechobee County's seat is Okeechobee.

</doc>
<doc id="280703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280703" title="Iapetus Ocean">
Iapetus Ocean

The Iapetus Ocean existed in the Neoproterozoic and Palaeozoic eras (between 600 and 400 million years ago). The ocean was in the southern hemisphere, between three paleocontinents. The ocean disappeared when these three continents joined to form one big landmass. That large continent has been given various names, such as Laurussia or the Old Red Sandstone continent. Probably the best name is Euramerica, because basically it was American and Europe stuck together.
The Iapetus Ocean was between continental masses that would at a much later time roughly form the opposite shores of the Atlantic Ocean. It was a kind of precursor of the Atlantic.
At the start of the 19 century, American paleontologist Charles Doolittle Walcott noticed differences in early Paleozoic benthic trilobites either side of the line which later was called the Iapetus Suture.
The so called "Pacific fauna" of Laurentia, as found in Scotland and western Newfoundland, was quite different from those of Baltica, often called the "Atlantic fauna". The latter is found in the southern parts of the British Isles and eastern Newfoundland. Geologists of the early 20 century thought a large trough, a so-called geosyncline, had existed between Scotland and England in the early Paleozoic, keeping both sides separated.
With the development of plate tectonics in the 1960s geologists concluded the Atlantic Ocean must have had a precursor before the time of Pangaea. That ocean had closed as three continents joined, producing the Iapetus Suture.
The Iapetus suture runs where the Iapetus Ocean was before. 
There are other suture lines caused by the collision of continents in the run-up to Pangaea, but the Iapetus is the main one.

</doc>
<doc id="280706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280706" title="Osceola County, Florida">
Osceola County, Florida

Osceola County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida, and was formed on May 8, 1917. As of 2000, 172,493 people lived there. Osceola County's seat is Kissimmee.

</doc>
<doc id="280709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280709" title="St. Johns County, Florida">
St. Johns County, Florida

St. Johns County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. It was formed on July 21, 1821. As of 2000, 123,135 people lived there. St. Johns County's seat is St. Augustine.

</doc>
<doc id="280710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280710" title="Washington County, Florida">
Washington County, Florida

Washington County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. It was formed on July 21, 1821. As of 2000, 20,973 people lived there. Washington County's seat is Chipley. The county is a dry county which means alcoholic drinks cannot be sold.

</doc>
<doc id="280711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280711" title="Eduardo Nájera">
Eduardo Nájera

Eduardo Alonso Nájera Pérez (born July 11, 1976) is a Mexican basketball player that currently plays for the Charlotte Bobcats of the NBA. He also played for the Dallas Mavericks for five seasons, the Golden State Warriors for one season, the Denver Nuggets for 4 seasons and the New Jersey Nets for two seasons. He went to University of Oklahoma for college.

</doc>
<doc id="280713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280713" title="Pole vault">
Pole vault

Pole vault is a track and field event in which a person uses a long, flexible stick (which today is usually made either of fiberglass or carbon fiber) as an aid to leap over a bar. Pole jumping competitions were known to the ancient Greeks, as well as the Cretans and Celts. It has been a full medal event at the Olympics since the Summer Olympics at 1896 for men and 2000 for women. It started in the ancient Greece.

</doc>
<doc id="280714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280714" title="Samuel Dalembert">
Samuel Dalembert

Samuel Davis Dalembert (born May 10, 1981) is an Haitian-Canadian basketball player that currently plays for the Milwaukee Bucks of the NBA. He has also played for the Philadelphia 76ers from 2001 to 2010, the Sacramento Kings from 2010 to 2011 and the Houston Rockets from 2011 to 2012. He played college basketball at Seton Hall University. Dalembert pledged $100,000 to UNICEF and traveled to Haiti to help with the relief efforts. He won the 2009-10 J. Walter Kennedy Citizenship Award for helping with the relief efforts in Haiti.

</doc>
<doc id="280715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280715" title="Bobby Ryan">
Bobby Ryan

Bobby Ryan (born Robert Shane Stevenson; March 17, 1987 in Cherry Hill, New Jersey) is an American professional ice hockey right winger. He currently plays for the Ottawa Senators of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Anaheim Ducks for 7 seasons. 
Before playing in the NHL, Ryan played 4 seasons with the Owen Sound Attack of the Ontario Hockey League (OHL). He was drafted with the 2nd overall pick by the Anaheim Ducks in the 2005 NHL Entry Draft.

</doc>
<doc id="280725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280725" title="Luke McShane">
Luke McShane

Luke McShane (born 7 January 1984) is an English chess Grandmaster. 
A former World Youth Champion, he is one of England's leading players and a member of the English Chess Olympiad team. He has also been a trader in London's financial sector.
McShane won the World Under-10 Championship in Duisburg at the age of eight. Shortly afterwards he found a sponsor in the form of computer company Psion. At sixteen he became the then youngest ever British grandmaster. 
In January 2004 McShane was ranked second in the world among junior (under-21) players behind Teimour Radjabov.
From around 2002, McShane has been facing stiffer opposition, including players from the world's top ten. He played for England in the 2002 Chess Olympiad in Bled, scoring 6½/11, and won the silver medal at the World Junior Championship in Goa. 
In 2009/10 he tied for first through fifth place at the 39th Rilton Cup in Stockholm.
In December 2010 McShane participated in the 8-player London Chess Classic Tournament, which included Viswanathan Anand (reigning World Chess Champion), Magnus Carlsen (rated #1 for most of 2010), Vladimir Kramnik (former World Champion) and Hikaru Nakamura (US Champion). Under a scoring system of 3 points for a win, 1 for a draw and 0 for a loss, McShane finished joint second with Anand, behind Carlsen, whom McShane had beaten in their individual game. Undefeated, his event performance rating was 2838 – higher than Carlsen's or Anand's. In the January 2011 rating list, he overtook Nigel Short, to become the UK's second highest ranked player after Michael Adams. 
In January 2011 McShane came joint first with David Navara in the B group of the Tata Steel tournament, winning on tie break.

</doc>
<doc id="280731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280731" title="Alfa Romeo 147">
Alfa Romeo 147

The Alfa Romeo 147 is a automobile produced by Alfa Romeo from 2000 until 2010. It replaced the Alfa Romeo 146.

</doc>
<doc id="280734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280734" title="Kevin Nash">
Kevin Nash

Kevin Scott Nash (born July 9, 1959) is an American professional wrestler and actor. He is currently signed to WWE under a legends contract. Kevin Nash returned to the WWE during the 2011 Royal Rumble as a surprise entrant. Nash also wrestled for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) from 2004-2010.
On March 28, 2015, he was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame by friend and Kliq member Shawn Michaels.

</doc>
<doc id="280736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280736" title="No Way Out (2003)">
No Way Out (2003)

No Way Out was a professional wrestling pay-per-view event made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It took place on February 23, 2003 at the Bell Centre in Montreal, Quebec. It was the 4th No Way Out event. Eight matches were scheduled on the event's card.

</doc>
<doc id="280737" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280737" title="Ivory (wrestler)">
Ivory (wrestler)

Lisa Moretti (born November 26, 1961 in Inglewood, California) is an American professional wrestler. Moretti is better known by her ring name, Ivory. She is currently wrestling on the independent circuit. Moretti is best known for wrestling for WWF/E. She was the WWF Women's champion three times.
Ivory first appeared in 1999 as a valet for Mark Henry and D'Lo Brown. Immediately she feuded with Debra. The two divas were often in catfights. At one point, Ivory stripped Debra at St Valentine's Day Massacre. On an edition of "RAW", Debra and Jarrett were in a tag team match with Ivory and Brown. It ended early when Debra hit Ivory with Jarrett's guitar. Ivory began getting momentum in matches. She soon started working to win the Women's Championship. Debra was the champion at that time. On the June 14 episode of "RAW", Ivory beat Debra and won her first championship .
Ivory was a hard champion to beat. This was seen when she defended the title in a hardcore match against Luna Vachon at Unforgiven 1999 . At No Mercy 1999, Ivory lost the title to The Fabulous Moolah. She won the title back a week later in a rematch and became a two time champion . At Survivor Series, she lost to Moolah again in a tag team match . She lost the Women's Championship at Armageddon to Kat. 
Ivory began wrestling occasionally on "Heat" . On "Heat", she tried to win the title many times by beating Jacqueline but did not win . For months she appeared occasionally on "RAW", "Smackdown" and "Heat" . Ivory returned to compete weekly after Lita became champion. After not winning the title from her twice, Ivory finally won it on "Smackdown" in a Four Corners match. This was her third championship .
By this time, Ivory was being more conservative. She was a member of the group Right to Censor. Ivory was accompanied to the ring by Steven Richards . She kept the title at Survivor Series against Lita. She also kept it Rebellion. In both matches, she won with help from Richards . At Armageddon, she kept the title by winning in a triple threat match with Molly Holly and Trish Stratus . In 2001, at Royal Rumble, Ivory defended the championship against Chyna. Chyna had just returned from an injury caused by Right to Censor. Ivory won the match when Chyna reinjured herself . Next, Ivory feuded with Kat over her faction, "Right to Nudity". She defended the championship against Kat on "Smackdown". At Wrestlemania X-Seven, she lost the title to Chyna and lost her rematch.
During the Invasion of WWF by the Alliance, Ivory caused Jacqueline lose a handicap match to Tori Wilson and Stacy Keibler. This led to Ivory joining the alliance . She became a regular on "Raw" and "Smackdown". She wrestled against Holly and Lita in many matches . She was partnered with Lance Storm. Ivory often accompanying him to the ring . At Survivor Series, she was in a match to pick a new champion but was pinned by Stratus . 
In 2002, Ivory competed rarely because she was working as a trainer on Tough Enough 2 . After Wrestlemania, on "Raw", she returned and attacked Stratus and Lita. This set up a tag team match for "Smackdown". The match was Jazz and Ivory vs Trish and Lita. She was drafted to "Smackdown" when the Brand Extension began but she rarely wrestled . In late 2002, just before Survivor Series, Ivory was traded to "Raw". She lost a match to Trish Stratus who was champion at the time.
She competed a few times in 2003 on "Heat". Most of her work at this time was a feud with Victoria. They fought in some singles matches but more often in tag team matches . She lost a number one contender's match to Victoria on "Heat" .
In 2004 Ivory retired from in-ring competition. She began co-hosting a new program called "WWE Experience" with Todd Grisham . In mid 2004, Ivory left WWE.
Lisa Moretti was born and raised in Los Angeles, California. She has two brothers and one sister. She studied public relations at the University of Southern California. Moretti was a cheerleader for the Los Angeles Express of the United States Football League in the mid-1980s. Before starting her career in wrestling, Moretti worked as a make-up artist for the cosmetics brand Revlon.
After leaving WWE, Moretti began working in the landscaping industry. Moretti also worked with her niece to help the pet population affected by Hurricane Katrina. She volunteered for an organization called Best Friends Animal Society. It is a no-kill animal shelter—a shelter that does not euthanize to control animal populations—in Utah. She also worked with her local animal shelter on San Juan Island in northwestern Washington. She has lived there since 2000. She opened Downtown Dog in 2007 with Jessica Ray. It is an animal daycare. It also deals with training, grooming, and cat boarding. The company is in Friday Harbor. In June 2007, they added veterinary care and later the Bow Wow Bus. The Bow Wow Bus takes the dogs on outings. Moretti has taken classes to learn how to groom animals. She now grooms them as part of the business.

</doc>
<doc id="280739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280739" title="Ayako Hamada">
Ayako Hamada

Ayako Valentina Hamada Villareal (born February 14, 1981 in Mexico City, Mexico) is a Japanese-Mexican professional wrestler currently wrestling on the independent circuit. She is probably best known for wrestling for TNA Wrestling where she won the TNA Knockout Tag Team Championship twice once with Awesome Kong and once with Taylor Wilde.

</doc>
<doc id="280740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280740" title="Rosa Mendes">
Rosa Mendes

Milena Leticia Roucka (born October 25, 1979) is a Canadian professional wrestler, valet and former model. She currently wrestles for WWE on its SmackDown brand under the ring name, Rosa Mendes. She made her WWE debut as part of the 2006 Diva Search, even though she finished fourth WWE still hired her. She won a Slammy Award in 2010 for "Best Use of Exercise Equipment". She is also a part of the main cast on the E! reality series "Total Divas". In October 2014, Mendes came out as bisexual.

</doc>
<doc id="280745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280745" title="Highlands and Islands">
Highlands and Islands

The Highlands and Islands of Scotland are broadly the Scottish Highlands plus Orkney, Shetland and the Hebrides.
This area consisted of parts of seven counties of Scotland: 

</doc>
<doc id="280748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280748" title="Order of Merit">
Order of Merit

The Order of Merit () is an award, for notable work in the armed forces, science, art, literature, or for the promotion of culture. The order was set up in 1902, by Edward VII. Membership of the order is a personal gift of its Sovereign (the monarch does not take advice from politicians about who should be a member). The sovereign of the order is the reigning monarch of the Commonwealth realms, and is limited to 24 living recipients at one time from these countries, plus a small number of honorary members. 
Whilst all members can use the post-nominal letters "OM" and a medallion for life, the Order of Merit's precedence, amongst other honours, differs between Commonwealth realms.
The first mention of a possible Order of Merit was made following the Battle of Trafalgar, in 1805, in letters between the First Lord of the Admiralty, Lord Barham and Prime Minister William Pitt, though nothing came from the idea. Later, Queen Victoria, her courtiers, and politicians, all thought that a new order, based on the Prussian order "Pour le Mérite", would make up for the insufficient recognition offered by the established honours system to achievement outside of public service, in realms such as art, music, literature, industry, and science. Victoria's husband, Albert, Prince Consort, took an interest in the matter; he wrote in his diary that he met on 16 January 1844 with Robert Peel to discuss the "idea of institution of a civil Order of Merit" and three days later he talked with the Queen on the subject. The concept did not wither and, on 5 January 1888, British prime minister the Marquess of Salisbury submitted to the Queen a draft constitution for an Order of Merit in Science and Art, consisting of one grade split into two branches of knighthood: the Order of Scientific Merit - for Knights of Merit in Science, with the post-nominal letters "KMS" and the Order of Artistic Merit - for Knights of Merit in Art, with the post-nominal letters "KMA". However, Sir Frederic Leighton, President of the Royal Academy, advised against the new order, primarily because of its selection process.
It was Victoria's son, Edward VII, who eventually founded the Order of Merit, on 26 June 1902 the date for which his coronation had been originally planned as a means to acknowledge "exceptionally meritorious service in Our Navy and Our Army, or who may have rendered exceptionally meritorious service towards the advancement of Art, Literature and Science"; all modern aspects of the order were established under his direction, including the division for military figures. From the outset, prime ministers attempted to propose candidates or lobbied to influence the monarch's decision on appointments, but the Royal Household adamantly guarded information about potential names. After 1931, when the Commonwealth of Nations came into being and the former Dominions of the British Empire became independent states, equal in status to the UK, the Order of Merit remained an honour open to all the King's realms; thus, as with the monarch who conferred it, the order ceased to be purely British.
From the start, the order has been open to women, Florence Nightingale being the first woman to receive the honour, in 1907. Several people have not taken the honour, such as Rudyard Kipling, A. E. Housman, and George Bernard Shaw. To date, Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, remains the youngest person ever inducted into the Order of Merit, having been admitted by Queen Elizabeth II in 1968, when he was 47 years of age.
All citizens of the Commonwealth realms are able to be given the Order of Merit. There can only be 24 living people in the order at any given time, not including honorary appointees, and new members are personally selected by the reigning monarch of the 16 realms, presently Queen Elizabeth II, with the help of her private secretaries; the order has thus been described as "quite possibly, the most prestigious honour one can receive on planet Earth." Within the limited membership is a designated military division, with its own unique insignia; though it has not been abolished, it is currently unused, the Earl Mountbatten of Burma having been the last person so honoured. Honorary members form another group, to which there is no limit, though such appointments are rare; individuals from countries in the Commonwealth of Nations that are not headed by Elizabeth II are considered foreigners, and thus are granted only honorary admissions, such as Nelson Mandela (South Africa) and Mother Teresa (India).
On admission into the Order of Merit, members can use the post-nominal letters "OM", and have the badge of the order, consisting of a golden crown from which is suspended a red enamelled cross, itself centred by a disk of blue enamel, surrounded by a gold laurel wreath, and bearing in gold lettering the words "FOR MERIT"; the insignia for the military grouping has a pair of crossed swords behind the central disk. The ribbon of the Order of Merit is divided into two stripes of red and blue; men wear their badges on a neck ribbon, while women carry theirs on a ribbon bow pinned to the left shoulder, and aides-de-camp may wear the insignia on their aiguillettes. Since 1991, the insignia is to be given back upon the recipient's death.
(none)
As the Order of Merit is open to the citizens of sixteen different countries, each with their own system of orders, decorations, and medals, the order's place of precedence varies from country to country. While in the United Kingdom, members rank below Knights and Dames Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath, it has been claimed by Stanley Martin, in his book "The Order of Merit 1902-2002: One Hundred Years of Matchless Honour", that the Order of Merit is actually the pinnacle of the British honours system. Similarly, though it was not listed in the Canadian order of precedence for honours, decorations, and medals until December 2010, except relating to those who were appointed to the order prior to 1 June 1972, both Christopher McCreery, an expert on Canadian honours and secretary to the Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia, and Rafal Heydel-Mankoo, an editor of "Burke's Peerage", stated that the Order of Merit was the highest civilian award for merit a Canadian could receive.
Some orders of precedence are as follows:

</doc>
<doc id="280755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280755" title="Category:Orders, decorations, and medals of the United Kingdom">
Category:Orders, decorations, and medals of the United Kingdom


</doc>
<doc id="280758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280758" title="Ellsworth Street Bridge">
Ellsworth Street Bridge

The Ellsworth Street Bridge is a highway bridge that crosses the Willamette River in Albany, Oregon, United States. Built in 1925, the two-lane structure carries U.S. Route 20 eastbound traffic, with the adjacent Lyon Street Bridge carrying westbound traffic. The -long steel-truss bridge was designed by Conde McCullough and opened in 1926.
In 1887, a bridge was built across the Willamette River at Albany for the Corvallis and Eastern railway followed by the Steel Bridge built in 1893 just down river. The state of Oregon began building a new bridge across the river at the city in 1925 to carry vehicular traffic. Designed by state highway department bridge designer Conde McCullough, it was constructed by the Union Bridge Company based in Portland, Oregon. The steel truss structure was completed in 1926.
When the bridge opened, the Albany-Corvallis Highway was completed. At the time the structure was named the Albany Bridge. In 1973, the neighboring Lyon Street Bridge was completed to the east to expand capacity to a total of four lanes between the two bridges. Ellsworth Street Bridge was refurbished in 1971 and 2002. As of 2004, the bridge handled an average of 9,850 cars per day.

</doc>
<doc id="280768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280768" title="East Caribbean dollar">
East Caribbean dollar

The East Caribbean dollar (sign: $; code: XCD) is the currency of eight of the nine members of the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (the exception is the British Virgin Islands).
It has existed since 1965, when it replaced the British West Indies dollar, and it is normally abbreviated with the dollar sign "$" or, alternatively, "EC$" to distinguish it from other dollar-denominated currencies. 
The EC$ is subdivided into 100 cents. It has been pegged to the United States dollar since 1976 and the exchange rate is currently at US$1 = EC$2.70.
Six of the eight countries which use the EC$ are independent (Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines). The other two are British overseas territories: Anguilla and Montserrat.
All of the countries except Dominica are Commonwealth realms.

</doc>
<doc id="280773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280773" title="Category:Mexican professional wrestlers">
Category:Mexican professional wrestlers


</doc>
<doc id="280782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280782" title="Hurdle race">
Hurdle race

Hurdle race is a type of track and field race.
There are "sprint" hurdle races and "long hurdle" races. The standard sprint hurdle race is 110 meters for men and 100 meters for women. Men and women run 400 meters in the standard long hurdle race. Each of these races is run over ten hurdles and they are all Olympic events.
Other distances are sometimes run, particularly indoors. The sprint hurdle race indoors is usually 60 meters for both men and women, although races 55 meters or 50 meters long are sometimes run.

</doc>
<doc id="280794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280794" title="Hammer throw">
Hammer throw

Hammer throw is an athletic throwing event. The goal of it is to throw a heavy metal ball attached to a wire and handle. The name "hammer throw" is derived from the older Scottish sport competitions.
Like in other throwing events, competitors gain maximum distance by swinging the hammer above their head to set up the circular motion. Then, they apply force and pick up speed by completing one to four turns in the circle. In competition, most throwers turn three or four times to gradually increase the velocity with each turn. The thrower releases the ball from the front of the circle. The most important factors for a long throw are the angle of release and the speed of the ball. The hammer throw was one of the first Olympic games played. Any gender can take part in the event.

</doc>
<doc id="280795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280795" title="Ocean thermal energy conversion">
Ocean thermal energy conversion

Ocean thermal energy conversion (OTEC) is a way of getting useful energy from the world's oceans. The sun shines on the oceans of the world and in the hot parts near the equator the water at the sea's surface can be quite warm, sometimes as high as 30°C.
Many oceans are very deep and the water at depths of 1,000 meters can be around 5 °C.
If a pipe is put down into the ocean we can bring the cold water to the surface where we also have warm water available.
The difference in temperature between the warm surface water and the cold deep water may only be around 15 °C. But we can build a machine called a heat engine, which can use this difference to generate power that can be used by people that live in that place. A machine which can do this is called an OTEC machine which stands for "ocean thermal energy conversion".
Because the difference in temperature is small we will need to get large quantities of warm and cold water to go through the machine to get a useful amount of work, but large quantities are available in the ocean.
It has been estimated that OTEC could give amounts of energy that are 10 to 100 times greater than the other ocean energy source, wave power.
The first OTEC machine was built in Cuba in 1930 and made 22 kW of electricity. The largest machine built so far generated 250 kW in 1999 and was made by the US. Plans to build even bigger machines of around 10 MW have been made.
OTEC can also supply quantities of cold water as a by-product. This can be used for refrigeration and can help crops and fish grow. OTEC can also produce large amounts of salt-free water, which can be useful on mid-ocean islands as drinking water.

</doc>
<doc id="280799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280799" title="Middle distance race">
Middle distance race

Middle distance race event is longer than sprints, up to 3000 metres. The standard middle distances are the 800 metres, 1500 metres and the mile run, while the 3000 metres may also be classified as a "middle distance event". The 880 yard run, or half mile, was the forebear to the 800 m distance and it has its roots in competitions in the United Kingdom in the 1830s. The 1500 m came about as a result of running three laps of a 500 m track, which was commonplace in continental Europe in the 20th century.

</doc>
<doc id="280800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280800" title="Powerslave">
Powerslave

Powerslave is a studio album by Iron Maiden. It went on sale on 3 September 1984. It was the second most popular album in England when it started being sold.
The album got good reviews; one person said it was "classic and essential."
One of the songs, "Rime of the Ancient Mariner," was adapted from a poem of the same name by Samuel Taylor Coleridge. It is Iron Maiden's longest song (almost 14 minutes).

</doc>
<doc id="280809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280809" title="New World vulture">
New World vulture

New World vultures are the group of vultures that are found in the Americas. They form the family Cathartidae. There are seven species in five genera. Four of the genera contain only one species each, so they are monotypic. 
These are large birds of prey that feed on the meat of dead or dying animals. The name "Cathartidae" comes from the Greek word "katharsis" meaning to purge or make clean. 
Unlike other birds of prey, they have a good sense of smell. The opening of their nostrils has a hole through from one side of the beak to the other. Some other vultures hop to move on the ground, but the New World vultures walk. 
The two largest species are called condors. 

</doc>
<doc id="280810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280810" title="Category:Cathartidae">
Category:Cathartidae


</doc>
<doc id="280812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280812" title="Counter-Strike">
Counter-Strike

Counter-Strike is a first-person shooter video game for the computer. It was made by Valve Corporation in 1999. In this game, you play as special United States soldiers disguised as terrorists and doing secret missions. One team plays as the terrorists and the other plays as the "counter" terrorists (official military soldiers). You play online against each other, each team having different objectives, or "goals" such as planting or defusing the bomb. This game was at first a fan-made mod of the classic game "Half-Life" but was later bought by Valve and turned into a real game marketed and sold in retail stores. It is commonly referred to today as one of the best video game mods ever made. The newest game in the series "Counter Strike: Global Offensive" is currently the most played game on Steam Gaming Community and is still climbing after over four years on the market.
"Counter-Strike" is a first person shooter in which players can go online and play against each other. There are six types of modes in the current Counter-Strike game.

</doc>
<doc id="280826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280826" title="Walking race">
Walking race

Walking race, or race walking, is a long-distance athletic event. It is different from running: in that one foot must appear to be in contact with the ground at all times. Stride length is reduced, so to achieve competitive speeds, race walkers must attain pace rates comparable to those achieved by Olympic 400-meter runners;and they must do so for hours at a time since the Olympic events are the 20 km race walk and 50 km race walk.

</doc>
<doc id="280828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280828" title="Sriharikota">
Sriharikota

Sriharikota is a barrier island off the coast of the southern state of Andhra Pradesh in India. It houses India's only satellite launch centre in the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (also known as SHAR) and is used by the Indian Space Research Organisation to launch satellites using multi-stage rockets such as the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle and the Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle.
Sriharikota separates the Pulicat Lake from the Bay of Bengal, and is home to the town of Pulicat. It is in Sri Amarajeevi Potti Sri Ramulu Nellore district in Andhra Pradesh. The nearest town is Sullurpeta, which has the nearest railway station. The nearest business city is Sri City. It is also connected by expressways to Chennai.

</doc>
<doc id="280833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280833" title="Monarchy of Saint Kitts and Nevis">
Monarchy of Saint Kitts and Nevis

As a Commonwealth realm, St Kitts and Nevis has the same monarch as several other Commonwealth countries, Queen Elizabeth II.
In St Kitts, or when representing St Kitts in another country, she is known as the Queen of St Kitts and Nevis, Her full official title being: "Elizabeth the Second, by the Grace of God, Queen of Saint Christopher and Nevis and of Her other Realms and Territories, Head of the Commonwealth".
When acting as Queen of St Kitts, Elizabeth II only takes advice from the Government of St Kitts and Nevis. This is because the Statute of Westminster of 1931 said that all Commonwealth countries were independent of each other, and that the British government no longer had the right to interfere or give orders to the other countries.
Usually the Queen's constitutional roles are carried out by the Governor-General of Saint Kitts and Nevis. 
Royal succession (who is next in line to the throne) is governed by the English Act of Settlement of 1701, which is part of constitutional law.

</doc>
<doc id="280838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280838" title="Wonder Pets">
Wonder Pets

Wonder Pets is a children's television series that currently airs on Nick Jr. and is based on the short Nick Jr.'s film series which was called "Linny the Guinea Pig". The series won an Emmy Award in 2008 for Outstanding Achievement in Music Direction and Composition.

</doc>
<doc id="280843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280843" title="Category:Saint Kitts and Nevis">
Category:Saint Kitts and Nevis


</doc>
<doc id="280844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280844" title="Giant impact hypothesis">
Giant impact hypothesis

The giant impact hypothesis is that the Moon was created out of the debris from a collision between the young Earth and a Mars-sized protoplanet. This is the favoured scientific hypothesis for the formation of the Moon.
Evidence for this hypothesis comes from Moon samples which show that:
The colliding body is sometimes called Theia for the mythical Greek Titan who was the mother of Selene, the goddess of the moon.
There are several unanswered issues with this hypothesis. Lunar oxygen isotopic ratios are essentially identical to Earth, with no evidence of a contribution from another solar body. Also, lunar samples do not have expected ratios of volatile elements, iron oxide, or siderophilic elements (chemical elements which bond with iron), and there is no evidence that the Earth ever had the magma ocean implied by the hypothesis.
The Earth's relatively large natural satellite, the Moon, is unique. During the Apollo program, rocks from the Moon's surface were brought to Earth. Radiometric dating of these rocks has shown the Moon to be 4527 ± 10 million years old, about 30 to 55 million years younger than other bodies in the solar system. New evidence suggests the Moon formed even later, 4.48±0.02 Ga, or 70–110 Ma after the start of the Solar System. Another notable feature is the relatively low density of the Moon, which must mean it does not have a large metallic core, which other terrestrial bodies in the solar system have. The Moon has a bulk composition closely resembling the Earth's mantle and crust together, without the Earth's core. This has led to the giant impact hypothesis: the idea that the Moon was formed during a giant impact of the proto-Earth with another protoplanet.
The impactor, sometimes called Theia, is thought to have been a little smaller than the planet Mars. Theia collided with Earth about 4.533 Ga.
Models reveal that when an impactor this size struck the proto-Earth at a low angle and relatively low speed (8–20 km/sec), much material from the mantles (and proto-crusts) of the proto-Earth and the impactor was ejected into space, where much of it stayed in orbit around the Earth. This material would eventually form the Moon.
However, the metallic cores of the impactor would have sunk through the Earth's mantle to fuse with the Earth's core, depleting the Moon of metallic material. The giant impact hypothesis thus explains the Moon's abnormal composition. The ejecta in orbit around the Earth could have condensed into a single body within weeks. Under the influence of its own gravity, the ejected material became a more spherical body: the Moon.
The radiometric ages show the Earth existed already for at least 10 million years before the impact, enough time to allow for differentiation of the Earth's primitive mantle and core. Then, when the impact occurred, only material from the mantle was ejected, leaving the Earth's core of heavy elements untouched.
The impact had some important consequences for the young Earth. It released an enormous amount of energy, causing both the Earth and Moon to be completely molten. Immediately after the impact, the Earth's mantle was vigorously convecting, the surface was a large magma ocean. The planet's first atmosphere must have been completely blown away by the enormous amount of energy released. The impact is also thought to have changed Earth’s axis to produce the large 23.5° axial tilt that is responsible for Earth’s seasons (a simple, ideal model of the planets’ origins would have axial tilts of 0° with no recognizable seasons). It may also have sped up Earth’s rotation.
Analysis of lunar rock brought back by Apollo astronauts appears to show traces of Theia. The researchers claim this confirms the theory that the Moon was created by a cataclysmic collision. Some scientists are surprised that the difference between the Theian material found in the Moon rock and the Earth is so small.

</doc>
<doc id="280846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280846" title="COBOL">
COBOL

COBOL is a programming language that was developed in the year 1959. It was one of the first computer programming languages. The name COBOL stands for COmmon Business-Oriented Language". COBOL was created because people wanted a language they could use to describe the problems in a way that is independent of the hardware used. Like SQL COBOL uses a syntax that is close to that of natural languages. As an example, ADD YEARS TO AGE" is a valid expression. There are several different versions of COBOL. The newest is from 2002. In general, versions of the language before 1985 are not compatible with the newer versions, from 1985 and later. 
In his letter to an editor in 1975 titled "How do we tell truths that might hurt?", computer scientist and Turing Award recipient Edsger Dijkstra remarked that "The use of COBOL cripples the mind; its teaching should, therefore, be regarded as a criminal offense." In this letter, Dijkstra also criticised several other languages which were used at the time.
The computer scientist who was named Howard E. Tompkins disagreed, and defended structured COBOL: "COBOL programs with convoluted control flow indeed tend to 'cripple the mind'", but this was because "there are too many such business application programs written by programmers that have never had the benefit of structured COBOL taught well...".
In recent years, COBOL has been extended to allow object-oriented programming, user-defined functions, and user-defined data types. 

</doc>
<doc id="280847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280847" title="Edsger W. Dijkstra">
Edsger W. Dijkstra

Edsger Wybe Dijkstra (May 11, 1930 – August 6, 2002; ) was a Dutch computer scientist. He received the 1972 Turing Award for fundamental contributions to developing programming languages, and was the Schlumberger Centennial Chair of Computer Sciences at The University of Texas at Austin from 1984 until 2000.
Shortly before his death in 2002, he received the ACM PODC Influential Paper Award in distributed computing for his work on self-stabilization of program computation. This annual award was renamed the Dijkstra Prize the following year, in his honor.

</doc>
<doc id="280849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280849" title="3 Doors Down">
3 Doors Down

3 Doors Down is an American Alternative rock band. They formed in 1994 in Escatawpa, Mississippi. The members of the group are Brad Arnold, the singer, Matt Roberts, who plays the lead guitar and backing vocals, Chris Henderson, who plays the rhythm guitar, Todd Harrell who plays the bass guitar and Greg Upchurch, who plays the drums. 

</doc>
<doc id="280860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280860" title="Third Treaty of San Ildefonso">
Third Treaty of San Ildefonso

The Third Treaty of San Ildefonso (short for the Preliminary and Secret Treaty between the French Republic and His Catholic Majesty the King of Spain, Concerning the Aggrandizement of His Royal Highness the Infant Duke of Parma in Italy and the Retrocession of Louisiana) was a treaty between France and Spain. In it, Spain gave the territory of Louisiana to France.

</doc>
<doc id="280867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280867" title="Category:Academics">
Category:Academics


</doc>
<doc id="280873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280873" title="Viglen">
Viglen

Viglen is an IT company based in the United Kingdom. Viglen is operated by UK businessman Lord Sugar and most schools in the UK own Viglen computers. Some of the products that Viglen have made are the Incepta II and the Genrie Pro. 

</doc>
<doc id="280886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280886" title="Lotus Cars">
Lotus Cars

Lotus Cars is a British builder of sports and racing cars. It is based at the old site of RAF Hethel, a World War II airfield in Norfolk. The company designs and builds race and production cars. The cars are build to have a low weight. The cars handle well (they can turn, start and stop quickly.)
Lotus is owned by Proton. Proton took over Lotus after the bankruptcy of former owner Bugatti in 1994.
The company was started as Lotus Engineering Ltd. by engineer Colin Chapman in 1952. The first factory was in old stables in Hornsey, North London. Team Lotus was started in 1954. It was split off from the Lotus Engineering company. Team Lotus was active and competitive in Formula One racing from 1958 to 1994.
The Lotus Group of Companies was formed in 1959. One company was Lotus Cars Limited which made road cars. The other company was Lotus Components Limited which worked on customer race cars. Lotus Components Limited became Lotus Racing Limited in 1971 but stopped building cars in the same year.
In 1959, the company moved to Cheshunt into a factory built to make cars. Since 1966 the company has been in a modern factory and road test facility at Hethel, near Wymondham. This site is the former RAF Hethel base. The test track uses parts of the old runway.
Chapman died of a heart attack in 1982 at the age of 54. The car maker built tens of thousands of successful racing and road cars. They won the Formula One World Championship seven times. At the time of his death he was linked with the DeLorean scandal over the use of government subsidies for the production of DeLorean DMC-12 for which Lotus had designed the chassis.
In 1986, the company was bought by General Motors. On 27 August 1993, GM sold the company to Bugatti Automobili SpA. In 1996, a majority share in Lotus was sold to Proton, a Malaysian car company.
The company is organized as Group Lotus. Group Lotus is divided into Lotus Cars and Lotus Engineering. Lotus Engineering builds suspension for other car builders. They also worked with General Motors to develop the 4-cylinder Ecotec engine.
The four letters in the middle of the logo stand for the initials of Anthony Colin Bruce Chapman.
The Lotus Cars helped its customers to race its cars. They entered Formula One through its sister company Team Lotus in 1958. In 1960, Lotus got its first win in F1. A Lotus 18 driven by Stirling Moss won at Monaco. The car was entered by privateer Rob Walker.
They had big success in 1963 with the Lotus 25. With Jim Clark driving, Lotus its first F1 World Constructors Championship. Clark had a bad crash in a Formula Two Lotus 48 in April 1968. He was killed in the crash. It was a severe blow to the team and to Formula One. Clark was the dominant driver with the best car at the time. He is an important part of Lotus' early years. The 1963 championship was won by Clark's teammate, Graham Hill.
Lotus made the mid-engined layout popular for IndyCars. They developed the first monocoque Formula One chassis. They also made the engine and transaxle a part of the chassis. A transaxle is a combination of the transmission and rear axle. Lotus was also among the first in Formula One to add wings and shape the bottom of the car. This created aerodynamic downforce. They were the first to move radiators to the sides of the car. This improved the aerodynamic performance of the car. Lotus also developed active suspension.
After Chapman's death, until the late 1980s, Lotus was still to be a major player in Formula One. Ayrton Senna drove for the team from 1985 to 1987. Senna won twice in each year and earned 17 pole positions. By the company's last Formula One race in 1994, the cars were not competitive. Lotus won a total of 79 Grand Prix races. Lotus was the first team to achieve 50 Grand Prix victories.
Formula One Constructors' Championships (Drivers' Championship winner for Lotus)
In 1992, Team Lotus started Classic Team Lotus for the Works historic motorsport activity. Classic Team Lotus keeps Lotus F1 cars fixed and in running condition. They race them in the FIA Historic Formula One Championship. It keeps the Team Lotus archive and the Works Collection of cars. It is managed by Clive, Chapman, the son of Colin Chapman. At the end of the 1994 season, Lotus left Formula One racing.
The Lotus name returned to Formula One for the 2010 season. A new team in Malaysia was started called Lotus Racing. They used the Lotus name with licensor from Group Lotus. The new team was unrelated to the old Team Lotus. The new team was funded by a Malaysian Consortium (group of companies) including Proton. Proton is the owner of Lotus Cars.
After the 2010 season, Proton ended the license for Lotus Racing to use the Lotus name. Proton believed the team broke the license rules. Lotus Racing then bought Team Lotus Ventures Ltd. This company owned the rights to use the name "Team Lotus". The Lotus Racing team announced they would be known as Team Lotus starting in 2011.
In December 2010 Group Lotus (Proton) purchased part of the Renault F1 team. They announced the team would be now be known as Lotus Renault GP. Lotus Renault GP will compete in Formula One starting in 2011.
At the 2010 Paris Motorshow, Lotus announced five new models. These will be introduced over the next five years.
Lotus Engineering Limited, is an offshoot of Lotus Cars. They consult with other companies that build car and car equipment.
The APX (also known as the "Aluminum Performance Crossover") is an aluminum concept vehicle revealed at the 2006 Geneva Motor Show. It is built on Lotus Engineering's Versatile Vehicle Architecture (VVA).
The VVA design will be used in a new mid-engined sports car for Lotus cars. The APX is a high performance 7 seat Multi Purpose Vehicle. It is four-wheel drive and has a front mounted V6 engine.
Cars produced using VVA:
Examples of work done by Lotus Engineering include:
Lotus Engineering has established a group dedicated to hybrid and electric vehicles.
Lotus plans to enter the electric vehicle race, CEO Michael Kimberley told the Financial Times . "Don’t be surprised to see an electric Lotus shortly,” he said, adding that a concept version could debut as early as March 2009, at Geneva Motor Show. Lotus is now front and center in the electric-car arena.
Lotus did not reveal details about the car or the engine but discloses that it will go for 300 to and it will really live up to the expectations of being one of the best electric cars in the world.
Lotus joined Jaguar Cars, MIRA Ltd and Caparo on a luxury hybrid executive sedan project called "Limo-Green"—funded by the UK Government Technology Strategy Board. The vehicle will be a series plug-in hybrid.
Tesla Motors, a likely rival for Lotus if its plans go through, has also turned to contractors for parts of the all-electric Roadster. Of note however, is the fact that Tesla currently obtains the chassis for their Roadster from Lotus as do Dodge for their EV because of the heavy weight of the batteries in an EV and Lotus's widely known low weight and sharp handling characteristics. While only 10% of the parts of the Tesla Roadster are shared with the Lotus Elise, Lotus is responsible for approximately 40% of the overall content of the car.
Lotus Cars were awarded the Queen's Award for Enterprise for contribution to International Trade, one of 85 companies receiving the recognition in that category in 2002. Lotus cars wore the badge of the award for a number of years.

</doc>
<doc id="280893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280893" title="Genetic counselling">
Genetic counselling

Genetic counselling, or "counseling", is the process by which clients are advised about genetic disorders. Genetic disorders, by definition, can be passed on in heredity. Example: many descendents of Queen Victoria carried one or both alleles for haemophilia. It was a hereditary disease in European royal families.
Clients with a disorder may be interested in the probability of developing or transmitting a genetic disorder to their children. They may ask what the options are to prevent, avoid or ameliorate it.
Facilities and rules vary in different countries. In the United States the National Society of Genetic Counselors defines genetic counselling as: 
A genetic counsellor is an expert with a Master of Science degree in genetic counseling. In the United States they are certified by the American Board of Genetic Counseling. Most enter the field from biology, genetics, nursing, psychology, public health and social work. Genetic counsellors need to be expert educators, skilled in translating ideas into terms that are easy to understand.
Families may choose to attend counselling or undergo prenatal testing for a number of reasons.
Within about ten years, the cost of complete genome analysis will have come down so far that individual people will be able to have their own genome analysed. In fact there are claims that the day has already arrived.
Pacific Biosciences stated they may not release their second-generation machine capable of a US$1,000 genome until 2013. Complete Genomics, however, stated that they will be able to provide a US$5,000 full genome sequencing service by the summer of 2009. Complete Genomics demonstrated in a peer-reviewed paper that was published online in "Science" in Nov. 2009 that it could sequence a human genome for a consumables cost of approximately US$1700. The accuracy and completeness of these systems is a critical issue.
It is obvious that the demand for genetic counselling will increase hugely once accurate and complete genome analyses are widely available. The problem then will be to interpret what the analysis shows. At present there are many genes whose functions are not yet known, and many alleles whose effect is not known.
Already it is possible to identify the sex of a foetus in the womb, and to identify some of the most common disorders. This may, depending on legal and religious constraints, influence abortion of the foetus in some cases. In some cases, the effects of a defect can be anticipated and prevented or cured. These issues do not affect most people today, but as genomic analysis advances, genetic counselling will become of much greater significance.

</doc>
<doc id="280919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280919" title="Wikipedia:Proposed good articles/Archive 11">
Wikipedia:Proposed good articles/Archive 11

A fully fledged article that mostly simple, enough refs so overall good. Of course, still has faults. ~ 12:02, 9 January 2011 (UTC)
Closed as not promoted: Basically, per the above oppose. 19:49, 1 February 2011 (UTC) 
Meets all the criteria for GAs, in my opinion. ( · ) 03:04, 29 December 2010 (UTC)
Extended for one week: The discussion has had little or no discussion made to it and it would be unfair to close this when no comments but those of the nominator have yet been made. Whilst the three week period isn't here yet, I doubt we will get the discussion required between now and then, so this just saves some grief! :-) 14:50, 18 January 2011 (UTC) 
I finally got around to making a few comments on the Talk page. A very challenging topic to make simple. () 12:22, 20 January 2011 (UTC)
Closed as not promoted: I would suggest fixing the already raised issues with this one and then renominating it, perhaps after another review, as it's very nearly there but due to the running time and lack of consensus it would be somewhat improper to promote this or extend it further, sorry! 19:48, 1 February 2011 (UTC) 
GA in enwp, copied and simplified here. Is still complex in parts and has a lot of redlinks. Comments are appreciated.   18:57, 12 January 2011 (UTC)
Closed as promoted: Congratulations, this seems to have had the work put in to get it to GA status and has the support from the (albeit few, though that can't be helped as all noms are the same...) commentators here. Well done! 10:57, 5 February 2011 (UTC) 
This is copied and simplified from enwp where it is a Featured Article. It is also featured or good in several other languages. Much of the early work was done by and listed it as a potential GA, so it has the work of several editors. Thanks for considering this, and I look forward to some comments. Cheers! () 08:15, 18 January 2011 (UTC)
Closed as promoted: Please don't eat me: the consensus here is to promote the article and so to not promote it would be against the spirit of the wiki, as I am not sure I could reasonably apply the spirit of or to close otherwise. The article is in a good shape and, while there is work needed on the references, I would not personally say that it should impact on GA, though if this was a VGA then I would say that these would be more major and pressing concerns. If it does go to VGA, then they should be fixed, and if they can be done anyway, then even better! Thanks, 11:12, 11 February 2011 (UTC) 
Slimed down version of an FA article on Wikipedia. Has under gone a lot of copy editing to make it simpiler. () 09:26, 24 February 2011 (UTC)
Closed as not promoted: Very little has been done to the article since it was nominated, and there are no people in support of promoting the article. 19:14, 19 March 2011 (UTC) 
Article has been under heavy edit on EN:WP and is in the middle of preparation for a GA review there. The article has specifically been structured in simple terms so it could be quickly edited for use in SE:WP. () 03:07, 26 March 2011 (UTC)
Closed as not promoted: Sorry, but not now. The article fails criteria 2 ("The article must have gone through a few revisions, possibly by different editors. No one writes perfect articles.") and criteria 5 ("The last few revisions should be minor changes (like spell-checking or link-fixing).") and the article should be complete in terms of all the changes to be made to it before it is nominated, not after. Please continue to come back and fix up the article, and try again once it meets all of the criteria to become a GA. You could also take a look at existing good articles for tips. Thanks, 15:14, 26 March 2011 (UTC) 
The article is okay, but certainly not ready for GA. It needs a thorough peer review. () 15:44, 27 March 2011 (UTC)
The article was already in very good shape when I looked at it. With a few minor changes and additions, I decided that it was ready to bring to this process. () 14:17, 30 March 2011 (UTC)
Closed as promoted: Nice work - a good example of how the process should work, giving us a good article with plenty of community input. Well done! 10:41, 20 April 2011 (UTC) 
I am renominating this for GA. It came very close to making GA a few months ago, but we just ran out of time. The reviews from then are in the archives. A point-by-point of how this meets all the GA criteria:
This is an extensive article on the life and career of an interesting athlete who was quite important in her sport. It had been promoted to GA a while back, but was demoted earlier this year. Clearly, this was an important topic to a formerly active editor, . It has edits from several experienced editors and several people noted problems during the PAD. In particular, Albacore and Peterdownunder looked over the refs and pointed out errors. I think I've fixed those. I think all of those problems have been addressed and more through a line-by-line edit for vocabulary and simple sentence structure. I've tried to improve the article a bit with additional links, a couple of images, and the appropriate infobox. The Flesch-Kincaid grade level is 4.9, so the writing is quite simple, even if the article itself is long. I'm not a big fan of billiards, but I hate to see articles get demoted. () 07:05, 28 July 2011 (UTC)
Extended for one week: Somewhat pre-empting this as I doubt it will get any more comments in the few days that are left. Extending for one week so the PGA nomination will now close on Tuesday, 25th August 2011. Thanks, 01:00, 11 August 2011 (UTC) 

</doc>
<doc id="280920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280920" title="Wikipedia:Proposed very good articles/Archive 9">
Wikipedia:Proposed very good articles/Archive 9

Previously nominated for VGA, but was not promoted. Most of the comments in the talk page have been addressed to and the article is near VG quality. Of course, there are still some problems with it, so comments are appreciated. Regards,   13:24, 10 January 2011 (UTC)
Extended for one week: Your wish is my command! Don't let me down, looking forward to promoting this one. :) 19:44, 1 February 2011 (UTC) 
Closed as not promoted: Regretfully, this one has to be closed unsuccessfully, due to the opposes made above and just one edit made to the page since the run was extended, suggesting the fixes have not been completed; if they had, I would have felt more comfortable making a decision other than this one. Suggest you take the time to fix them up then come back in a couple of weeks! :) 11:59, 8 February 2011 (UTC) 
Meets all the criteria. Most of the article is based off of Oklahoma, a VGA. ( · ) 01:03, 19 February 2011 (UTC)
Extended for one week: Whilst it has got support, it is only the one support comment and it wouldn't be proper to promote based on that. So let's keep it open another week and see what happens... 18:48, 19 March 2011 (UTC) 
Closed as not promoted: Basically, per Macdonald-ross' comments, as it appears to have had very few edits since then. It's nearly there, and with a bit more work should make it if it comes back! 15:46, 27 March 2011 (UTC) 
This article was promoted as a GA in October 2010. Since then I have been able to fix a few areas that I thought needed extra work. The article is comprehensive, well referenced, and in Simple English (and much, much better than the en version). -- () 06:02, 22 April 2011 (UTC)
Not ready yet a quick run through. Please email me when you're done and I'll re-review and consider my position.
Hope these comments help. () 18:03, 23 April 2011 (UTC)
Also, we shouldn't have five paragraphs in the lead for an article of this length. Four is absolute max, would be better being three. Remember it's just to summarise the article, and shouldn't include anything that isn't mentioned later in the article. () 12:09, 25 April 2011 (UTC)
Further comment - very much improved but I don't see anything referencing the second paragraph of The Kelly Gang section. () 15:31, 25 April 2011 (UTC)
Closed as promoted: There seems little point to drag this nomination out for another two weeks, when it has the support of the community (The most support a [V]GA has had for a long time, but level with the amount of support they were getting during the most active time of the process) and is in great shape. A perfect example of how the process should work, so congratulations to Peter, and everyone else who has helped to get the article up to the grade. Cheers, 10:06, 1 May 2011 (UTC) 
I have finished expanding the article from the , however, I did worked on it even more per the "copy-rights" and rules of Wikipedia. I think the article can be a VGA, however, I'm not sure with so many redlinks that the article will pass? Please express any concerns to me and I'll fix them :) Thanks, () 18:16, 7 May 2011 (UTC)
Closed as not promoted: Page no longer exists... 12:29, 8 May 2011 (UTC) 
Similar to my other nomination (below this one) I believe that the article meets the criteria, if not, I'm here to fix the issues. Thank you, () 03:22, 3 July 2011 (UTC) 
My comment below about redlinks applies to this as well. Red link fixes made are not appropriate. () 11:18, 3 July 2011 (UTC)
Closed as not promoted: Heh, no. 12:47, 3 July 2011 (UTC) 
Hello Ajona1992. I think the article is half-decent but I would suggest that until you become more familiar with our processes and expectations, you should take a look at and and then perhaps nominate just one of these articles at when you think you're ready. () 13:53, 4 July 2011 (UTC)
The article is currently a GA on the and I helped saved this article from a short article to well over 18,000 bytes. I asked an experiences editor on here to review the article and tell me if I am abiding the rules on Simple and if what I am doing is "still" being considered "vandalism". However, if it is, please note that I am no harm and I'm only learning. I did not copy-and-paste the entire article here, I just simply re-wrote the entire article. I am here for any fixes and/or changes that will be brought up here on this nomination, thank you, () 00:03, 3 July 2011 (UTC)
I don't think that making many redlinks link to English Wikipedia's article, and many of them redirect to the same location (the Selena) article is helpful at all. For a very good article, links should be within Simple Wikipedia or Simple Wiktionary. They should not direct readers to outside sources. Additionally, having these articles on various people redirect to Selena will help the reader learn nothing at all about those people, especially because those people have no mention in the Selena article. () 11:17, 3 July 2011 (UTC)
Closed as not promoted: Heh, no. 12:46, 3 July 2011 (UTC) 
Recently nominated (and subsequently promoted to) GA (by someone else). It's enwiki counterpart is an FA, and I don't see why this shouldn't be one either seeing it has sufficient content and references, albeit being a bit short. ( · · ) 11:18, 26 June 2011 (UTC)
Comments before complaints of "too short" roll in, do consider that this article probably already meets the criteria of what makes a VGA. English Wikipedia made a similar comment during its FAC. Nevertheless it was promoted. So, some comments:
Otherwise, it's good to go in my opinion. () 14:06, 26 June 2011 (UTC)
Closed as promoted: Great work! Consensus to promote, well done everyone. 13:37, 16 July 2011 (UTC) 
This article has had a major rewrite since it was demoted from VGA status. Over the last three months several editors have given detailed reviews of the article, and a number of editors have worked to fix all the identified problems. The article now meets all the criteria for VGA. If you have not checked the article recently, please do so and support its promotion. Please add any concerns to the article talk page. () 06:59, 4 July 2011 (UTC)
Closed as promoted: Overwhelming support to promote this article, which sadly only happens very rarely nowadays but is, therefore, a true testimony to the quality of this article, particularly when it was remembered that it was demoted just a few months ago. Excellent work everyone. 08:39, 25 July 2011 (UTC) 
I would like the article to be the first movie/film to reach VGA status. It went though a review. I had also added more WP:RS from Billboard and books I found on google.books. Thank you, 22:19, 29 September 2011 (UTC)
Comments: From a quick overview, I think the article is not up to VGA at this stage. I would like to see more substance to the article - at the moment about half is simply explaining the plot. There are red links which need to be fixed, there are many references from the IMDB which is not regarded as a completely reliable source and should be replaced where possible. There is some examples of strange English expression such as "It debuted at number seven..."; "Abraham had quit his dreams and began rising his family..."; "This made police to get involved."; "After her performance, she and Chris walks on a pier." There are links to Wiktionary which are to the wrong word such as "book" and links to words that are not yet included like "grossed". I would strongly recommend that the article is withdrawn from PGA, mistakes fixed, and then put up as a GA. Our feature articles need to be examples of our best work, and this does not meet that goal. -- () 08:10, 4 October 2011 (UTC)
Comments not ready for let alone . Some comments from the lead:
That's just the lead. Suggest withdraw and ask for comments from other editors before renominating at . () 11:48, 10 October 2011 (UTC)
"edit conflict" Closed as not promoted: Per - two three editors have jumped on with numerous concerns, all of which suggest that the article does not meet criteria. One of these editors has also suggested a withdrawal. The article particularly fails with regards to criteria 6 which suggests that the article will be having heavy edits now that it is at PVGA as opposed to minor. Regards, 11:50, 10 October 2011 (UTC) 
There maybe an issue with the sources, as I could only find claims in two books. Not a "huge tour" and it was not covered in most of her biographical books that were published. There's no coverage that I could find on google, most likely because she was popular in the 90s and not in the 80s. Its a reasonable size and well written, in my POV. Any fixes, I'll be gladly to correct. Thanks, 23:00, 29 September 2011 (UTC)
Just a few quick comments / errors that can be fixed - I did a really quick reading, so this isn't a complete list in any way. (Also, when I write P#, I'm referring to the paragraph number.)
Hope that helped. 02:21, 7 October 2011 (UTC)
Comments - yes, there sure are outstanding problems, so I'll list a few here, but this is by no means ready for at this time.
Suggest withdraw, fix issues, ask for comments from other editors, and list at . () 12:17, 10 October 2011 (UTC)
Already a GA, with only one redlink (a link to Wiktionary in fact). Could be a bit complex in parts, but I think it has all relevant information, so it is comprehensive and pretty well sourced. A review would be great. ( · · ) 12:52, 17 November 2011 (UTC)
Closed as not promoted: No input from nominator on article since nomination made. 20:40, 11 December 2011 (UTC) 
Closed as not promoted: By The Rambling Man. 00:09, 15 October 2011 (UTC) 
I have worked on this article for quite some time, and I think that it meats the Very Good Article criteria. The only issue may be the big ammount of red links (because there aren't any of the articles I linked too, on the Simple English Wikipedia), but that can be fixed. All the best -- () 15:27, 3 January 2012 (UTC)
I believe the article meets VGA criteria. The only issue I can see with the article is length, at around 4,600 characters. There is, however, a precedent that was set with the promotion of the sub-stub Tropical Depression Ten (2005) article: if everything is done right, and all criteria are met, then the article should get the gold star, so long as all information available to the reader is presented in the article. So thus, I present you with the eccentric and ill-tempered Oyster Burns. ( · ) 00:06, 31 December 2011 (UTC)
The article has been copy-edited by . I have tried to trim the plot section as much as I can. If there's more I need to trim please let me know by indicating which sentence(s) should be removed. I have just did a few c/e myself and it was given a review several months ago. Best, 17:35, 4 April 2012 (UTC)
Quite close to VGA in my opinion. Last time it was nominated, it was closed due to lack of input. The only issue which I'm yet to fix (from those listed by TRM in his review last year) can easily be sorted using AWB or something. Regards, ( · · ) 19:46, 5 May 2012 (UTC)
Hope this helps. Best, 22:42, 29 May 2012 (UTC)
Closed as not promoted - as per withdrawal. - 16:27, 5 June 2012 (UTC)
This article should be a VGA because it meets the VGA criteria. () 21:06, 9 May 2012 (UTC)
Thank you. I'm going thru the article to link and delink as necessary and checking against the word list. This is a laborious, tiring process. ()
Comments
After reading most of the article, it seems that it is not well simplified. Complex words are linked to wikitory but should instead be simplified so there won't be an overlinking problem with the article. An example of this "He brought all of ballet's resources to Spectre, but avoided displays of virtuosity for the sake of virtuosity. He chose instead to emphasize expressiveness." Best, 23:02, 29 May 2012 (UTC)
Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! I've gotten the hang of it! If you'll look at the article I'm in the process of simplifying and converting everything to the Wordlist. The section called "Story of the ballet" is now written almost "entirely" from the wordlist! () 00:00, 3 June 2012 (UTC)
 ( · ) 21:52, 17 June 2012 (UTC)
Barring these comments, I think this article deserves to get promoted. Congratulations to its hard-working lead editor.
Closed as promoted, per consensus. ( · ) 03:57, 28 June 2012 (UTC)
I've worked this up to Good Article. I've never proposed for VGAs before, so I'm not entirely sure if it meets the criteria, but comments would be appreciated and I hope to improve it more. ♥ingly, 08:43, 27 May 2012 (UTC)
 Fixed
 Fixed
 Fixed added reference from en.
 Fixed
 () 10:54, 29 May 2012 (UTC)
Overall the article is well written. Best, 23:19, 29 May 2012 (UTC)
This is a genuine candidate. However, I've flagged the claim "cannot hatch by themselves" 1. because it is not clear what this means, and 2. it has no reference. We have been over this ground in DYK. You see, if it just means the parents need to keep the egg warm, that's not worth saying (applies to almost all birds), whereas (for example) if the parents need to peck it out of the egg, that would be very unusual indeed. What does it mean? () 10:24, 30 May 2012 (UTC)
Made a few small comments on the talk page. () 13:48, 19 June 2012 (UTC)
Comments
Ping me when you're done! () 11:55, 30 June 2012 (UTC)
Closed as promoted, per consensus. I see no objections for the article's promotion. Best, 23:28, 26 July 2012 (UTC)
In 1911, ballet producer Sergei Diaghilev intended "Le Dieu bleu" to be a showcase for Vaslav Nijinsky, the brilliant Russian dancer of Polish descent who had yet to perform a major role with the Ballets Russes. Sadly, the ballet was a flop. Critics thought Nijinsky's talent had been wasted. Because the ballet was a flop, there is not an enormous volume of information on it, as there is for Diaghilev's successes such as "Le Spectre de la Rose" and "Petrushka" I believe this article is about as complete as such an article can be about "Dieu" while remaining encyclopedic. Thank you for your thoughtful consideration and feedback on it. () 20:49, 28 May 2012 (UTC)
Try getting someone to simplify and copy-edit the article. It seems as though you were the only contributor. Best, 23:28, 29 May 2012 (UTC)
 () 03:56, 30 July 2012 (UTC)
The article has been copy-edited and simplified by two editors. I just overlooked the entire article and did some more c/e. If there any other issues I'll fix them right away :D Best, 01:00, 28 May 2012 (UTC)
I still think the plot section could be reworked and needs to be trimmed. I don't think this article is the "stuff" of VGA because it has not attracted scholarly notice. It is basically a plot and some quotes from reviews. With the controversy over the volume of VGA nominations, I'm wondering if our editors should spend their time reviewing articles that have so little importance to the scholarly community. This is a good article and deserves space here but I wonder whether we should be spending hours and hours pushing it through VGA. () 18:47, 1 August 2012 (UTC)
One of the greatest ballets in the repertory. Written with an eye on the Basic Word List. () 10:48, 22 June 2012 (UTC)
Process note: Due to the delay between the article's nomination and the first feedback left at this page, the nomination should be considered to close on "6 September 2012". Thanks, 00:36, 24 August 2012 (UTC) 
 ( · ) 19:59, 16 August 2012 (UTC)
There are a couple of wikt links that lead to nowhere. I've tagged them so they're easy to find. Would you say that this article is comprehensive? It's quite short, so I'm wondering whether it covers all the relevant facts about him (there might just not be much to say). () 05:16, 12 September 2012 (UTC)
Victor Hugo's article is one of the best written articles and a lot of simple information for Victor Hugo. () 6:29, 27 September 2012 (UTC)
The article does look well-written IMO. I doubt there are any major reasons why the article is not VGA already () 21:47, 26 October 2012 (UTC)
I didn't edit this article but I took a quick read through and it looks pretty good to me. It is featured on en and was written by the same editor who wrote the featured one on en. Figured it probably was good enough for VGA here as well. At the worst it probably only needs some minor touch ups and creation of some red links which I will get to in the next little bit. - () 20:02, 29 October 2012 (UTC)
I think this was effectively withdrawn. Closing as not promoted. () 04:49, 24 November 2012 (UTC)
Article focuses on the basics, and is suitable for the Simple English. () 02:01, 17 November 2012 (UTC)
Half of this article has been reviewed. I hope someone will pick it up and finish the review. Thanks! () 17:36, 30 January 2013 (UTC)
Thanks to the help of several Simple Users who copy-edited the article over the past few months, I believe the article is ready to receive its star. For those who are not familiar with this topic, I introduced you to one of America's brightest stars who faded too soon. Best, 23:35, 7 May 2013 (UTC)
Closing as not promoted: Article hasn't been edited in over a month, user hasn't edited in nearly a month, and stale. 02:30, 24 June 2013 (UTC) 

</doc>
<doc id="280921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280921" title="Category:Dutch writers">
Category:Dutch writers


</doc>
<doc id="280922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280922" title="Category:Iranian writers">
Category:Iranian writers


</doc>
<doc id="280925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280925" title="Category:2010s television series">
Category:2010s television series


</doc>
<doc id="280932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280932" title="Category:Norwegian writers">
Category:Norwegian writers


</doc>
<doc id="280934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280934" title="Category:Argentinian writers">
Category:Argentinian writers


</doc>
<doc id="280937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280937" title="Category:Nigerian writers">
Category:Nigerian writers


</doc>
<doc id="280941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280941" title="Category:Israeli writers">
Category:Israeli writers


</doc>
<doc id="280942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280942" title="Category:Ukrainian writers">
Category:Ukrainian writers


</doc>
<doc id="280945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280945" title="Category:Nicaraguan people">
Category:Nicaraguan people


</doc>
<doc id="280948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280948" title="Category:Colombian writers">
Category:Colombian writers


</doc>
<doc id="280952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280952" title="Category:Czechoslovak writers">
Category:Czechoslovak writers


</doc>
<doc id="280957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280957" title="Category:Swedish writers">
Category:Swedish writers


</doc>
<doc id="280959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280959" title="Category:Egyptian writers">
Category:Egyptian writers


</doc>
<doc id="280961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280961" title="Category:Pakistani writers">
Category:Pakistani writers


</doc>
<doc id="280966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280966" title="Category:Portuguese writers">
Category:Portuguese writers


</doc>
<doc id="280967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280967" title="Category:Icelandic writers">
Category:Icelandic writers


</doc>
<doc id="280975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280975" title="Susan Collins">
Susan Collins

Susan Margaret Collins is a Senator of the United States from Maine. She is a moderate in the Republican Party. Collins was elected to the Senate in 1996. The Senator was born December 7, 1952.

</doc>
<doc id="280978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280978" title="Frill-necked Lizard">
Frill-necked Lizard

The Frill-necked Lizard ("Chlamydosaurus kingii") has a large reptile, thin frill around its head, which it displays in order to frighten enemies. To appear even more impressive, it also opens its mouth wide and often rears up on its hind legs. When frightened, this lizard will run away, using its back-legs only, earning it the nickname, the "bicycle lizard." 
These lizards spend most of their life in trees (they are primarily arboreal). They live in the north of Australia and in New Guinea. They inhabit moist tropical and warm-temperate forests and in woodlands with shrubby understory. When displayed, the frill is 9.5-14 inches (24-34 cm) wide. When the lizard is at rest, the frill folds down on its shoulders. Adults are over 8 inches (20 cm) long. 
Frill-necked Lizards are carnivorous (meat-eaters). They eat bugs (like cicadas, ants, and spiders) and small lizards. They hunt in trees and on the ground. 

</doc>
<doc id="280981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280981" title="Jodi Picoult">
Jodi Picoult

Jodi Lynn Picoult (born 19 May 1966 in Nesconsent, Long Island, New York) is an American author. Picoult comes from what she calls a "non-practicing Jewish family". She was raised in her hometown in Long Island, but moved to the U.S. State of New Hampshire when she was 13 years old. She attended Princeton, a university in the U.S. state of New Jersey, where she studied writing and graduated from in 1987. She also went to Harvard University, where she earned a master's degree in education. She had many jobs, as a guest writer for magazines like "Seventeen", to editing textbooks and teaching eighth grade English. She published her first novel "Songs of the Humpback Whale" in 1992. Her first book to debut as a New York Times best-seller was her 2007 novel "Nineteen Minutes"; the following year her novel "Change of Heart" became her second novel to debut as #1 on the New York Times Best Seller's list. Her last novel to be featured on the list was "Handle With Care" (2009). Four of her novels, "The Pact" (1998), "Plain Truth" (2000), "The Tenth Circle" (2006) and most recently, "My Sister's Keeper", which published as a book in 2004 but released as a movie in 2009. She was awarded the New England Bookseller Award for fiction in 2003. Picoult currently has some 14 million copies of her books in print worldwide. In addition to writing novels, Picoult had written for DC Comics' third volume of Wonder Woman in 2007; she only wrote 5 issues. She lives with her husband, Tim Van Leer, their three children and pets in Hanover, New Hampshire.

</doc>
<doc id="280983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280983" title="Shad Gaspard">
Shad Gaspard

Shad Chad Javier Romane Chittick Gaspard (born January 13, 1981 in Brooklyn, New York) is an American professional wrestler. He is best known for wrestling for World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). He teamed with JTG and they formed the tag team, Cryme Tyme. Gaspard is currently pursuing an acting career which he stated in an interview for Right After Wrestling.

</doc>
<doc id="280986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280986" title="Bukittinggi">
Bukittinggi

Bukittinggi (Indonesian for "high hill", formerly called "Fort de Kock") is a city in West Sumatra, Indonesia. The population of this city is 120,000 when it is estimated (according to 2010 census). In the history of Indonesia, Bukittinggi even became the capital city of Indonesia from 1948-1949 when Indonesia was at war with Netherlands.

</doc>
<doc id="280987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280987" title="Yogyakarta">
Yogyakarta

Yogyakarta is a city in the Yogyakarta Special Region, Indonesia. Yogyakarta was the capital city of Indonesia in 1947-1948.
Yogyakarta is a major center of education in Indonesia. Public universities in the city include:
Private universities include:

</doc>
<doc id="280991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280991" title="Kenzo Suzuki">
Kenzo Suzuki

Kenzo Suzuki (born July 25, 1974) is a Japanese professional wrestler who is best known for wrestling for WWE and New Japan Pro Wrestling. Suzuki is currently wrestling for All Japan Pro Wrestling and is part of the stable, Voodoo Murders. He is often managed to the ring by his real-life wife, Hiroko Suzuki.

</doc>
<doc id="280992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280992" title="Gifu Prefecture">
Gifu Prefecture

Gifu is part of the Tōkai region. Shirakawa in Gifu is a UNESCO's World Heritage Site.
In the Meiji period, Gifu Prefecture was created by merging several old provinces, including Hida Province and Mino Province.
"Gifu" may have been named by Oda Nobunaga.
Gifu shares borders with seven other prefectures: Aichi Prefecture, Fukui Prefecture, Ishikawa Prefecture, Mie Prefecture, Nagano Prefecture, Shiga Prefecture and Toyama Prefecture.
National parks cover about 18% of the total land area of the prefecture.
Otaki Limestone cave is one of the biggest limestone caves in Japan. There is no daylight inside, so you may feel that the air in there is very still. If you go there in summer, you may feel cool, and if you go there in winter, you may feel much warmer than outside of it. The walls are made of limestone and look milky white.
"Hidaichinomiya-Minashi jinja" is the main Shinto shrine ("ichinomiya") in the prefecture.

</doc>
<doc id="280997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280997" title="Xavier Woods">
Xavier Woods

Austin Watson (born September 4, 1986) is an American professional wrestler. He is currently signed to WWE where he competes under the ring name Xavier Woods. He is a member of The New Day stable with Kofi Kingston and Big E. He holds the WWE Tag Team Championship with Kingston and Big E. He defends the championship under the Freebird Rule. He has also wrestled for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) from 2007 to 2010 where he won the TNA World Tag Team Championship one time with Jay Lethal.

</doc>
<doc id="280999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280999" title="Semih Erden">
Semih Erden

Semih Erden (born July 28, 1986 in Istanbul, Turkey) is an Turkish basketball player who currently plays for the Cleveland Cavaliers of the NBA. He was selected 60th overall in the 2nd round in the 2008 NBA Draft by the Boston Celtics, while he was playing for Fenerbahçe Ülker in his homeland. Erden arrived in Boston for the 2010–11 season, but was traded to Cleveland near the end of the season. During the 2011 NBA lockout, he returned to Turkey and played for Beşiktaş; after the lockout ended in December 2011, he returned to the Cavaliers. 

</doc>
<doc id="281000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281000" title="Doug Williams (wrestler)">
Doug Williams (wrestler)

Douglas Clayton Durdle (born September 1, 1972) is an English professional wrestler that is currently signed to TNA Wrestling wrestling under the ring name, Douglas Williams. 

</doc>
<doc id="281003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281003" title="Philidor defence">
Philidor defence

Philidor's defence, usually called "the Philodor", is one of the basic chess openings. It was used often by the 18th century master Philidor, and he published analsis about it in his textbook "L'Analyse du jeu des échecs" (1849).
Black can reach a line called the Hanham variation by transposing from the Pirc defence:

</doc>
<doc id="281012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281012" title="Category:Listed buildings">
Category:Listed buildings


</doc>
<doc id="281014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281014" title="Category:Listed buildings in London">
Category:Listed buildings in London


</doc>
<doc id="281017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281017" title="Robert Boyle">
Robert Boyle

Robert Boyle FRS (25 January 1627 – 31 December 1691) was a 17th-century natural philosopher, chemist, physicist, inventor and founding member of the Royal Society.
Boyle was born in Ireland to a titled Anglo-Irish family. He was the fourteenth child of Richard Boyle, 1st Earl of Cork, who had arrived in Ireland in 1588.
Robert Boyle is best known for Boyle's law.
When Robert Hooke was young, Boyle employed him as an instrument-maker and assistant. They continued to cooperate when Hooke took charge of experiments at the Royal Society.
Scientific research was the main focus of Boyle's life. He joined other like-minded men in a group which called itself the "Invisible College". He was part of the group which founded the Royal Society in 1660.
Boyle was an alchemist, but also the first modern chemist. His 1661 book, "The Sceptical Chymist", is important in the history of chemistry.
As a director of the East India Company Boyle spent large sums in promoting the spread of Christianity in the East. He contributed liberally to missionary societies and to the expenses of translating the Bible or portions of it into various languages.
Boyle supported the policy that the Bible should be available in the language of the people, in contrast to the Latin-only policy of the Roman Catholic Church at the time.

</doc>
<doc id="281021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281021" title="Category:Metropolitan Line stations">
Category:Metropolitan Line stations


</doc>
<doc id="281022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281022" title="Category:Bakerloo Line stations">
Category:Bakerloo Line stations


</doc>
<doc id="281023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281023" title="Category:Central Line stations">
Category:Central Line stations


</doc>
<doc id="281024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281024" title="Category:Tube stations in Westminster">
Category:Tube stations in Westminster


</doc>
<doc id="281025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281025" title="Category:Tube stations in Islington">
Category:Tube stations in Islington


</doc>
<doc id="281027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281027" title="Category:Jubilee Line stations">
Category:Jubilee Line stations


</doc>
<doc id="281030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281030" title="Category:District Line stations">
Category:District Line stations


</doc>
<doc id="281033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281033" title="Category:Passenger rail transport in the United Kingdom">
Category:Passenger rail transport in the United Kingdom


</doc>
<doc id="281034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281034" title="Category:Electric railways in the United Kingdom">
Category:Electric railways in the United Kingdom


</doc>
<doc id="281036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281036" title="Category:London metro systems">
Category:London metro systems


</doc>
<doc id="281037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281037" title="Category:London Overground stations">
Category:London Overground stations


</doc>
<doc id="281040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281040" title="Myrtillocactus">
Myrtillocactus

Myrtillocactus is a genus of plants in the family Cactaceae.
All of these plants are succulents. The plants grows in Mexico and Guatemala. In total, there are 4 species:
Flowers are white or yellowish, its length is appr. 2.5 cm.
Some species of Myrtillocactus are popular houseplants.<br style="clear:left">

</doc>
<doc id="281041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281041" title="Category:London Borough of Barking and Dagenham">
Category:London Borough of Barking and Dagenham


</doc>
<doc id="281042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281042" title="Category:City of London">
Category:City of London


</doc>
<doc id="281043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281043" title="Category:City of Westminster">
Category:City of Westminster


</doc>
<doc id="281044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281044" title="Category:London Borough of Barnet">
Category:London Borough of Barnet


</doc>
<doc id="281045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281045" title="Category:London Borough of Bexley">
Category:London Borough of Bexley


</doc>
<doc id="281046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281046" title="Category:London Borough of Brent">
Category:London Borough of Brent


</doc>
<doc id="281047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281047" title="Category:London Borough of Bromley">
Category:London Borough of Bromley


</doc>
<doc id="281048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281048" title="Category:London Borough of Camden">
Category:London Borough of Camden


</doc>
<doc id="281049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281049" title="Category:London Borough of Croydon">
Category:London Borough of Croydon


</doc>
<doc id="281050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281050" title="Category:London Borough of Ealing">
Category:London Borough of Ealing


</doc>
<doc id="281051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281051" title="Category:London Borough of Greenwich">
Category:London Borough of Greenwich


</doc>
<doc id="281052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281052" title="Category:London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham">
Category:London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham


</doc>
<doc id="281053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281053" title="Category:London Borough of Haringey">
Category:London Borough of Haringey


</doc>
<doc id="281054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281054" title="Category:London Borough of Harrow">
Category:London Borough of Harrow


</doc>
<doc id="281055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281055" title="Category:London Borough of Havering">
Category:London Borough of Havering


</doc>
<doc id="281056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281056" title="Category:London Borough of Hillingdon">
Category:London Borough of Hillingdon


</doc>
<doc id="281057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281057" title="Category:London Borough of Hounslow">
Category:London Borough of Hounslow


</doc>
<doc id="281059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281059" title="Category:London Borough of Islington">
Category:London Borough of Islington


</doc>
<doc id="281061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281061" title="Category:London Borough of Lambeth">
Category:London Borough of Lambeth


</doc>
<doc id="281062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281062" title="Category:London Borough of Lewisham">
Category:London Borough of Lewisham


</doc>
<doc id="281063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281063" title="Category:London Borough of Merton">
Category:London Borough of Merton


</doc>
<doc id="281064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281064" title="Category:London Borough of Newham">
Category:London Borough of Newham


</doc>
<doc id="281065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281065" title="Category:London Borough of Redbridge">
Category:London Borough of Redbridge


</doc>
<doc id="281066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281066" title="Category:London Borough of Richmond">
Category:London Borough of Richmond


</doc>
<doc id="281067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281067" title="Category:London Borough of Southwark">
Category:London Borough of Southwark


</doc>
<doc id="281068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281068" title="Category:London Borough of Sutton">
Category:London Borough of Sutton


</doc>
<doc id="281069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281069" title="Category:London Borough of Tower Hamlets">
Category:London Borough of Tower Hamlets


</doc>
<doc id="281070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281070" title="Category:London Borough of Waltham Forest">
Category:London Borough of Waltham Forest


</doc>
<doc id="281071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281071" title="Category:London Borough of Wandsworth">
Category:London Borough of Wandsworth


</doc>
<doc id="281072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281072" title="Category:Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea">
Category:Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea


</doc>
<doc id="281073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281073" title="Category:Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames">
Category:Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames


</doc>
<doc id="281075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281075" title="Category:Tube stations in Camden">
Category:Tube stations in Camden


</doc>
<doc id="281080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281080" title="USS Nimitz (CVN-68)">
USS Nimitz (CVN-68)

The USS "Nimitz" (CVN-68) is a supercarrier for the United States Navy. Starting in late 2011, The USS "Nimitz" will be stationed at Naval Station Everett in Everett, Washington. It is named after Admiral Chester W. Nimitz.
It is set to replace the USS "Abraham Lincoln".its length got to an amazing 1063 ft or 333 meters. It has four steam catapults that can speed up a 100,000 pound plane to 160 mph in 100 meters. It can launch early warning planes f/a-18 hornets and super hornet fighter bomber aircraft. it is powered by two nuclear reactors and can stay at sea for 24 years without refueling although once it needs to refill, it needs to be done carefully and only done in speacial naval bases.its weight also gets to an holy 100000 tons.it can carry 80 to 90 aircraft at the most.

</doc>
<doc id="281085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281085" title="Commelinoideae">
Commelinoideae

Commelinoideae is a subfamily of monocotyledonous flowering plants in the dayflower family (Commelinaceae). The Commelinoideae is one of two subfamilies within the Commelinaceae and includes 39 genera (out of 41 in the family) and all but 12 of the family's several hundred known species.

</doc>
<doc id="281086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281086" title="Emma Bunton">
Emma Bunton

Emma Bunton, aka Baby Spice is a British singer-songwriter and television promoter. She was born on 21 January 1976. She was a member of girl group the Spice Girls. She gained her nickname from being the youngest of the group as well as her youthful looks. She was a contestant in the 2006 series of "Strictly Come Dancing". She is also the host of the Heart FM Saturday evening slot from 4pm to 7pm.
On 12 August 2012, the Spice Girls performed a medley of "Wannabe" and "Spice Up Your Life" at the 2012 Summer Olympics closing ceremony. They got back together just for the event.
Their performance was the most tweeted moment of Olympics closing ceremony with over 116,000 tweets on Twitter per minute. 
Bunton's long-term partner since 1998 is singer Jade Jones. The couple have two sons: Beau Lee Jones and Tate Lee Jones. She is also a godmother, alongside with Victoria Beckham, to Geri Halliwell's daughter Bluebell Madonna Halliwell.

</doc>
<doc id="281099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281099" title="Category:Organelles">
Category:Organelles

This category contains organelles.

</doc>
<doc id="281104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281104" title="Steeplechase (athletics)">
Steeplechase (athletics)

The steeplechase is an obstacle race in athletics, which derives its name from the word "steeplechase" in horse racing. its when you have to run around the track over hurdles an water to win

</doc>
<doc id="281123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281123" title="Ken Anderson (wrestler)">
Ken Anderson (wrestler)

Kenneth Anderson (born March 6, 1976 in Wisconsin Rapids, Wisconsin) is an American professional wrestler who is currently wrestling for TNA Wrestling under the ring name, Mr. Anderson and is the current reigning TNA World Heavyweight Champion. Anderson also wrestled for WWE from 2005-2009 as Mr. Kennedy before being released by the company because it was reported that Kennedy had injured his wrist during his last match with the company, and a stiff back suplex almost injured Randy Orton. 

</doc>
<doc id="281134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281134" title="South Sudan">
South Sudan

South Sudan is a country in Africa. Its official name is the Republic of South Sudan. It used to be a part of Sudan.
The landlocked country is bordered by Ethiopia to the east; Kenya to the southeast; Uganda to the south; the Democratic Republic of the Congo to the southwest; the Central African Republic to the west; and the Republic of Sudan to the north. South Sudan includes the vast swamp region of the Sudd formed by the White Nile, locally called the "Bahr al Jabal".
What is now South Sudan was once part of the British Empire. It became part of the Republic of Sudan when independence was achieved in 1956. After the First Sudanese Civil War, the Southern Sudan Autonomous Region was formed in 1972 and lasted until 1983. A second Sudanese civil war soon developed and ended with the Comprehensive Peace Agreement of 2005. Later that year, the Autonomous Government of Southern Sudan was formed. South Sudan became an independent state on 9 July 2011 at midnight local time, after a referendum held in January 2011. In the referendum, nearly 99% of voters wanted to separate from the rest of Sudan.
The United Nations Security Council met on 13 July 2011 to formally discuss membership for the Republic of South Sudan. The next day, 14 July 2011, South Sudan became a United Nations member state. South Sudan has also applied to join the Commonwealth of Nations, the East African Community, the Intergovernmental Authority on Development, the International Monetary Fund, and the World Bank. The country was declared eligible to apply for membership in the Arab League as well.
At the 2012 Summer Olympics, one athlete from South Sudan competed under the flag of the International Olympic Committee.
Its capital is Juba. Between eight and twelve million people live there. Over 200 languages are spoken, but the official language is English. Arabic is also spoken by many people.
The main religion is Christianity, practised by nearly 78% of the population. Another 20% practise African traditional religions, and just 3% are Muslim.
Much of South Sudan's economy is based on oil, but they also have a large lumber industry mainly consisting of teak. It is a very poor and under-developed country. There is very little infrastructure, and the civil wars have caused a lot of damage.

</doc>
<doc id="281135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281135" title="S Club">
S Club

S Club, formerly S Club 7 and currently touring under the name S Club 3 and a bit are a British pop group. They formed in 1998 in London and split up in 2003. The group reunited in 2008 with Jo O'Meara, Bradley McIntosh and Paul Cattermole and was renamed S Club. 

</doc>
<doc id="281138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281138" title="The New York Times Best Seller list">
The New York Times Best Seller list

"The New York Times" Best Seller list is a list of best-selling books in the United States that has been published weekly on Sundays by the "New York Times", a New York City based newspaper since 9 April 1942. It is also released a stand-alone publication, meaning it is sometimes published separately outside of the newspaper, and can also be found online. The list is usually split into fiction and non-fiction sections; each contain ten to twenty titles.

</doc>
<doc id="281141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281141" title="Muskmelon">
Muskmelon

Muskmelons ("Cucumis melo") are a type of melon. Cantaloupes are a popular type of muskmelon, but there are other types. They come from Iran and other places nearby. They were transported west to Europe near the time of Christ's birth.
The name of the muskmelon comes from the words "musk," which means "perfume" in Persian and "melon," which is French and comes from a Latin word that means "apple shaped melon."
Muskmelons are native to Iran, as well as parts of India and Afghanistan. The first known mention of the muskmelon was in Greece in the 3rd century BC. There is an old Egyptian painting that shows a fruit some people think was a muskmelon. In the first century AD, Romans knew about the muskmelon, and both the Greeks and Romans found that it could be used as medicine or to eat. At about this time, China also found out about the muskmelon.
During the Middle Ages the muskmelon spread across Europe to as far west as Spain and Christopher Columbus brought seeds of it to the Caribbean in 1494. In the 1600s it was being grown across North America by the Spanish, the English and Native Americans. By 1650 the muskmelon was being grown in Brazil.
Muskmelons can have a very good taste or a very bad one, depending on each fruit. The species might have spread slowly because a lot of muskmelons taste bad. In 1513, a Spanish writer said of the muskmelon that "the good [muskmelons] are like good women, and the bad like bad women."

</doc>
<doc id="281143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281143" title="2006 Hengchun earthquake">
2006 Hengchun earthquake

The 2006 Hengchun earthquake happened on Tuesday December 26, 2006 at 12:25 UTC (20:25 local time) near Taiwan. On the surface the center of the earthquake was about 22.8 km west southwest of Hengchun, Pingtung County, Taiwan. The center of the earthquake underground was 21.9 km deep in the Luzon Strait ().
Reports of the strength of the quake do not all agree. Taiwan's Central Weather Bureau reported 7.0 M The United States Geological Survey estimated the quake to be 7.1 M The Hong Kong Observatory and the Japan Meteorological Agency said 7.2 M. Taiwan's Central News Agency reported that it was the strongest earthquake to hit Hengchun in one hundred years. The earthquake hurt and killed many people and damaged many buildings. It also damaged several undersea cables. The broken cables were a problem for telecommunication services in parts of Asia.
The date of the earthquake was unusual. The earthquake happened exactly two years after the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake that caused terrible damage to the coastal communities across Southeast and South Asia. It was also exactly three years after the 2003 earthquake that almost destroyed the southern Iranian city of Bam.
This earthquake was the first time Taiwan detected a tsunami. The water level changed only 25 cm and did not damage anything.
An early tsunami warning came from the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA). They reported that the earthquake caused a 1-meter tsunami. It was moving towards the east coast of the Philippines. The Hong Kong Observatory also reported a tsunami that would probably not affect Hong Kong.

</doc>
<doc id="281144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281144" title="Cuban Solenodon">
Cuban Solenodon

The Cuban Solenodon or Almiqui ("Solenodon cubanus"), is a species of soricomorph that is endemic to Cuba. It belongs to the family Solenodontidae along with a similar species, the Hispaniolan Solenodon ("Solenodon paradoxus"). The solenodon is unusual among mammals in that its saliva is venomous. Since its discovery in 1861 by the German naturalist Wilhelm Peters.

</doc>
<doc id="281150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281150" title="Chicago Tribune">
Chicago Tribune

Chicago Tribune is a major newspaper that serves Chicago, Illinois. It was founded on June 10, 1847 by James Kelly, John E. Wheeler and Joseph K. C. Forrest. The Tribune was also known for running the wrong result in its headline, "DEWEY DEFEATS TRUMAN" during the 1948 United States presidential election which it was expected Thomas E. Dewey would defeat Harry S. Truman.

</doc>
<doc id="281178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281178" title="Stephen Baldwin">
Stephen Baldwin

Stephen Andrew Baldwin (born May 12, 1966) is an American actor. He is known for his conservative religious and political beliefs. Stephen is the youngest of the Baldwin brothers. He was a housemated in the 2010 series of Big Brother (UK).
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="281186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281186" title="Wikipedia:Changing username/Archive 4">
Wikipedia:Changing username/Archive 4

 () 00:05, 15 December 2011 (UTC)
</pre>
 () 13:37, 14 December 2011 (UTC)
 () 16:39, 7 December 2011 (UTC)
 () 02:32, 4 December 2011 (UTC)
 () 21:05, 30 November 2011 (UTC)
 () 08:33, 10 November 2011 (UTC)
 () 07:36, 27 October 2011 (UTC)
 () 02:52, 9 October 2011 (UTC)
 () 17:55, 29 November 2011 (UTC)
 18:33, 6 November 2011 (UTC)
 11:39, 6 November 2011 (UTC)
 () 21:30, 4 November 2011 (UTC)
 () 10:07, 01 November 2011 (UTC)
 () 22:49, 9 September 2011 (UTC)
 () 16:52, 4 October 2011 (UTC)
 () 18:06, 25 September 2011 (UTC)
 () 19:02, 18 September 2011 (UTC)
 () 15:21, 28 August 2011 (UTC)
 () 00:57, 19 August 2011 (UTC)
 () 16:17, 23 July 2011 (UTC)
 Question Are you going to request this on your home wiki as well? @:~$ 17:26, 23 July 2011 (UTC)
Done. No reason not to do. This should have been done already. However, you may need to request renaming as well, if you want to use this nick on enwiki. - () 19:19, 18 September 2011 (UTC)
 () 14:57, 6 September 2011 (UTC)
-- ( · ) 12:51, 29 August 2011 (UTC)
 22:50, 26 August 2011 (UTC)
 12:44, 25 August 2011 (UTC)
 12:51, 24 August 2011 (UTC)
 () 11:07, 20 August 2011 (UTC)
 () 23:46, 11 August 2011 (UTC)
 () 18:28, 11 August 2011 (UTC)
 () 16:08, 11 August 2011 (UTC)
 () 09:55, 10 August 2011 (UTC)
 () 15:40, 3 August 2011 (UTC)
— • 6:23pm • 08:23, 26 July 2011 (UTC)
 () 10:54, 24 July 2011 (UTC)
 - () 11:43, 26 July 2011 (UTC)
 15:10, 19 August 2011 (UTC)
 () 16:30, 28 June 2011 (UTC)
 () 13:48, 22 June 2011 (UTC)
 () 00:46, 12 June 2011 (UTC)
 () 01:36, 8 June 2011 (UTC)
 Stale Request @:~$ 18:02, 3 July 2011 (UTC)
 () 23:39, 7 June 2011 (UTC)
 Stale request. @:~$ 18:03, 3 July 2011 (UTC)
 () 19:44, 1 June 2011 (UTC)
 () 23:23, 20 May 2011 (UTC)
 () 17:37, 15 May 2011 (UTC)
 () 10:16, 15 May 2011 (UTC)
 () 18:48, 11 May 2011 (UTC)
    10:28, 10 May 2011 (UTC)
 () 16:35, 5 May 2011 (UTC)
 () 12:07, 2 May 2011 (UTC)
 () 05:22, 30 April 2011 (UTC)
 () 03:27, 25 April 2011 (UTC)
 There are no contributions on either account. Since there are no contributions on the old account, the move is not needed. But, I can do the move if you can login to the old account and make the request, also the new account and confirm. Thanks, @:~$ 03:43, 25 April 2011 (UTC)
 You should request rename on the other two wiki's, the one on this wiki is now detached from SUL. Best, @:~$ 04:39, 23 April 2011 (UTC)
 18:39, 12 February 2011 (UTC)
 () 01:54, 10 February 2011 (UTC)
 ~ 19:29, 24 January 2011 (UTC)
 () 17:11, 19 January 2011 (UTC)
 () 15:01, 18 January 2011 (UTC)
 () 15:12, 12 January 2011 (UTC)
-- 03:04, 5 January 2011 (UTC)
 () 17:15, 30 December 2010 (UTC)
-- () 18:00, 1 March 2011 (UTC)
 () 16:31, 11 December 2011 (UTC)
 () 19:04, 23 October 2011 (UTC)
 () 03:54, 16 October 2011 (UTC)
 () 16:37, 15 October 2011 (UTC)
 () 21:50, 18 August 2011 (UTC)
 () 19:54, 12 August 2011 (UTC)
 () 17:00, 1 October 2011 (UTC)
 () 14:57, 23 November 2011 (UTC)
 () 17:03, 29 November 2011 (UTC)
 12:33, 25 August 2011 (UTC)
 () 04:03, 20 August 2011 (UTC)
 This is not a Usurpation Request, but a simple rename. @:~$ 02:07, 20 July 2011 (UTC)
 @:~$ 02:07, 20 July 2011 (UTC)
 This is a simple rename request. @:~$ 02:40, 9 July 2011 (UTC)
. The local account will need to be unified once you rename the account on Enwiki. @:~$ 02:42, 9 July 2011 (UTC)
 20:11, 28 June 2011 (UTC)
But I don't know where I have to mention, please tell me that, I will mention and then tell you, thanks.-- () 06:47, 29 June 2011 (UTC)
 Both names are attached, renaming will cause one to detach, will this be ok? @:~$ 18:23, 3 July 2011 (UTC)
. Check your SULs. @:~$ 04:20, 5 July 2011 (UTC)
 () 11:02, 10 July 2011 (UTC)
 () 22:53, 15 May 2011 (UTC)
 () 09:23, 12 May 2011 (UTC)
 () 01:37, 8 April 2011 (UTC)
 () 07:01, 23 December 2010 (UTC)
Hi, I wish to use my forename Jordan as the username for all English languge Wikimedia Foundation projects. The registered user with this ID has not been active on this site for more than two years and has been permanently blocked at en:Wikipedia where also registered. Currently I am unable to create or unify the desired name as it has been parked and abandoned here. I would be very greatfull for your assistance in creating a SUL with this name. Thank you. () 07:01, 23 December 2010 (UTC)
Thank you for your response, I have replied [] to keep this page clear. Thanks. () 14:36, 23 December 2010 (UTC)
 () 23:41, 1 August 2011 (UTC)
 () 11:14, 18 May 2011 (UTC)
 () 22:24, 31 March 2011 (UTC)
 () 23:18, 23 December 2010 (UTC)
"(clerk)" There has been no response to this since it was posted in December 2010 - now four months ago. Taking the liberty of non-crat closing this, as it's clearly not going to be taken further now - if it needs to be, doesn't hurt to open a new request. 03:20, 23 March 2011 (UTC) 

</doc>
<doc id="281189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281189" title="Pirc defence">
Pirc defence

The Pirc defence is one of the asymmetrical hypermodern defences, usually to 1.e4. It is similar to the Modern defence, but reserves the decision as to whether to fianchetto the g8 bishop.
Because it is so flexible it lends itself to transpositions. This is one of the main lines:
A completely different idea is:
which is a transposition into Philidor's defence. Another idea is:
which is called Wade's defence.

</doc>
<doc id="281191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281191" title="Cyclone Yasi">
Cyclone Yasi

Tropical Cyclone Yasi was a tropical cyclone that caused a lot of damage when it reached the Australian coast at about midnight on Wednesday 2 February 2011. The storm which started in the Coral Sea, destroyed hundreds of homes in the northern Queensland towns of Tully, Mission Beach, Innisfail and Cardwell. Yasi was a Category Five storm, the highest level, with winds of about 300 km/h. It was the biggest storm in Queensland's history, with more than 10,000 people moved from their homes. The storm passed between the two big cities of Cairns and Townsville which only suffered minor damage. Early estimates of damage put the cost at about AU$100 million.
Cyclone Yasi did not cause the damage that government expected as it missed major cities. It did however destroy 30% of the houses in Tully. At least 75% of the banana crop was destroyed, and damage to the sugar cane farms is expected to cost about AU$500 million. One person died when they were poisoned by fumes from a portable generator. Damage to power lines left 150,000 homes without electricity.
The rainforest around Mission Beach was flattened by the cyclone. This meant that most of the food and shelter needed for the wildlife has been destroyed. The Southern Cassowary, a large endangered bird, will need help to survive in the forest. After Cyclone Larry in 2006 it is thought that about one third of the cassowaries at Mission Beach died from starvation. A group, called Rainforest Rescue, is going to set up feeding areas in the forest for the birds.

</doc>
<doc id="281196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281196" title="Fianna Fáil">
Fianna Fáil

Fianna Fáil is an Irish political party. It was founded in 1926 by Éamon DeValera. Its leader is Michéal Martin. It is a faction of the Sinn Fein, another Irish political party alongside the Fine Gael. Its name is translated from Irish as 'Soldiers of Destiny' but literally means 'Warriors of Fál' (Fál was the name of Ireland in legends). Fianna Fáil does not support the Anglo-Irish treaty, unlike the Fine Gael.
There have been eight leaders of the Fianna Fáil since its creation in 1926. They are:
The Youth Wing of Fianna Fáil is the Ógra Fianna Fáil, which was created in 1975 to get younger people to vote and support the party. 

</doc>
<doc id="281200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281200" title="Jim Agnew">
Jim Agnew

Jim Agnew (born March 21, 1966) is a Canadian retired professional hockey defenceman. Agnew was drafted by the Vancouver Canucks in the 8th round (157th overall) in the 1984 NHL Entry Draft. After a stellar career in the Western Hockey League with the Brandon Wheat Kings and Portland Winter Hawks, Agnew began his professional career with the Canucks in 1986. 
Agnew spent most of the 1986–87 in the American Hockey League, although he did receive a four-game stretch with the Canucks. He would spend four full seasons in Vancouver's minor-league system while seeing occasional action in Vancouver. Playing ten games for the team in the 1987–88 during which time he recorded his only career point, and was called up again for seven games in 1989–90. 
While playing for the Canucks in March 1990, Agnew seriously injured his left knee and required surgery. This would be the start of a chronic knee problem. Injuries to his left knee caused him to miss significant action six times over the next four seasons, and required three separate surgeries. 
His knee problems struck just as he made the NHL on a full-time basis. He spent virtually the entire 1990–91 and 1991–92 seasons on the Canuck roster as a utility player seeing action at both forward and defence, but was limited to just 44 games over that stretch due to injury and failed to record a point. 
He was released by the Canucks in 1992 and signed as a free agent with the Hartford Whalers. Again, however, he was limited to only 16 games by an injury to his left knee. After injuring his knee again during the Whalers' 1993 training camp, he decided to retire. 
Agnew appeared in 81 NHL games over parts of six seasons, recording 1 assist and 257 penalty minutes. 

</doc>
<doc id="281203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281203" title="Deloraine, Manitoba">
Deloraine, Manitoba

Deloraine is a farming town in the Canadian province of Manitoba. It is situated near the Turtle Mountains in the southwestern corner of the province.

</doc>
<doc id="281204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281204" title="Western Hockey League">
Western Hockey League

The Western Hockey League (WHL) is a major junior ice hockey league based in Western Canada and the Pacific Northwest of the United States. 

</doc>
<doc id="281205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281205" title="Category:1966 establishments">
Category:1966 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="281215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281215" title="War in North-West Pakistan">
War in North-West Pakistan

The War in North-West Pakistan refers to a war waged by the United States, Pakistan armed forces and Pakistani Tribes against the Taliban, Al-Qaeda and Islamic State. The main reason for the war was due to tensions breaking out between Pakistan armed forces and Al-Qaeda in 2004. It continues to the present day. 3117 Pakistani armed force members have been killed, as well as 235+ Tribe members and 15 United States soldiers. 17742 insurgents have been killed or captured in this war.
Osama Bin Laden was killed in Abbottabad on 1 May 2011.
During the years of 2004, SAS soldiers were ordered to take out a renegade police officer. Two men were caught by the police and taken back to the station. Tempers had already been running high because of an arrest by soldiers who had turned out to be agents working in the Taliban organization.

</doc>
<doc id="281219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281219" title="+1-869">
+1-869

Area code 869 is the local telephone area code of Saint Kitts and Nevis. The 869 area code was created during a split from the original (809) area code which was done in October, 1996. Like many Caribbean countries St Kitts uses +1 followed by the area code as the international direct dial phone code.
When in Saint Kitts and Nevis, use the seven digits alone. When calling to Saint Kitts and Nevis from anywhere in the United States or Canada simply dial 1(869) + seven digit phone number.

</doc>
<doc id="281225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281225" title="Metropolitan Police">
Metropolitan Police

The Metropolitan Police is the name of the police service for the Metropolitan police district of Greater London.
It covers all of London boroughs, except the City of London. It is the largest of the 52 police forces in the United Kingdom. In 2009, it had about 30000 police officers, more than three times the size of the next largest force.

</doc>
<doc id="281226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281226" title="Category:Law enforcement in the United Kingdom">
Category:Law enforcement in the United Kingdom


</doc>
<doc id="281237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281237" title="Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Mr. Berty">
Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Mr. Berty


</doc>
<doc id="281247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281247" title="Wikipedia:Editor review/Albacore">
Wikipedia:Editor review/Albacore

 Would like to know what areas I can improve on. ( · ) 21:56, 3 February 2011 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="281254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281254" title="Network port">
Network port

A network port is a number that identifies one side of a connection between two computers. Computers use port numbers to determine to which process or application a message should be delivered. As network addresses are like street address, port numbers are like suite or room numbers. Any program may use any port, though some port numbers have a standard use and some programs may be limited in which ports they can use for security reasons. Firewalls often block access to ports based on the network address and port of the source or destination computer, or the program using the port (if the firewall is running on the same computer).

</doc>
<doc id="281255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281255" title="False pregnancy">
False pregnancy

A false pregnancy, hysterical pregnancy or pseudopregnancy is when a mammal shows some of the symptoms associated with a pregnancy, but without being pregnant. False pregnancies commonly occur in dogs and mice. False pregnancy in humans is less common, and usually has psychological causes. False pregnancy is probably caused by changes in the endocrine system of the body, which leads to the secretion of hormones. These hormones are the reason physical changes happen, similar to those during pregnancy. The underlying cause is often mental.

</doc>
<doc id="281257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281257" title="Naomi Campbell">
Naomi Campbell

Naomi Eliane Campbell (born 22 May 1970) is a British supermodel and actress. She was born in Streatham, a district in Lambeth, London, and started her modelling career in the 1980s. She has appeared on over 500 magazine covers.
Naomi was one of six models of her generation declared "supermodels" by the fashion world. As the most famous black model of her time, Campbell has been outspoken throughout her career against the racial bias that exists in the fashion industry. Her personal life is widely reported, particularly her affairs with famous men—including boxer Mike Tyson and actor Robert De Niro—and several high-profile assault convictions.
Campbell is the daughter of Jamaican-born dancer Valerie Morris. In accordance with her mother's wishes, Campbell has never met her father, who abandoned her mother when she was four months pregnant, and who went unnamed on her birth certificate. She took the surname Campbell from her mother's second marriage.
During her early years, Campbell lived in Rome, where her mother worked as a modern dancer. Following their return to London, she was left in the care of her maternal grandmother, Ruby, while her mother travelled across Europe with the dance troupe Fantastica. At five years old, Campbell was enrolled at the Barbara Speake Stage School, and at the age of ten, she was accepted into the Italia Conti Academy of Theatre Arts, where she studied ballet.
In 1978 Campbell was in the video for "Is This Love" by Bob Marley. When she was 12 she tap-danced in Culture Club's video for "I'll Tumble 4 Ya". In April 1991 Campbell was in the video for "In the Closet" by Michael Jackson. In 1993 Campbell fell over while she walked down the runway for Vivienne Westwood in a pair of foot-high platform shoes. That year she was on the cover of "Vogue" twice.
In September 1994 Campbell released an album called "babywoman". It has sold over a million copies. A novel that she wrote called "Swan" was also published.
Campbell was on the cover of "Playboy" in 2000. In 2011 she was in the music video for "Girl Panic!" by Duran Duran. In 2013 she was a judge on the reality show "The Face".

</doc>
<doc id="281259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281259" title="Blue-ringed octopus">
Blue-ringed octopus

The Blue-ringed octopus (genus Hapalochlaena) is the most venomous octopus. This small cephalopod mollusc lives in warm, shallow reefs off the coast of Australia, New Guinea, Indonesia, and the Philippines. It has a life span of about 1½ years.
The Blue-ringed octopus has distinctive blue rings on its body and on its eight arms. This is its warning colouration, which it shows when attacked. The full warning display is bright yellow with blue rings or lines. It is only about 8 in (20 cm) with the tentacles spread wide. 
It eats crabs, shrimp, and small fish. It hides in the reef, then catches prey with its arms, bites it with its tough beak, and kills it by delivering a poison in the saliva. The poison is a neurotoxin (maculotoxin) that is strong enough to kill a human being.

</doc>
<doc id="281271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281271" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Template:Nothing at this time">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Template:Nothing at this time


</doc>
<doc id="281280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281280" title="Plasmodium falciparum">
Plasmodium falciparum

Plasmodium falciparum is a protozoan parasite, one of the species of "Plasmodium" which cause malaria in humans. It is transmitted by the female "Anopheles" mosquito. "P. falciparum" is the most dangerous of these infections as "P. falciparum" (or malignant) malaria has the highest rates of complications and mortality.
There are about 200 species in the genus "Plasmodium", divided into 15 sub-genera. The parasites are partners in a complex co-evolution with mosquitos and land vertebrate species. 

</doc>
<doc id="281281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281281" title="Alexander Kazarsky">
Alexander Kazarsky

Aleksandr Ivanovich Kazarsky (, 1797 - 1833) (June 16, 1797 - June 16, 1833) was a Russian Navy officer. He was the hero of the Russo-Turkish War (1828–1829). Kazarsky was the captain of brig Mercury. He became famous after the victory in the battle against two Turkish ships of the line.
A brig and a torpedo boat were named after Alexander Kazarsky.

</doc>
<doc id="281282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281282" title="Chrissie Hynde">
Chrissie Hynde

Christine Ellen "Chrissie" Hynde (born 7 September 1951 Akron, Ohio) is an American singer, songwriter and guitarist. She is a member of the rock band The Pretenders. She has been singing since about 1975.

</doc>
<doc id="281283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281283" title="Sandhill crane">
Sandhill crane

The sandhill crane ("Grus canadensis") is a bird that lives in Canada and the northern U.S. It migrates to Mexico and the southern U.S. in winter.

</doc>
<doc id="281284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281284" title="Behind the Paint">
Behind the Paint

Behind the Paint is an autobiography of Joseph Bruce better known as Violent J, one half of the hip-hop group, Insane Clown Posse. The book was published by Psychopathic Records in July of 2003 and had a revised second edition that was released in August 2004. The book is about Bruce's childhood, professional wrestling career, and musical career. Brian Raftery, a writer for "Wired" magazine commented on the book saying: it was a "soul-baring memoir filled with unpleasant details."

</doc>
<doc id="281287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281287" title="Kratts' Creatures">
Kratts' Creatures

Kratts' Creatures was a 1996 children's television series. The show was about learning about the world of animals. The show produced a spin-off show called "Zooboomafoo" due to "Kratts' Creatures" popularity. Reruns are currently airing on PBS in America.

</doc>
<doc id="281289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281289" title="Lenticular cloud">
Lenticular cloud

A lenticular cloud ("Altocumulus lenticularis") is a type of cloud that forms at high altitudes. They are shaped like discs, and remain roughly in the same position. Because of the way they are shaped, they have been offered as an explanation for some UFO sightings. Lenticular clouds are formed when the wind forces the air up a mountain ridge to where the air is cooler and water vapor condenses.

</doc>
<doc id="281298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281298" title="Wiz Khalifa">
Wiz Khalifa

Cameron Jibril Thomaz (born September 8, 1987 in Minot, North Dakota), known by his stage name, Wiz Khalifa, is an American recording artist . His stage name is derived from "khalifa", an Arabic word meaning "successor", and wisdom, which was shortened to Wiz when he was fifteen. He released his fourth studio album on December 4, 2012 called O.N.I.F.C.
Wiz Khalifa is on the Atlantic Records label, which he signed with in April 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="281300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281300" title="Patric Hörnqvist">
Patric Hörnqvist

Patric Gösta Hörnqvist (born January 1, 1987) is a Swedish professional ice hockey right winger. He currently plays for the Pittsburgh Penguins of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Nashville Predators of the NHL and Djurgårdens IF of the SEL.
Hörnqvist was selected 230th overall in the 2005 NHL Entry Draft by the Nashville Predators. On June 28, 2014, the Predators traded Hörnqvist along with Nick Spaling to the Pittsburgh Penguins in exchange for James Neal.

</doc>
<doc id="281304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281304" title="Jackass (TV series)">
Jackass (TV series)

Jackass was an American reality television comedy series which was first shown on MTV on October 1, 2000. The series centers around the cast and celebrity guests performing lots of dangerous, crude, ridiculous, and self-injuring stunts and pranks. The show has spawned three movies "", "Jackass 2" and "Jackass 3-D". The show has also made several spin-off shows including "Viva La Bam", "Wildboyz", "Homewrecker", "Dr. Steve-O" and "Blastazoid" and a video game called .

</doc>
<doc id="281307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281307" title="City of London Police">
City of London Police

The City of London Police is the police force responsible for law enforcement within the City of London, including the Middle and Inner Temple. 
The service responsible for law enforcement within the rest of Greater London is the Metropolitan Police Service, a separate organisation. 
Nationally, as a result of the Fraud Review 2008, the force was recognised as the lead police force for fraud and granted funding from government to further develop its capabilities nationally and internationally. The police authority is the Corporation of London.
The City of London area has a resident population of 8,043 with 4,421 households. These numbers are increased by the daily influx of approximately 300,000 commuters working in the City, and many tourists. 300,000 cars passing through the square mile a day.
The Force has 1,200 employees, including 813 police officers, 85 Special Constables, 48 Police Community Support Officers and three police stations (in Snow Hill, Wood Street and Bishopsgate). The City of London Police is the smallest territorial police force in England, both in terms of geographic area – the square mile centre of London – and the number of police officers. 
Counter-terrorism is the Force’s top priority, because the threat of terrorist activity to the City, and therefore to the economic and psychological wellbeing of the nation, is a real risk.
The Force is the lead organisation responsible for planning and operating the anti-terrorist measures known as the Ring of Steel. Regular police officers in the Ring of Steel cordon are guarded by other officers armed with Heckler & Koch MP5 semi-automatic submachine guns.
As well as the 'Traffic and Environmental zone' (the Ring of Steel), the Force carries out both high visibility and covert patrols, educates the security staff of City companies, and has an advanced Camera Watch system. There is ANPR (automatic number plate reading) within the City. The Force says "A wide range of unarmed and armed tactics are available to the Force to counter any perceived threat".

</doc>
<doc id="281316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281316" title="Wikipedia:Requests for checkuser/Archive11">
Wikipedia:Requests for checkuser/Archive11

This may be seem a bit late and strange, but I was looking at my userpage history and I found this. This translates into "Hello friend, I hate you, Sinofdreams and many more (Kalajan). By this, it's fair to assume that Audi152 is Sins. Now, 18Weaver reverts the post, and warns Audi152 5 times for the same post he reverted. 18Weaver's first post was on my userpage. I know this is late, and Sins will probably not abuse them anymore, but I just want to be sure. 21:13, 7 August 2010 (UTC)
Block globally for abusing mult. accts. I tagged him with the "suspected sockpuppet" due to his global block, but I'm not sure "who" he's a sockpuppet of. I would assume Bambi, though 20:40, 4 August 2010 (UTC)
Sdfghjkl was indef blocked for vandalism. 76.166.187.218 has edited many of the same pages as Sdfghjkl, and recently edited Sdfghjkl's talk page ≈≈≈≈ 14:32, 16 June 2011 (UTC)
I want you to compare Juan4’s talk page that was recently deleted with Juanfu’s talk page that I tagged for deletion this afternoon. I believe that they are almost exactly the same, no? That, combined with their similar user names, lead me to believe that they are linked. Requesting a IP check ≈≈≈≈ 20:51, 12 May 2011 (UTC)
Done, per spam creation. The users both edit from the same /16 range and use the same UA. Those, most likely the same user. I will leave it to others to block or not. - () 21:17, 12 May 2011 (UTC)
 -- 14:18, 9 May 2011 (UTC)
The same person made all of the Madrock accounts. Because vandalism has been especially bad here today, please checkuser for OTHER newly made accounts. () 18:38, 2 May 2011 (UTC)
I suspect that Alo and Thao are socks (adding inappropriate images). HighTones did the same at . Sleepers? -- 12:46, 15 April 2011 (UTC)
The users have been blocked by a checkuser with the comment "Abusing multiple accounts". Our checkusers surely know when/how to check in those cases and the comment in the block is clear. If they are already blocked by a cu with such a reason, then there is no need for a request here. Case closed. - () 13:45, 15 April 2011 (UTC)
They both added internet slang/spam/useless stuff to Ninja, within minutes of warning both users. Also edited Tom Cruise in a similar way. -- () 17:16, 6 April 2011 (UTC)
Self-admission. Check for sleepers. -- () 13:15, 7 April 2011 (UTC)
LouisPhilippeCharles (LPC, I'm From England, etc.) is a globally blocked user. Picture Perfect Prince just created an article substantially similar to one on the English Wikipedia with the same topic, which had been mainly edited by LouisPhilippeCharles. () 18:43, 17 February 2011 (UTC)
Just marking as - accounts have already been blocked. Forgot this request. - () 13:33, 4 March 2011 (UTC)
Suspicious behaviour here. ~ 18:04, 9 January 2011 (UTC)
Three of four have edited extensively over the past few days focusing on the Apostolic Fellowship Tabernacle, its pastor Sam P. Chelladurai and search engines. Content generation has verged on spam/advertising regarding the church, church pastor and the search engine Bluve/Zeekinfo. (Two names for the same search engine.) Editor(s) has probably violated WP:COPYVIO. I know that there were prior deleted versions of Sam Chelladurai before the current one, but I do not have access to them. Could someone do a checkuser to see if these are the same person? Thanks, () 07:42, 2 November 2011 (UTC)
Though there is a user named Riffic on EN, the Riffic here has made one edit, and it's to weigh in on the highly questionable GNAA topic. I'd feel better if we made sure he wasn't a sock of Lugurr, LiteralKa, or other people involved in the GNAA debacle ≈≈≈≈ 23:26, 30 July 2011 (UTC)
I Want to be confirmed user and dont want to get blocked
Appears to be stalking an editor here, and was blocked on EN for socking as well. There may be sleeper socks around, not to mention that the vandalism around here seemed to be worse than usual.     12:51, 4 January 2012 (UTC)
Both accuse each other of socking. Were engaged in an edit war at Tamara Toumanova.     13:22, 4 January 2012 (UTC)
This is mainly a Quack, but the underlying effect and what seems to be a potential sock farm may need looking into. Similar names, similar dates created, creating fake articles of a similar nature around the same topic (One Time India's series and other productions). The three listed certainly are quacking loudly here, but there seems to be a whole lot more that haven't quacked yet. -- 08:03, 19 February 2012 (UTC)
I thought the main account might have been hijacked when it started running amok today @ about 21:20 UTC. But it appears it's also been indef-blocked on enwiki. It might not even really be worth the check, since they're both vandal accounts. The user appears to have jumped accounts after a final warning for disruption. () 21:53, 17 March 2012 (UTC)
Edits, especially to Joseph Stalin are very, very similar to edits from User:TheUltimateWarrior, whom I blocked the other day for vandalism (along with other issues, including file uploads after being asked to stop). Duck-wise, they almost have to be the same person. () 20:38, 17 September 2012 (UTC)
Style of editing is similar to . Recreated ogopogo page 20 minutes after previous deletion. Please investigate and confirm if both users are the same, so appropriate action can be taken in the event of sockpuppet abuse.--n 07:30, 14 June 2012 (UTC)
This spambot is definitely related to Tanglei5738 at en.wikipedia and perhaps also to at en.wikibooks. I'd like to know if the en.wikibooks account is also a spambot. Please investigate this account and share the information with the CU's at en.wikipedia and en.wikibooks, if possible. I'll request the same on those wikis (see here for the CU request at en.wikipedia and here for the request at en.wikibooks). Thanks in advance, () 18:29, 12 June 2012 (UTC)
Yesterday, I removed a large number of edits from newcomer Magnolia that added complex material copied directly from the English Wikipedia -- more specifically, from recent revisions that had been reverted. I was sure it was the same person as Dilek2, because all of the content Magnolia was adding was material that Dilek2 had been edit-warring over on articles on the English Wikipedia. Now both users have logged in here. I questioned Magnolia about it, but they have . Dilek2 has existing blocks on enwiki, trwiki and dewiki (where he is blocked indefinitely as "the foreskin troll"). () 15:56, 22 July 2012 (UTC)
Posting the same comment on . -- 16:37, 13 January 2013 (UTC)
This user is quite young and several editors on English Wikipedia (myself included) tried to help him understand the rules. He showed promise and joined an adoption program before completely flouting his adoption agreement and I recently endorsed his one year block. He has also been blocked on Wikisource and Wikinews and has a lengthy list of warnings on Commons. On English Wikipedia, he repeatedly made edits from the IP address 74.131.177.233 (Sock Puppet Investigation). Now that IP address is making vandalizing edits to Simple Wikipedia and Starship9000 is providing warnings, including "If you do it again, i will report you." This seems like a clear cut case of Starship9000 acting as a full fledged sock puppet. () 06:03, 9 March 2013 (UTC)
Per impressive page history and , please see if a rangeblock is feasible so as to stop future socking.     09:56, 22 August 2013 (UTC)
First is the original editor of Nicola Pfund, RfD at . Hex, IP, and Tri27 have all voted/commented at the RfD. All four accounts have only been used for this one article, either creating it or voting at the RfD. No other activity. Is this suspicious enough to look into? () 19:51, 14 November 2013 (UTC)
This user has been vadalizing a user space draft () of another user while logged out. 182.186.64.102 first tagged it with a speedy deletion tag (that exists on English Wikipedia) and latter redirected it to a mainspace article that didn't exist. After doing these disruptive edits the IP asked for this page to be deleted at User:RHaworth 's talk (at English Wikipedia). RHaworth is the admin who has blocked most of this user's socks and also deleted the same pages as that he first tried to add to mainspace and then to userspace with each of his sock at English Wikipedia. This user uses two different IP ranges that geolocate to same geographic location. More recently this user while logged out tagged User:Mar4d 's same draft with sockpuppet tag. He has case page at English Wikipedia also. -- () 16:05, 25 December 2013 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="281318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281318" title="Claudia Schiffer">
Claudia Schiffer

Claudia Schiffer (born 25 August 1970) is a German supermodel and actress. She was born in Rheinberg, North Rhine-Westphalia, West Germany. Schiffer is one of the world's most successful models. She has appeared on over 500 magazine covers.

</doc>
<doc id="281328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281328" title="Jack Crawford (sailor)">
Jack Crawford (sailor)

Jack Crawford (22 March 1775–10 November 1831) was a sailor of the Royal Navy. He was most famous for his actions at the Battle of Camperdown in 1797, and so is known as the "Hero of Camperdown."
Crawford was born in the east end of Sunderland. He trained as a keelman until 1786 when he joined the crew of the "Peggy" at South Shields as an apprentice. He was still only 11 or 12 years old. In 1796, he was press-ganged into the Royal Navy and served on HMS "Venerable" under Admiral Duncan, the Royal Navy Commander-in-Chief of the North Seas.
At the Battle of Camperdown (11 October 1797), "Venerable" was Admiral Duncan's flagship. During the battle, part of the "Venerable's" mast was felled, including the admiral's flag. Lowering the Admiral's personal flag was a sign of surrender. Crawford climbed the mast and nailed the colours to the top.
After the victory procession in London he was formally presented to King George III of the United Kingdom and was given a government pension of £30 a year, and later a silver medal from the people of Sunderland. However, Crawford fell on hard times and drunkenness, and had to sell his medal. He became the second victim of the cholera epidemic of 1831 and was buried in an unmarked "pauper's" grave. 
Towards the end of the nineteenth century interest in the 'Hero of Camperdown' was renewed. A headstone was put up in Holy Trinity, Sunderland churchyard in 1888. Two years later a monument was erected in Mowbray Park, opposite what is now the Civic Centre. 
A pub in Monkwearmouth was named the Jack Crawford and sported a carved figure of him on the side of the building. After the pub was destroyed during World War II, the figure was removed. In 1987 it was loaned to Sunderland Museum and put on display in the local history gallery but has been returned to the owner. The Museum holds Jack Crawford in high regard. There was an exhibition about him on the bicentenary of the Battle of Camperdown and there was a display about him in SeaBritain Year (2005). One of the Learning Rooms is named after him and there are several pieces of nineteenth century Jack Crawford commemorative pottery on display in the Pottery Gallery and the silver medal that was presented to him by the Town following the battle in 1797, and given to the Museum by the Earl of Camperdown in 1880, is proudly on display in the Sunderland Heroes section of the Museum Street near the entrance of this award winning Museum.
Outside Sunderland doubt has been raised about Crawford's heroics. Nevertheless, possible evidence that Crawford was not a volunteer, that he was forced to climb the mast, or that he was drunk is ignored by the people of his hometown. One book, written by the American Sheri Holman, attracted criticism from the City's Mayor. However, local historian William Corder had already made the criticism in the 1890s; Corder thought little of Crawford. He claimed that it was reported by reliable witnesses that Crawford was "drunk, acted without orders, and should have been court-martialled". Furthermore, Corder dismissed as a "deplorable monument" what others called the "fine headstone" of 1888.

</doc>
<doc id="281330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281330" title="Maria Cristina of Naples and Sicily">
Maria Cristina of Naples and Sicily

Maria Cristina of Naples and Sicily (Maria Cristina Amelia Teresa; 17 January 1779 – 11 March 1849) was a Princess of Naples and Sicily and later Queen of Sardinia as wife of Charles Felix of Sardinia. 
She was a daughter of King Ferdinand I of the Two Sicilies and his wife Maria Carolina of Austria, a daughter of Empress Maria Theresa of Austria. Her (younger) twin sister Princess Maria Cristina Amelia died of smallpox in 1783, aged five, a week after their brother Prince Giuseppe died. She was her mother's favourite child.
She was married on 6 April 1807 in Palermo with Prince Charles Felix of Savoy, who became King unexpectedly, when his two elder brothers abdicated, Charles Emmanuel IV of Sardinia in 1802 and Victor Emmanuel I of Sardinia in 1821. Till her husband became king, she was styled as the "Duchess of Genevois".
The royal couple were interested in the arts and artists, and turned the Royal House in Agliè and the Villa Rufinella in Frascati into comfortable residences. 
During her husband's reign, they resided at the Palazzo Chiablese, where her husband died in 1831. 
In 1825, the Queen engaged the archaeologist Marquess Luigi Biondi (1776–1839), whose excavation work uncovered Tusculum. In 1839 and 1840, the architect and archaeologist Luigi Canina (1795–1856) was engaged by the royal family and excavated the Theatre area of Tusculum. The ancient works of art excavated were sent to the Duke of Savoy's Castle of Agliè in Piedmont.
Charles Felix died in 1831 after a reign of ten years. Maria Cristina lived the rest of her life in Turin, Naples, Agliè and Frascati, and died in Savona, Liguria. She was buried beside her husband in the Basilica of Superga, Great Mausoleum, Savoy Crypt, Turin, Piedmont, Italy. The couple had no children.

</doc>
<doc id="281333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281333" title="Court-martial">
Court-martial

A court martial is a trial by military authorities. "Martial" is a word that is often used instead of military.
Martial law sometimes means, in time of emergency such as wartime, that civilians can be tried by court martial.

</doc>
<doc id="281336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281336" title="Plasmodiidae">
Plasmodiidae

The Plasmodiidae are a family of apicomplexan parasites, including the type genus "Plasmodium", which is responsible for malaria. This genus was created in 1903 by Mesnil.
They are one of the four families in the order Haemosporida.

</doc>
<doc id="281348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281348" title="Martha Wainwright">
Martha Wainwright

Martha Wainwright (born May 8, 1976) is a Canadian-American folk-rock singer. She is the daughter of singers Loudon Wainwright III and Kate McGarrigle. Her brother Rufus Wainwright is also a well known singer.

</doc>
<doc id="281357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281357" title="Philadelphia Quakers">
Philadelphia Quakers

The Philadelphia Quakers was a professional ice hockey team from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The Quakers played in the National Hockey League for only one season, the 1930-31 NHL season. The team started as the Pittsburgh Pirates when the Pirates moved to Philadelphia.

</doc>
<doc id="281359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281359" title="Protest song">
Protest song

A protest song is a song that is part of a movement to change society. Many protest songs have lyrics that directly call for change, while others use humor, irony, or storytelling to make their point. Protest songs can come from just about any type of music. In the 1960s in the United States, many folk musicians like Phil Ochs, Joan Baez and Bob Dylan made protest songs. Some of these songs were against the United States fighting in the Vietnam War.

</doc>
<doc id="281360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281360" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Dacarbazine">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Dacarbazine


</doc>
<doc id="281367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281367" title="Category:Scottish singers">
Category:Scottish singers


</doc>
<doc id="281368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281368" title="Category:British singers">
Category:British singers


</doc>
<doc id="281369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281369" title="Love. Angel. Music. Baby.">
Love. Angel. Music. Baby.

Love. Angel. Music. Baby. is the debut studio album by American recording artist Gwen Stefani. Before releasing the album Stefani was the lead singer of a rock band called No Doubt, the album's music was different as it was mainly a mixture of pop, dance and R&B; music that No Doubt hadn't made.

</doc>
<doc id="281371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281371" title="Ben Bernanke">
Ben Bernanke

Ben Shalom Bernanke (born December 13, 1953) is an American economist. He was the chairman of the Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="281383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281383" title="Carrie Fisher">
Carrie Fisher

Carrie Frances Fisher (October 21, 1956 – December 27, 2016) was an American screenwriter, actress and writer. She acted in many movies. Fisher was best known for playing Princess Leia in the "Star Wars" movies. She was also known for her 1987 novel "Postcards from the Edge".
Fisher was born in Beverly Hills, California. She was the daughter of actress Debbie Reynolds and singer Eddie Fisher. Fisher had bipolar disorder. In 2008 her memoir "Wishful Drinking" was published.
Fisher died on December 27, 2016 at the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles, California from complications of cardiac arrest at age 60. The next day, her mother died of a cerebral hemorrhage.

</doc>
<doc id="281387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281387" title="The Expendables 2">
The Expendables 2

The Expendables 2 is an American action movie. It is the sequel to Sylvester Stallone's 2010 movie, "The Expendables". The movie was released in August 17th, 2012. It got many good reviews and did well at the box office. The movie earned $84.2 million in the United States and Canada and $285.7 million worldwide.
In March 2012, it was announced that "The Expendables 3" might start filming in late 2012, with Sylvester Stallone, Jason Statham, Jet Li and the rest of the cast returning for the third movie.
The Expendables 3, was scheduled to begin filming in August 2013. The film sees the return of several cast members and the addition of new ones including Wesley Snipes, Antonio Banderas, Harrison Ford, and Mel Gibson. The Expendables 3 was released theatrically in the United States on August 15th, 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="281388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281388" title="Sylvester Stallone filmography">
Sylvester Stallone filmography

This is a list of filmography of all of Sylvester Stallone's most prominent onscreen acting roles as well as directing, screenwriting, producing and voice acting roles. Also, included in this list are some of Stallone's special cameo appearances.

</doc>
<doc id="281390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281390" title="Pygmy hippopotamus">
Pygmy hippopotamus

The pygmy hippopotamus ("Choeropsis liberiensis") is a large mammal native to the forests and swamps of West Africa. The specific name "liberiensis" means "of Liberia", as this is where most live. The pygmy hippo is reclusive and nocturnal. It is one of only two living species in the Hippopotamidae family, the other being its much larger cousin the common hippopotamus.
The pygmy hippopotamus has many terrestrial adaptations, but like its larger cousin, it is semi-aquatic. It relies on proximity to water to keep its skin moisturized and its body temperature cool. Behaviors such as mating and giving birth may occur in water or on land. The pygmy hippo is herbivorous, feeding on ferns, broad-leaved plants, grasses and fruits it finds in the forests.

</doc>
<doc id="281396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281396" title="Ski jumping">
Ski jumping

Ski jumping is, mostly, a winter sport performed on snow where skiers go down a take-off ramp, jump forward and land as far as possible down the hill below. Judges give points both for length of the jump and for the jump style. The skis used for ski jumping are wide and long (). Ski jumping is a part of the Winter Olympic Games. 
True ski jumping originates in Norway in 1809 when a Norwegian lieutenant launched himself 9.5 metres in the air in front of his soldiers. The first widely known ski jumping competition was held in Oslo in 1879, with Olaf Haugann of Norway setting the first world record for the longest ski jump at 20 metres
Ski jump techniques is divided into four sections; 1) In-run, 2) Take-off (jump), 3) Flight and 4) Landing. In each part the athlete is required to pay attention to and practice a particular technique in order to maximize his or her length and style marks.

</doc>
<doc id="281397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281397" title="Ahura Mazda">
Ahura Mazda

Ahura Mazdā (also known as Ohrmazd, Ahuramazda, Hormazd, Aramazd and Azzandara) is the Avestan name for what Zoroastrians believe is the Supreme, the creator of all good and all good things including people.

</doc>
<doc id="281398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281398" title="Angra Mainyu">
Angra Mainyu

Zoroastrians believe that Ahura Mazda, the creator of all supreme beings, is opposed by Angra Mainyu or the destructive spirit, the creator of all evil things.

</doc>
<doc id="281400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281400" title="Limousine">
Limousine

Limousines are luxury vehicles-in particular, sedans or saloons-with lengthened wheelbases. The chassis of limousines are often extended via certain automobile makers. Limousines are an expensive form of auto transport and are usually offered for rich citizens. Among the least rich, limousines are reserved for special occasions, usually weddings or funerals. The cars are usually owned by large companies, government or certain broadcasters, although they are sometimes owned by private citizens. A limousine will sometimes carry security features (for example, bulletproof glass).

</doc>
<doc id="281402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281402" title="KT Tunstall">
KT Tunstall

Katherine Victoria "Katie" Tunstall, also known as KT Tunstall (born 23 June 1975), is a Scottish singer and songwriter. She was born in St Andrews, Fife. Her father is Irish; her mother is half-Chinese, half-Scottish. She was adopted when she was 18 days old. She has had many hit songs, including, "Black Horse and the Cherry Tree"'.

</doc>
<doc id="281406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281406" title="Self-synchronizing code">
Self-synchronizing code

In telecommunications, a self-synchronizing code, or comma-free code, is a line code that can be easily synchronized. Such line codes have the property that the code which is made of a part of the code word, or two overlapping code words is not a valid code. An example, take the code words "11" and "00", and the code "11 00 00 11 00". The spaces have been added to show the different words, and are not really in the code. Let's now assume that four letters (two code words) are read. The code "1000" is not a valid code, because "10" is not one of the two code words defined. Similarly, "0001". Even though "00" is a valid word, "01" is not. The only valid way to read two valid words from the example given is by starting at the very beginning, or just after one of the spaces, which have been inserted for clarity only.

</doc>
<doc id="281408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281408" title="Call of Duty: Black Ops">
Call of Duty: Black Ops

Call of Duty: Black Ops is a first-person shooter video game made by Treyarch. It is published by Activison. It is available for Xbox 360, Windows , PS3, Wii and most recently, Xbox One.
Within 24 hours of the game going on sale, It sold more than 7 million copies, 5.6 million in the U.S. and 1.4 million in the U.K., breaking the record which was set by its predecessor by 2.5 million copies. The game's setting is in the Cold War. In Cuba, the game has been condemned from release because it features a special forces member trying and failing to kill a young Fidel Castro, killing instead a body-double. The game was also supposed to be banned in Germany because of graphic violence.
There are three modes of play. These are "campaign", "multiplayer" and "zombies".

</doc>
<doc id="281410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281410" title="Pitfall!">
Pitfall!

Pitfall! is a 1982 platforming video game made by Activision for Atari 2600, Atari 5200, Atari 8-bit, ColecoVision, Commodore 64, Intellivision and the Sega SG-1000. The game was a best seller for the Atari 2600, with over 4 million copies sold.
In this game, the player has to move a character who is known as Harry through a maze-like jungle where he has to attempt to recover 32 treasures in a 20-minute time period. The player has to avoid many hazards including pits, quicksand, rolling logs, fire, rattlesnakes, scorpions, and crocodiles.

</doc>
<doc id="281411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281411" title="Category:1982 video games">
Category:1982 video games


</doc>
<doc id="281413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281413" title="Alexei Zhamnov">
Alexei Zhamnov

Alexei Yuryevich Zhamnov (born October 1, 1970 in Moscow, URS) is a Russian retired professional ice hockey centre. He is currently the head coach for the KHL's Vityaz Chekhov. Zhamnov played a combined 14 seasons in the NHL with four teams, 4 while part of the Winnipeg Jets, 8 while part of the Chicago Blackhawks, 1 while part of the Philadelphia Flyers and 1 while part of the Boston Bruins.
Zhamnov was also the captain of the Chicago Blackhawks from 2002-2004.

</doc>
<doc id="281416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281416" title="Jenny McCarthy">
Jenny McCarthy

Jennifer Ann McCarthy, known as Jenny McCarthy, is an American model, actress, writer and activist. She was born on November 1, 1972 in Chicago. 
She started her career as a Playboy model in 1993. She later became an actress, comedian, author and autism activist. In 2013 McCarthy hosted a show called "The Jenny McCarthy Show" for one season.
McCarthy has made controversial but unproven claims that vaccines lead to autism. She said that chelation therapy helped cure her son of autism. 
McCarthy married John Mallory Asher in 1999. The couple's son, Evan Joseph was born in 2002. In 2005, Evan was diagnosed with autism. the couple divorced in 2005. She lived with Jim Carrey; the couple split in 2010. She married Donnie Wahlberg in 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="281425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281425" title="Nellee Hooper">
Nellee Hooper

Nellee Hooper (born 1963, Bristol, England) is a British producer/remixer/composer best known for his work with Björk, No Doubt/Gwen Stefani, Madonna, Garbage, Andrea Corr, U2, Sneaker Pimps, Soul II Soul and Massive Attack. He also started being a motion picture music composer with famed Scottish composer Craig Armstrong and Marius De Vries for the soundtrack for Baz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet in 1996.
Hooper began his career as a DJ and as a member of the Wild Bunch, the Bristol-based group that would turn into Massive Attack.
Between 1989 and 1992 he produced the first albums for Soul II Soul ("Club Classics Vol. I"), Massive Attack ("Blue Lines") and Björk ("Debut"), which in 1995 Mixmag magazine ranked the 31st, 1st and 3rd best dance albums of all time.
The 1995 BRIT Awards honored Hooper as Best Producer for his work on Massive Attack's "Protection", Björk's "Post" and Madonna's "Bedtime Stories" albums.
In 1998 he won a BAFTA Award (Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music) for his work arranging the score and soundtrack for Baz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet.
In the late 1990s Hooper set up the Meanwhile imprint, which is a company part of Virgin Records. 
Hooper continued to work slowly into the 2000s. He received a Grammy nomination in 2003 for his work on No Doubt's "Rock Steady" and Lamya's "Learning From Falling" albums. His other work has included producing the singles "GoldenEye" (1995) for Tina Turner, "Under the Bridge" (1998) for All Saints and "Down Boy" (2002) for Holly Valance, as well as providing remixes for artists like Janet Jackson and Sade.
Most recently he has worked with Gwen Stefani on her solo albums and on U2's 2004 release "How to Dismantle an Atomic Bomb", for which he won a Grammy Award. He also produced the first solo album of Andrea Corr of The Corrs, entitled "Ten Feet High" which was released on June 25, 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="281427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281427" title="Emma Roberts">
Emma Roberts

Emma Rose Roberts (born February 10, 1991) is an American actress, model and singer. She acted in many movies during the 2000s. She is the daughter of actor Eric Roberts and the niece of actresses Lisa Roberts Gillan and Julia Roberts. Currently she is the lead role in the FOX's horror comedy "Scream Queens" as Chanel Oberlin.
Roberts was born in Rhinebeck, Dutchess County, New York. She is the daughter of actor Eric Roberts and Kelly Cunningham. She is the stepdaughter of Eliza Roberts and Kelly Nickels, and the niece of actresses Julia Roberts and Lisa Roberts Gillan. She has a half sister, Grace Nickels.

</doc>
<doc id="281432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281432" title="The Terror Wheel">
The Terror Wheel

The Terror Wheel is the second EP by the American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on August 5, 1994. The producer of the EP was Mike E. Clark. If you called the number featured in the song "Amy's in the Attic" at 6:06 into the song, it would tell you the name of the next Joker's Card, Riddle Box.

</doc>
<doc id="281434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281434" title="Category:Insane Clown Posse EPs">
Category:Insane Clown Posse EPs


</doc>
<doc id="281435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281435" title="Category:Insane Clown Posse">
Category:Insane Clown Posse


</doc>
<doc id="281439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281439" title="Keri Hilson">
Keri Hilson

Keri Hilson (born 5 December 1982) is an American R&B musician, songwriter, and actress. She has had many hit singles. Hilson's first album was released in 2009. Her second album was released in 2010. Hilson acted for the first time in the 2012 romantic comedy movie "Think Like a Man".

</doc>
<doc id="281441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281441" title="A Carnival Christmas">
A Carnival Christmas

A Carnival Christmas is the third EP by the American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on December 6, 1994. The producer of the EP was Mike E. Clark. The EP was a Christmas EP.

</doc>
<doc id="281442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281442" title="Tunnel of Love (EP)">
Tunnel of Love (EP)

Tunnel of Love is the fourth EP by the American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on June 11, 1996. The producer of the EP was Mike E. Clark. A XXX Version which contained different cover art and a bonus track was also released at the same time.

</doc>
<doc id="281445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281445" title="The Calm">
The Calm

The Calm is the fifth EP by the American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on May 17, 2005. The producer of the EP was Mike E. Clark. The EP peaked at number 32 on the Billboard 200, number 1 on the Top Independent Albums and number 32 on the Top Internet Albums.

</doc>
<doc id="281454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281454" title="Freestyle skiing">
Freestyle skiing

Freestyle skiing is an acrobatic form of skiing which is divided into a number of different disciplines. Freestyle skiing first began to be taken seriously in the 1960s and early 1970s. However, some people thought that this style of skiing was too dangerous and did not want it to be an Olympic sport. The free-form sport had few rules and was not without danger; knee injuries became a common case for professional freestylers.
The International Ski Federation (FIS) recognized freestyle as a sport in 1979 and brought in new regulations regarding certification of athletes and jump techniques in an effort to curb the dangerous elements of the competitions. The first World Cup series was staged in 1980 and the first FIS Freestyle World Ski Championship took place in 1986 in Tignes, France. 

</doc>
<doc id="281455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281455" title="London Livery Company">
London Livery Company

The City of London Livery Companies began as trade associations or trade guilds, which controlled who could carry out certain jobs in the City of London.
Today the companies act mainly as social and charitable groups, because over the centuries the livery companies have lost most rights to control trade, often as statute law applied the same standards across the whole country. Some support schools which were set up in the 1500s. Others sponsor apprentices in colleges and unversities. Some still have a statutory role. For example the Goldsmiths' Company continue to run the London Assay Office where several million articles of gold, silver and platinum are hallmarked each year.
The order of precedence was first set down in 1515 by the Aldermen of the City of London. Forty-eight livery companies then existed. The list was based on the companies' economic or political power.
The first twelve livery companies are known as the "Great Twelve City Livery Companies". There are now 108 livery companies, some very new, so the Order of Precedence is sometimes reviewed.
The Merchant Taylors and the Skinners have always disputed their precedence, so once a year (at Easter) they exchange sixth and seventh place. This is one of the theories for the origin of the phrase "at sixes and sevens", as the master of the Merchant Taylors has said a number of times, although the first use of the phrase may have been before the Taylors and the Skinners decided to alternate their position. Both companies had been founded before the birth of Chaucer, who was one of the first people to use the phrase, so it may have dated from before him.
Two old companies do not intend applying for a grant of the right to wear the special costume or uniform known as a livery.
Three groups intend applying for livery. One has already been recognised as a "Company without Livery" the other two have not yet existed long enough or become well enough known.

</doc>
<doc id="281457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281457" title="Farrier">
Farrier

A farrier is a person who works with iron, or other materials, to make horseshoes and take care of horse's hooves. They check for signs of disease and make sure the feet are well cared for. 
At one time, a farrier and blacksmith had almost the same job, which can be seen by the etymology of the word: farrier comes from Middle French: "ferrier" ("blacksmith"), from the Latin word "ferrum" ("iron"). Today, farriers usually specialize in horseshoeing, and on the care of the horse's hoof. For this reason farriers and blacksmiths are now known to be different jobs.
By law, in Great Britain, it is illegal for anyone except a registered farrier to call themselves a farrier or to carry out any farriery work under the Farriers (Registration) Act 1975. The main aim of this act is to "prevent and avoid suffering by and cruelty to horses arising from the shoeing of horses by unskilled persons".
The Worshipful Company of Farriers a London Livery Company, was set up in 1356. It still offers diplomas which are recognised qualifications to be a modern farrier.

</doc>
<doc id="281462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281462" title="Category:Scottish political parties">
Category:Scottish political parties


</doc>
<doc id="281463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281463" title="My Sister's Keeper">
My Sister's Keeper

My Sister's Keeper is a 2004 novel written by Jodi Picoult. Set in Rhode Island, it tells the story of a 13-year-old girl named Anna Fitzgerald, a "savior sibling", who sues her parents so that they can no longer legally control her medical decisions once she learns she is expected to donate a kidney to her older sister Kate, who is dying from leukemia, cancer of the blood and bone marrow. It is written in first person, from the perspectives of several main characters. In 2008, the book was adapted into a movie.
Anna Fitzgerald's older sister, Kate, suffers from acute promyelocytic leukemia, a cancer of the blood and bone marrow. When Anna's parents learn about Kate's diagnosis, they decide to conceive Anna through artificial selection and in vitro fertilization because nobody in the family is a genetic match to donate organs to Kate. Once Anna is born, her umbilical chord blood was used in treatments for Kate to save her life. Although the treatment was initially successful, Kate relapsed (became sick again). Since then, Anna had been used as a donor for any other bodily substance needed to treat Kate, who continues to swing between remission and relapse as she grows up.

</doc>
<doc id="281467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281467" title="Oracle">
Oracle

An oracle (in ancient Greek times) was a person who was seen as a messenger for the gods. Oracles would answer questions about the future, and would often speak in riddles. In Ancient Greece oracles lived in temples and people travelled many miles to visit them and seek their advice.the oracles were a part of religion in greek society.

</doc>
<doc id="281475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281475" title="Ichthyornis">
Ichthyornis

Ichthyornis (meaning "fish bird") was a tern-like, extinct bird that lived alongside dinosaurs like T. rex and Triceratops. It lived in flocks, nested on shorelines, and hunted for fish in Cretaceous seas. "Ichthyornis" lived 135-70 million years ago, during the Cretaceous period.
"Ichthyornis" was about 8 inches (20 cm) long. It had a large head, toothed jaws, and a long beak. This powerful flyer is the oldest-known bird that had a keeled breastbone (sternum) similar to that of modern birds.
"Ichthyornis" was originally found in 1872 in Kansas by a member of paleontologist Othniel C. Marsh in Yale University expedition. "Ichthyornis" was named by Marsh in 1872. Fossils have been found in Kansas and Texas and in Alberta.

</doc>
<doc id="281476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281476" title="Category:Activists">
Category:Activists


</doc>
<doc id="281479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281479" title="Designer baby">
Designer baby

The term designer baby is used sometimes, but its meaning is not clear or simple. It means something like "influencing the quality of a child which is not yet born". By this is meant not just health care. The idea is to change the nature, usually the genetics, of the child for the better. There are many technical, social, moral and legal issues connected to this idea. Society has scarcely begun to think about these issues. However, it is now certain that some of these ideas can, in principle, be done. 
The following is a brief survey of what might be done. It is not a list of what should or will be done. Some elements are already happening in some parts of the world.
In some parts of the world there is a strong preference for male children. If that were widely gratified, it would probably have considerable unplanned effects on those societies. However, technically, it is simple to arrange so long as a good local health service is present. 
The technique is as follows. A sample of the father's sperm is spun in a centrifuge. Sperms carrying an X-chromosome are heavier than sperm carrying a Y-chromosome. The male-causing sperm end up at the top of the plug of sperm in the test-tube. Sperm from the top of the tube are inserted into the mother. This greatly increases the chance of the mother conceiving a male child.
Another method is to conceive normally, but abort any foetus which is female. The sex of a baby is discovered by recovering cells from the sac covering the foetus. This procedure is standard, and is called amniocentesis.
Recent studies have discovered that amniotic fluid is a rich source of stem cells. 
A benefit of getting amniotic stem cells is that risk to the foetus is low. These stem cells would also, if used to treat the same individual they came from, sidestep the donor/recipient issue which has so far stymied all attempts to use donor-derived stem cells in therapies. 
Artificial heart valves, working tracheas, as well as muscle, fat, bone, heart, neural and liver cells have all been engineered through use of amniotic stem cells. Tissues got from amniotic cell lines show promise for patients suffering from congenital diseases/malformations of the heart, liver, lungs, kidneys, and cerebral tissue.
The first amniotic stem cells bank in the US is active in Boston, Massachusetts. The relevance of this is that a stock of stem cells creates the possibility of surgical corrections or replacements during the life of the individual.
The one area where there is, on balance, a consensus is the need to identify serious defects in a foetus before birth. This is now routine in many countries. The definition of "serious" would certainly include defects which make life of the foetus (if born) so defective that its life would be troubled and short. Some conditions, like triple-21 Down's syndrome, are often not that serious. In many cases, the parents' wishes decide whether or not an abortion will be carried out.
A complete sequence analysis of an individual's DNA is possible, and costs about $5,000 US dollars. It is not yet done routinely, but it is going to become widespread. If the genetics of both parents is well understood, the possibilities for the foetus are well defined. Already, counselling is given to parents who have already had a defective baby. DNA analysis would allow problems to be spotted in advance.
Already, from the cells recovered by amniotic centesis, chromosome defects like triple-21 can be seen under the microscope. DNA analysis takes this a step further. The only limitation to the analysis is our ability to understand the function of the various genes. Our understanding is limited at present, but we do understand in great detail the causes of "some" important genetic defects. 
Until recently, the only practical action was to offer abortion to the mother. This is a legal alternative in some countries. However, the coming of genetic engineering offers the potential for actually fixing the defects in the genes of a foetus. 
Ways are being developed to change the genetic make-up of a living being. Several Nobel prizes have been awarded in the last ten or so years research related to this idea. Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for:

</doc>
<doc id="281486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281486" title="Heron">
Heron

Herons are wading birds in the "Ardeidae" family. There are 64 recognised species in this family. Some are called egrets or bitterns instead of herons.
Within the family, all members of the genera "Botaurus" and "Ixobrychus" are referred to as bitterns, and are a monophyletic group within the Ardeidae. 
On the other hand, egrets are not a biologically distinct group, and are called egrets because they are mainly white and/or have decorative plumes. Although egrets have the same build as the larger herons, they tend to be smaller.
The classification of the individual heron/egret species is fraught with difficulty, and there is still no clear consensus about the correct placement of many species into either of the two major genera, "Ardea" and "Egretta". 
Although herons resemble birds in some other families, such as the storks, ibises and spoonbills, they differ from these in flying with their necks retracted, not outstretched. They are also one of the bird groups that have 'powder down'. 
Some members of this group nest colonially in trees; others, notably the bitterns, use reedbeds.
Other examples:

</doc>
<doc id="281492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281492" title="Debbie Gibson">
Debbie Gibson

Deborah Ann Gibson (born August 31, 1970 in Brooklyn, New York) is an American singer-songwriter and actress. She was very popular in the late 1980s and early 1990s and had many hit songs. In 1988 she became the youngest artist to write, produce, and perform a #1 single on the Billboard Hot 100, with her song "Foolish Beat". She remains the youngest female to write, record, and perform a #1 single.
Although never married, Gibson was once engaged to Jonathan Kanterman.
On January 6, 2008 Gibson was on "Deal or No Deal" along with Corey Feldman as part of an 1980s special.
Gibson co-starred with actor Lorenzo Lamas in the low-budget movie "Mega Shark Versus Giant Octopus". It was released on May 19, 2009. This movie had 2 million viewers on Syfy in 2009. The movie premiered at the 2009 Cannes Film Festival. Gibson's former music rival Tiffany had her movie "Necrosis" (a.k.a. "Blood Snow") premiere at the Cannes as well.
Tiffany and Debbie Gibson starred in a Syfy original movie called "Mega Python vs. Gatoroid". It aired on January 29, 2011. The pairing was at the suggestion of Tiffany, who wanted to play off their supposed rivalry.
Gibson made a cameo appearance in the 2012 movie "Rock of Ages" in the ("We're Not Gonna Take It"/"We Built This City") face-off.

</doc>
<doc id="281493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281493" title="Serotonin">
Serotonin

Serotonin is a neurotransmitter. From its chemical structure it is called 5-Hydroxytryptamine or 5-HT. It is derived from tryptophan. Serotonin can mainly be found in the gastrointestinal tract, platelets and central nervous system of certain animals including humans. Its name is derived from its effect on blood pressure: serotonin is a part of the serum which regulates the tonus of blood vessels. Serotonin also contributes to the feeling of well-being. For this reason it is often labeled "happiness hormone", even though it is not a hormone. Serotonin is a monoamine.
Serotonin is also found in fungi and plants. Its presence in insect venoms and plant spines serves to cause pain, which is a side effect of serotonin injection. Serotonin is produced by pathogenic amoebas, and its effect on the gut causes diarrhea. It can be found in many seeds and fruits. This may serve to stimulate the digestive tract to expel the seeds. 
Serotonin is involved in social rank. A lobster injected with serotonin behaves like an alpha.

</doc>
<doc id="281506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281506" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Category:Communes in France">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Category:Communes in France


</doc>
<doc id="281508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281508" title="Ibis">
Ibis

The ibises (collective plural ibis; classical plurals ibides and ibes) are a group of long-legged wading birds in the family Threskiornithidae.
They all have long down curved bills, and usually feed as a group, probing mud for food items, usually crustaceans. Most species nest in trees, often with spoonbills or herons.
The word ibis comes from Greek and Latin, and probably from the Ancient Egyptian. According to Josephus, Moses employed ibes against serpents during a desert campaign into Ethiopia in his early life. Pliny the Elder also recounted, “The Egyptians invoked ibes against the serpents".

</doc>
<doc id="281510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281510" title="Molineux Stadium">
Molineux Stadium

Molineux Stadium is a football stadium in Wolverhampton, England. It is the current home stadium of the Wolverhampton Wanderers F.C.. The stadium was built in 1889 and was opened that same year. The total seating capacity of the stadium is approximately 28,525. The stadium has also hosted the England internationals and, more recently, the England under-21 internationals, and the UEFA Cup Final in 1972.

</doc>
<doc id="281512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281512" title="Spoonbill">
Spoonbill

Spoonbills are a group of large, long-legged wading birds in the family Threskiornithidae, which also includes the Ibises.
All have large, flat, spatulate bills and feed by wading through shallow water, sweeping the partly-opened bill from side to side. The moment any small aquatic creature touches the inside of the bill—an insect, crustacean, or tiny fish—it is snapped shut. Spoonbills generally prefer fresh water to salt but are found in both environments. They need to feed many hours each day.
Spoonbills are monogamous, but, so far as is known, only for one season at a time. Most species nest in trees or reed-beds, often with ibises or herons.
passaro colhereiro

</doc>
<doc id="281513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281513" title="The Hawthorns">
The Hawthorns

The Hawthorns is a football stadium in West Bromwich, Sandwell, England. It is the current home stadium of the West Bromwich Albion F.C.. The stadium was built in 1900 and opened in that same year. The total seating capacity of the stadium is approximately 26,500. The stadium is also near The Hawthorns station which provides transportation to the stadium. It is the highest ground above sea level in England. The four stands at the ground are called the East Stand, the Birmingham Road, the West Stand (formerly Halfords Lane) and the Smethwick End.

</doc>
<doc id="281514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281514" title="TrES-4b">
TrES-4b

TrES-4 is an exoplanet. It orbits around the star GSC 02620-00648. The planet is 4.5 million miles from its sun. Being this close to its sun, the year on TrES-4 about three days long. This makes the temperature on the planet very hot. In fact, the temperature on TrES-4 is about 2,300 degrees Fahrenheit (1,260 degrees Celsius). 
TrES-4 is a gas giant that is 70 percent bigger than Jupiter. However, the planet is only as dense as cork. At the time of its discovery, TrES-4b was the largest known planet in the universe.
The planet was found by Georgi Mandushev at the Lowell Observatory in Arizona. Mandushev discovered the planet as a part of the Trans-Atlantic Exoplanet Survey project.
TrES-4 was discovered using the transit method. When an exoplanet passes between its sun and the Earth, astronomers can see a change in light from the star.

</doc>
<doc id="281516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281516" title="Oxpecker">
Oxpecker

The oxpeckers are the two species of bird which make up the family Buphagidae. 
Oxpeckers are endemic to the savanna of Sub-Saharan Africa. Their names come from their habit of perching on large mammals (both wild and domesticated) such as cattle or rhinoceroses, and eating ticks, botfly larvae, and other parasites.
According to the more recent studies of phylogeny, the oxpeckers are an ancient line related to the Mimidae (mockingbirds, thrashers &c.) and starlings, but not particularly close to either.
Considering the known biogeography (distribution) of these groups, the most plausible explanation seems that the oxpecker lineage originated in Eastern or Southeastern Asia like the other two. This would make the two species of "Buphagus" something like living fossils.
Oxpeckers feed exclusively on the backs of large mammals. Certain species seem preferred, whereas others, like the Lichtenstein's hartebeest or topi are generally avoided. The smallest regularly used species is the impala, probably because of the heavy tick load and social nature of that species. In many parts of their range they now feed on cattle, but avoid camels. They feed on ectoparasites, particularly ticks, as well as insects infecting wounds and the flesh and blood of some wounds as well. 
Oxpecker/mammal interactions are the subject of some debate and ongoing research. They were originally thought to be an example of mutualism, but recent evidence suggests that oxpeckers may be parasites instead. Oxpeckers do eat ticks, but often the ticks that have already fed on the ungulate host and there has been no proven statistically significant link between oxpecker presence and reduced ectoparasite load . However one study of impalas found that impalas which were used by oxpeckers spent less time grooming themselves suggesting they had less parasites. Oxpeckers have been seen opening new wounds and worsening existing ones in order to drink the blood of their perches . Oxpeckers also feed on the earwax and dandruffs of mammals, although less is known about the benefits of this to the mammal, it is suspected that this is also a parasitic behaviour. Some oxpecker hosts are intolerant of their presence. Elephants and some antelope will actively dislodge the oxpeckers when they land. Other species tolerate oxpeckers while they search for ticks on the face, what one author described as "appear[ing] ... to be an uncomfortable and invasive process."

</doc>
<doc id="281531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281531" title="Elimination Chamber (2011)">
Elimination Chamber (2011)

Elimination Chamber (2011) (also known as No Way Out (2011) in Germany) was the second annual Elimination Chamber professional wrestling pay-per-view event made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It took place on February 20, 2011 at the Oracle Arena in Oakland, California. John Cena, who was the winner of the Raw Elimination Chamber match received a WWE Championship match at WrestleMania XXVII against The Miz. Edge, who was the winner of the SmackDown Elimination Chamber match won the World Heavyweight Champion.

</doc>
<doc id="281536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281536" title="Dnipropetrovsk">
Dnipropetrovsk

Dnipro () is a city in Ukraine and is the third largest city in Ukraine. About 1 million people live there. It lies southeast of Ukraine's capital city, Kiev. It was founded in 1776. Dnipro enjoys a borderline semi-arid/Mediterranean climate (Köppen climate classification "BSh/Csa"), with relativity mild temperatures and plentiful sunshine year-round.
Dnipropetrovsk is one of the key places for the nuclear, arms and space industries of the former Soviet Union.

</doc>
<doc id="281538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281538" title="Suez">
Suez

Suez (, Egyptian pronunciation "Es Suwais") is a town in Northern Egypt, on the coast of the Gulf of Suez. Almost 500.000 people live in the city. The city is the southern terminus of the Suez Canal. It has two harbours, and a large seaport. An oil refinery is in Suez. Highways and railroad tracks connect Suez to the cities of Cairo, Port Said and Ismailia.

</doc>
<doc id="281542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281542" title="Mae Young">
Mae Young

Johnnie Mae Young (March 12, 1923 – January 14, 2014) is an American female professional wrestler and is also a WWE Ambassador. She is probably best known for wrestling for the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) and World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment (WWF/E). She helped increase the popularity of women wrestling during World War II and has trained many wrestlers.
She is the only professional wrestler to compete in documented matches in nine different decades, having her first match in 1939 and her last match in 2010.
She was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2008. She was best friends with fellow wrestler The Fabulous Moolah whom she appeared with on WWF/E television with as a comedic duo. 
On December 30th, 2013, she was hospitalized with an undisclosed illness and was placed on life support. On January 9th, 2014, she was taken off life support and was placed under hospice care at home.

</doc>
<doc id="281545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281545" title="Ismaïlia">
Ismaïlia

Ismailia () is a city in Egypt, on the Suez Canal. Ismailia is the capital of the Governorate with the same name. The city has a population of approximately 750,000. It is approximately halfway between Port Said to the north and Suez to the south. The Canal widens at this point to include Lake Timsah, one of the Bitter Lakes. 
Khedive Ismail the Magnificent founded the city in 1863, when the Canal was constructed. The city is named after him. The head office of the Suez Canal Authority is in Ismaïlia at the shore of Lake Timsah. Many of the buildings that were built when the British and French were involved in running the canal are still standing. Some of them are still being used by Canal employees and officials.

</doc>
<doc id="281546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281546" title="Sela Ward">
Sela Ward

Sela Ann Ward (b. July 11, 1956) is an American Emmy and Golden Globe Award winning movie and television actress. She currently stars in the CBS television series "". Ward was born in Meridian, Mississippi.

</doc>
<doc id="281550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281550" title="Eye of the Storm (EP)">
Eye of the Storm (EP)

Eye of the Storm is the sixth EP by the American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on August 20, 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="281551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281551" title="Cattle Egret">
Cattle Egret

The Cattle Egret ("Bubulcus ibis") is a cosmopolitan species of heron (family Ardeidae) found in the tropics, subtropics and warm temperate zones.
It is the only member of the genus Bubulcus, with two subspecies, the Western Cattle Egret and the Eastern Cattle Egret. It is a stocky white bird adorned with buff plumes in the breeding season. It nests in colonies, usually near bodies of water and often with other wading birds.
Unlike most other herons, it feeds in relatively dry grassy habitats, often with cattle or other large mammals. It catches insect and small vertebrate prey disturbed by these animals. It also captures ticks and flies from cattle.
Originally native to parts of Asia, Africa and Europe, it has undergone a rapid expansion in its distribution and successfully colonised much of the rest of the world. This is because humans now raise domesticated cattle throughout most of the world. Some populations of the Cattle Egret are migratory and others disperse after breeding.
It can be a safety hazard at airfields, and has been implicated in the spread of tick-borne animal diseases.
The Cattle Egret has undergone one of the most rapid and wide reaching natural expansions of any bird species.
It was originally native to parts of Southern Spain and Portugal, tropical and subtropical Africa and humid tropical and subtropical Asia. In the end of the 19th century it began expanding its range into southern Africa, first breeding in the Cape Province in 1908.
Cattle Egrets were first sighted in the Americas on the boundary of Guiana and Suriname in 1877, having apparently flown across the Atlantic Ocean. It was not until the 1930s that the species is thought to have become established in that area.
The species first arrived in North America in 1941 (these early sightings were originally dismissed as escapees), bred in Florida in 1953, and spread rapidly, breeding for the first time in Canada in 1962. It is now commonly seen as far west as California. It was first recorded breeding in Cuba in 1957, in Costa Rica in 1958, and in Mexico in 1963, although it was probably established before that.
In Europe the species had historically declined in Spain and Portugal, but in the latter part of the 20th century it expanded back through the Iberian Peninsula, and then began to colonise other parts of Europe; southern France in 1958, northern France in 1981 and Italy in 1985. Breeding in the United Kingdom was recorded for the first time in 2008 only a year after an influx seen in the previous year. In 2008 cattle egrets were also reported as having moved into Ireland for the first time.
In Australia the colonisation began in the 1940s, with the species establishing itself in the north and East of the continent. It began to regularly visit New Zealand in the 1960s.
Since 1948 the Cattle Egret has been permanently resident in Israel. Prior to 1948 it was only a winter visitor.
The massive and rapid expansion of the Cattle Egret's range is due to its relationship with humans and their domesticated animals. Originally adapted to a commensal relationship with large browsing animals, it was easily able to switch to domesticated cattle and horses. As livestock keeping spread throughout the world it was able to occupy otherwise empty niches.
The Cattle Egret feeds on a wide range of prey, particularly insects, especially grasshoppers, crickets, flies (adults and maggots), and moths, as well as spiders, frogs, and earthworms.
The species is usually found with cattle and other large grazing and browsing animals, and catches small creatures disturbed by the mammals. Studies have shown that Cattle Egret foraging success is much higher when foraging near a large animal than when feeding singly. When foraging with cattle, it has been shown to be 3.6 times more successful in capturing prey than when foraging alone. Its performance is similar when it follows farm machinery, but it is forced to move more.

</doc>
<doc id="281556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281556" title="Merginae">
Merginae

The Merginae or sea ducks are a subfamily of the Anatidae, the duck, goose and swan family of birds.
As the name suggests, most are marine outside the breeding season. Many species have specialized salt glands to allow them to tolerate salt water, but these have not yet developed in young birds. Some species prefer riverine habitats.

</doc>
<doc id="281557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281557" title="Boundary Park">
Boundary Park

Boundary Park is a football stadium in Oldham, England. It is the current home stadium of the Oldham Athletic A.F.C. as well as the Oldham Roughyeds. The stadium was built in 1904 and opened August 1, 1904. The total seating capacity of the stadium is approximately 10,638. 

</doc>
<doc id="281562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281562" title="Immigration to Canada">
Immigration to Canada

Immigration to Canada is a way that people from other countries can move to Canada. Some laws about this include the Immigration Act 1976, and the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act 2002.
Canada lets many people move to Canada. Because of this, there are some high percentages of non-Canadians in ethnicity results.
Even after Canadian colonization by the United Kingdom and France, there have been many other people coming to Canada in large groups.
In the 1700s, the French were settling in Quebec and Acadia, followed by some American and European movement.
After the American Revolution ended many Americans loyal to Britain went to Canada as it was the last main territory in North America still loyal to the Crown.
The War of 1812 promoted British and Irish immigration to Canada. Some British officers went to Canada, fearing that the Americans would invade Canada. While Irish immigration was still high, eventually some went to the United States.
Others went to Canada from America, especially during the Klondike Gold Rush.
This time, many people went to Canada from Europe. A large spike in the third group was pre-World War I.
This group saw an increase in Asian immigrants.

</doc>
<doc id="281564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281564" title="Glans">
Glans

The glans (Latin for "acorn") is a vascular structure on the tip of the penis in men or a homologous genital structure of the clitoris in women.

</doc>
<doc id="281567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281567" title="Lessepsian migration">
Lessepsian migration

Lessepsian migration is the name given for the migration of marine species through the Suez Canal, between the Red Sea and the Mediterranean. 
It is named after Ferdinand de Lesseps, who built the Suez Canal. The Suez Canal joined two biospheres that were separate before. Many species migrated from the Red Sea to the Eastern Mediterranean. Only a few species migrated in the other direction, from the Mediterranean to the Red Sea. The migration can be seen most clearly when looking at fish species, even though other animals also migrated.
When the Suez Canal was opened in 1869, it created the first salt-water passage between the Red Sea and the Mediterranean. The Bitter Lakes are two very salty (hypersaline) lakes about mid-way in the canal. At first, this blocked the migration of species from the Red Sea to the Mediterranean. Over the last decades, the salinity of the lakes changed, which made it easier for species to migrate. 
The Red Sea is higher than the Mediterranean, at high tide, water flows from the Red Sea to the Mediterranean. The Red Sea is also poor in nutrients, so species who migrate will find more nutrients. The waters of the Red Sea are saltier than that of the Mediterranean. For these reasons, most species migrate from the Red Sea to the Mediterranean, and only very few migrate in the other direction.
When the Aswan High Dam was built in the 1960s, this blocked the flow of freshwater from the Nile into the Mediterranean. As a result, the salinity levels in the Eastern Mediterranean increase, and make it much more like the Red Sea – this means that migration will become even easier, as conditions are very similar. 
Invasive species coming from the Red Sea and introduced into the Mediterranean by the construction of the canal have become a major component of the Mediterranean ecosystem. They have serious impacts on the Mediterranean ecology, endangering many local and endemic Mediterranean species. To this day, about 300 species native to the Red Sea have been identified in the Mediterranean Sea, and there are probably others still unidentified. 
The Egyptian government announced it plans to deepen and widen the canal. This announcement has raised concerns from marine biologists, who fear that this will worsen the invasion of Red Sea species into the Mediterranean, and make the crossing of the canal easier for additional species.
Today, the term "Lessepsian migration" is used more broadly for any migration of animals over man-made structures.

</doc>
<doc id="281574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281574" title="Stuyvesant Town–Peter Cooper Village">
Stuyvesant Town–Peter Cooper Village

Stuyvesant Town–Peter Cooper Village is a large, private community where people live. It is on the east side of Manhattan, a borough in New York City. It is one of the most and successful post-World War II private housing communities. Stuyvesant Town is known to its residents as "Stuy Town". It was named after Peter Stuyvesant, the last Director-General of the Dutch colony of New Amsterdam, whose farm occupied the site in the seventeenth century. Peter Cooper Village is named after Peter Cooper, a 19th-century industrialist, inventor and philanthropist. Cooper also founded Cooper Union.
The complex was planned beginning in 1942. It opened its first building in 1947. It replaced several very big gas storage tanks.
The complex has many red brick apartment buildings. They stretch from First Avenue to Avenue C between 14th and 23rd Streets. It covers about of land. Some of this land is also playground land or parkland. Between 14th and 20th Street is Stuyvesant Town. It has 8,757 apartments in 89 residential buildings. Peter Cooper Village is between 20th and 23rd Streets. The complex has a total of 110 residential buildings, 11,250 apartments, and over 25,000 people living in it.
The East River and Avenue C is on the east, the Gramercy Park neighborhood on the west, the East Village and Alphabet City to the south, and Kips Bay to the north. To the west is a historic two-block park. Around the park is Stuyvesant Square, Saint George's Church, and the Beth Israel Medical Center.

</doc>
<doc id="281577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281577" title="Keri Russell">
Keri Russell

Keri Lynn Russell (born March 23, 1976 in Fountain Valley, California) is an American actress. She has starred in many movies for both the cinema and television. She starred in the television series "Felicity" from 1998 to 2002. Russell won a Golden Globe for "Best Actress in a Drama Series" in 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="281580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281580" title="1973 Constitution of Pakistan">
1973 Constitution of Pakistan

One of the most pressing tasks for the new government was to draft a new constitution. When martial law was finally lifted, the Assembly was summoned in April 1972 on the basis of the 1970 election results in the former West Pakistan region. A committee was set up from a cross-section of politicians from different parties. There were disagreements within the committee as to whether the new constitution should bring in parliamentary rule or a presidential system of government. There were also differing views over the question of provincial autonomy. It took the constitutional committee eight months before it submitted it's report on 10th April 1973. The draft constitution was passed by the federal Assembly by 135 votes in favour, with three abstentions. It was brought into force on 14th August 1973, and Bhutto was elected prime minister by the National Assembly on 12th August. The Constitution's main features were:
I. Pakistan shall be a Federal Republic with a Parliamentary system of government. The prime minister shall be the head of government, elected from the majority party.
II. The special position of Islam as the state religion shall be emphasized and both the prime minister and president are required to be Muslims.
III. Pakistan shall be declared an Islamic Republic by default.
IV. A bill to amend the constitution shall need a two-thirds majority in the lower house and a majority in the upper house.
V. All fundamental human rights shall be guaranteed but the stipulation was added that it was subject to resonable restrictions imposed by law'.
VI. The Supreme Court and High Courts shall be given the power to enforce fundamental rights.
VII. The president shall act in accordance with the binding advice of the prime minister, and all orders of president shall be counter signed by the prime minister.
VIII. The senate, or upper house, shall be elected mostly from the provincial governments and so, for the first time, the interests of the provinces shall be safeguarded at the centre. The Senate shall not be dissolved even in emergencies.
IX. In case of emergencies, the federal government can pass legislation on anything and can even suspend fundamental freedoms.
X. Urdu shall be the official language of the country, with Pakistani English to be retained for the next 15 years.
Xl.The teaching of holy Quran and Islamiat should be compulsory.
XlI. Pakistan shall be a federal Islamic state, so residuary powers shall rest with provinces not the central government.
The 1973 Constitution, therefore, marked a return to a parliamentary form of democracy after the presidential experiment introduced under the 1962 constitution. There were also concessions made to the provinces to alleviate fears that the central government would overule them on every issue. This was important as the one unit scheme had only recently been abolished and because 2 of the 4 provincial governments in the new State of Pakistan were non-PPP. The 1973 Constitution, however, had another advantage over its two predecessors: it had been agreed and voted on by a democratically elected Assembly. This gave it greater authority and, even though it was suspended under the next martial law regime, Since independence, Pakistan has devised and changed three written constitutions and the fourth one was drawn up and it was restored in 1985 and remains in place to date. 

</doc>
<doc id="281581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281581" title="Aleutian Islands">
Aleutian Islands

The Aleutian Islands (; possibly from Chukchi "aliat", "island") are a chain of more than 300 small volcanic islands. They are in the Northern Pacific Ocean. They are spread out over an area of 6,821 sq mi (17,666 km²) and go out about west from the Alaska Peninsula toward the Kamchatka Peninsula. They mark a line between the Bering Sea and the Pacific Gulf of Alaska. Crossing longitude 180°, they are the furthest West part of the United States Nearly all the islands are part of Alaska but at the extreme western end are the Commander Islands which are in Russia. The islands, with their 57 volcanoes, are in the northern part of the Pacific Ring of Fire. The Alaska Marine Highway passes through the islands.

</doc>
<doc id="281583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281583" title="Category:People from Western Australia">
Category:People from Western Australia


</doc>
<doc id="281587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281587" title="Yarlung Zangbo River">
Yarlung Zangbo River

Yarlung River is a watercourse that originates upstream from the South Tibet Valley and the Yarlung Zangbo Grand Canyon, in Southern Tibet. It then passes through the province of Assam, Republic of India, where it is known as the Dihang.

</doc>
<doc id="281588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281588" title="Yarlung Zangbo Grand Canyon">
Yarlung Zangbo Grand Canyon

The Yarlung Zangbo Grand Canyon () or simply the Tsangpo Canyon or Tsangpo Gorge, along the Yarlung Tsangpo River in Tibet, China, is regarded by some as the deepest canyon in the world, and is slightly longer than the Grand Canyon, making it one of the world's largest.

</doc>
<doc id="281589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281589" title="Clay Matthews III">
Clay Matthews III

William Clay Matthews III (born May 14, 1986 in Northridge, California) is an American football outside linebacker for the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League (NFL). Matthews was drafted out of the University of Southern California by the Green Bay Packers with the 26th pick in the first round of the 2009 NFL Draft. Matthews is the son of former NFL player Clay Matthews, Jr. and his uncle is Bruce Matthews who also played in the NFL.

</doc>
<doc id="281590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281590" title="Lea Thompson">
Lea Thompson

Lea Thompson (born May 31, 1961) is an American actress. Her notable acting roles were in the 1983 movie "All the Right Moves" and the 1990s sitcom "Caroline in the City". She also starred in many made for television movies. Thompson was born in Rochester, Minnesota. She had planned on becoming a professional ballerina. In fact, both her and her older brother Andrew Thompson took ballet classes throughout their youth. Both went on to dance with major dance companies--Andrew with the Colorado Ballet and Lea with the American Ballet Theatre. After Lea acquired numerous accumulating injuries and was told she didn't have the ideal body, she left professional ballet in favor of an acting career. 

</doc>
<doc id="281592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281592" title="Rallidae">
Rallidae

The rails, or Rallidae, are a large family of small to medium-sized birds. The rails are related to cranes, and both are in the order Gruiformes.
The family is diverse, and includes the crakes, coots, and gallinules. Many species are associated with wetlands, although the family is found in every terrestrial habitat except dry deserts, polar regions and alpine areas above the snow line. The Rallidae are found on every continent except Antarctica. There are numerous island species. The most common habitats are marshland or dense forest. They like dense vegetation.<Hor/>
There are many rails on islands, and they are often flightless.
The wings of all rails are short and rounded. Their flight is not powerful, but can continue for long periods, and many species migrate annually. The weakness of their flight means they are easily blown off course, so they are common vagrants. This has led them to colonize many isolated oceanic islands. Furthermore, these birds often prefer to run rather than fly, especially in dense shrub or woodland habitats. Some are also flightless at some time during their moult period.
Many island rails are flightless because on a small island without threatening predators they do not need to fly or move long distances. Flight makes intense demands, with the keel and flight muscles taking up to a quarter of a bird's weight. Reducing the flight muscles lowers the metabolic demands, and reduces the flightless rail's energy needs. For this reason, flightlessness makes it easier to survive and colonize an island where resources may be limited. Flightlessness can evolve extremely rapidly in island rails; it took as little as 125,000 years for the Laysan Rail to lose the power of flight and evolve the reduced, stubby wings only useful to keep balance when running quickly.

</doc>
<doc id="281593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281593" title="Tim Masthay">
Tim Masthay

Tim Masthay (born March 16, 1987 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania) is an American football punter for the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League (NFL). Masthay was not drafted but started his football career in 2009 with the Indianapolis Colts when he was part of their practice squad. Masthay's father, Dr. Mark Masthay is a chairman of the chemistry department at the University of Dayton and his mother is the Executive Director of TriState Habitat for Humanity in Cincinnati, Ohio.

</doc>
<doc id="281595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281595" title="All-Pakistan Muslim League">
All-Pakistan Muslim League

The All-Pakistan Muslim League, founded at Karachi, Pakistan, in 2010, is a political party in Pakistan founded by Pervez Musharraf. The party was registered at the Election Commission.

</doc>
<doc id="281596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281596" title="All Parties Hurriyat Conference">
All Parties Hurriyat Conference

The All Parties Hurriyat Conference (APHC) (formed March 10, 1993) is a political front formed as an alliance of 26 political, social and religious organizations in Kashmir. It was formed achieving the right of self-determination according to United Nations Security Council Resolution 47. "Hurriyat" in Koshur (as well as in Arabic from which the word is loaned, Urdu and Persian) means "liberty". Tabish Bhat was elected its leader in January 2010.
The primary objective of Hurriyat Conference is to have Islamic governance in Jammu & Kashmir and liberating the regions from India to Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="281597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281597" title="Matt Turk">
Matt Turk

Matthew Edward Turk (born June 16, 1968 in Greenfield, Wisconsin) is a former American football punter that played 18 seasons in the National Football League (NFL). Turk was not drafted but started his football career in 1995 with the Washington Redskins.
He played for the Washington Redskins from 1995 to 1999, the Miami Dolphins from 2000 to 2001, the New York Jets in 2002, the Miami Dolphins again from 2003 to 2005, the St. Louis Rams in 2006, the Houston Texans from 2007 to 2010, the Jacksonville Jaguars in 2011 and the Houston Texans again in 2011. 

</doc>
<doc id="281598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281598" title="Anthurium">
Anthurium

Anthurium is a large plant genus of about 600- 800 (possibly 1,000) species, belonging to the arum family (Araceae). Anthurium can also be called "Flamingo Flower" or "Boy Flower", both referring to the structure of the spathe and spadix.
The species has neotropical distribution; mostly in wet tropical mountain forest of Central America and South America, but some in semi-arid environments. 

</doc>
<doc id="281600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281600" title="Wynonna Judd">
Wynonna Judd

Christina Claire Ciminella, aka Wynonna Judd, is an American singer and songwriter. She first rose to fame during the 1980s as part of the duo The Judds with her mother Naomi Judd, who is also a singer. The duo had seven albums via Curb Records. Wynonna has had many solo albums. This singer was born on May 30, 1964.

</doc>
<doc id="281602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281602" title="Blades of Glory">
Blades of Glory

Blades of Glory is a 2007 American sports comedy movie that was produced by Ben Stiller, Stuart Cornfeld and John Jacobs and was directed by Josh Gordon and Will Speck. Blades of Glory was given a 69% Fresh rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 64 out of 100 rating on Metacritic. Blades of Glory grossed $33,014,202 on its opening weekend with 3,372 theaters, beating Disney's Meet the Robinsons to be the number 1 film. Voice clips from the movie are featured in the 2011 song, "Niggas in Paris" by Jay-Z and Kanye West.

</doc>
<doc id="281604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281604" title="Autobiography of Mark Twain">
Autobiography of Mark Twain

The Autobiography of Mark Twain or "Mark Twain’s Autobiography" is a book by Mark Twain, (the pen name of Samuel Langhorne Clemens). It has many stories about his life in it. Twain did not write and publish the book in the usual way. He told the stories and they were written down for him. The book was published in November 2010, one hundred years after his death.
According to Harriet Smith, editor of the book, some of the manuscripts of Twain’s autobiography are handwritten by him but most are transcripts of what he said. These were created on typewriters by helpers such as his secretaries and his youngest daughter. There are three versions of much of the autobiography, including the original. There was a copy used to send 25 sections of the book, one at a time, to be published in "North American Review". Then a copy was used for Albert Paine’s 1924 edition of the book. Clemens proofread them all. Into his vocal dictations, he often inserted earlier manuscripts he wrote and also letters, newspaper clippings and other documents. 
In Harriet Smith’s 2010 edition, Clemens instructions are not always followed. For example, she did not insert his article about the survivors of the sunken ship in his February 20, 1906 dictation. Also, she did not include in the January 12, 1906 dictation the illustrated magazine about his 70th birthday dinner. Mistakes that were made are just pointed out in the book’s explanatory notes instead of being changed to be correct. She has made some changes to bad spelling and adding missing prepositions to fix the grammar. She does not correct grammar when the text would lose the spoken style. For example, she believes “. . . the world’s sympathy and compassion are with her, where it belongs” is bad grammar but does not correct it.
Larry Rohter in his July 9, 2010 review in "The New York Times" describes Twain as a Colonel Sanders without the chicken who told stories, whose books "Huck Finn" and "Tom Sawyer" he had to read in high school. In writing his autobiography, Twain spoke his recollections and opinions to his secretary for a more natural, frank, colloquial tone than if he had written them down. Twain died on April 21, 1910. He was 74 years old. The content of his 500,000 word autobiography is being published in the random order he wrote it, and that is the way he wanted it to be. Previous editions of the work have put things in chronological order. They have also censored it for interest and propriety. This edition, published over 100 years after his death, has the material in the order he wrote it and uncensored. The University of California Press is publishing it in three volumes. Five percent of the first volume was never published before, and about fifty percent of all three volumes was never published before. Twain claims some shocking things, such as the elder Rockefeller paying taxes on only 2.5 million of his fortune and a U.S. Army overkill against six hundred Philippine savages resisting U.S. imperialism. In Twain’s boyhood in Missouri, he was not aware there was anything wrong about slavery. When Cleveland was U.S. President, Twain met him in the White House and got the First Lady’s autograph. Twain resented his publisher and an inventor for fleecing him, and also a rude landlord, from when he lived in Italy in 1904.
Julie Bosman’s review on November 19, 2010, in "The New York Times" said the book is a four-pound, 500,000-word, $35.00 doorstopper more political than Twain’s previous works. The content is nonlinear although very readable. It seems like a reader could flip the book open at random to any part of it and not worry about plot. The book includes 200 pages of end notes. At first the publisher planned to print 7,500 copies. However, because it was being published a century after Twain’s death, as he wanted it to be, the book got in the news. Before the book’s November 15th publication date, magazines including "Newsweek", "Playboy," and "Harper’s" ran excerpts from the book. The book was quickly sold out and back-ordered. The publisher was University of California Press. A girl with them said, “We feel like, wow . . . people are interested in a 736-page scholarly tome about Mark Twain.” They rushed to send copies to bookstores in time for the holidays. The publisher hired a small printer in Michigan to print the books. They worked overtime producing 30,000 copies a week and got bigger trucks to bring the books to the warehouses. Instead of 7,500 copies, the book got on best seller lists with over 275,000 copies in November 2010. The book was the biggest success the University of California Press had in sixty years.

</doc>
<doc id="281605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281605" title="Kathleen Turner">
Kathleen Turner

Mary Kathleen Turner (born June 19, 1954) is an American actress. She became famous during the 1980s with Hollywood movies including: "Body Heat", "Romancing the Stone" and "Peggy Sue Got Married". Turner has starred in many television programs and theatrical movies. She was born in Springfield, Missouri. She is a Democrat.

</doc>
<doc id="281609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281609" title="Jewel (singer)">
Jewel (singer)

Jewel Kilcher (born 23 May 1974), known simply as Jewel, is an American singer-songwriter. She has had four Grammy Award nominations. Jewel was born in Payson, Utah.

</doc>
<doc id="281625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281625" title="Lynton and Barnstaple Railway">
Lynton and Barnstaple Railway

The Lynton & Barnstaple Railway (L&B) is a Heritage railway in North Devon, England.
The original line opened in May 1898, but closed in 1935. It was a single track narrow gauge railway just over 19 miles (30 km) long, running through rugged rural countryside in Exmoor National Park
For a few years the line earned a small profit, but for most of its life the L&B lost money. The L&B was taken over by the Southern Railway in 1923, and finally closed in September 1935.
The Lynton & Barnstaple Railway Association was created in 1979. A short section of the line opened again in 2004. This was extended in 2006 and a year later, plans were announced to open nine miles (14 km) of track, linking the station at Woody Bay to both Lynton and Blackmoor Gate, and eventually to a new station at Wistlandpound Reservoir.
Several plans were put forward to extend railways from Barnstaple to Lynton. Because of the hills and valleys which would need tight curves and steep slopes, one scheme suggested a gauge of , already being used on other lines like the Ffestiniog Railway, to make building the line easier. This plan was supported by Sir George Newnes who became chairman of the company. The Lynton & Barnstaple Railway Bill was passed on 27 June 1895, and the line was officially opened on 11 May 1898. Public services started on 16 May.
The L&B did not attract enough passengers to make a profit. The journey of nearly twenty miles normally took about one and a half hours. To make things worse, to satisfy several powerful local people, Lynton station was built quite a long way from the town itself, and from the cliff railway to Lynmouth.
Falling traffic during World War I, better roads, and more people owning cars cut the line's income even more, until it was no longer economic.
Despite many cost-saving changes, and extra money being spent on the line, the Southern Railway was still unable to make money, so they closed the line.
The last train ran on 29 September 1935. The Southern Railway removed everything they could use on other lines, and by 8 November, they had lifted the track from Lynton to the Barnstaple side of Woody Bay station. On 13 November a sale was held, but the railway did not attract much interest. Most of the carriages and wagons, and every engine apart from "Lew", were scrapped at Pilton. Some carriages were cut up and used as garden sheds. Third class seats became garden furniture, and first class seats were used in local public halls. In December, Sidney Castle got the job of taking the rest of the railway apart. The remaining track was lifted by June 1936, and in September, "Lew" was shipped to South America - probably Brazil. The stations and track bed were sold in 1938.
The L&B had a very good safety record, and no members of the public were killed or injured, although accidents at Braunton Road and Chumhill did take the lives of three workers.
The L&B rises and falls several times along its length. Starting at above sea level, The first , through Barnstaple, and along the Yeo Valley stays nearly level. "Collard Bridge" marks the start of an climb, mainly at one in fifty (2%), to Blackmoor Gate. A slight down-gradient follows, about m long, towards Parracombe Bank, and the start of another climb, about , to Woody Bay – at , the highest railway station in southern England. The line then falls, again mostly at one in fifty - to Lynton & Lynmouth station, still above the sea, and hidden by the landscape from the town of Lynton. The minimum radius on curves was .
One of the most obvious features of the L&B was its rail vehicles, with the engines appearing first in a plain lined Holly green colour, later on a black base, with chestnut under-frames, pulling passenger carriages coloured terra-cotta with cream upper panels, and light grey goods wagons. The painting was simplified as each vehicle was repainted. With the take-over by the Southern Railway and arrival of Lew, the paint scheme was slowly changed to a lighter green with yellow lettering for the engines and passenger carriages, and brown for the goods wagons. The engine headlamps which had been black were re-painted red.
At least three builders' engines were used for building the line. Unusually, some of the temporary track was wider than the final gauge - the section around Parracombe Bank for example, crossing the Heddon valley, was built to gauge, with an engine known as "Winnie". A fifth engine - perhaps named "Spondon" - may also have been used, although little is known of either of these. In 1900, "Kilmarnock" was sold by the L&B. It is thought that it was left behind by James Nuttall, because of the financial problems and legalcase between the railway and the builder.
The L&B used only coal-fired steam engines. The railway ordered three 2-6-2Ts from Manning Wardle & Co of Leeds. The engines were named after local rivers: "Yeo", "Exe", and "Taw". These were supplemented by a 2-4-2T, "Lyn", built by the Baldwin Locomotive Works of Philadelphia, USA, as the company realised that three engines would not be enough. Baldwin was chosen as they could deliver the engine – built mainly from standard parts – more quickly than British builders, who had a backlog of orders, caused by a national engineering dispute from July 1897 to January 1898. After it was built by Baldwin, the engine was shipped across the Atlantic in parts, and re-assembled at Pilton by railway staff. It first steamed in July 1898. The Manning Wardles were delivered before the dispute, and "Yeo" and "Taw" were used to help build the line.
In 1923 the L&B became part of the Southern Railway, and began an upgrade programme. All stock was repainted in Southern Maunsell livery, and track and buildings were improved. A fifth engine, "Lew" was bought in 1925, with a few improvements to the original Manning Wardle design.
Although bought at the auction by December 1935, "Lew" was working for Sidney Castle, the dismantler of the railway. This work was completed by July 1936 and in September, "Lew" was moved by rail to Swansea and then shipped to South America where Lew just disappeared. Despite several searches, no trace of the engine, or clues to what happened to it, have been found.
Sixteen passenger carriages were delivered for the opening. These were of comprised six different types, all the same size, being long, wide, ( over steps) and high – large by narrow gauge standards – and certainly better than any earlier British narrow gauge stock.
The coaching stock was very solidly made, and offered levels of accommodation far better that any others at the time - certainly compared to any other narrow gauge railway. Almost 70 years later, the design was used as the basis for a new set of carriages built by the Ffestiniog Railway, suggesting how good the original design was.
The body for coach 17 was built in 1911 by a local firm, Shapland and Petter, and fitted to a steel underframe made by the railway at Pilton. Slightly longer than the earlier coaches, it had both smoking and non-smoking compartments for first and third class passengers, as well as the brake van space.
The Southern Railway introduced several new goods wagons, and also bought two ex-War Department travelling cranes for the line.
Goods-only trains were not normally used, and usually goods wagons were attached to any passenger trains. The extra work to shunt wagons at stations along the line slowed down the passengers' journey times.
The open goods wagons were originally delivered with a single top-hung side door on each side, but these proved inefficient, and all were eventually converted to side hung double doors. By 1907, most had been fitted with tarpaulin rails. The goods vans used the same underframe, and were fitted with double sliding doors on each side.
Van 23 - now restored and at Woody Bay - was built at Pilton by the L&B. Unlike all other L&B stock, its underframe was entirely made of wood.
The travelling cranes were bought from the War Department, and were fitted with outriggers, they could lift up to 4½ tons. They were intended to be used as recovery cranes if there3 was a derailment, but they were not used much. One crane was kept at Pilton, the other was used in Lynton goods yard.
The 1927 bogie goods vans were originally fitted with heavy diagonal wooden cross braces at each end, but these were later replaced with single diagonal angle-iron braces.
More than seventy-five years after it closed, much of the line can still be seen. The most spectacular is Bridge 22 - the brick-built Chelfham Viaduct, which was fully restored in 2000. Its eight wide arches reach above the Stoke Rivers valley – the largest narrow-gauge railway structure in England.
The stations at Lynton and Bratton Fleming are now private homes, Blackmoor Gate is a restaurant and Barnstaple Town is a school. Chelfham and Woody Bay are both owned by the new L&B. Chelfham station is used for storage, and Woody Bay is the main centre of operations. Snapper Halt was purchased in 2010 by Exmoor Associates - a private company dedicated to securing trackbed for restoring the railway.
Unlike other railways, the track bed was sold off in many pieces - often to the original owners, who paid much less than they had sold it for originally. Although there has been some minor building on parts of the route, and Wistlandpound Reservoir has flooded the track bed close to its middle, much is still in open countryside, with many sections identifiable.
The Lynton & Barnstaple Railway Association (since 2000, a charity) was formed in 1979. Woody Bay Station was bought by the Lynton and Barnstaple Railway Company in 1995 and, after much effort, a short section of railway reopened to passengers in 2004. This was extended to over a mile in 2006, with steam and diesel trains running between Woody Bay and the new, temporary station at Killington Lane Station.
In 1995, the Lynbarn Railway – at the "Milky Way", a theme park near Clovelly, was created and operated by L&B volunteers. Profits from this funded the purchase, restoration and reopening of Woody Bay. The "Lynbarn" was handed over to the park in 2005, once Woody Bay had become established, and continues to operate as part of the attraction.
Most of the original rail vehicles did not survive, but Van 23 is on display at Woody Bay. Coach 7 and Coach 17 are being rebuilt. The remains of several other carriages and Goods Van 4 are being stored ready to be rebuilt. The carriages will then be used as a "Heritage Train" to complement more modern carriages.
Coach 2 was sold and used as a summer house. It is now on show at the National Railway Museum in York, with nameplates from the original engines. Coach 15, recovered from Snapper Halt in 1959 and rebuilt by the Ffestiniog Railway in North Wales, has been running there (now as FR Coach 14) for longer than it did on the L&B. In September 2010, Coach 15 visited the L&B with the "Lew" replica engine, "Lyd".
A "Joffre" class 0-6-0 steam engine built by Kerr Stuart in 1915 was bought in 1983, and named "Axe". Restored to working order in 2008, Axe now pulls most of the passenger trains at Woody Bay. An 0-4-0 engine built by Maffei of Germany in 1925, now named "Sid", is owned by several L&B members, and is also sometimes used on the L&B steam service.
The Trust owns three industrial diesel engines. One of these - Heddon Hall - is some times used in place of the steam engines, and for engineering trains.
A number of other visiting diesel and steam engines have also seen service on the line.
Restoring passenger services from Woody Bay was a major undertaking by the enthusiastic volunteers. Although much of the track bed survives intact, several obstacles – including Wistlandpound Reservoir – must be overcome to restore most of the old route.
In October 2007, the railway announced plans for reinstating enough trackbed to reopen nine miles (14 km) of track, linking the station at Woody Bay to both Lynton (at a new terminus on an extension to the original line, closer to the town) and Blackmoor Gate, and as far as a new station at Wistlandpound.
"Exmoor Enterprise" is likely to cost around £30 million, including the building of replica vehicles and improving the line as an important local tourist attraction.
The railway believes that the scheme will generate over £70 million for the south west economy within five years.
Long-term plans see reopening the line towards Barnstaple.
Multimedia:
Books:
Magazines:

</doc>
<doc id="281628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281628" title="Woody Bay railway station">
Woody Bay railway station

Woody Bay was a station on the old Lynton and Barnstaple Railway, a narrow gauge railway line that ran through Exmoor from Barnstaple to Lynton and Lynmouth in North Devon. The station was inland, about 2 km from Woody Bay itself. It opened with the line (as "Wooda Bay" until the name was changed in 1901) on 7 March 1898, and closed when the line was closed on 29 September 1935. From 1923 until closure, the line was part of the Southern Railway.
Woody Bay station was built in part to serve the expected development of a resort at Woody Bay, a mile or so to the north. A pier was built in the bay, although not much more building took place, and the pier was destroyed by storms before it properly opened.
The development was stopped when the promotor went bankrupt in 1900, and although a route was surveyed for a branch line to the bay, it was never built.
After being bought by the Lynton and Barnstaple Railway Company in 1995, restoration of the station began, and it opened as a Visitors' Centre in 2003. An "out and back" service over a few hundred yards of track began in 2004, and with the opening of a temporary station at Killington Lane, about one mile towards Parracombe Halt, a regular "point to point" service started in 2006.
A carriage shed has been built into a cutting beyond the station. It is a temporary structure erected in 2003, and can be moved when the line expands.
Woody Bay station is at: 

</doc>
<doc id="281640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281640" title="Endgame (chess)">
Endgame (chess)

The endgame in chess (or "end game" or "ending") is the part of the game when there are few pieces left on the board. Alternatively, endgames begin when the middlegame is over, and kings are relatively safe. 
There are three main strategic differences between earlier parts of the game and endgame:
the 
All endgame positions can be put into two camps. On the one hand are positions which may be won by force. On the other hand are positions which are drawn, or which should be drawn. The ones that are drawn for certain may be legally drawn (mate could not happen) or drawn by chess experience (no sane defence could lose). All endgames in master chess revolve around the borderline between winning and drawing. Generally, once a 'textbook' drawn position is reached the players will agree a draw; otherwise they play on.
Endgames can be studied according to the type of pieces that remain on board. For example, king and pawn endgames have only kings and pawns on one or both sides and the task of the stronger side is to promote one of the pawns. Other endings are studied according to the pieces on board other than kings, e.g. rook and pawn versus rook endgame.<ref name=H/W>Hooper D. and Whyld K. 1992. "The Oxford companion to chess". 2nd ed, Oxford University Press.</ref>
Basic checkmates are positions in which one side has only a king and the other side has one or two pieces, enough to checkmate the opponent's king. They are usually learned at the beginner stage. Examples are mate with K+Q v K; K+R v K; K+2B v K; K+B&N v K (this one is quite difficult).
Positions for which the result is certain, given best play, are technical positions. The best example is the analysis by computer chess engine of all possible positions with six pieces or fewer. This is called proof by exhaustion or exhaustive proof. It is logically the same as proving a mathematical theorem by proving the complete set of individual cases covered by the theorem.
After the chess engine has analysed the positions, the results are put into an endgame tablebase for easy retrieval by users. Working with a database to discover previously unknown facts is called 'data mining'.
A number of interesting and surprising facts have indeed emerged. For example, For all three- to five-piece endgames and pawnless six-piece endgames, a complete list of mutual zugzwangs has been tabulated and published.
Another case is the longest sequence of moves to reach a definite result, called 'Depth to conversion'. In May 2006, Bourzutschky and Konoval discovered a KQN vs KRBN position with an astonishing DTC of 517 moves.

</doc>
<doc id="281643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281643" title="Brent Peterson">
Brent Peterson

Brent Peterson (born July 20, 1945 in Calgary, Alberta) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey player. Peterson, a left winger, played in 56 games over three seasons for the National Hockey League's (NHL) Tampa Bay Lightning, scoring nine goals and assisting on one. After his three NHL seasons, Peterson spent four seasons in Europe, playing for teams in Switzerland and Germany.
Peterson joined the United States Hockey League's Thunder Bay Flyers for the 1990–91 season, at the age of eighteen. In 48 regular season games, he recorded 27 goals and 40 assists, and added eight goals and nine assists in 10 playoff games. In 1991–92, Peterson began playing college hockey with the Western Collegiate Hockey Association's Michigan Tech Huskies. After scoring 20 points in the 1992–93 season, Peterson increased his point total to 42 in 1993–94. In 1994–95, he scored 25 goals and had 21 assists; both totals were the highest of his college career, as was his 46 points. Peterson's statistical production declined slightly in his last college season, 1995–96, as he posted 20 goals and 16 assists.
In the 1993 NHL Supplemental Draft, Peterson was chosen as the third overall selection by the Tampa Bay Lightning. Following the end of his college career, he was sent to the Atlanta Knights, the Lightning's affiliate in the minor league International Hockey League (IHL). With the Knights, Peterson had 28 points in 69 regular season games, but went scoreless in three playoff games. In 1996–97, Peterson spent most of his playing time with the American Hockey League's Adirondack Red Wings, for whom he scored 45 points in the regular season and four in the playoffs. During that season, he made his NHL debut with the Lightning, and scored two goals in 17 games. The 1997–98 season saw Peterson again split time between the NHL and minor league hockey; he tallied five goals in 19 games for the Lightning, and 20 goals and 39 assists for the IHL's Milwaukee Admirals. He played his final NHL games in the 1998–99 season, when he posted two goals and his only NHL assist in 20 games for the Lightning. In addition, he had 13 goals and 12 assists in 35 games for two IHL clubs.
In March 1999, the Lightning traded Peterson to the Pittsburgh Penguins organization. He became a free agent after the season, and the Nashville Predators signed him. During the 1999–00 season, Peterson spent the entire campaign with the Admirals, the Predators' IHL affiliate, scoring 32 points in the regular season and five in the playoffs. Peterson moved to Europe for the 2000–01 season, beginning the season with the SCL Tigers in Switzerland's National League A. In 10 games, he recorded three goals and two assists before moving to Germany to play for the Deutsche Eishockey Liga's Kassel Huskies. Peterson finished 2000–01 season with the Tigers and spent three more seasons with the club; his best statistical season in Germany was 2002–03, when he had 25 regular season points, along with three in the playoffs.

</doc>
<doc id="281645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281645" title="Category:People from Alberta">
Category:People from Alberta

This category contains people who are from the Canadian province of Alberta.

</doc>
<doc id="281646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281646" title="Jimmy Roy">
Jimmy Roy

Jimmy Roy (born September 22, 1975 in Sioux Lookout, Ontario) is a Canadian ice hockey player currently playing for the Iserlohn Roosters of the Deutsche Eishockey Liga. 
Roy was drafted 254th overall by the Dallas Stars in the 1994 NHL Entry Draft but never played in the National Hockey League. After spending two years at Michigan Technological University he signed with the Manitoba Moose in 1997. Roy spent nine seasons with the Manitoba Moose, the first four in the International Hockey League and the rest in the American Hockey League after the Moose became members of the league when the IHL folded. He holds different team records like games played and most goals. For the 2006–07 season Roy signed with the Iserlohn Roosters of the Deutsche Eishockey Liga. In Iserlohn he developed to a key player, known for his leading quality on and off the ice. He also helped the club to sign some former Moose players like Ryan Ready and Pat Kavanagh. Roy extended his contract after his first season in Germany for two years. On Christmas Day 2008 the Roosters announced again that Roy has signed for two more years. As a Rooster he usually plays on a line with Ryan Ready. In the 2007–08 season their center was Pat Kavanagh, the next season Bob Wren was their linemate.

</doc>
<doc id="281647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281647" title="Jean-François Labbé">
Jean-François Labbé

Jean-François "J.F." Labbé, nicknamed Ti-Mine, (born June 15, 1972) is a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender currently playing for the Vienna Capitals in Austria's Erste Bank Eishockey Liga.
After playing four seasons in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League, Labbé began a very successful American Hockey League career. He played for the Prince Edward Island Senators, Cornwall Aces, Hershey Bears, Hamilton Bulldogs, Hartford Wolf Pack and Syracuse Crunch in his AHL tenure. His best season came in 1996–1997 with the Hershey Bears, when he won both the Hap Holmes Memorial Award for lowest goals against average and the Les Cunningham Award for league MVP. Labbé won the Calder Cup with the Hartford Wolf Pack in 2000.
Labbé appeared in 15 NHL games: one with the New York Rangers at the end of the 1999–2000 season and 14 with the Columbus Blue Jackets during the 2001–02 and 2002–03 seasons.
He played for the Saint-Georges Garaga in the Ligue Nord-Américaine de Hockey in 2003–2004 after a short stint with the Tolyatti Lada in the Russian Hockey Super League.
Labbé has played in the DEL for three seasons, with Augsburger Panther in 2004–05 and with the Sinupret Ice Tigers in 2005–06 and 2006–07.
For the 2007–08 season he has joined the Vienna Capitals in Austria's Erste Bank Hockey League.
Labbé currently holds records with the Syracuse Crunch for:

</doc>
<doc id="281658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281658" title="Tatyana Ali">
Tatyana Ali

Tatyana Ali (b. January 24, 1979) is an American R&B singer and actress. She is best known for playing Ashley Banks in "The Fresh Prince of Bel Air".

</doc>
<doc id="281671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281671" title="Damian Marley">
Damian Marley

Damian "Jr. Gong" Marley (born July 21, 1978 in Kingston, Jamaica) is a Jamaican singer. Marley has won three Grammy Awards. He is the son of Bob Marley. Marley has released four studio albums. Marley has ten siblings: Ky-Mani, Julian, Stephanie, Karen, Rohan, Robbie, Stephen, Ziggy, Cedella and Sharon. Marley has a football team named after him in England called FC Zion.
Damian Marley has released 4 studio albums:

</doc>
<doc id="281676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281676" title="Upstate New York">
Upstate New York

Upstate New York refers to the part of the state of New York that is north or west of New York City and its suburbs. This refers to people who live in the cities of Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse, Ithaca and Utica, as well as the rural parts of New York. These include the Adirondack Mountains and the Mohawk Valley. Culturally, upstate New York is quite different than New York City. The people who live in upstate New York came from different places than the people who live in New York City. Also, upstate New York is more conservative politically.

</doc>
<doc id="281677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281677" title="Precision Approach Path Indicator">
Precision Approach Path Indicator

The Precision Approach Path Indicator (PAPI) is a visual system next to the touch-point on a runway. The purpose of the system is to lead a plane in correct approach. The PAPI creates ray of light which gives pilot information about his actual height. 
Principle:
The rules about the parameters are written in standard ANNEX 14 ICAO. The brochure contains more specific information about intensity of ray, location where we can get device etc.

</doc>
<doc id="281678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281678" title="Social Futebol Clube">
Social Futebol Clube

Social Futebol Clube is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="281679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281679" title="Twiztid">
Twiztid

Twiztid are an American hip-hop/Horrorcore group from Detroit, Michigan. The group consists of two members: Jamie Madrox and Monoxide. 
Twiztid has released five studio albums:
Twiztid's Official website

</doc>
<doc id="281688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281688" title="University of California, San Diego">
University of California, San Diego

The University of California, San Diego (UCSD or UC San Diego) is a public research university. It is in the La Jolla neighborhood of San Diego, California, United States. UCSD is part of the University of California system. It was founded in 1960 near the Scripps Institution of Oceanography. 
There were 22,048 undergraduate and 5,073 graduate students in Fall 2007. The university awarded 6,802 degrees in 2005/06. The university is organized into six undergraduate colleges and six graduate divisions. It offers 125 undergraduate majors, 52 masters degrees, 51 doctoral programs, and four professional degrees.
In 2012, UCSD was ranked the 15th best university in the world by the Academic Ranking of World Universities. The 2010 edition of U.S. News & World Report ranked UC San Diego as the 35th best university in the nation. UCSD is consistently ranked high in other college and university rankings. In 2010, the university ranks 1st nationally in "The Washington Monthly".

</doc>
<doc id="281696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281696" title="University of California">
University of California

The University of California (UC) is a public university system in the state of California. The University of California is a part of the state's three-tier public higher education system, which also includes the California State University system and the California Community Colleges system.
The University of California has a combined student body of more than 220,000 students and over 170,000 faculty and staff. Its first campus, UC Berkeley, was founded in 1868, while its tenth and newest campus, University of California, Merced, opened for classes in fall 2005. 
The University of California's campuses boast large numbers of distinguished faculty in almost every field and is widely regarded as one of the top public university systems in the world. Eight of its undergraduate campuses are ranked among the top 100, six among the top 50, and two among the top 25 U.S. universities by the "U.S. News and World Report". Six of its campuses are members of the Association of American Universities, a group of over 60 top U.S. and Canadian research universities. The current president of the University of California is Janet Napolitano.

</doc>
<doc id="281697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281697" title="Category:University of California">
Category:University of California


</doc>
<doc id="281700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281700" title="Luther Vandross">
Luther Vandross

Luther Vandross (April 20, 1951-July 1, 2005) was an American R&B/soul singer-songwriter. He had over 25 million albums and won eight Grammy Awards during his singing career. Vandross died of a stroke on July 1, 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="281701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281701" title="University of California, Santa Barbara">
University of California, Santa Barbara

The University of California, Santa Barbara (also referred to as UCSB and UC Santa Barbara) is a research university in Santa Barbara, California, United States. The third-oldest of the ten major campuses affiliated with the University of California, Santa Barbara offeres 87 undergraduate and 55 graduate degree programs in a wide range of disciplines. The main campus is located on a 1,022-acre (4.1 km2) site in Santa Barbara, California, 100 miles (160 km) northwest of Los Angeles. The University was founded in 1909 and joined the University of California-system in 1944.
UC Santa Barbara is a "very high activity" research university. UCSB houses twelve national research centers. UCSB faculty includes five Nobel Prize laureates, one Fields Medalist, 29 members of the "United States National Academy of Sciences", 27 members of the "National Academy of Engineering", and 23 members of the "American Academy of Arts and Sciences".

</doc>
<doc id="281711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281711" title="Brown pelican">
Brown pelican

The brown pelican ("Pelecanus occidentalis") is a large bird that lives along the coasts of the Atlantic, Pacific Ocean, and Gulf of Mexico in North and South America.
Brown pelicans are carnivores (meat-eaters) and hunt during the day (they are diurnal). They eat mostly fish and some amphibians and crustaceans.

</doc>
<doc id="281715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281715" title="Lincoln Continental">
Lincoln Continental

The Lincoln Continental was an American luxury car first produced around in 1939. The production ended around 1948, but resumed during 1956. This car was a fully sized vehicle during most of its years. Its production ended around 2002. The replacement vehicle was Lincoln LS V8.

</doc>
<doc id="281716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281716" title="Category:Rufus Wainwright albums">
Category:Rufus Wainwright albums


</doc>
<doc id="281717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281717" title="Julia Stiles">
Julia Stiles

Julia Stiles (b. March 28, 1981, New York City) is an American actress. She played Nicky Parsons in the "Bourne" movie series. She is also a stage and television actress. On March 17, 2001, Stiles hosted "Saturday Night Live". She is a feminist.

</doc>
<doc id="281718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281718" title="Yu Gwan-sun">
Yu Gwan-sun

Ryu GwanSun (December 16, 1902 – September 28, 1920), also known as Yu Gwansun was a Christian Korean freedom fighter who protested against the Japanese occupation of Korea.
Ryu Gwansun was born on December 16, 1902, in a small farming village. Her brother said that she taught herself how to read Hangul. She was a playful, lively child who enjoyed running "like a boy" and was able to memorize Bible verses quickly. Her nephew, who grew up in the same village as her, said that she had very large, bright black eyes. Her brother described her as tall, with a plump, fair face.
When she was 12, she entered the Ewha Girls' School in Seoul, where she learned more about Christianity.
Ryu Gwansun joined in the March 1st Movement with some friends from her school, though her teacher strongly told them not to. She was taken to prison for a short time, and her school was closed. With the help of her family and friends, Ryu planned a peaceful demonstration in her province for 1 March. The day before the demonstration, Ryu lit a bonfire on a mountain as a signal to begin the demonstration. The next day, over 2000 people came together in a marketplace for the demonstration. The Japanese police shot at the people, and about 19 people died, including Ryu's parents. Ryu Gwansun was taken to prison. She died in prison when she was 18. After her death, her face was used as a symbol for the Korean rights activists. 

</doc>
<doc id="281740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281740" title="Dorothy Hamill">
Dorothy Hamill

Dorothy Hamill (born July 26, 1956) is an American athlete. She won a gold medal in the 1976 Winter Olympics in figure skating.
Hamill was born in Chicago but grew up in Greenwich, Connecticut. She was married to Dean Paul Martin from 1982 until they divorced in 1984. She was married to Kenneth Forsythe from 1987 until 1995. Hamill has been married to John MacColl since 2009. She has a daughter by Forsythe.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="281744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281744" title="Peggy Fleming">
Peggy Fleming

Peggy Fleming is an American figure skater and ABC Sports television commentator. She was the champion at 1968 Winter Olympics. She was born July 27, 1948 in San Jose, California.

</doc>
<doc id="281745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281745" title="Display (zoology)">
Display (zoology)

Display is a form of animal behaviour, linked to survival of the species in various ways. 
One function of display is in courtship. In most species the male has a striking feature that is distinguished by colour, shape or size, used to attract a female. In many species the male has another, more cryptic, form out of the mating season.
A related function is armament (horns, teeth) exhibited and used by 'tournament' species. In these species, males fight to gain the 'right' to breed. The display part of the process is a mechanism for younger males to avoid being damaged by prime males. Instinctive behaviour prompts lesser males to leave the field. Peafowl, deer, antelope and elephant seals are good examples.
The other main function is in species which have territorial display behaviour. This may preserve a foraging or hunting territory for its family or group. 

</doc>
<doc id="281746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281746" title="Mary Lou Retton">
Mary Lou Retton

Mary Lou Retton (born January 24, 1968) is an American gymnast. She was born in Fairmont, Virginia. Retton won gold, silver and bronze medals in the 1984 Summer Olympics. She was the first female outside Eastern Europe to win an Olympic all around title.

</doc>
<doc id="281747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281747" title="Air mass">
Air mass

An air mass is a small volume of air defined by its temperature and water vapor content. 

</doc>
<doc id="281750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281750" title="Antelope">
Antelope

Antelope is a term for many even-toed ungulate species. This is not a strict taxonomic term; they are not a clade. Antelope is a 'wastebasket taxon' in the family Bovidae. It includes the old-world species which are not cattle, sheep, buffalo, bison, or goats. 
Antelope are found mostly in Africa below the Sahara, and parts of Asia. No antelope are native to North America: the pronghorn is a member of the family Antilocapridae, another family. True antelope have horns which are unbranched and never shed, while Pronghorns have branching horns, and shed annually. 
There are 91 species of antelope, most of which are native to Africa, in about 30 genera. A group of antelope is called a herd.
Species of forest, woodland, or bush tend to be sedentary, but many of the plains species undertake huge migrations. These migrations enable grass-eating species to follow the rains and therefore their food supply. The gnus and gazelles of East Africa perform some of the most impressive mass migratory circuits of all mammals. 
All bovids have even-toed hooves, horizontal pupils, ruminating guts, and (in at least the males) bony horns.
Many antelope are sexually dimorphic. In most species, both sexes have horns, but those of males tend to be larger. There is a tendency for males to be larger than the females
Horns are not shed and are not made of bone, which distinguishes them from antlers.
Gazelles and springbok are known for their speed and leaping abilities. Even larger antelope, such as elands, and kudus, are capable of jumping 8 feet (2.4 m) or greater, although their running speed is restricted by their greater mass.

</doc>
<doc id="281754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281754" title="Castle of Bredevoort">
Castle of Bredevoort

The Castle of Bredevoort was a former castle in the city of Bredevoort, Guelders in the Netherlands. 
The name of the castle was for the first time written in the year 1188 as "castrum Breidervort". 
In 1646 lightning hit the gunpowder tower of the castle, causing an explosion that destroyed the castle and the town, killing Lord Haersolte of Bredevoort and his family, as well as others. Only one son, Anthonie, who was not home that day, survived.
In April of the year 2009 they found big walls from 2,5 until 4 Metres in the ground in the heart of the town. On the square they did find remnants of the gate building which was a part of the ring wall surrounding the castle. That foundation is made visible on the square today.

</doc>
<doc id="281756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281756" title="Category:Guelders">
Category:Guelders


</doc>
<doc id="281757" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281757" title="Category:Cities, towns and villages in Gelderland">
Category:Cities, towns and villages in Gelderland


</doc>
<doc id="281758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281758" title="Category:Former municipalities of Gelderland">
Category:Former municipalities of Gelderland


</doc>
<doc id="281762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281762" title="Tim Leveque">
Tim Leveque

Tim Leveque (born June 13, 1968) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey player. He is most famous for being the Laval Chiefs enforcer that is called up later in the season in the hockey documentary "Les Chiefs".
Leveque started his career with the Thunder Bay Senators of the Colonial Hockey League during the 1993-94 season. In two games, Leveque accumulated 23 PIMs.
After an eight year layoff, Leveque would resurface with the Laval Chiefs of the Quebec Semi-Pro Hockey League (currently the LNAH). Leveque would engage in several fights with Dominic "The Giant" Forcier of the Sorel Royaux during the season. Forcier who stood 6' 7" and 320 lbs, was taken down by Leveque during each of their three fights. After Leveque's final fight with Forcier on February 10, 2002, he would fight Chad Nicholson in the closing minutes of the same game. This would be Leveque's final game with the Chiefs. After the game, Leveque would tell the team that he had "connections in Norfolk" and that he was leaving the team.
In 2004, Leveque received a tryout with the Sherbrooke Saint-Francois. He would play one game with Sherbrooke, and was briefly involved in a fight with David Lessard. Leveque would be released after the game.
In 2005, Leveque played a preseason game with the Sorel-Tracy Mission and fought Corey Dean. After one game with the Mission, Leveque was released.

</doc>
<doc id="281763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281763" title="Trent McCleary">
Trent McCleary

Trent Kenneth McCleary (born September 8, 1972) is a Canadian former professional hockey player who played for the Boston Bruins, Ottawa Senators and Montreal Canadiens in the National Hockey League (NHL). His career was ended in 2000 after taking a slapshot to the throat, an injury that required life-saving surgery moments after the incident. He played 192 games, scoring 8 goals and 23 points.
A native of Swift Current, Saskatchewan, McCleary played junior hockey in the Western Hockey League (WHL) with his home-town Swift Current Broncos beginning in 1988. He played a total of four seasons with the Broncos, winning the WHL championship and Memorial Cup with the team in 1988–89 though he played only three games with the team. He was a defensive forward in the WHL, but scored 50 points in his final year in helping the Broncos win a second championship. He added a goal in four games at the 1993 Memorial Cup.
The Ottawa Senators signed McCleary as an undrafted free agent upon his graduation, and he spent the majority of the 1993–94 season with the Thunder Bay Senators of the Colonial Hockey League (CoHL). He moved up to the Prince Edward Island Senators of the American Hockey League (AHL) in 1994–95 but missed three months of the season after suffering retinal damage to his right eye when he was hit in the face by a stick. Upon his recovery, McCleary returned wearing a visor that he would retain throughout his career. 
He made his NHL debut in Ottawa in 1995–96, scoring 14 points in 75 games. The Senators traded McCleary, along with a draft pick to the Boston Bruins for Shawn McEachern following the season. He appeared in 59 games with the Bruins but was unable to come to an agreement on a new contract for the 1997–98 season. As a result, he signed to play in the International Hockey League (IHL), splitting the season between the Las Vegas Thunder and Detroit Vipers.
His rights ultimately released by the Bruins, McCleary signed with the Montreal Canadiens as a free agent in 1998, appearing in 46 NHL games in 1998–99. Early the following season, he again suffered a severe injury to his right eye, suffering a severed tear duct when he was hit in the face by an errant skate. He recovered, splitting the early part of the season between the Canadiens and the Quebec Citadelles in the AHL.
During a game between the Canadiens and the Philadelphia Flyers on January 29, 2000, McCleary dropped to the ice in an attempt to block a Chris Therien slapshot. He was critically injured when hit in the throat by the shot which fractured his larynx and resulted in a collapsed lung. Unable to breathe, McCleary rushed to the bench, collapsing upon his arrival. Medical staff worked to partially open his airway in the hallways of Molson Centre, actions which McCleary credits with saving his life. He was then rushed to a waiting ambulance and transported to hospital where surgeons performed an emergency tracheotomy. He remained in full equipment during the procedure; hospital staff did not even have time to remove his skates.
Unable to speak immediately following his surgery, McCleary sent a written note to his teammates explaining he was all right while his surgeon revealed that he came "as close ... as you could come" to dying in the moments after he was struck. He met with the media two weeks following his injury, responding to questions via note pad, stating that he hoped to return to his career upon recovery. He regained the ability to talk after six weeks and several surgeries.
McCleary attempted a comeback at the start of the 2000–01 season. Despite doubts he would be capable of returning, the Canadiens signed him to a one-year, US$300,000 contract. He appeared in exhibition games with the Canadians, but found he was unable to play a full shift without running short of breath. He was examined by his doctor, who noted that because his air passage was left 15% narrower than before his injury, it was too dangerous for him to continue playing. As a result, on September 20, 2000, McCleary announced his retirement, calling it the "toughest day" in his seven year career. The Canadiens kept him in the organization, naming him a WHL scout.
McCleary's parents Kyle and Leah still live in Swift Current. He has an elder brother, Scott, and a younger sister, Shannon. He and his wife Tammy have three children.

</doc>
<doc id="281764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281764" title="Category:People from Saskatchewan">
Category:People from Saskatchewan

This category contains people who are from the Canadian province of Saskatchewan.

</doc>
<doc id="281766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281766" title="Pirate Party of Germany">
Pirate Party of Germany

The Pirate Party Germany (German: "Piratenpartei Deutschland"; short: "PIRATEN", "Pirates") is a political party in Germany based on the model of the Swedish Piratpartiet.
The party opposes the loss of civil rights in telephony and on the Internet, in particular the rules for keeping information about telephone calls and Germany's new Internet censorship law called "Zugangserschwerungsgesetz". It also opposes artificial monopolies and various measures of surveillance of citizens.
The party favours the civil right to information privacy and reforms of copyright, education, computer science and genetic patents.
It wants more open and transparent government, and the electronic inspection and control of government operations by the citizen.
The party was founded on 10 September 2006. The party leader has been Jens Seipenbusch since 4 July 2009, who was also head of the Pirates from 2007 to 2008. Previous leaders were Dirk Hillbrecht and Christof Leng.
In February 2009, the village spokesperson of Hohenstein, a city councillor in Strausberg, Jens Knoblich joined the Pirate Party Germany. In June 2009, Bundestag member Jörg Tauss, who has been charged with the crime of child pornography possession and distribution, left the SPD and joined the Pirate Party after the "Zugangserschwerungsgesetz" was passed. He said that while he supports the fight against child pornography, the means are unacceptable. In late August 2009, Herbert Rusche, one of the founding members of the German Green Party and, in the 1980s, the first openly homosexual member of parliament in Germany, joined the Pirate Party.
On 27 September 2009, the PIRATEN received 2.0% (845,904 votes) in the 2009 German federal election. This result means that the party failed to secure any seat in the Bundestag, however this was also the best result among the parties who did not achieve the required 5% threshold. Among the first-time male voters the party received 13%.
The election results in 2009 means the party still qualifies for some government funding of campaign finance.
It received 229,117 votes in the 2009 European Parliament election, which was 0.9%, but not enough (at least 5%) for a seat. The number of party members has increased since then. As of March 2010, the party had over 12,000 members.
On 30 August 2009, the PIRATEN received 1.9% in the 2009 Saxony state election. On the same day, the party also received one seat in each council in the local elections of Münster and Aachen, although candidates of the party ran for office only in some constituencies of both cities.
Support for The PIRATEN differs between States. The party received 1.8% in the 2009 Schleswig-Holstein state election and 1,5% in the 2010 North Rhine-Westphalia state election (though without securing seats), but only 0.5% in the 2009 Hesse state election and did not participate in the 2009 Brandenburg and Saarland state elections

</doc>
<doc id="281770" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281770" title="Opossum">
Opossum

Opossums are the largest order of marsupials in the Western Hemisphere, the Didelphimorphia. 
They are often called possums, though that term is more properly applied to Australian fauna of the suborder Phalangeriformes. 
The Virginia Opossum was the first animal to be named an "opossum": the word comes from the Algonquian language, and means "white beast". It was one of the few South American marsupials to establish itself permanently in North America after the Great American Interchange, and the only one to survive there today.

</doc>
<doc id="281775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281775" title="Damian Jackson">
Damian Jackson

Damian Jacques Jackson (born August 16, 1973 in Los Angeles, California) is an American baseball player. He is a second baseman for the Orange County Flyers of Golden Baseball League.
Jackson has formerly played for the Cleveland Indians from 1996-97, Cincinnati Reds from 1997-98, San Diego Padres from 1999-01, Detroit Tigers in 2002, Boston Red Soxs in 2003, Chicago Cubs in 2004, Kansas City Royals in 2004, again with the San Diego Padres in 2005 and the Washington Nationals in 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="281778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281778" title="Eland">
Eland

The eland is the largest antelope. There are two species, both African. 
The common eland, "Taurotragus oryx", is from East Africa and South Africa. The giant eland, "Taurotragus derbianus", is found in Sudan, Central African Republic, Cameroon and Senegal and West Africa.
The two species are rather similar in size: males range in size from and may even reach a ton on rare occasions; females range from .
Giant eland are alert and wary, making them difficult to approach and observe. They are gregarious, and migrate in small herds of twenty or so animals. Giant eland live in open forest and savannah where they eat grass, leaves, and branches. Common eland live in large herds. 
Observers have, as usual, found it difficult to measure their speed of running. Some claim they move quickly, running at over , and despite their size are exceptional jumpers, easily clearing heights of . Others claim elands are one of the slowest antelopes, but can even jump a height of or more.
When walking, tendon or joints in the eland's foreleg produce a sharp clicking sound, the cause of which is not known. The sound carries some distance and is a good indication of an approaching herd. Naturalists think it is a form of communication in elands.

</doc>
<doc id="281783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281783" title="Daryl Hannah">
Daryl Hannah

Daryl Hannah is an American movie actress and producer. She starred in many Hollywood movies in the 1980s, notably "Splash". Hannah was born on December 3, 1960 in Chicago, Illinois. She has autism.

</doc>
<doc id="281786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281786" title="Air India Flight 182">
Air India Flight 182

Air India Flight 182 was a passenger plane which, on June 23, 1985, exploded from a bomb that was placed on the plane. the aircraft was going between Montréal-Mirabel International Airport, Montreal, Quebec, and New Delhi, India. It was an Air India Boeing 747-237B, registration VT-EFO. The bombing was called the largest mass murder in modern Canadian history, and the deadliest act of air terrorism before 9/11.
The flight was going between Montreal and New Delhi. The plane exploded when it was flying 31,000 feet over Atlantic Ocean South of Ireland. The bomb was hidden in a Sanyo tuner in a suitcase which was in the forward cargo hold. Around fifty-five minutes later after the loss of the aircraft, a suitcase which was checked in by one of the accused perpetrators in the bombing exploded at Japan’s Narita Airport and killed two baggage handlers and injured four other people nearby. The suitcase was on its way to another airliner at Narita. At least 329 people were killed in the explosion aboard flight 182.
The suspects in the bombing were from the Sikh separatist group called the Babbar Khalsa:

</doc>
<doc id="281789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281789" title="Tachisme">
Tachisme

Tachisme is a French art style popular in the 1940s and 1950s. It had large brush strokes and had many drips and blobs of paint straight from the paint tube.

</doc>
<doc id="281807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281807" title="Wale (rapper)">
Wale (rapper)

Wale Victor Folarin (born Olubowale Victor Akintimehin; September 21, 1984 in Washington D.C.) is an American rapper better known by his stage name, Wale. 
In 2010 Wale was nominated for Best New Artist from both the Soul Train Awards and BET Awards but did not win.
Wale has released 1 studio album:
Wale has had 5 singles:

</doc>
<doc id="281808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281808" title="National Academy of Sciences">
National Academy of Sciences

National Academy of Sciences (NAS) is United States corporation whose members serve as advisers to the nation on science. New members of the organization are elected annually by current members, based on their distinguished and continuing achievements in original research.
The National Academy of Sciences is part of the United States National Academies, which also includes: 
The NAS is running 21-month project which will study how humans might influence weather patterns, assess dangers and investigate possible national security implications of climate geoengineering attempts to mitigate global warming. The project is funded by the CIA, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and NASA.

</doc>
<doc id="281810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281810" title="Category:Scientific organizations">
Category:Scientific organizations


</doc>
<doc id="281812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281812" title="K-os">
K-os

Kevin Brereton (born February 20, 1972 in Toronto, Ontario) is a Canadian rapper and producer better known by his stage name, k-os which is an acronym for Knowledge of Self and is spelt with a lowercase "k". 
k-os has released 4 studio albums:

</doc>
<doc id="281814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281814" title="Belinda Carlisle">
Belinda Carlisle

Belinda Carlisle (born August 17, 1958) is an American Grammy Award nominated singer, author and songwriter. She is the lead singer of The Go Gos. Carlisle was born in Hollywood, Los Angeles, California. She is a Buddhist.

</doc>
<doc id="281815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281815" title="Hydroplaning (tires)">
Hydroplaning (tires)

Hydroplaning or Aquaplaning happens when a layer of water builds between the rubber tires of the vehicle and the road surface and leads to the loss of traction (grip) on the road. Hydroplaning causes the vehicle to stop responding to control inputs such as steering, braking or accelerating. The effects of hydroplaning depends on which wheels have lost traction and the direction that the vehicle is traveling.

</doc>
<doc id="281816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281816" title="Sintel">
Sintel

Sintel is a short 15-minute movie made with computers using open source software. Blender was the main program used to make the movie. It began production in September 2009 and was released on September 28, 2010. The online release was made available for download on September 30, 2010.
"Sintel" is a story about a girl who lives in the made-up city. One day, a dragon lands on the roof of a house she is standing next to. The dragon is hurt, so she helps it. She and the dragon (which she names Scales) become good friends. One day, Scales goes to chase a group of birds flying in the sky. Another, bigger, dragon comes along, and kidnaps Scales. Sintel goes to looks for Scales. She finds the adult dragon in a Dragon Blood tree, There she fights the big dragon and kills it. But, it turns out that the big dragon is actually Scales. The movie ends with Sintel sad, because she accidentally killed her friend.
Ton Roosendaal announced the movie in May 2009. He is the chairman of the Blender Foundation. The Blender Foundation and the Netherlands Film Fund paid for part of the project. The Foundation raised a lot of their funds by selling pre-orders of the DVD. Everyone who preordered before September 1 has his or her name listed in the movie's credits. The movie was released for download on the Official Durian Project website on October 1, 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="281822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281822" title="United States National Academies">
United States National Academies

United States National Academies or National Academies comprising 
serve collectively as the scientific national academy for the United States. The NAS, NAE, and IOM are honorary membership organizations, with a total membership of over 6,000 scientists, engineers, and health professionals. New members for each organization are elected annually by current members, based on their distinguished and continuing achievements in original research. The NRC is called the "working arm" of the Academies, which serves to collect, analyze, and share information through studies and reports.
The National Academies produce independent recommendations and policy reports by enlisting top scientists, engineers, health professionals, and other experts (not limited to those in Academies membership) to address important scientific and technical problems. 
The National Academies do not perform original research; rather they provide independent advice. Federal agencies are the primary financial sponsors of the Academies' work; additional studies are funded by state agencies, foundations, other private sponsors, and the National Academies endowment. The external sponsors have no control over the conduct or results of a study, once the statement of task and budget are finalized.

</doc>
<doc id="281825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281825" title="Jens Seipenbusch">
Jens Seipenbusch

Jens Seipenbusch (born 6 August 1968) is a German politician and physicist. He was leader of the Pirate Party of Germany.
Seipenbusch was a founding member of his party. He studied physics at the University of Münster. He was first elected party leader in May 2007. In May 2008 he became deputy leader for one year, before he became re-elected leader of the party in July 2009, and once more in May 2010. In May 2011, Sebastian Nerz became leader of the party.

</doc>
<doc id="281828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281828" title="Maria Beatrice d'Este">
Maria Beatrice d'Este

Maria Beatrice d’Este (Maria Beatrice Ricciarda; 7 April 1750 – 14 November 1829) was heiress of the two Duchies of Modena and Reggio. She was married to Archduke Ferdinand of Austria, son of Empress Maria Theresa of Austria in an attempt to give the Austrians more influence in the Italian states. Maria Beatrice was the Duchess of Massa and Carrara in her own right as well as an Archduchess of Austria by marriage. from 1790 until 1797 and from 1816 until her death in 1829. She and her husband formed the "House of Austria-Este".
Maria Beatrice was born at the Ducal Palace of Modena. She was the only daughter of Ercole III of Modena and Maria Teresa Cybo-Malaspina, ruling Duchess of Carrara and Massa. Three years after her birth, her mother gave birth to a son who died aged 5 months in May 1753. Her parents were part of an unhappy marriage which made the chance of having another son very unlikely. Her parents separated and Maria Beatrice was soon acknowledged as an heiress to four sovereign duchies.
As heiress to four duchies, Modena and Reggio from her father and Massa and Carrara from her mother, she was a very attractive candidate for marriage. From 1753 it was arranaged that she would marry Archduke Leopold of Austria, younger son of Empress Maria Theresa. The situation changed when Leopold's childlessness made Leopold the heir to the Holy Roman Empire. As a result, she was instead engaged to Leopold's brother, Archduke Ferdinand of Austria. Plans began in 1754 and it was concluded by their actual marriage in Milan on 15 October 1771. Some of the festivities for the marriage were played by Mozart.
When her mother died in 1790 Maria Beatrice succeeded to Massa and the Principality of Carrara which she held in her own right. After the French conquest of her domains in Italy, she spent her life in Austria and left the rule to administrators. Just after the marriage, the couple had settled in Modena then travelled to Milan where Maria Beatrice gave birth to most of her 10 children by Ferdinand. As Modena did not allow female succession, Maria Beatrice's rights to the throne passed to her son when her father died in 1803. By her marriage, the House of Austria-Este was created, a cadet branch of the House of Habsburg-Lorraine, which ruled Modena between 1814 and 1859. At her death in her palace in Vienna in 1829, Massa and Carrara were added to the Duchy of Modena which were subsequently given to her son.

</doc>
<doc id="281830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281830" title="Category:Leinster">
Category:Leinster


</doc>
<doc id="281832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281832" title="Sharon Stone">
Sharon Stone

Sharon Stone (born March 10, 1958) is an American actress and movie producer. She received a Golden Globe Award for her part in the 1995 movie "Casino". Her role in the movie "Basic Instinct" was also notable. 
Stone won the title of Miss Crawford County in Meadville. She was a candidate for Miss Pennsylvania. One of the pageant judges said she should quit school and move to New York City to become a fashion model. In 1977, Stone left Meadville, moving in with an aunt in New Jersey. Within four days of her arrival in New Jersey, she was signed by Ford Modeling Agency in New York.
While living in Europe, she decided to quit modeling and become an actress. Stone was cast for a brief role in Allen's "Stardust Memories" (1980). She had many roles in movies in the 1980's. Being in "Total Recall" (1990) with Arnold Schwarzenegger helped her career. To promote the movie, she posed nude for "Playboy".
The movie that made her a star "Basic Instinct" (1992). She played a person thought to be a serial killer. In the movie's most notorious scene, her character is being questioned by the police. She crosses and uncrosses her legs, exposing her genitalia, which are not covered by underwear. After "Basic Instinct", she was listed by "People magazine" as one of the 50 most beautiful people in the world.
In November 1995, Stone received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, located at 6925 Hollywood Blvd.
In 2003, she appeared in three episodes from the eighth season of "The Practice". For her performances, she received an Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Drama Series.
Stone tried a return to the mainstream with roles in the movies "Cold Creek Manor" (2003) with Dennis Quaid and "Catwoman" (2004) with Halle Berry. Both movies were not well liked by either the public or critics.
Stone married Michael Greenburg in 1984. They separated in 1987 and the divorce was finalized in 1990.
In 1993, Stone met William J. MacDonald (aka Bill MacDonald) on the set of the movie "Sliver". MacDonald left his wife Naomi Baca for Stone and became engaged to her. They separated one year later in 1994.
While working on the movie "The Quick and the Dead" in 1995, Stone met Bob Wagner and they became engaged.
On February 14, 1998, Stone married Phil Bronstein, executive editor of the "San Francisco Examiner". They adopted a son, Roan Joseph Bronstein (born on May 22, 2000) in late May or early June of 2000. They divorced in 2004. After her divorce she adopted another two boys, Laird Vonne Stone (born on May 7, 2005) and Quinn Kelly Stone 
(born in June 2006).
Stone is a convert to Tibetan Buddhism. She is an ordained minister with the Universal Life Church.

</doc>
<doc id="281835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281835" title="Kim Delaney">
Kim Delaney

Kim Delaney (born November 29, 1961) is an American movie and television actress. She played Jenny Gardner in the soap "All My Children". She played a detective in the television series "NYPD Blue". She also acted in the television series "Philly". Delaney was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

</doc>
<doc id="281839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281839" title="Aedes aegypti">
Aedes aegypti

Aedes aegypti, also called yellow fever mosquito, is a mosquito that can spread the dengue fever, chikungunya and yellow fever viruses, and other diseases. 
The mosquito can be recognized by white markings on legs and a marking in the form of a lyre on the thorax. It is a small mosquito, with a body length of about half one centimeter.

</doc>
<doc id="281840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281840" title="Aedes">
Aedes

Aedes is a genus of mosquito originally found in tropical and subtropical zones, but has spread by human activity to all continents excluding Antarctica. Several of the species transmit important human diseases and one species, "Aedes albopictus", is the most invasive mosquito in the world. The name comes from the Greek "aēdēs", meaning "unpleasant" or "odious", so called because of the diseases this type of mosquito transmits, including dengue fever and yellow fever. 

</doc>
<doc id="281841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281841" title="Scirpophaga innotata">
Scirpophaga innotata

The Rice White Stemborer ("Scirpophaga innotata") is a species of moth of the Crambidae family. It is found in Indonesia, Pakistan the Philippines and the tropical north of Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="281844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281844" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Disadvantages of internet">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Disadvantages of internet


</doc>
<doc id="281845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281845" title="Eugene Airport">
Eugene Airport

The Eugene Airport is a medium sized airport in Eugene, Oregon in the United States. It has ten connections to larger airports in the forty-eight states via four airlines. 
Allegiant flies to Las Vegas, Oakland, Phoenix, and Los Angeles. Delta Connection flies to Salt Lake City. Horizon Airlines flies to Portland and Seattle, and United Express flies to Portland, Denver and San Francisco.

</doc>
<doc id="281858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281858" title="Hank Hill">
Hank Hill

Henry "Hank" Rutherford Hill (born March 19, 1961 in The Bronx, New York) is a fictional character in the television series, King of the Hill. He lives in Arlen, Texas with his wife Peggy and his son Bobby. He was named one of the wisest people on television by The Economist. He suffers from Diminished Gluteal Syndrome (DGS) which is a fictional genetic disorder. He works at Strickland Propane and sells propane and propane accessories. His father's name is Cotton who was a World War II veteran who had his shins "blowed off by a Japanman's machine gun" in combat, and had his feet attached to his knees, he has a Japanese half brother named Junichiro, and his cousin is the bassist and vocalist for ZZ Top, Dusty Hill. He is usually seen hanging out with his friends Dale, Bill and Boomhauer.

</doc>
<doc id="281859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281859" title="Caviar">
Caviar

Caviar is a luxury food. Caviar is processed, salted and non-fertilized sturgeon roe eggs. The world's largest producer and exporter of caviar is Iran. The producer of 90 percent of the world's caviar is the Caspian Sea.

</doc>
<doc id="281861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281861" title="Jackson, Wyoming">
Jackson, Wyoming

Jackson is an American city in the state of Wyoming. It is in Teton County. The current mayor of Jackson is Mark Barron. As of 2000, 8,647 people lived there. Many tourists go through Jackson when they visit the nearby Grand Teton National Park, Yellowstone National Park, and the National Elk Refuge.

</doc>
<doc id="281865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281865" title="2009 Pacific typhoon season">
2009 Pacific typhoon season

The 2009 Philippine region typhoon season was the period that tropical cyclones formed in the Western Pacific Ocean. The season ran throughout the year during 2009, with most tropical cyclones forming between May and November.The Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) assigns names to tropical cyclones (including tropical depressions) that enter or form in the Philippine area of responsibility. These names, however, are not in common use outside of the Philippines.
During the season, 39 tropical depressions developed within the Western Pacific, whilst 2 formed outside the region before moving into the Western Pacific.

</doc>
<doc id="281866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281866" title="Body of Proof">
Body of Proof

Body of Proof is an American ABC medical drama television series starring Dana Delany and Jeri Ryan.
The series stars Delany as Dr. Megan Hunt, a medical examiner. The show focusses on Hunt's efforts to balance the demands of her professional life with her personal life. Hunt was previously employed as a top-flight neurosurgeon who had a life-changing automobile accident. 
Her boss is the city's chief medical examiner, played by Ryan.

</doc>
<doc id="281872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281872" title="Blue Valentine (movie)">
Blue Valentine (movie)

Blue Valentine is a 2010 movie. It is a romantic drama starring Michelle Williams and Ryan Gosling. The original rating of this movie was NC-17, but the rating was successfully appealed to an R rating. The movie is about a married couple who are shifting back and forth, along with their eventual divorce.

</doc>
<doc id="281895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281895" title="Patty Loveless">
Patty Loveless

Patty Lee Ramey (or Patty Loveless; born January 4, 1957) is an American country singer and songwriter. She emerged onto the country music scene around 1986. She has also sung Bluegrass and country pop. She was born in Pikeville, Kentucky.
Academy of Country Music
American Music Awards
Country Music Association
Grand Ole Opry
Georgia Music Hall of Fame
Grammy Awards
Kentucky Music Hall of Fame

</doc>
<doc id="281901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281901" title="Islamic state">
Islamic state

An Islamic state is a state that has adopted Islam as its state religion, and Islamic law as the foundation for political institutions. Current examples of such states are Pakistan, Iran, Afghanistan, Mauritania and the self-proclaimed Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.

</doc>
<doc id="281903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281903" title="Niko Tinbergen">
Niko Tinbergen

Nikolaas 'Niko' Tinbergen (15 April 1907 – 21 December 1988) was a Dutch ethologist and ornithologist who shared the 1973 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Karl von Frisch and Konrad Lorenz. Their discoveries were about individual and social behaviour patterns, and how they are triggered.
In the 1960s Niko collaborated on a series of wildlife movies, including "The Riddle of the Rook" (1972) and "Signals for Survival" (1969), which won the Italia prize in that year and the American blue ribbon in 1971.
Niko, who had two eminent brothers, Luuk and Jan, was a prisoner of war during World War II. His experience as a prisoner of the Nazis led to some friction with longtime intellectual collaborator Konrad Lorenz, and it was several years before the two reconciled. 
After the war, Tinbergen moved to England, where he taught at the University of Oxford. He remained in England for the rest of his life. Several of his Oxford graduate students went on to become prominent biologists; these include Richard Dawkins, Marian Dawkins, Desmond Morris, and Iain Douglas Hamilton. He married Elisabeth Rutten and they had five children. 
The body of Tinbergen's research focused on what he termed supernormal stimuli. This was the concept that an artificial object could be a stronger trigger for an instinct than the natural object for which the instinct originally evolved. 
He constructed plaster eggs to see which a bird preferred to sit on, finding that they would select those that were larger, had more defined markings, or more saturated colour—and a dayglo-bright one with black polkadots would be selected over the bird's own pale, dappled eggs.
Tinbergen found that territorial male stickleback fish would attack a wooden fish model more vigorously than a real male if its underside was redder. He constructed cardboard dummy butterflies with more defined markings that male butterflies would try to mate with in preference to real females. The superstimulus, by its exaggerations, clearly showed what features were triggering the response.
He is well known for originating the four questions he believed should be asked of any animal behaviour, which were:
Proximate mechanisms:
Ultimate mechanisms:
Niko gave his Nobel Lecture on autism in children, which he and his wife had been researching for some time.

</doc>
<doc id="281910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281910" title="SF1 Kraken">
SF1 Kraken

SF1 Kraken is a weapon mainly used by police forces during riots to restore order. It is not lethal (hit causes only injury, not death). The weapon is specially made for usage against civilians without risking casualties (loss of life). The average distance of fire is about 30m, maximum is 100m and depends on type of bullet. SF1 Kraken uses the energy of gases from .357 Magnum blank cartidges (without a bullet) which are made by Libra a.s. in the Czech Republic. It is also able to use several types of 59mm calibre bullets.

</doc>
<doc id="281922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281922" title="Oedema">
Oedema

Oedema (also spelled edema) is swelling caused when fluid leaks out of the body's capillaries. (The capillaries are the body's smallest blood vessels.) The fluid builds up and gets trapped in the tissues around the leaking blood vessels. This causes swelling. If there is enough swelling, edema can be seen from outside of the skin.
Edema can happen in any part of the body. However, it is easiest to see in the arms and legs, including the hands, ankles, and feet. Edema in the arms and legs is called "peripheral edema".
"Pulmonary edema "is fluid in the lungs. Pulmonary edema is dangerous because having fluid in the lungs makes breathing difficult. If pulmonary edema gets bad enough, a person can drown in the fluid.
Edema in the abdomen is called "ascites."
Some of the signs and symptoms of edema are:
Edema in the lungs (pulmonary edema) can make it hard to breathe or cause chest pain.
Many things can cause edema. When edema is mild (not very serious), the most common causes are:
However, edema can also be a sign of serious disease. Diseases that can cause edema include:
If edema is not very serious, it often goes away on its own. If a person has mild edema in an arm or leg, they can often make edema go away quicker by keeping the arm or leg raised above the level of the heart.
If edema is more serious, it is treated with medicines called diuretics. These are medicines which help the body get rid of extra fluid by urinating it out.
If edema is caused by a disease, that disease needs to be treated.

</doc>
<doc id="281923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281923" title="Wikipedia:Huggle/Main">
Wikipedia:Huggle/Main


</doc>
<doc id="281929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281929" title="National Academy of Engineering">
National Academy of Engineering

United States National Academy of Engineering (NAE), a private, non-profit institution that was founded in 1964. Election to the NAE is considered the highest achievement in engineering-related fields and often comes as a recognition of a lifetime's worth of accomplishments. The NAE is part of United States National Academies advising the federal government on engineering programs aimed at meeting national needs, encourages education and research.
New members of the organization are elected annually by current members composed of senior professionals in business, academia, and government who are among the world’s most accomplished engineers in one or both of the following categories:
The Academy annually awards three prizes that award $500,000 to the winner. In a sense these constitute the "Nobel Prizes of Engineering."

</doc>
<doc id="281939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281939" title="Dianne Wiest">
Dianne Wiest

Dianne Wiest (b. March 28, 1948) is an American actress. Her movies include "Edward Scissorhands" in 1990. She has won two Emmy Awards and two Academy Awards. She was also in other movies, including "Footloose." Wiest was born in Kansas City, Missouri.

</doc>
<doc id="281944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281944" title="Nissan Altima">
Nissan Altima

The Nissan Altima is a vehicle made by Nissan Motor Company. It has been around since 1993 and has had four generations. The car won the 2002 North American Car of the Year and the 2010 Altima received the NHTSA's Highest Front- Impact Crash Safety Rating (five stars). There is a hybrid version of the Altima available which was first made in 2007. The car comes in a 4-door sedan and a 2-door coupe.

</doc>
<doc id="281949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281949" title="National Research Council">
National Research Council

National Research Council (NRC) of USA is the working arm of United States National Academies, carrying out most of the studies done in their names. The National Research Council was organized in 1916 in response to the increased need for scientific and technical services caused by World War I.
The president of National Academy of Sciences is the chair of its "Governing Board" and "Executive Committee"; the president of the National Academy of Engineering is vice chair.
Its members are drawn from the councils of the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, and the Institute of Medicine. 

</doc>
<doc id="281950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281950" title="Linas Kleiza">
Linas Kleiza

Linas Kleiza (born January 3, 1985 in Kaunas, Lithuania) is a Lithuanian basketball player who currently plays for the Toronto Raptors.
Kleiza played college basketball with the University of Missouri Tigers.
He also played with the Denver Nuggets from 2005 to 2009.
He plays for the Lithuanian national basketball team. 
He signed a four-year, $20 million dollar gross income offer sheet with the Toronto Rapors on July 7, 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="281951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281951" title="Coxiella">
Coxiella

Coxiella refers to a genus of gram-negative bacteria in the family Coxiellaceae. It is named after Harold Herald Rea Cox (1907–1986), an American bacteriologist. "Coxiella burnetii" is the only member of this genus. It is one of the Gammaproteobacteria.

</doc>
<doc id="281952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281952" title="Shewanella">
Shewanella

Shewanella is the sole genus included in the Shewanellaceae family of marine bacteria. "Shewanella" is a marine bacterium capable of modifying (or converting to an altered state) metals so they are much less toxic and can break up in the environment.

</doc>
<doc id="281970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281970" title="Mary Chapin Carpenter">
Mary Chapin Carpenter

Mary Chapin Carpenter is an American and Grammy Awards winning folk and country singer and songwriter. Her first record was released in 1987. She has won five Grammy Awards. She has had many hit songs and albums. Carpenter was born February 21, 1958 in Princeton, New Jersey.

</doc>
<doc id="281972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281972" title="Marcia Gay Harden">
Marcia Gay Harden

Marcia Gay Harden (born 14 August 1959) is an American Academy Award winning television, movie and theater actress. She has acted in many television programs and in many movies. She is from La Jolla, San Diego, California.

</doc>
<doc id="281976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281976" title="Jack Skille">
Jack Skille

Jack Skille (born May 19, 1987 in Madison, Wisconsin) is an American professional ice hockey right winger. He currently plays for the New York Islanders of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Chicago Blackhawks, Florida Panthers, and Columbus Blue Jackets.
Skille was traded to the Florida Panthers, along with Hugh Jessiman and David Pacan for Michael Frolik and the rights to goaltender Alexander Salak on February 9, 2011.
On July 1, 2014, Skille signed one-year, two-way contract with the New York Islanders.

</doc>
<doc id="281981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281981" title="Michael Frolík">
Michael Frolík

Michael Frolík (born February 17, 1988 in Kladno, Czechoslovakia) is a professional Czech ice hockey player that currently plays for the Winnipeg Jets of the National Hockey League as a center. He was drafted by the Florida Panthers with the 10th overall pick in the 2006 NHL Draft. He also played for Rabat Kladno of the Czech Extraliga, the Florida Panthers of the NHL from 2008 to 2011 and the Chicago Blackhawks from 2010 to 2013.
Frolík was traded to the Chicago Blackhawks, along with Alexander Salak for Hugh Jessiman and David Pacan on February 9, 2011. On June 24, 2013, He won the Stanley Cup with the Blackhawks after they defeated the Boston Bruins 4 games to 2 in the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals.
During the 2013 NHL Entry draft, the Blackhawks traded Frolík to the Winnipeg Jets in exchange for the 74th and 134th overall picks in the 2013 NHL Entry draft.

</doc>
<doc id="281983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281983" title="International Commission of Jurists">
International Commission of Jurists

International Commission of Jurists (ICJ) is a non-governmental organization created at Berlin in 1951 by specialists of law, lawyers or judges for the protection of human rights and rule of law.
Right now, the headquarters are situated in Geneva and has relationships with United Nations, Council of Europe and African Union. This Commission has also played an important role in the creation of the International Criminal Court and the Yogyakarta Principles.
From 2008 to 2010, Mary Robinson was the president of this Commission.

</doc>
<doc id="281984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281984" title="Paul Bibeault">
Paul Bibeault

Paul-Emile "Babe" Bibeault (March 16, 1956 - August 2, 1970) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender who played in National Hockey League for the Chicago Black Hawks, Montreal Canadiens, Toronto Maple Leafs and Boston Bruins. Bibeault served briefly in the army, after he was discharged he joined the Toronto Maple Leafs in December, on loan for half of the 1943-44 NHL season. Bibeault was part of the 1944 NHL All-Star Team.
Bibeault is in the NHL record book for being one of five goaltending victims of a player’s five goals in a single playoff game.
Bibeault died on August 2, 1970 at the age of 51 after losing a battle with cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="281985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281985" title="Martina McBride">
Martina McBride

Martina Mariea Schiff (born July 29, 1966), known professionally as Martina McBride, is an American country music singer and songwriter. McBride has been called the "Celine Dion of Country Music" for her big-voiced ballads and soprano range. She debuted around 1992, having five #1 singles between 1995 and 2001 and another during 2003. She has had a string of major hit singles.

</doc>
<doc id="281994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281994" title="Johnny Knoxville">
Johnny Knoxville

Philip John Clapp (born March 11, 1971 in Knoxville, Tennessee) is an American actor, comedian, daredevil and screenwriter better known by his stage name, Johnny Knoxville. He is best known for being the co-creator and star of the MTV television series, Jackass.

</doc>
<doc id="281998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=281998" title="Karl von Frisch">
Karl von Frisch

Karl Ritter von Frisch (20 November 1886 – 12 June 1982) was an Austrian ethologist who received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1973, jointly with Niko Tinbergen and Konrad Lorenz. 
His work was on the communication and senses of the European honey bee. He was the first to translate the meaning of the waggle dance. By doing the dance when they come back to the hive, honey bees indicated where they have found nectar, and other details.
His theory was disputed by other scientists and greeted with skepticism at the time. Only recently was it definitively proved to be an accurate theoretical analysis.
Sense of smell: Frisch discovered that bees can distinguish various blossoming plants by their scent, and that each bee is “flower constant”.
Polarization pattern: Light scattered in a blue sky forms a pattern of partially polarized ultraviolet light. This depends on the position of the sun, and is invisible to human eyes. Each lens unit of a compound eye has a UV receptor, and a UV filter oriented differently in each of these units, so a bee is able to detect this polarization pattern. A small piece of blue sky is enough for a bee to recognize the pattern changes occurring over the course of a day. This provides not only directional but also information on the time of day.
Variations in the daytime position of the sun: Karl von Frisch proved that variations in the position of the sun gave bees with a tool for navigation. They use this capability to get information on the progress of the day deep inside a dark beehive. This makes it possible for the bees to convey up-to-date directional information during their waggle dance, without having to make a comparison with the sun during long dance phases. 
Internal clock: Bees have an internal clock with three different synchronization or timekeeping mechanisms. If a bee knows the direction to a feeding place found during a morning excursion, it can also find the same location, as well as the precise time at which this source provides food, in the afternoon, based on the position of the sun.
A simple dance called “round dance” is used for nearby flowers. It means "there is a feeding place near the beehive at 50 to 100 meters". Blossom scent would also be picked up. 
The waggle dance proper is used to give the directions to a source further away. Other bees follow her as she dances, keeping in touch with their antennae. The dance takes a figure of eight, with variations such as angle and vigour of wiggles. The communication is apparently quite effective.

</doc>
<doc id="282000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282000" title="Tyler Seguin">
Tyler Seguin

Tyler Seguin (born January 31, 1992 in Brampton, Ontario) is a Canadian professional ice hockey center for the Dallas Stars of the National Hockey League (NHL). 
He was selected by the Boston Bruins with the 2nd overall pick in the 2010 NHL Entry Draft. He played 2 seasons in the OHL with the Plymouth Whalers. Seguin has also played in the NHL for the Boston Bruins for 3 seasons. During his time with the Bruins, he won the Stanley Cup on June 15, 2011 when they defeated the Vancouver Canucks in game 7 by a score of 4-0. On July 4, 2013, he was traded by the Bruins along with Rich Peverley, and Ryan Button to the Dallas Stars for Loui Eriksson, along with Reilly Smith, Matt Fraser, and Joe Morrow.
He won a gold medal in the 2009 Ivan Hlinka Memorial Tournament in Slovakia and a gold medal in the 2009 World U-17 Hockey Challenge in British Columbia.

</doc>
<doc id="282001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282001" title="Jeff Skinner">
Jeff Skinner

Jeffrey Skinner (born May 16, 1992 in Markham, Ontario) is a Canadian professional ice hockey centre for the Carolina Hurricanes of the National Hockey League (NHL). He was picked by the Carolina Hurricanes with the seventh overall pick in the 2010 NHL Entry Draft. He played in the OHL with the Kitchener Rangers. He was currently the youngest hockey player in the NHL during the 2010-11 season.

</doc>
<doc id="282004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282004" title="MediaWiki:Tag-one-case only article-description">
MediaWiki:Tag-one-case only article-description

The article only contains lowercase, or only uppercase letters (and perhaps numbers); this is almost always vandalism/graffitti

</doc>
<doc id="282005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282005" title="MediaWiki:Tag-blanking-description">
MediaWiki:Tag-blanking-description

A new user removed "large parts" of an existing article.

</doc>
<doc id="282006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282006" title="MediaWiki:Tag-large unwikified new article-description">
MediaWiki:Tag-large unwikified new article-description

A "large" new article is created, but does not contain any wiki markup.

</doc>
<doc id="282007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282007" title="MediaWiki:Tag-possible spamming-description">
MediaWiki:Tag-possible spamming-description

A new user added a lot of text to an existing article, making it noticeably bigger.

</doc>
<doc id="282008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282008" title="MediaWiki:Tag-Text after interwiki or categories-description">
MediaWiki:Tag-Text after interwiki or categories-description

Text was added "at the end" of an article, that is, after interwikis or categories

</doc>
<doc id="282018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282018" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/07-03-11">
Wikipedia:Simple News/07-03-11


</doc>
<doc id="282019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282019" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/07-03-11/Admins">
Wikipedia:Simple News/07-03-11/Admins


</doc>
<doc id="282021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282021" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/07-03-11/Announcements">
Wikipedia:Simple News/07-03-11/Announcements


</doc>
<doc id="282024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282024" title="Gustav Stresemann">
Gustav Stresemann

Gustav Stresemann (10 May 1878–3 October 1929) was a German liberal politician who was Chancellor and Foreign Minister of Germany during the Weimar Republic. He shared the Nobel Peace Prize in 1926.
Stresemann's politics are hard to define. Today, he is generally considered one of the most important leaders of Germany and a staunch supporter of democracy in the fragile Weimar Republic. He is noted as one of the first to see European economic integration. Arguably, his most notable achievement was reconciliation between Germany and France, for which he and Aristide Briand received the Peace Prize.
Stresemann was born on 10 May 1878 in the Köpenicker Straße area of southeast Berlin, the youngest of seven children. His father worked as a beer bottler and distributor, and also ran a small bar out of the family home, as well as renting rooms for extra money. The family was lower middle class, but relatively well-off for the neighbourhood, and had enough money to give Gustav with a high-quality education.
Stresemann was an excellent student, especially in German literature and poetry. In an essay written when he left school, hewrote that he would have enjoyed becoming a teacher, but he would only have been qualified to teach languages or the natural sciences, which were not his primary areas of interest. He entered the University of Berlin in 1897 to study political economy. During his studies, Stresemann was exposed to the principal political arguments of his day, particularly the German debate about socialism.
During his university years, Stresemann also became active in Burschenschaften movement of student fraternities, and in April 1898 became editor of the "Allgemeine Deutsche Universitäts-Zeitung" (), a newspaper run by Konrad Kuster, a leader in the liberal part of the Burschenschaften. His editorials for the paper were often political, and dismissed most political parties as wrong in one way or another. In these early writings, he combined liberalism with nationalism. In 1898, Stresemann left the University of Berlin, and went to the University of Leipzig so that he could study for a doctorate. He completed his studies in January 1901, submitting a thesis on the bottled beer industry in Berlin, which received a relatively high grade.
In 1902 he founded the Saxon Manufacturers' Association. In 1903 he married Käte Kleefeld (1885-1970), daughter of a wealthy Jewish Berlin businessman. At that time he was also a member of Friedrich Naumann's National-Social Association. In 1906 he was elected to the Dresden town council. Though he had initially worked in trade associations, Stresemann soon became a leader of the National Liberal Party in Saxony. In 1907, he was elected to the Reichstag, where he soon became a close associate of party chairman Ernst Bassermann. However, his support of more social-welfare programmess was not popular with some of the party's more conservative members, and he lost his post in the party's executive committee in 1912. Later that year he lost both his Reichstag and town council seats. He returned to business and founded the German-American Economic Association. In 1914 he returned to the Reichstag. He was exempted from war service due to poor health. With Bassermann kept away from the Reichstag by either illness or military service, Stresemann soon became the National Liberals' de facto leader. After Bassermann's death in 1917, Stresemann succeeded him as party leader.
His political ideas grew and changed. At first, in the German Empire, Stresemann was on the left wing of the National Liberals. During World War I, he gradually moved to the right. He supported the monarchy and Germany's expansionist goals. He also spoke in support of unrestricted submarine warfare. However, he still favoured an expansion of the social welfare programme, and also supported allowing more ordinary Prussians to vote.
When the Allies' peace terms became known, Constantin Fehrenbach denounced them and claimed "the will to break the chains of slavery would be implanted" into a generation of Germans. Stresemann said of this speech: "He was inspired in that hour by God to say what was felt by the German people. His words, spoken under Fichte's portrait, the final words of which merged into “"Deutschland, Deutschland über alles"”, made it an unforgettably solemn hour. There was in that sense a kind of uplifting grandeur. The impression left on all was tremendous".
Stresemann briefly joined the German Democratic Party after the war, but was expelled for his association with the right wing. He then gathered most of the right wing of the old National Liberal Party into the German People's Party (, DVP), with himself as chairman. Most of its support came from middle class and upper class Protestants. The DVP platform promoted Christian family values, non-religious education, lower tariffs, opposition to welfare spending and agrarian subsides and hostility to "Marxism" (that is, the Communists, and also the Social Democrats).
The DVP was at first seen, along with the German National People's Party, as part of the "national opposition" to the Weimar Republic, particularly for its grudging acceptance of democracy and its attitude towards the Freikorps and the Kapp Putsch in 1920. Although they did not support the Freikorps, the party did not publicly condemn them either. By late 1920, Stresemann gradually moved to cooperation with the parties of the left and centre – possibly in reaction to political murders like that of Walther Rathenau. However, he remained a monarchist at heart.
On 13 August 1923, in the midst of the Ruhr Crisis, he was appointed Chancellor and Foreign Minister of a grand coalition government. As Chancellor, Stresemann went a long way towards resolving the crisis. In the so-called year of crises (1923) he showed strength by calling-off the popular peaceful resistance at the Ruhr. Since Germany was no longer able to pay the striking workers, more and more money was printed, which finally led to hyperinflation. Hans Luther, who was the current finance minister, ended this disastrous process by introducing a new currency, the Rentenmark, which reassured the people that the democratic system was willing and able to solve urgent problems.
Stresemann's decision to end passive resistance was motivated by his view that making a good faith effort to fulfill the terms of Versailles was the only way to win relief from the treaty's harsher provisions. He, like virtually every German, felt Versailles was an onerous "Diktat" that sullied the nation's honour. However, he felt that trying to fulfill the treaty's terms was the only way Germany could demonstrate that the reparations bill was truly beyond its capacity. He also wished to recover the Rhineland - he wrote to the Crown Prince on 23 July 1923: "The most important objective of German politics is the liberation of German territory from foreign occupation. First, we must remove the strangler from our throat".
However, some of his moves - like his refusal to deal firmly with culprits of the Beer Hall Putsch - alienated the Social Democrats. They left the coalition and caused its collapse on 23 November 1923. Stresemann remained as Foreign Minister in the government of his successor, Centrist Wilhelm Marx. He remained foreign minister for the rest of his life in eight successive governments ranging from the centre-right to the centre-left.
As Foreign Minister, Stresemann had numerous achievements. His first notable achievement was the Dawes Plan of 1924, which reduced Germany's overall reparations commitment and reorganized the Reichsbank.
After Sir Austen Chamberlain became British Foreign Secretary, he wanted a British guarantee to France and Belgium as the Anglo-American guarantee had fallen due to the United States' refusal to ratify the Treaty of Versailles. Stresemann later wrote: "Chamberlain had never been our friend. His first act was to attempt to restore the old Entente through a three-power alliance of England, France and Belgium, directed against Germany. German diplomacy faced a catastrophic situation". Stresemann conceived the idea that Germany would guarantee her western borders and pledged never to invade Belgium and France again, along with a guarantee from Britain that they would come to Germany's aid if attacked by France. Germany was in no position at the time to attack, as Stresemann wrote to the Crown Prince: "The renunciation of a military conflict with France has only a theoretical significance, in so far as there is no possibility of a war with France". Stresemann negotiated the Locarno Treaties with Britain, France, Italy, and Belgium. On the third day of negotiations Stresemann explained Germany's demands to the French Foreign Secretary, Aristide Briand. As Stresemann recorded, Briand "almost fell off his sofa, when he heard my explanations". Stresemann said that Germany alone should not make sacrifices for peace; European countries should cede colonies to Germany; the disarmament control commission should leave Germany; the Anglo-French occupation of the Rhineland should be ended; and Britain and France should disarm as Germany had done. The Treaties were signed in October 1925 at Locarno. Germany officially recognized the post-World War I western border for the first time, and was guaranteed peace with France, and promised admission to the League of Nations and evacuation of the last Allied occupation troops from the Rhineland. Germany's eastern borders were guaranteed to Poland only by France, not by a general agreement.
Stresemann was not willing to conclude a similar treaty with Poland: "There will be no Locarno of the east" he said. Moreover he never excluded the use of force to regain the eastern territories of Germany which had come under Polish control as a consequence of the Treaty of Versailles. The reason were atrocities against the German minority in the former German territories committed by or tolerated by the Polish government, see: and Hermann Rauschning. In the session of the League of Nations on 15 December 1928 in Lugano Stresemann formulated a furious charge against Poland because of these crimes which were well known to the League of Nations. The chairman Aristide Briand, French foreign minister, concluded the session after this speech with the words: "The League of Nations must never break the sacred support of the minority-rights."
After this reconciliation with the Versailles powers, Stresemann moved to allay the growing suspicion of the Soviet Union. He said to Nikolay Krestinsky in June 1925, as recorded in his diary: "I had said I would not come to conclude a treaty with Russia so long as our political situation in the other direction was not cleared up, as I wanted to answer the question whether we had a treaty with Russia in the negative". The Treaty of Berlin signed in April 1926 reaffirmed and strengthened the Rapallo Treaty of 1922. In September 1926, Germany was admitted to the League of Nations as permanent member of the Security Council. This was a sign that Germany was quickly becoming a "normal" state and assured the Soviet Union of Germany's sincerity in the Treaty of Berlin. Stresemann wrote to the Crown Prince: "All the questions which to-day preoccupy the German people can be transformed into as many vexations for the Entente by a skilful orator before the League of Nations". As Germany now had a veto on League resolutions, she could gain concessions from other countries on modifications on the Polish border or Anschluss with Austria, as other countries needed her vote. Germany could now act as "the spokesman of the whole German cultural community" and thereby provoke the German minorities in Czechoslovakia and Poland.
Stresemann was co-winner of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1926 for these achievements.
Germany signed the Kellogg-Briand Pact in August 1928. It renounced the use of violence to resolve international conflicts. Although Stresemann did not propose the pact, Germany's adherence convinced many people that Weimar Germany was a Germany that could be reasoned with. This new insight was instrumental in the Young Plan of February 1929 which led to more reductions in German reparations payment.
Gustav Stresemann's success owed much to his friendly personal character and his willingness to change. He was close personal friends with many influential foreigners. The most noted was Briand, with whom he shared the Peace Prize.
Stresemann was not, however, in any sense pro-French. His main preoccupation was how to free Germany from the burden of reparations payments to Britain and France, imposed by the Treaty of Versailles. His strategy for this was to forge an economic alliance with the United States. The U.S. was Germany's main source of food and raw materials, and one of Germany's largest export markets for manufactured goods. Germany's economic recovery was thus in the interests of the U.S., and gave the U.S. an incentive to help Germany escape from the reparations burden. The Dawes and Young plans were the result of this strategy. Stresemann had a close relationship with Herbert Hoover, who was Secretary of Commerce in 1921-28 and President from 1929. This strategy worked remarkably well until it was derailed by the Great Depression after Stresemann's death.
During his period in the foreign ministry, Stresemann came more and more to accept the Republic, which he had at first rejected. By the mid-1920s, having contributed much to a (temporary) consolidation of the feeble democratic order, Stresemann was regarded as a "Vernunftrepublikaner" (republican by reason) - someone who accepted the Republic as the least of all evils, but was in their heart still loyal to the monarchy. The conservative opposition criticized him for his supporting the republic and fulfilling too willingly the demands of the Western powers. Along with Matthias Erzberger and others, he was attacked as an "Erfüllungspolitiker" ("fulfillment politician").
In 1925, when he first proposed an agreement with France, he made it clear that in doing so he intended to "gain a free hand to secure a peaceful change of the borders in the East and [...] concentrate on a later incorporation of German territories in the East". In the same year, while Poland was in a state of political and economic crisis, Stresemann began a trade war against the country. Stresemann hoped for an escalation of the Polish crisis, which would enable Germany to regain territories ceded to Poland after World War I, and he wanted Germany to gain a larger market for its products there. So Stresemann refused to engage in any international cooperation that would have "prematurely" restabilized the Polish economy. In response to a British proposal, Stresemann wrote to the German ambassador in London: "[A] final and lasting recapitalization of Poland must be delayed until the country is ripe for a settlement of the border according to our wishes and until our own position is sufficiently strong". According to Stresemann's letter, there should be no settlement "until [Poland's] economic and financial distress has reached an extreme stage and reduced the entire Polish body politic to a state of powerlessness".
Gustav Stresemann died of a stroke in October 1929 at the age of 51. His massive gravesite is situated in Berlin's Luisenstadt Cemetery at Südstern in Kreuzberg, and includes work by the German sculptor Hugo Lederer. Stresemann's sudden and premature death, as well as the death of his "pragmatic moderate" French counterpart Aristide Briand in 1932, and the assassination of Briand's successor Louis Barthou in 1934, left a vacuum in European statesmanship that further tilted the slippery slope towards World War II.
Gustav and Käthe had two sons, Wolfgang and Joachim Stresemann.
Changes

</doc>
<doc id="282028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282028" title="Amon Amarth (band)">
Amon Amarth (band)

Amon Amarth is a melodic death metal band from Tumba, an outer quarter of Stockholm, Sweden. They signed a recording contract with the US-american label "Metal Blade Records". The band was founded in 1996.
Their lyrics are mostly about viking battles and viking gods, but they do not want to be called a "Viking Metal band".
Their most recent album, "Jomsviking", was released on March 25, 2016 and was #1 on the music charts in Germany and Austria.
Amon Amarth band was formed from the previous band, Scum, which was formed in 1988. After a 1991 demo, the band broke up. Johan Hegg convinced the other members to come together again, and they formed Amon Amarth in 1992. They recorded their first demo, "Thor Arise" (1993), with Johan Hegg on vocals, Anders Hansson on guitar and Ted Lundström on bass. It was never released because it was low quality. However, the band caught the attention of a lot of extreme metal fans. In 1994 another demo, "The Arrival of the Fimbul Winter", was recorded and 1,000 copies were released.
They then signed with Metal Blade Records and released their first album, "Once Sent from the Golden Hall". The album made Amon Amarth famous internationally. In June of 1998, Amon Amarth was about to go on tour with Deicide, Six Feet Under, Brutal Truth when guitarist Anders Hansson left and was replaced by Johan Soderberg. After the tour Martin Lopez quit to join Opeth and Fredrik Andersson (ex-A Canorous Quintet) came in. With him in Spring 1999 the band recorded and released its second full-length, "The Avenger".
They released "The Crusher" in 2001, and went on tour to support it with Marduk, Vader. It was planned to be held in the United States, but was cancelled because of the September 11 attacks. It was held a year later later instead, but this time without Marduk. In April 2002 the band toured Europe with Vomitory and in August performed at Wacken Open Air in front of 12,000 fans. "Versus The World", their 4th studio album, was released on 18 November 2002. The bonus edition of the album included their earlier demos. Touring continued until Spring of 2004 when the band started working on the "Fate of Norns" album which was released on 6 September 2004. With Oden on Our Side was released two years later, and Allmusic said about the band, "Amon Amarth continue to be champions of the worldwide death metal tournament."
They went on tour in Australia and New Zealand for the first time in January of 2008. They toured with Dimmu Borgir after finishing another tour with Sonic Syndicate and Himsa.
Amon Amarth extended its record deal with Metal Blade Records in 2008 for three more albums. After extending its record deal, the band released "Twilight of the Thunder God". The album had many guest appearances, including Lars Göran Petrov, Roope Latvala, and Apocalyptica. The album came with an eight-page comic strip based on Norse mythology which was released by magazines in Europe. "Twilight of the Thunder God" was very successful and reached number 6 in Germany, number 10 in Finland, number 11 in Sweden, number 14 in Austria, number 21 in Switzerland. It ended up at the number 7 position in Revolver Magazine’s Top 20 Albums that year.
The band went on another North America tour in October 2008 along with Ensiferum, Belphegor and The Absence. Amon Amarth played its first show in India, headlining the Deccan Rock Festival in Bangalore on 5 December 2009 and played with Slayer during their European tour.
They released their 8th album, "Surtur Rising", on 29 March 2011. Metal Blade Records released their first single, "War of the Gods," on 27 January 2011 via YouTube. To support the album, the band went on a 4-month world tour with Children Of Bodom and Ensiferum, among others.
Amon Amarth performed at Wacken Open Air in 2012, Hellfest 2013, Download Festival 2013, Sweden Rock Festival and Mayhem Festival 2013.
On 25 June 2013 Amon Amarth released its ninth studio album, "Deceiver of the Gods." The album cover showed Ragnarök during the last battle between the Æsir gods and Loki, accompanied by the army of the dead.
On 19 March 2015 Amon Amarth posted on Facebook that their drummer Fredrik Andersson had left the band after 17 years of working together. The band released its 10th album "Jomsviking" on 25 March 2016. Tobias Gustafsson, was used as a new drummer for this album. From 22 March to 25 March, they played shows in London, Paris, Tilburg and Berlin. They will also play with Testament in the UK on a tour from October and November 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="282030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282030" title="Haley Joel Osment">
Haley Joel Osment

Haley Joel Osment (born April 10, 1988) is an American actor and voice artist. He was born in Los Angeles, California. He is the brother of Emily Osment. He had many television and movie roles throughout the 1990s. He is best known for starring in movies including "Forrest Gump" (1994) and "The Sixth Sense" (1999). 

</doc>
<doc id="282036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282036" title="Glasgow International Airport">
Glasgow International Airport

Glasgow International Airport () (used to be called Glasgow Abbotsinch Airport) is an international airport in Scotland. It is west of the Glasgow city centre. The airport is near Paisley and Renfrew in Renfrewshire. In 2011, almost 6.9 million passengers passed through the airport. This was 5.1% more than 2010. This makes Glasgow the second busiest airport in Scotland (Edinburgh Airport is the busiest). It is also the eighth busiest airport in the United Kingdom. Glasgow Airport is the primary airport of Greater Glasgow. 
The airport is owned by Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited. Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited owns four other UK airports. ADI Limited owns Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited. The airlines which use the airport the most are British Airways and Loganair (as Flybe). Loganair uses Glasgow as a hub. Other big airlines using Glasgow as a base include BMI Regional, Flybe, EasyJet, Jet2, Thomas Cook Airlines and Thomson Airways.
Glasgow Airport was first opened in 1966. First, the only flights which took off from there flew to other places in the United Kingdom and Europe. The British Airports Authority (BAA) took control of the airport in 1975. In the 1980s, flights from Glasgow began to go to other places in the world.
On 30 June 2007, Glasgow Airport had a terrorist attack. A Jeep Cherokee filled with propane canisters was driven into the main terminal building. It caused some damage, killed one person (the terrorist) and injured four people.

</doc>
<doc id="282046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282046" title="Mikhail Chigorin">
Mikhail Chigorin

Mikhail Ivanovich Chigorin (Gatchina, Russia, 12 November 1850 – Lublin, Poland, 25 January 1908) was a leading Russian chess player. 
He was a major source of inspiration for the "Soviet school of chess", which dominated the chess world in the middle and latter parts of the 20th century.
Chigorin was for a while one of the world's top four players. He twice challenged Wilhelm Steinitz for the World Chess Championship. Both matches were held in Havana. In 1889 Steinitz won 10½–6½, and in 1892 by 12½–10½. Chigorin drew an 1893 match with Siegbert Tarrasch in Saint Petersburg (11–11); Tarrasch was probably the world #2 at that time. 
Chigorin made a number of contributions to the theory of chess openings. The most important were the Chigorin Variation of the Ruy Lopez (1.e4 e5 2.Nf3 Nc6 3.Bb5 a6 4.Ba4 Nf6 5.O-O Be7 6.Re1 b5 7.Bb3 d6 8.c3 O-O 9.h3 Na5) and the Chigorin Defence to the Queen's Gambit (1.d4 d5 2.c4 Nc6). 
Chigorin gave many lectures, wrote magazine articles and chess columns. He subsidised or otherwise supported a number of periodicals to keep them afloat despite low readership levels. He also founded a chess club in Saint Petersburg and tried for many years to establish a chess association, an attempt that finally succeeded just a few years after his death.
His early death was caused by diabetes, for which there was no remedy at the time.

</doc>
<doc id="282050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282050" title="Fran Drescher">
Fran Drescher

Francine Joy "Fran" Drescher is an American television and movie actress, a comedian, director, singer, screenwriter, health and political activist. Her acting career began around 1977 when she acted in the movie "Saturday Night Fever". She is best known for playing Fran Fine from the sitcom "The Nanny". Drescher was born September 30, 1957 in Queens, New York.

</doc>
<doc id="282056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282056" title="En Vogue">
En Vogue

En Vouge are an American female R&B and pop quartet. Four members-Cindy Herron, Terry Ellis, Dawn Robinson and Maxine Jones-make up this female group. En Vogue released their first record "Born to Sing" during 1990. They won many awards in the 1990s and 2000s, including seven MTV Video Music Awards and four Soul Train Awards.

</doc>
<doc id="282068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282068" title="Smart Technologies">
Smart Technologies

Smart Technologies is a company that was started in Calgary, Alberta, Canada in 1987. It is most famous for its invention of the "Smart Board", which is the most popular interactive whiteboard in the world. 
Smart Technologies has received over 15 awards, including the 2009 EdNET Pioneer Award. 

</doc>
<doc id="282076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282076" title="Icing (ice hockey)">
Icing (ice hockey)

Icing in ice hockey is a rule the happens when a player shoots the puck across at least two red lines, the other team's goal line being the last, and the puck remains untouched but it is not icing if the player shoots the puck from behind the halfway line of the ice into the goal. If the goal went into the net it would be counted as a goal. There is also automatic or no-touch icing which is used mostly in lower-level professional hockey leagues like the ECHL and Central Hockey League, It was enforced in 1990 after Luděk Čajka, a Czech player rushed to get to the puck in an icing situation, he crashed into the boards, suffered severe spinal injuries, and died a few weeks later. Sometimes the goaltender will raise his hand for icing also.
If icing is waved off by a referee it is either because:

</doc>
<doc id="282077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282077" title="Copenhagen interpretation">
Copenhagen interpretation

The Copenhagen interpretation is an interpretation of quantum mechanics in physics. It was developed by Werner Heisenberg, Niels Bohr, and Albert Einstein in Copenhagen in 1927. It is based on an idea called Born's law of the wave function by the Nobel Prize laureate Max Born. It is one of the first usable models of quantum mechanics.

</doc>
<doc id="282080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282080" title="Cam Fowler">
Cam Fowler

Cam Fowler (born December 5, 1991 in Windsor, Ontario) is an American-Canadian NHL ice hockey defenceman for the Anaheim Ducks. He was picked by the Anaheim Ducks with the twelfth overall pick in the 2010 NHL Entry Draft. He played in the OHL with the Windsor Spitfires. He holds dual citizenship because his mother is a native of Michigan and his father is a native to Newfoundland.

</doc>
<doc id="282081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282081" title="Staphylococcus">
Staphylococcus

Staphylococcus (from the Greek: σταφυλή, "staphylē", "bunch of grapes" and κόκκος, "kókkos", "granule") is a genus of gram-positive bacteria. Under the microscope they appear round, because they are cocci, and form in grape-like clusters.
The "Staphylococcus" genus includes at least forty species. Of these, nine have two subspecies and one has three subspecies. Most are harmless and live normally on the skin and mucous membranes of humans and other organisms. Found worldwide, they are a small component of soil microbial flora.

</doc>
<doc id="282083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282083" title="Streptococcus">
Streptococcus

Streptococcus is a genus of spherical Gram-positive bacteria belonging to the phylum Firmicutes and the lactic acid bacteria group. They are cocci, meaning that they are shaped like spheres or circles. Cellular division occurs along a single axis in these bacteria, and thus they grow in chains or pairs, hence the name from Greek στρεπτος "streptos", meaning easily bent or twisted, like a chain (twisted chain). Contrast this with staphylococci, which divide along multiple axes and generate grape-like clusters of cells. Streptococci are oxidase and catalase-negative, and many are facultative anaerobes.

</doc>
<doc id="282094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282094" title="Kimberley Locke">
Kimberley Locke

Kimberley Dawn Locke (born January 3, 1978) is an American singer-songwriter and model. Locke first came to national attention when she was a contestant on "American Idol".
Locke was born in Hartsville, Tennessee.

</doc>
<doc id="282099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282099" title="BlackBerry">
BlackBerry

BlackBerry is a line of mobile phones made by the Canadian company BlackBerry (originally known as Research In Motion, or RIM, NASDAQ:BBRY). It does many different things like a computer but is small enough to fit in someone's hand. It is a mobile phone; it makes calls without wires. It can access the Internet as well. It also has a calendar and camera, and can send text messages. The BlackBerry started out as a pager and later turned into a mobile phone. The BlackBerry has a PIN which is an eight character hexadecimal identification number which is given to every BlackBerry phone. The President of The United States Barack Obama uses and supports the BlackBerry.

</doc>
<doc id="282101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282101" title="Penélope Cruz">
Penélope Cruz

Penélope Cruz (born 28 April 1974 in Madrid, Spain) is a Spanish television and movie actress. She has starred in many movies of many different genres, including "Vicky Cristina Barcelona". Cruz got her start when she was picked from 300 other girls in a talent agency audition at age 15. This led to acting jobs in television and in commercials. Her movie debut was in 1992. She has been married to Javier Bardem since 2010. They have two children.

</doc>
<doc id="282127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282127" title="Mount Rowan (Victoria)">
Mount Rowan (Victoria)

Mount Rowan is a small extinct volcano on the edge of the city of Ballarat, Victoria, Australia. It was also known as Waldies Hill. It is 518 metres above sea level. The lava flows from the volcano are thought to be from 2.1 million to 2.9 million years ago. It is one of the 123 volcanoes in the Ballarat and Daylesford area. These are part of the Western Victorian Volcanic Plains. In 2009, a geologist, Professor Bernie Joyce warned that the volcanoes around Ballarat could become active again.

</doc>
<doc id="282130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282130" title="Hakenkreuz">
Hakenkreuz

The Hakenkreuz is a symbol used by the Nazi Party in Germany, and later by the Third Reich. Adolf Hitler chose it as the symbol of the German Workers Party after he joined. Before Hitler, members had already worn swastika armbands. Hitler was responsible for its red, white and black coloring.
Most English-speakers call it the swastika, even though there's no relation with the Hindu Swastika. The German name comes from the way the arms of the cross () were crooked, or at an angle (). 
The Hakenkreuz was usually shown at an angle and forward facing. The design creates a dynamic image inside a static box. It was sometimes shown squared, especially earlier.
The Nazi party anthem the Horst-Wessel-Lied () sings about millions of people looking to the Hakenkreuz for hope, in English this is translated as "looking to the swastika"

</doc>
<doc id="282132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282132" title="Laura Branigan">
Laura Branigan

Laura Branigan (July 3, 1957 – August 26, 2004) was an American singer, songwriter and actress. She was best known for her 1982 platinum hit "Gloria". She also starred on several television shows. Branigan's songs were featured in soundtracks for the movies "Flashdance" and "Ghostbusters".
Branigan was born on July 3, 1957 in Brewster, New York, United States. Her father was an account executive and mutual funds broker. In 1975, she graduated from high school and attended the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York City. 
Branigan toured Europe as a backup singer with Leonard Cohen. She started her solo career in 1982. Her first album, "Branigan", was released in 1982. A song "Gloria" from that album stayed on top of the pop charts for 36 weeks. It reached number six on the British pop charts. It was a remake of an Italian song from the 1970s. The song got her a nomination for a Grammy for best female pop singer. She was nominated for three more during her career. She released seven more albums. She co-wrote the song "How Am I Supposed To Live Without You?" with a then unknown Michael Bolton. In 1981 Branigan appeared on German television in "An American Girl in Berlin". She was a guest on the American TV show, "CHiPS". She starred in the movie "Mugsy's Girls" in 1984. She also appeared in the 1988 movie "Backstage". In 2002 she starred in the Off-Broadway production of "Love, Janis", playing Janis Joplin. She received rave (very good) reviews for her performance.
In 1981, Branigan met Larry Kruteck, an attorney, at a party in Manhattan. They married that same year, when she was 24 years old and he was 44. In 1994 her husband was diagnosed with colon cancer. She quit singing to take care of him full time. Kruteck died in 1996. In 2001, as she was just returning to singing again, she fell from a ladder at her home and broke both her legs. Branigan was in physical therapy for six months.
On August 26, 2004, Branigan died of a brain aneurysm. She died in her sleep at her home in East Quogue, New York. She was 47 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="282137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282137" title="Bangladesh-South Korea relations">
Bangladesh-South Korea relations

Bangladesh–South Korea relations are foreign relations between Bangladesh and South Korea. Bangladesh is the nation which established both relations among two Koreas. North Korea made its official diplomacy with Bangladesh in 1973.
In 1974, South Korea opened its embassy in the capital Dhaka while her counterpart in 1987.

</doc>
<doc id="282141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282141" title="Category:Gateshead">
Category:Gateshead


</doc>
<doc id="282143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282143" title="Category:Subtemplates of template Infobox settlement">
Category:Subtemplates of template Infobox settlement


</doc>
<doc id="282151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282151" title="Aalten">
Aalten

Aalten is a village and municipality in the eastern Netherlands. The former municipalities of Bredevoort (1818) and Dinxperlo (2005) have been merged with Aalten. Aalten village has 12,900 inhabitants, the municipality has 27.593 inhabitants. 
Aalten, Barlo, Bredevoort, Dale, Dinxperlo, Haart, Heurne, IJzerlo, 't Klooster and Lintelo.

</doc>
<doc id="282155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282155" title="Calico sheep">
Calico sheep

Calico sheep is a kind of sheep with more than one color in its coat. It is a mutation, but not a recognized breed.
Calico sheep are not related to the black and white sheep that are native to ancient Sudan and to South Africa. 
The modern mutation was developed by breeding the Shetland sheep with Barbadian Black Belly Sheep. 

</doc>
<doc id="282177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282177" title="Peat">
Peat

Peat, or turf, is an accumulation of partially decayed vegetation. Peat forms in wetland bogs, moors, mires, and swamps. 
Peat forms when plant material, usually in marshy areas, is inhibited from decaying fully by acidic and anaerobic conditions. It is composed mainly of marshland vegetation: trees, grasses, fungi, as well as other types of organic remains, such as insects, and animal remains. Under certain conditions, the decomposition of the latter (in the absence of oxygen) is inhibited.
Peat formed in very wet conditions accumulates faster, and is less decomposed, than that in drier places. This allows climatologists to use peat as an indicator of climatic change. The composition of peat can also be used to reconstruct ancient ecologies by examining the types and quantities of its organic constituents.
Under the proper conditions, peat is the earliest stage in the formation of coal. The coal measures of the Pennsylvanian period were laid down in a gigantic tropical river basin, and later squeezed and heated to form the metamorphic rock we call 'coal'.
Most modern peat bogs formed in high latitudes after the retreat of the glaciers at the end of the last ice age some 9,000 years ago. They usually grow slowly, at the rate of about a millimetre per year.
The peat in the world's peatlands has been forming for 360 million years and contains 550 Gigatonnes of carbon.
Peat is harvested as an important source of fuel in certain parts of the world. By volume, there are about 4 trillion m³ of peat in the world covering a total of around 2% of global land area (about 3 million km²), containing about 8 billion terajoules of energy.
Peat is soft and easily compressed. Under pressure, water in the peat is forced out. Upon drying, peat can be used as a fuel. It has industrial importance as a fuel in some countries, such as Ireland and Finland, where it is harvested on an industrial scale. In many countries, including Ireland and Scotland, where trees are often scarce, peat is traditionally used for cooking and domestic heating. Stacks of drying peat dug from the bogs can still be seen in some rural areas.
Peat's insulating properties make it of use to industry.
Peat fires are used to dry malted barley for use in Scotch whisky distillation. This gives Scotch whisky its distinctive smoky flavour, often called "peatiness".
Although peat has many uses for humans, it also presents problems. When dry, it can be a major fire hazard, as peat fires can burn almost indefinitely (or at least until the fuel is exhausted). Peat fires can even burn underground, reigniting after the winter, provided there is a source of oxygen. Peat deposits also pose major difficulties to builders of structures, roads, and railways, as they are highly compressible under even small loads. When the West Highland Line was built across Rannoch Moor in western Scotland, its builders had to float the tracks on a mattress of tree roots, brushwood and thousands of tons of earth and ashes.

</doc>
<doc id="282193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282193" title="Civilization (series)">
Civilization (series)

Civilization is a series of computer games made by Sid Meier. In it, you make a virtual civilization going from thousands of years ago to the near future. The game is played by doing certain things each turn. You can move units or make them do stuff, build or change cities, and negotiate with other civilizations. These civilizations are controlled by a computer. You win by taking over other civilizations, building a spaceship, or getting the highest score.
At the beginning, you chose which civilization to play. Each one has its own characteristics (something that makes it different from the others). Cities are very important. You need them to build buildings that improve the city, and units. The units can attack other units, build more cities, and improve the land. You can also research technologies. Technologies allow you to do more things. 
There are five main games in the series, called Civilization I-V (1-5). Some of them have expansion packs. There is also Civilization Revolution, which is like Civilization 1-5, but it works on the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Nintendo DS, and iPhone. The first version, Civilization, was released in 1991, and games have been released ever since. 
These are the versions of the game. They are in order from oldest to newest.

</doc>
<doc id="282198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282198" title="Unreliable narrator">
Unreliable narrator

An unreliable narrator in literature, movie, or theatre, is a narrator (storyteller) who cannot tell a story with a neutral point of view. The term was made in 1961 by Wayne C. Booth in "The Rhetoric of Fiction".

</doc>
<doc id="282202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282202" title="Narrator">
Narrator

A narrator is a person who tells a story to an audience. Narrators occur in face-to-face story-telling, and in literary works, movies, and plays. They can be fictional, or they can be real people. When the narrator is also a character within the story, he or she is sometimes known as the viewpoint character. The narrator is one of three parts in any story-telling. The others are the author and the audience; in literature, the latter is the reader. 
The author and the audience both live in the real world. It is the author's function to create the universe, people, and events within the story. It is the audience's function to understand and interpret the story. The narrator only exists within the world of the story and presents it in a way the audience can grasp. In non-fiction the narrator and the author may be the same person, since the real world and the world of the story may be the same.

</doc>
<doc id="282206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282206" title="Ace of Base">
Ace of Base

Ace of Base are a Swedish pop-rock group. The beginning of this group was in 1990. There have been changes in the members of Ace of Base many times. They had four studio albums between 1993 and 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="282207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282207" title="Minnie Driver">
Minnie Driver

Amelia Fiona J. Driver, aka Minnie Driver (born 31 January 1970), is an English movie and television actress and singer. She was born in Finsbury Park, London. Her notable motion pictures include "Good Will Hunting".

</doc>
<doc id="282208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282208" title="Salama Moussa">
Salama Moussa

Salama Moussa (1887-1958) (Ar: سلامه موسى) was a notable Egyptian journalist and reformer in the 1920s. He was born in Zagazig. His family was Coptic Christian. Moussa was interested in many areas of science and culture. He strongly believed that human intelligence could create progress and a better life. In 1908, he travelled to Europe and studied literature, philosophy, social and natural sciences. He continued studying these subjects throughout his life.
Moussa belonged to a group of intellectuals who wanted to simplify Arabic and its grammar. They wanted Egyptian Arabic to officially become the Modern Egyptian language. His conservative opponents became angry with him. Standard Arabic had not changed for generations. Most Egyptian people could not read or write that Standard Arabic. Therefore, Moussa and other thinkers said people should write in the common, local Arabic. People still discuss making language simpler and more modern in Egypt. Salama Moussa's writings continue to be popular.
Salama Moussa was a mentor of Naguib Mahfouz. Mahfouz was an Egyptian Nobel prize-winner in literature. Moussa told Mahfouz: "You have much talent, but your essays are no good." After that, Mahfouz chose his topics more carefully.
Salama Moussa became seriously ill and died on 4 August 1958.

</doc>
<doc id="282212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282212" title="Warcraft II: Beyond the Dark Portal">
Warcraft II: Beyond the Dark Portal

Warcraft II: Beyond the Dark Portal is an expansion pack developed by Cyberlore Studios, released in 1996 by Blizzard Entertainment for their award winning real-time strategy computer game "". As with most computer game expansion packs, "Beyond the Dark Portal" requires a full version of the original game to run.

</doc>
<doc id="282218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282218" title="Burkholderia gladioli">
Burkholderia gladioli

Burkholderia gladioli is a species of bacteria that needs oxygen (aerobic) and is shaped like a rod. It causes disease in humans and plants and can live in symbiosis with plants and fungi. It is found in soil, water, the rhizosphere, and in many animals.

</doc>
<doc id="282219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282219" title="United Football League">
United Football League

The United Football League is an American Football league that was founded (created) in 2007. The first season was played in 2009. The Las Vegas Locomotives have won both seasons so far.

</doc>
<doc id="282220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282220" title="Classics">
Classics

Classics refers to the branch of the Humanities that includes languages, literature, philosophy, history, art, archaeology and other culture of the ancient Mediterranean world (Bronze Age ca. BC 3000 – Late Antiquity ca. AD 300–600); especially Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome during Classical Antiquity (ca. BC 600 – AD 600). Initially, study of the Classics (the period's literature) was the principal study in the humanities. Humanism also means the "Classics". It also involved Civic Humanists is the modern term for the moral, social and political philosophy that in the course of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries began to be articulated in Italian city-states and most notably in Florence.

</doc>
<doc id="282227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282227" title="Chase &amp; Status">
Chase &amp; Status

Chase & Status are an electronic production duo from London consisting of Saul "Chase" Milton and Will "Status" Kennard.
Chase & Status have had three number one tracks on the UK Dance Chart in 2007 with the double A-side "Hurt You"/"Sell Me Your Soul", and in 2008 with "Take Me Away"/"Judgement (Informer)". On 5 October 2008, they reached number 70 on the national singles chart and number one on the UK Dance Chart again with their single "Pieces" with vocals by Plan B. In 2009, they made number 45 with "Against All Odds" which had UK rapper Kano on vocals.
Chase & Status' first album, "More Than Alot", debuted in the UK album charts at number 49 on 19 October 2008 and entered the UK dance album chart at number 2.
Their album "More Than Alot" received the Best Album Award at the 2009 Drum and Bass awards, Birmingham, UK.
Following the success of their last album the band wanted to gain a more global success. After meeting with a long time favourite of theirs, Cloud9, they decided to move in a different direction. Together they agreed that the band should do more pop collaborations in order to achieve a more better fanbase. Soon afterwards they quickly began working on the album. On 8 November 2009, the duo entered the UK Top 40 for the first time with the track "End Credits". The track was released on 2 November 2009 and featuring British musician Plan B managed to reach a peak of number 9 on the UK Singles Chart. The single was written for the movie "Harry Brown", which also starred Ben Drew, aka. Plan B.
The duo then released "Let You Go" on 15 August 2010, revealing it to be the second official single to be released from their second studio album, named "No More Idols" according to posters outside their album launch show at the HMV Forum in Kentish Town on October 21. The single had vocals from Mali and debuted on the UK Singles Chart at number 11; marking the duo's second Top 40 hit in a row. "Hypest Hype" featuring Tempa T was confirmed in October 2010 to be the third single from the album and was released as a free download from their website on 8 November 2010; meaning it did not qualify to chart. The fourth single from the album is the dubstep-flavoured "Blind Faith", which features Nottingham-born soul singer/songwriter Liam Bailey was released on January 24, 2011. The new album also contains a new single 'Heavy' with Dizzee Rascal.

</doc>
<doc id="282231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282231" title="ESC/P">
ESC/P

ESC/P is a printer control language developed by Epson. The language was popular with dot-matrix printers. It uses escape codes, a command starts with the escape character. As an example, ESC E will switch on bold, and ESC F will switch it off. There are different versions of the protocol, which was also used by other printer manufacturers. Today, ESC/P is rarely used any more; modern printers use page description languages like Postscript, PCL or PDF.

</doc>
<doc id="282232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282232" title="Shirred eggs">
Shirred eggs

Shirred eggs (also known as baked eggs, or in ) are eggs cooked in a manner which results in a firm white but soft or runny yolk. The name comes from the dish in which the eggs are cooked.
The eggs are placed in small dishes called ramekins with a knob of butter on top and baked at 180°C (350°F) until the white is set, but the yolk remains soft, which takes around 15 minutes.
Variations involve replacing the butter with various types of cream. Provence and Normandy have their own versions.

</doc>
<doc id="282237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282237" title="Printer Command Language">
Printer Command Language

The Printer Command Language (often shortened to PCL) is a page description language, developed by Hewlett-Packard. As of 2011, most modern printers understand PCL. Its complexity is between pure ASCII text, such as in ESC-P, and for example Postscript. There are different versions of the language. Common versions:
Except where stated, PCL versions are downwards compatible. A printer that supports PCL6 can also be programmed using PCL3, for example. 
PCL is a very efficient way of coding. For this reason, certain manufacturers build high-volume printers that support different versions of PCL. Such printers can do more than 1000 pages per minute. 

</doc>
<doc id="282239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282239" title="Graphics Device Interface">
Graphics Device Interface

The Graphics Device Interface is an API of Microsoft Windows used for representing graphical objects and transmitting them to output devices, such as printers and monitors.
GDI is responsible for tasks such as drawing lines and curves, rendering fonts and handling palettes. It is not directly responsible for drawing windows, menus, etc.; that task is reserved for another subsystem built on top of GDI. Other systems have components that are similar to GDI, for example Macintosh's QuickDraw and GNOME/GTK's GDK/Xlib.
Perhaps the most significant capability of GDI over more direct methods of accessing the hardware is its scaling capabilities, and abstraction of target devices. Using GDI, it is very easy to draw on multiple devices, such as a screen and a printer, and expect proper reproduction in each case. This capability is at the center of all What You See Is What You Get applications for Microsoft Windows.
Simple games that do not require fast graphics rendering use GDI. However, GDI cannot animate properly as it has no notion of synchronizing with the framebuffer, and lacks rasterization for 3D. Modern games usually use DirectX or OpenGL instead, which give programmers the capabilities to use features of modern hardware.

</doc>
<doc id="282241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282241" title="Ramekin">
Ramekin

A ramekin or is a small glazed ceramic or glass serving bowl used for preparating and serving various food dishes. The word is from French (as "ramequin"), and before that Middle Dutch and Middle Low German.
Ramekins usually have a volume of , and are dishes commonly used for serving a variety of dishes such as crème brûlée, French onion soup, Molten chocolate cake, moimoi, cheese or egg dishes, poi, potted shrimps, ice cream, soufflé, baked "cocottes", crumbles, or scallops or used to serve side garnishes and condiments alongside an entree.
Traditionally circular with a fluted exterior, ramekins can also be found in novelty shapes, such as flowers, hearts or stars.
Ramekins are built to withstand high temperatures, as they are often used in ovens, or in the case of crème brûlée, exposed to the flame of a cooking torch.

</doc>
<doc id="282249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282249" title="Maratha, Santalaris and Aloda massacre">
Maratha, Santalaris and Aloda massacre

Maratha, Santalaris and Aloda massacre (Turkish: Muratağa, Sandallar ve Atlılar katliamı) was a massacre of totally 126 Turkish Cypriots in the villages of Maratha (Muratağa), Santalaris (Sandallar) and Aloda (Atlılar) in Cyprus. It happened on 14-16 August 1974. The massacre was committed by EOKA-B.
89 (or 84) people were killed in Maratha and Santalaris. Another 37 people were killed in Aloda. Old people and children were also killed. Only three people could escape from the massacre in Aloda. A bulldozer buried people into mass graves. People from Maratha and Santalaris were buried in the same grave.

</doc>
<doc id="282250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282250" title="Susan Sullivan">
Susan Sullivan

Susan Michaela Sullivan (born November 18, 1942) is an American movie and television actress. She played Lenore in the soap opera "Another World". She also starred in the soap "Falcon Crest" (1981–1989) and the television sitcom "Dharma & Greg". Sullivan was born November 18, 1942.

</doc>
<doc id="282251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282251" title="Guangdong">
Guangdong

Guangdong () is a province on the southern coast of China.The meaning of the name in Chinese is "east of the expanse" or "expanse's east". It has a higher population and GDP than any other province in China. Its capital city is Guangzhou. Guangdong has 49 districts, 30 county-level cities, 42 counties, and three autonomous counties. 
Guangdong has an area of 177,900 km (68,700 sq mi) and is the 15th biggest province in China. In 2008, more than 95,440,000 people were living in Guangdong. They speak several different kinds of dialects. More than half of the people speak Yue Chinese, which is also the main dialect in the neighboring Hong Kong, while Min Chinese and Hakka Chinese each has about 20% of the total speakers.
The shortened name for Guangdong is Yue (粤), since Guangxi also shares the first word "Guang" (广), meaning "expanse".

</doc>
<doc id="282260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282260" title="List of foods named after people">
List of foods named after people


</doc>
<doc id="282265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282265" title="Elly Jackson">
Elly Jackson

Eleanor Kate "Elly" Jackson is an English singer and songwriter. She is the lead singer of the electropop duo La Roux. She was born on 12 March 1988 in London. She is the younger daughter of actress Trudie Goodwin.

</doc>
<doc id="282270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282270" title="Booker T. &amp; the M.G.'s">
Booker T. &amp; the M.G.'s

Booker T. & the M.G.'s are a rhythm and blues (R&B) band that are important in the history of soul music. They started in 1960 when they played instrumental music for singers. They did not sing themselves. They worked at Stax Records, and played music on hundreds of important records by famous singers such as Wilson Pickett, Otis Redding, Bill Withers, Sam & Dave, Carla Thomas and Rufus Thomas and Johnnie Taylor.
They also make their own records. As they do not sing, these are instrumental records - music without singing. In 1962 they made a record called "Green Onions" which was a single, and this was a success. People liked the sound of their music, and by the mid-1960s, bands in America and in Great Britain were trying to copy their sound.
People liked them so much and felt they were so important they were given an award of being named in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1992.
Persons in the band when they started in 1960 were Booker T. Jones (organ and piano), Steve Cropper (electric guitar), Lewie Steinberg (bass guitar), and Al Jackson, Jr. (drums).
Steinberg left the band in 1965, and Donald "Duck" Dunn joined the band. Since Al Jackson, Jr. was murdered in 1975, the band have used several drummers.

</doc>
<doc id="282276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282276" title="Stax Records">
Stax Records

Stax Records is an American record company, originally based in Memphis, Tennessee. The band Booker T. & the M.G.'s were employed by the company to play music on records by many singers, including Wilson Pickett and Otis Redding.

</doc>
<doc id="282278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282278" title="Matt Ellison">
Matt Ellison

Matthew Ellison (born December 8, 1983 in Duncan, British Columbia) is an Canadian professional ice hockey right winger. He currently plays in the Kontinental Hockey League for Torpedo Nizhny Novgorod. He was picked by the Chicago Blackhawks with the one hundred and twenty-eighth overall pick in the 2002 NHL Entry Draft. e played in the NHL for the Chicago Blackhawks before being traded to the Philadelphia Flyers along with a 3rd-round pick in the 2006 NHL Entry Draft for Patrick Sharp and Éric Meloche. He signed a one-year contract on July 4, 2008 to play in Latvia with the Dinamo Riga of the Kontinental Hockey League before signing with HC MVD.

</doc>
<doc id="282279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282279" title="Fernando Pisani">
Fernando Pisani

Fernando Antonio Pisani (born December 27, 1976 in Edmonton, Alberta) is a Canadian professional ice hockey right winger who is currently a free agent. He was picked by the Edmonton Oilers with the 195th overall pick in the 1996 NHL Entry Draft. He formerly played for the Edmonton Oilers from 2002 to 2010, the Chicago Blackhawks in 2011 and also played for the SCL Tigers of the National League A and the Asiago Hockey A.S. of the Serie A during the 2004-05 NHL lockout.

</doc>
<doc id="282281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282281" title="Tracy Beaker Returns">
Tracy Beaker Returns

Tracy Beaker Returns was a British television series for children starring Dani Harmer. It was first broadcast on 8 January 2010, on CBBC and BBC HD. It won the BAFTA award. It was replaced by a new series called 'The Dumping Ground' in 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="282293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282293" title="20th century in literature">
20th century in literature

Literature of the 20th century refers to world literature produced during 1900 through the 1990s. The best-selling works of the 20th century are thought to be "Quotations from Chairman Mao" (1966, 900 million copies), "Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone" (1997, 120 million copies), "And Then There Were None" (1939, 115 million copies) and "The Lord of the Rings" (1954/55, 100 million copies). The Lord of the Rings was also voted "book of the century" in various surveys. "Perry Rhodan" (1961 to present) boasts as being the best-selling book series, with an estimated total of 1 billion copies sold.

</doc>
<doc id="282294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282294" title="Conodont">
Conodont

Conodonts are an extinct class of the phylum Chordata. They are now regarded as vertebrates, though the issue is still a live one.
For many years conodonts were known only from their feeding apparatus, which fossilises well. This is because most of the conodont animal was soft-bodied, so everything but the teeth were not fossilised in normal circumstances.
It was not until early 1980s that the conodont teeth were found with trace fossils of the host organism. It came from the Lower Carboniferous lagerstätte near Edinburgh, Scotland.
The 'teeth', called conodont 'elements', are very common in the fossil record, and have been used in biostratigraphy.
They are also used as palaeothermometers. This is because under higher temperatures the phosphate undergoes colour changes, which are measured with the "conodont alteration index". This has made them useful for petroleum exploration in rocks dating from the Cambrian to the Upper Triassic.
Eleven fossil imprints of conodont animals are known. They depict an eel-like creature with 15 or, more rarely, 19 elements forming a bilaterally symmetrical array in the head. This array was a feeding apparatus different from the jaws of modern animals. 
There are three forms of teeth, "coniform" cones, "ramiform" bars, and "pectiniform" platforms, which may have performed different roles.
The organisms range from a centimeter or so to the giant "Promissum", 40 cm in length. It is now widely agreed that conodonts had large eyes, fins with fin rays, chevron-shaped muscles and a notochord.
The entire class of Conodonts, or at least what was left of them at the time, were wiped out by the Triassic–Jurassic extinction event, which occurred roughly 200 million years ago.

</doc>
<doc id="282297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282297" title="Love Like This">
Love Like This

"Love Like This" is an R&B song by singer Natasha Bedingfield featuring Sean Kingston. The song was released in North America on October 2, 2007 as part of "Pocketful of Sunshine", the second studio album by Natasha Bedingfield which was released in 2008. The song was commercially successful upon its release in the United States and reached into the Top 20 on many musical charts.

</doc>
<doc id="282299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282299" title="Unwritten (song)">
Unwritten (song)

"Unwritten" is a 2004 single by singer Natasha Bedingfield, although the song was not released in the United States until 2006. The song is from her debut record, also titled "Unwritten". This song hit number five on the "Billboard" Hot 100 and became Bedingfield's first top ten hit single in the United States. This single and "Pocketful of Sunshine" are among Bedingfield's most successful singles.

</doc>
<doc id="282300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282300" title="Backlash (2004)">
Backlash (2004)

Backlash (2004) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view event produced by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on April 18, 2004 at the Rexall Place in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. It was the sixth annual Backlash PPV. It was a "Raw"-only event and was the first Backlash event that was held outside of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="282302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282302" title="James River">
James River

James River is a 410 miles long river in the state of Virginia in the United States. It is the 12 longest river in the United States that is only in one state. The river starts at the Allegheny Mountains and goes into the Atlantic Ocean. 

</doc>
<doc id="282309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282309" title="Gucci Mane">
Gucci Mane

Radric Davis (born February 2, 1980 in Birmingham, Alabama), known by his stage name, Gucci Mane, is an American rapper. 
Gucci Mane is currently signed to 1017 Brick Squad Records.
Gucci Mane has a large tattoo of an ice cream cone tattooed onto his face which he got after he was released from the hospital.

</doc>
<doc id="282310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282310" title="Temple Grandin">
Temple Grandin

Temple Grandin (born December 3, 1947) is an American doctor for animal sciences and a professor at Colorado State University. She is also a novelist who writes books. She was diagnosed with autism in 1950. Grandin has autism. She has participated in autism advocacy. Because of her autism, Temple did not think in words, she thought in pictures. She was born in Boston.

</doc>
<doc id="282311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282311" title="Western Victorian Volcanic Plains">
Western Victorian Volcanic Plains

The Western Victorian Volcanic Plains in Victoria, Australia, also known as the Newer Volcanic Province, are the third largest volcanic plains in world. The biggest is the Deccan Plateau in India and the Snake River Plateau in the USA. The Western Victorian Volcanic Plains cover an area of 2.3 million hectares, more than 10% of the state. The basalt plains were formed by volcanoes over the last 6 million years with the most recent eruption being at Mount Napier 7,200 years ago. There are only a few rivers which flow across the plains, these are the Barwon, Hopkins, Leigh, Maribyrnong, Wannon and Werribee Rivers and the Mount Emu Creek. More than 90% of the plains have been cleared for farming.
Over 400 volcano sites have been found on the plains. Near Ballarat the volcanoes are quite close together. The plains have built up over time with many small lava flows. The average depth of the lava is about 60 metres. Many of the features are stand out on the flat plains.
The Australian Aborigines must have seen some of the eruptions as they told stories about rocks and fires coming from some mountains. Stone tools have been found buried in volcanic ash near Warrnambool. Major Thomas Mitchell was the first European to describe the Western Volcanic Plains. He climbed Mount Napier in 1836 and wrote that it looked as if the volcano had been active not that long ago. Early settlers liked the plains as they could easily grow crops in the rich, fertile soil. They used the volcanic stones to build dry stone walls around their farms.
The Western Victorian Volcanic Plains have been quiet for thousands of years. There have been no earthquakes, no hot springs or other signs of activity. It is not known why the volcanos stopped, and some scientists believe that the volcanos on the plains are not extinct, but dormant.

</doc>
<doc id="282313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282313" title="Harry Mulisch">
Harry Mulisch

Harry Kurt Victor Mulisch (July 29, 1927 – October 30, 2010) was writer from the Netherlands. He wrote more than 30 works. His books were translated into more than 20 languages. His most famous book is "The Discovery of Heaven".
Mulisch was born in Haarlem and lived in Amsterdam from 1958 until the end of his life.

</doc>
<doc id="282317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282317" title="BellSouth">
BellSouth

BellSouth Telecommunications is a service provider which serves the southern United States. It formed as a result of the 1984 AT&T Bell System breakup. BellSouth operates in nine states: Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Tennessee, Georgia and Louisiana. The Bell System telephone companies before BellSouth were South Central Bell and Southern Bell in these nine states. BellSouth is currently under the ownership of AT&T.

</doc>
<doc id="282318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282318" title="Mayfly">
Mayfly

Mayflies are insects which belong to the Order Ephemeroptera (from the Greek "ephemeros" = ephemeral, or short-lived; "pteron" = wing). The name refers to the most distinctive features of the adults. They are in an ancient group of insects, the Palaeoptera, ('Ancient wings') with dragonflies and damselflies. 
There are over 3,000 living species of mayfly, in over 400 genera in 42 families.
At mating the female lays her eggs in the water. They settle to the bottom where they stick to rocks, vegetation or the bottom of the stream. They range in size by the particular species of Mayfly. Depending on temperature, the eggs take from a few days to a year to develop: usually it is one to three months. During this embryonic stage the mouth, legs, tail and organs all develop.
Mayfly are insects whose aquatic larvae (called "naiads" or nymphs) live from several months up to a year, in freshwater. The naiads go through 20 or 30 moults as they develop.
Mayflies are unique in that they moult one more time after getting functional wings (this is known as the "alate" stage). This second-to-last winged stage is usually very short, lasting from 30 minutes to one day, depending on the species. The function of the adult imago is reproduction and dispersal; they do not eat. The stage is a favorite food of many fish, and many 'fishing flies' are modeled on them.
It often happens that all the mayflies in a population mature at once (called "the hatch"). For a day or two in the Spring or Autumn (Fall), mayflies will be everywhere, dancing around each other in large groups, or resting on every available surface. The adults have various special features. Their rear wings are small or almost vestigial; the males have two long front legs for holding females, the rest have no function. Mating is usually in mid-air. The mayfly are quite a successful group. About 2,500 species are known worldwide, including about 630 species in North America. The hatch at La Crosse, Wisconsin has been a news event for several years. The hatch is so large it appears on weather radar. The emerging mayflies land on everything and cover some areas like snow.

</doc>
<doc id="282332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282332" title="Category:Chancellors of the Exchequer">
Category:Chancellors of the Exchequer


</doc>
<doc id="282333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282333" title="Alejandro (song)">
Alejandro (song)

"Alejandro" is a single from Lady Gaga's album "The Fame Monster". The single is composed as a midtempo (medium speed) and Europop-influenced song with an uplifting melody. Critics portrayed the song as heavily influenced by pop groups such as Ace of Base. They gave this song mostly positive reviews. This was the seventh song by Lady Gaga to hit the top ten on the "Billboard" Hot 100. The song was released in 2010. It reached the top five in the US and Canada, while reaching the top ten in the UK.

</doc>
<doc id="282336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282336" title="Gary Moore">
Gary Moore

Robert William Gary Moore (4 April 1952 – 6 February 2011) or Gary Moore, was a musician from Belfast, Northern Ireland. He was a blues rock guitarist and singer.
On 6 February 2011, Moore died in his hotel room in Estepona, Spain of a heart attack.

</doc>
<doc id="282342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282342" title="MediaWiki:Undelete short">
MediaWiki:Undelete short

Undelete 

</doc>
<doc id="282343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282343" title="MediaWiki:Edit-no-change">
MediaWiki:Edit-no-change

Your change was ignored, because no change was made to the text.

</doc>
<doc id="282344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282344" title="MediaWiki:Edit-conflict">
MediaWiki:Edit-conflict

Change conflict.

</doc>
<doc id="282345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282345" title="MediaWiki:Editlink">
MediaWiki:Editlink

change

</doc>
<doc id="282351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282351" title="Hollandaise sauce">
Hollandaise sauce

Hollandaise sauce is an emulsion of egg yolk and butter. Lemon juice, salt, and a little white pepper or cayenne pepper are often added as seasoning. Hollandaise light yellow and opaque, smooth and creamy: it tastes rich and buttery, with a mild tang added by the seasonings, but not so strong as to overpower mildly flavoured foods. Hollandaise sauce is well known as a key ingredient of Eggs Benedict, and is often paired with vegetables such as steamed asparagus.
Hollandaise is one of the five mother sauces in French haute cuisine. 
Hollandaise sauce got its name because it was thought to be like a Dutch sauce. As early as 1651, François Pierre La Varenne describes a sauce similar to hollandaise sauce in his groundbreaking cookbook "Le Cuisinier François":
"avec du bon beurre frais, un peu de vinaigre, sel et muscade, et un jaune d’œuf pour lier la sauce"
Alan Davidson notes a "sauce à la hollandoise" from François Marin's "Les Dons de Comus" (1758), but since that sauce included flour, bouillon, and herbs, and omitted egg yolks, it may not be related to the modern hollandaise. 
Mrs. Isabella Beeton's "Household Management" had recipes in the first edition (1861) for "Dutch sauce, for fish" (p. 405) and its variant on the following page, "Green sauce, or Hollandaise verte". Her directions for hollandaise seem somewhat fearless:
Being a mother sauce, hollandaise sauce is the foundation for many others made by adding or changing ingredients. The following is not a complete list of such minor sauces.
Like Mayonnaise, hollandaise sauce is an emulsion. Hollandaise sauce is classified as an emulsified butter sauce ("beurre blanc").
Unlike sauces thickened with solids, such as starches, emulsions such as Hollandaise sauce are essentially unstable, as it is a liquid-in-liquid solution. 
Increasing the viscosity can be done by adding flour or cornstarch and this can also protect against curdling. Curdling occurs when the sauce is cooked too quickly over directly and actually brought to a boil, causing the egg proteins to denature and rearrange or coagulate into curds by bonding to one another. Starches, such as flour and cornstarch, protect against curdling when the starch granules absorb water and being to leak long starch molecules into the liquid. These long starch molecules prevent curdling in two ways. First, they absorb heat and prevent some egg proteins from denaturing. Second, the long dissolved starch molecule get in the way of the egg protein molecules and impede bonding. 

</doc>
<doc id="282354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282354" title="Category:People from York">
Category:People from York


</doc>
<doc id="282356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282356" title="Category:People from North Yorkshire">
Category:People from North Yorkshire


</doc>
<doc id="282362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282362" title="Category:Dishes named after people">
Category:Dishes named after people


</doc>
<doc id="282366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282366" title="Osage Plains">
Osage Plains

The Osage Plains (sometimes known as the Lower Plains, North Central Plains, or the Rolling Plains) are a tallgrass prairie ecosystem. The Osage Plains are in the states of Missouri, Kansas, Oklahoma, and north-central Texas.

</doc>
<doc id="282373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282373" title="Metropolitan area network">
Metropolitan area network

A Metropolitan area network (often shortened to MAN) is a computer network that connects several other Local area networks (LANs). An example of where MANs are used, are the networks on a campus of a university. MANs use different technologies than LANs. Today, most MANs are done using fibre optic cabling. Protocol suites used in MANs include Asynchronous Transfer Mode, Switched Multimegabit Data Service, and Distributed-queue dual-bus. MANs can reach distances of up to 100km.

</doc>
<doc id="282374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282374" title="Jean Anthelme Brillat-Savarin">
Jean Anthelme Brillat-Savarin

Jean Anthelme Brillat-Savarin (1 April 1755, Belley, Ain – 2 February 1826, Paris) was a French lawyer and politician, and gained fame as an epicure and gastronome: "Grimod and Brillat-Savarin. Between them, two writers effectively founded the whole genre of the gastronomic essay."
Brillat-Savarin was born in the town of Belley, Ain, where the River Rhone separated France from Savoy. He studied law, chemistry and medicine in Dijon and practiced law in his hometown.
He was born Jean Anthelme Brillat, but adopted his second surname because an aunt named Savarin left him her entire fortune on the condition that he adopt her name.
In 1789, at the start of the French Revolution, he was sent as a deputy to the Estates-General that soon became the National Constituent Assembly, he became well lknown for some of his speeches, particularly one supporting capital punishment. 
He returned to Belley and was for a year the elected mayor. At a later stage of the Revolution there was a bounty on his head, and he sought political asylum at first in Switzerland. He later moved to Holland, and then to the new-born United States, where he stayed for three years in Boston, New York, Philadelphia and Hartford, living on the proceeds of giving French language and violin lessons. For a time he was first violin in the Park Theater in New York City.
He returned to France under the Directory in 1797 and acquired the magistrate post he would then hold for the rest of his life, as a judge of the Court of Cassation. He published several works on law and political economy. He remained a bachelor, but he counted love as the sixth sense: his inscription of the "Physiognomie". to his beautiful cousin Juliette Récamier reads
"Madam, receive kindly and read indulgently the work of an old man. It is a tribute of a friendship which dates from your childhood, and, perhaps, the homage of a more tender feeling...How can I tell? At my age a man no longer dares interrogate his heart." 
His famous work, "Physiologie du goût" ("The Physiology of Taste"), was published in December 1825, two months before his death. The full title is
"Physiologie du Goût, ou Méditations de Gastronomie Transcendante; ouvrage théorique, historique et à l'ordre du jour, dédié aux Gastronomes parisiens, par un Professeur, membre de plusieurs sociétés littéraires et savantes". " The book has not been out of print since it first appeared, shortly before Brillat-Savarin's death. Its most notable English translation was done by food writer and critic M. F. K. Fisher, who remarked "I hold myself blessed among translators." Her translation was first published in 1949.
The philosophy of Epicurus lies at the back of every page; the simplest meal satisfied Brillat-Savarin, as long as it was executed with artistry:
Brillat-Savarin cheese, the Savarin mould, a ring mould with a rounded contour, and "Gâteau Savarin" are named in his honour.
His reputation was spread to a wide television audience by Chairman Kaga of the TV series "Iron Chef" which introduced to millions the quote "Tell me what you eat, and I will tell you what you are."
Brillat-Savarin is often considered as the father of low-carbohydrate diet. He considered sugar and white flour to be the cause of obesity and he suggested instead protein-rich ingredients. 
Sure enough, carnivorous animals never grow fat (consider wolves, jackals, birds of prey, crows, etc.). Herbivorous animals do not grow fat easily, at least until age has reduced them to a state of inactivity; but they fatten very quickly as soon as they begin to be fed on potatoes, grain, or any kind of flour. ... The second of the chief causes of obesity is the floury and starchy substances which man makes the prime ingredients of his daily nourishment. As we have said already, all animals that live on farinaceous food grow fat willy-nilly; and man is no exception to the universal law. 
Eneas Sweetland Dallas wrote "Kettner's Book of the Table, a Manual of Cookery", 1877, a treatise on gastronomy based on the work of Brillat-Savarin. Dallas published his book under the pseudonym of A. Kettner.

</doc>
<doc id="282381" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282381" title="Jennie Garth">
Jennie Garth

Jennifer Eve "Jennie" Garth (born April 3, 1972 in Urbana, Illinois) is an American actress. Her first starring role was playing Denise in the television series "Growing Pains". She starred as Kelly Taylor in "Beverly Hills 90210" and also starred in the series "What I Like about You".

</doc>
<doc id="282384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282384" title="Brillat-Savarin cheese">
Brillat-Savarin cheese

Brillat-Savarin is a soft, white-crusted cow's milk cheese with at least 75% fat in dry matter (roughly 40% overall), named after the 18th century French gourmet Jean Anthelme Brillat-Savarin. The cheese was created in the 1930s by cheese-maker Henri Androuët.
Brillat-Savarin is produced all year round, mainly in Normandy. It comes in 12–13 cm wheels and approximately 4 cm thick, and is aged for one to two weeks. It is also available as a fresh cheese (non affine) that resembles rich cream cheese.
It is a triple cream Brie that is creamy and faintly sour. It goes well with medjool dates and also champagne. Because of its creaminess combined with its Brie aroma and slight sharpness, it has been described as "Dairylea for grownups" or "what Dairylea tastes like in heaven".
Pairing with red wines is difficult, as any mushroominess or "mouldy" taste will bring out the tannins of the wine. Brillat-Savarin is also quite salty when ripe, which may disturb the taste of red wine. It does pair well with Pale Ale and Champagne. The carbonation wipes the fattiness from the palate and the malts enhance the creaminess of the cheese.
The French cheese making company Rouzaire also produces an older Brillat Savarin under the name Pierre Robert. The extra aging time concentrates the proteins and salt in the cheese, resulting in deeper earthy flavours and more intense salty taste. Wheels of Pierre Robert are physically shorter (due to loss of moisture), yet creamier than the regular-aged Brillat-Savarin.
Description and history of Brillat Savarin cheese

</doc>
<doc id="282386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282386" title="Poularde Albufera">
Poularde Albufera

Poularde Albufera, (Chicken Albufera) is a chicken dish named in honour of the Duke of Albufera. It sometimes credited to French chef Adolphe Dugléré, who invented several other dishes. However, as Dugléré was only ten years old when Albufera fell out of favour with the king, and had his French title of nobility taken away, it is more likely that Poularde Albufera was created by Antonin Carême, who trained Dugléré
It consists of poached chicken with a garnish of vol-au-vents filled with quenelles, cocks' kidneys, mushrooms and truffles in Albufera sauce.

</doc>
<doc id="282387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282387" title="Guppy">
Guppy

The guppy (Poecilia reticulata), also known as the millionfish, is one of the most popular freshwater aquarium fish species. It is a small member of the Poeciliidae family (females 4–6 centimetres (1.6–2.4 in) long, males 2.5–3.5 centimetres (1.0–1.4 in) long). Like all other members of the family, it is live-bearing. Guppies are popular aquarium kept fish because of their inexpensive needs and beautiful color ranges. 
Guppies, like all fish, have gills. The heart of a guppy is very different from that of a mammal, for instance there are two compartments instead of four. They are called the auricle and ventricle. When the fish breaths the ventricle contracts and blood is forced out to the gills which act as lungs. This is where the gas exchange happens. The blood receives oxygen and releases carbon dioxide. The blood that now carries oxygen goes through the dorsal artery, which divides into smaller and smaller vessels and go all over the body to then distribute the oxygen and gets carbon dioxide and waste. Then, the blood is carried to the heart by veins and lymph vessels. Then the cycle repeats over and over.
A guppy's nervous system is highly centralized around its spinal cord and brain. The cerebellum controls the body's movements, and the olfactory bulbs and cerebrum control's it's sense of smell.

</doc>
<doc id="282388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282388" title="Albufera Sauce">
Albufera Sauce

Albufera sauce (fr. Sauce Albuféra) is a minor sauce whose mother sauce isn velouté. Probably created by Antonin Careme rather than his trainee Adolphe Dugléré (who was only ten when Albufera fell out of favour), to accompany Poularde Albufera, which he also created. It was named in honour of the Duke of Albufera. 
Escoffier gives a recipe in "Le Guide culinaire" which consists of a base of Suprême Sauce to which is added meat glaze in order to lend the latter an ivory-white tint which characterizes it. It is served chiefly with poultry and sweetbreads.

</doc>
<doc id="282392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282392" title="Jack in the Box">
Jack in the Box

Jack in the Box is an American fast food restaurant chain. It was founded in 1951 by Robert O. Peterson. Peterson opened his restaurant in Long Beach, California on the Pacific Coast highway. It featured a clown's head on top of the building. Instead of using carhops like other drive-in restaurants, Peterson used a two-way intercom. He also pioneered the drive-through. It allowed a customer to place their order while the car ahead of them was picking up their order. This made service much faster and Jack in the Box became known for fast service. 
Jack in the Box has over 2,200 restaurants in 21 states and Guam. At first the menu was simple. Only 15 items were offered including hamburgers, cheeseburgers, french fries and soft drinks. Today the menu is expanded to include items such as onion rings, chicken tacos and shrimp. They also offer ice cream, shakes and hot apple turnovers. 
Jack I. Box is a fictional character and the mascot for their advertising.

</doc>
<doc id="282393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282393" title="Bihari Muslims">
Bihari Muslims

Bihari Muslims are people originating and tracing descent from the Indian State of Bihar, who practice Islam as their religion. Bihari Muslims mainly practice Sunni Islam of the Hanafi creed, though a small Shia minority exists.
Islam in Bihar is said to have been established in the 10-15th century with the arrivals of Sufi missionaries as well as Sunni rulers. 
About 3 millions of Bihari Muslims migrated to the newly created State of Pakistan and the former East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) because of Muslim League politics. Those who settled in Pakistan were deemed a sub-caste of Muhajirs. Those who lived in Bangladesh were deemed Stranded Pakistanis.
The majority of educated Bihari Muslims formally speak Urdu, while in the vernacular speak in the Bihari language. The Muslims of Bihar have wealth rates comparable to rest of the Republic of India.

</doc>
<doc id="282394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282394" title="Category:Sauces">
Category:Sauces


</doc>
<doc id="282395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282395" title="LeAnn Rimes">
LeAnn Rimes

Margaret LeAnn Rimes Cibrian (born August 28, 1982), known professionally as LeAnn Rimes, is an American country and pop singer. Her debut album "Blue" was released in 1996. She has won many major industry awards. 

</doc>
<doc id="282397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282397" title="Category:Mother sauces">
Category:Mother sauces


</doc>
<doc id="282401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282401" title="Category:Protozoa">
Category:Protozoa


</doc>
<doc id="282412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282412" title="Ashanti (entertainer)">
Ashanti (entertainer)

Ashanti Shequoiya Douglas (born October 13, 1980), better known as Ashanti, is an American singer-songwriter, record producer, model and actress. She became famous in the early 2000s. Ashanti released her debut album "Ashanti" in 2002. It released three singles: "Foolish", "Happy", and "Baby". "Foolish" reached number one on the US "Billboard" Hot 100 chart. "Happy" and "Baby" reached the top twenty. Ashanti's first album sold 503,000 copies the first week. She then became the first "new female artist" to sell that many records in one week. She outsold artists including Alicia Keys and Lauryn Hill. She also became the first female artist to have two singles "Foolish" at number one and "What's Luv?" (with Fat Joe) at number two. Ashanti also became the first artist to have three top ten songs ("Foolish", "What's Luv?" and "Always on Time") on the Hot 100 the same week. She was the first women and second artist, behind The Beatles, to do this.
Her first album also won a Grammy Award for Best Contemporary R&B Album. Later that year, her duet with Ja Rule on "Mesmerize" reached number two on the Hot 100. Her next album, "Chapter II" (2003) debuted at number one on the "Billboard" 200 chart. It sold 326,000 copies the first week. The album was given three Grammy nominations for Best Contemporary R&B Album, Best Female R&B Vocal Performance, and Best R&B Song. "Chapter II" was certified platinum by the RIAA. This means that 1 million copies of the album were shipped in the United States. The two singles "Rock wit U (Awww Baby)" and "Rain on Me" reached the top ten in the US. Her holiday album "Ashanti's Christmas" (2003) reached number 160 on the "Billboard" 200.
Ashanti's third album, "Concrete Rose" (2004), debuted at number seven on the "Billboard" 200 chart. It sold 254,000 copies the first week. The album was certified platinum in a month of its release. The singles "Only U" was a top ten hit in the US, while "Don't Let Them" did not do so well. The single became the worst charting song in Ashanti's career. Her first greatest hits album "Collectables by Ashanti" (2005) reached number 59 on the "Billboard" 200 chart. It was a top ten hit on the Hot R&B Albums chart. The only single to be released from that album was "Still on It". It reached number 15 on the Hot Bubbling Under Hot 100 Singles chart. Ashanti's second greatest hits album, "Can't Stop", was released in 2006. It only charted in Japan at number 259. Ashanti took a short break from recording music.
Her fourth album, "The Declaration", was released in 2008. It reached number six on the "Billboard" 200 chart. It sold 86,000 copies the first week. The singles "The Way That I Love You" reached the top 40 on the Hot 100. The single "Good Good" reached number 30 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. In 2009, "The Vault" was released. The album contained 12 songs recorded by Ashanti that were not released. It reached number 110 on the Japan Albums chart. Ashanti's fifth album "Braveheart" was set to be released on August 28, 2012. The lead single, "The Woman You Love" reached number 59 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart in December 2011. Ashanti has starred in several movies. These include "The Muppets' Wizard of Oz" (2005) and "John Tucker Must Die" (2006). As of 2008, she has sold more than 27 million records worldwide.
Films
Television
Theater

</doc>
<doc id="282421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282421" title="Beerwah">
Beerwah

Beerwah () is a town in the Budgam District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

</doc>
<doc id="282422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282422" title="Budgam">
Budgam

Budgam () is part of the Budgam District of Jammu and Kashmir, India. As of 2001, Budgam had a population of 15,932.

</doc>
<doc id="282424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282424" title="Khansahib Tehsil">
Khansahib Tehsil

Khansahib () is part of the Budgam District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

</doc>
<doc id="282425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282425" title="Banihal">
Banihal

Banihal () is part of the Doda District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

</doc>
<doc id="282426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282426" title="Doda">
Doda

Doda () is part of the Doda District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

</doc>
<doc id="282431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282431" title="Ranbir Singh Pura">
Ranbir Singh Pura

Ranbir Singh Pora () is in the Jammu District region of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

</doc>
<doc id="282433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282433" title="Samba Tehsil">
Samba Tehsil

Samba () is part of the Jammu District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

</doc>
<doc id="282435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282435" title="Hajira">
Hajira

Hajira () is part of the Poonch District of Azad Jammu and Kashmir, Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="282437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282437" title="Rawalakot">
Rawalakot

Rawalakot () is part of the Poonch District of Azad Jammu and Kashmir, Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="282441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282441" title="Haveli Tehsil">
Haveli Tehsil

Haveli () is part of the Poonch District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

</doc>
<doc id="282442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282442" title="Mandi">
Mandi

Mandi () is a major city in the Indian state of Himachal Pradesh. It is the capital of the Mandi District. It was formerly called Mandav Nagar, and is also known as Sahor. It is located north of state capital, Shimla. It is in the north-west Himalayas. The average altitude is about 1,044 metres (3,425 ft),

</doc>
<doc id="282445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282445" title="Reasi">
Reasi

Reasi () is part of the Poonch District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

</doc>
<doc id="282446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282446" title="Surankote Tehsil">
Surankote Tehsil

Surankote () is part of the Poonch District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

</doc>
<doc id="282447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282447" title="Matanuska-Susitna Valley">
Matanuska-Susitna Valley

Matanuska-Susitna Valley (known locally as the Mat-Su or The Valley) is an area in Southcentral Alaska. It is south of the Alaska Range about from Anchorage, Alaska. It includes the valleys of the Matanuska River, the Knik River, and the Susitna River. The Matanuska Valley has become a suburban community for many people who work in Anchorage. It is now one of the most crowded areas in Alaska and includes the towns of Palmer, Wasilla, Big Lake, Houston, Willow and Talkeetna.
There are three mountain ranges in the area. They are the Alaska Range, the Talkeetna Mountains and the Chugach Mountains. There are both working and old gold mines in the mountains. Like many parts of Alaska, the Matanuska-Susitna Valley was carved by glaciers which left many lakes. Both the Matanuska and Susitna Rivers have lots of salmon.
The local government is called the "Matanuska-Susitna Borough." Most of the United States is divided into counties, but Alaska uses "boroughs" instead, and some parts of it are not even in a borough. A few hundred Alaska Natives were joined by small numbers of "Alaska sourdoughs" between 1900 and 1930 when hundreds of "colonists" were moved there by the United States Federal Government in the early 1930s. In the 1970's lots of newcomers to Alaska came to Anchorage. Later on a lot of them moved to the Matanuska Valley to live an "Alaskan country" lifestyle. 
The three rivers in the area have large amounts of glacial silt that is good for farming. The valley is one of the few areas in Alaska which supports big farms.

</doc>
<doc id="282448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282448" title="Kathua">
Kathua

Kathua () is part of the Kathua District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

</doc>
<doc id="282449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282449" title="Billawar">
Billawar

Billawar () is part of the Kathua District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

</doc>
<doc id="282451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282451" title="Bashohli">
Bashohli

Basohli () is part of the Kathua District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

</doc>
<doc id="282452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282452" title="Hiranagar">
Hiranagar

Hiranagar () is part of the Kathua District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

</doc>
<doc id="282453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282453" title="Karnah">
Karnah

Karnah () is part of the Kupwara District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

</doc>
<doc id="282466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282466" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Hindustan-Bengal relations">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Hindustan-Bengal relations


</doc>
<doc id="282473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282473" title="Chugach Mountains">
Chugach Mountains

The Chugach Mountains in southcentral Alaska are the farthest north of the mountain ranges that make up the Pacific Coast Ranges of western North America. The range is about 500 km (300 mi) long. Its highest point is Mount Marcus Baker, at , but most of its summits are not very high. Because of the wet weather on the coast, these mountains get a lot of snow.
There are several parks in and around the mountains, like Chugach State Park the Chugach National Forest, and the Kenai National Wildlife Refuge. They are popular destinations for outdoor activities. The World Extreme Skiing Championship is held yearly in the Chugach near Valdez.
Three highways run through the Chugach Mountains. There is also a tunnel from Portage that lets cars and trains go under the mountains to Whittier.
The name "Chugach" is from the Eskimo tribal name "Chugachmiut" recorded by the Russians and written by them "Chugatz" and "Tchougatskoi"; in 1898 U.S. Army Captain W. R. Abercrombie spelled the name "Chugatch" and applied it to the mountains.
Some of the taller mountains in this range are:

</doc>
<doc id="282474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282474" title="Category:Mountain ranges of Alaska">
Category:Mountain ranges of Alaska

These are mountain ranges in the United States state of Alaska:

</doc>
<doc id="282478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282478" title="Wrangell Mountains">
Wrangell Mountains

<br>
The Wrangell Mountains are a high mountain range of eastern Alaska in the United States. Much of the range is in the Wrangell-Saint Elias National Park and Preserve. The Wrangell Mountains were made by volcanoes. The second and third tallest volcanoes in the United States, Mount Blackburn and Mount Sanford are there. The range takes its name from Mount Wrangell, which is one of the largest shield volcanoes in the world. It is also the only mountain in the range that is an active volcano. 
The Wrangell Mountains are just to the northwest of the Saint Elias Mountains and northeast of the Chugach Mountains. There are so many mountains there that they block the warm moist air over the Pacific Ocean. Because of this places north of the Wrangell Mountains are some of the coldest areas of North America during the winter.
The Wrangell Mountains include 12 of the 40+ Alaskan peaks over 
Another prominent mountain is Mount Drum, , which can be seen from a very long way away.
The Wrangell Mountains are named after an explorer who was also president of the Russian-American Company, Admiral Ferdinand von Wrangel. American folk singer John Denver wrote a song, "Wrangell Mountain Song", in reference to the range.

</doc>
<doc id="282479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282479" title="Q fever">
Q fever

Q fever is a disease caused by "Coxiella burnetii", bacteria that affect humans and other animals. It is not common but can be found in cattle, sheep, goats, and other household animals, including cats and dogs. People can get infected if they inhale endospores or touch the milk, urine, feces, vaginal mucus, or semen of infected animals. The disease is rarely carried by ticks. A human can be infected by a single bacterium.

</doc>
<doc id="282491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282491" title="Alprazolam">
Alprazolam

Alprazolam probably better known by its trade name, Xanax is a short-acting drug. The drug is used to treat people with anxiety disorders and panic attacks. Alprazolam is the most commonly misused benzodiazepine (the drug's class) in the United States; but the majority of prescribed users do not develop a substance use disorder. Alprazolam is a prescription drug in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="282492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282492" title="Toronto Stock Exchange">
Toronto Stock Exchange

The Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) is the largest stock exchange in Canada, the third largest in North America and the eighth largest in the world by market capitalisation.

</doc>
<doc id="282499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282499" title="Category:Companies listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange">
Category:Companies listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange


</doc>
<doc id="282500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282500" title="Unwritten">
Unwritten

Unwritten is an album by Natasha Bedingfield. This record was released in the United Kingdom in September 2004 and in the United States on August 2, 2005. It had five singles. One of these was the title track. This album was released in North America again during 2006, with new album artworks and a slightly different track listing.

</doc>
<doc id="282505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282505" title="N.B.">
N.B.

N.B. is the second studio album from Natasha Bedingfield. It was released in United Kingdom on April 30, 2007 to mixed reviews by critics. The album was released in Canada and the United States during January 2008 as Pocketful of Sunshine. The US version's title single became a top 5 hit. Another track, "Love Like This", became a top twenty hit. The reviews from United States critics for this record were mixed.

</doc>
<doc id="282507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282507" title="Category:Nobel Prize in Literature winners">
Category:Nobel Prize in Literature winners


</doc>
<doc id="282509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282509" title="Category:Nobel Prize in Chemistry winners">
Category:Nobel Prize in Chemistry winners


</doc>
<doc id="282511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282511" title="Category:Nobel Prize in Physics winners">
Category:Nobel Prize in Physics winners


</doc>
<doc id="282515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282515" title="Category:Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners">
Category:Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners


</doc>
<doc id="282516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282516" title="Category:Nobel Prize in Economics winners">
Category:Nobel Prize in Economics winners


</doc>
<doc id="282521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282521" title="Polish American">
Polish American

A Polish American is a citizen of the United States with ancestors from Poland. There have been Polish people living in North America since the earlier 1600s. Many live in the city of Chicago, which has more Polish people than any city in the world other than Warsaw, Poland.
Most Polish immigrants are Catholic or practice Judaism.

</doc>
<doc id="282523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282523" title="Hallucinogen">
Hallucinogen

A hallucinogen is a drug which can cause hallucinations. They can cause people to see and hear things that are not real. A well-known example is LSD.

</doc>
<doc id="282533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282533" title="Bad News Brown">
Bad News Brown

Paul Frappier (May 8, 1977-February 11, 2011) was a Canadian rapper and producer better known by his stage name, Bad News Brown. He was of Haitian descent. Bad News Brown was found in an industrial area in Montreal where he was beaten and then shot.
Bad News Brown released 1 studio albums before his death:

</doc>
<doc id="282534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282534" title="Rick James">
Rick James

James Ambrose Johnson Jr. (1 February 1948 - 6 August 2004) also known as Rick James, was an American singer, songwriter, recording artist and producer. He was very popular during the late 1970s and 1980s, scoring four number one hits on the US R&B charts. He was born in Buffalo, New York.
In 1978 James released his first single "You and I". He produced Eddie Murphy's 1985 single "Party All the Time". In 1990 he sued MC Hammer.
In 1991 James was arrested with his girlfriend for kidnapping a woman. He made her have sex with his girlfriend. In 1994 he was sentenced to five years and four months in prison. He was released in 1996.

</doc>
<doc id="282537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282537" title="The Notorious B.I.G.">
The Notorious B.I.G.

Christopher George Latore Wallace (May 21, 1972 – March 9, 1997), better known by his stage name, The Notorious B.I.G. or Biggie Smalls, was an American rapper. He grew up in Brooklyn. He admitted that he was a crack cocaine dealer.
On March 9, 1997, Wallace was killed when 4 bullets hit his chest in a drive-by shooting in Los Angeles after leaving a after party hosted by Vibe magazine and Qwest Records for the Soul Train Music Awards. His murder is still unsolved.
He has two children.
He rapped on Michael Jackson's 1995 single "This Time Around".
The Notorious B.I.G. releasesd 2 studio albums and two posthumous albums:

</doc>
<doc id="282542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282542" title="Central Hockey League">
Central Hockey League

The Central Hockey League (CHL) is a mid-level professional hockey league in the United States. It is owned by Global Entertainment Corporation. It was started in 1992.
The first CHL season was in 1992-1993. It started with six teams, including the Oklahoma City Blazers, the Tulsa Oilers, the Wichita Thunder, the Memphis RiverKings, the Dallas Freeze and the Fort Worth Fire.
In 1996-97, the Huntsville Channel Cats, along with the planned 1996–97 Southern Hockey League (SHL) expansion teams Columbus Cottonmouths, Macon Whoopee, and Nashville Nighthawks, joined the Central Hockey League after the SHL ended.
The CHL came together with the Western Professional Hockey League (WPHL) in 2001.
The CHL commissioner is now Duane Lewis, who succeeded Brad Treliving on an temporary basis after Treliving took a position with the NHL's Phoenix Coyotes following the 2006-2007 season. Treliving co-founded the WPHL in 1996, and after the 2001 merger, served with the CHL for seven years. Lewis was named the permanent commissioner in June 2008.
On June 1, 2010 the league announced that it would come together with the International Hockey League.
The CHL is divided into two Conferences. Teams compete every year for the Ray Miron President's Cup. 

</doc>
<doc id="282544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282544" title="Missouri Mavericks">
Missouri Mavericks

The Missouri Mavericks is an American minor-league ice hockey team in the Central Hockey League (CHL). Its home games are played at the Independence Events Center in Independence, Missouri, which is near Kansas City, Missouri.
In April 2009, the CHL announced that Independence would get a new team to start play that fall. In June, the team said that it would be called the Mavericks.

</doc>
<doc id="282545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282545" title="Category:Central Hockey League">
Category:Central Hockey League


</doc>
<doc id="282546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282546" title="Yip Man">
Yip Man

Yip Man (18931972), also known as Ip Man, was the first teacher to teach openly the martial art Wing Chun. He started teaching in Hong Kong. His students spread Wing Chun around the world. Later, Ip Man was the teacher of Bruce Lee.
After Ip Man died, the teacher Duncan Leung taught Wing Chun in Hong Kong from 1945 to 1969.
Nowadays, Wing Chun is taught around the world. Many children do Wing Chun.

</doc>
<doc id="282547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282547" title="San Fermín">
San Fermín

The festival of San Fermín is held each year in the city of Pamplona (Navarre, Spain). Other names for the festival are Sanfermines or Sanferminak. It starts at noon on 7 July with the setting off of a rocket. It ends at midnight on 14 July with the singing of the "Pobre de Mí". A bullfight is also part of the celebrations. The festival honors Saint Fermin, the co-patron of Navarre. San Fermín has become the most famous Spanish festival. More than 1,000,000 people watch this festival.
The Running of the Bulls is held the 7th - 13th of July every year. By midnight on July 6th Pamplona is already swarming with locals and tourists all waiting for the fireworks display that marks the start of the fiesta.
The day begins with the "encierro" or running of the bulls, when only the brave and foolish dash ahead of the bulls that are let loose to run through the narrow streets to the bullring where they will be fought later in the day. The runners are usually clad in the typical white trousers and shirt, with a red scarf tied at their neck, and a red beret on their head.
Before and after the daily bullfights, held each evening at 6pm, bands of music, "txistularis", regional dancing and processions with big giant heads roam the streets. The Sanfermines festival of the running of the bulls in Pamplona is not the only one celebrated in Navarre, although it is the most well-known.

</doc>
<doc id="282548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282548" title="Bellini (cocktail)">
Bellini (cocktail)

A Bellini is a long drink cocktail that originated in Venice. It is a mixture of sparkling wine (traditionally Prosecco) and peach purée often served at celebrations. It is one of Italy's most popular cocktails.
The Bellini was invented sometime between 1934 and 1948 by Giuseppe Cipriani, founder of Harry's Bar in Venice, Italy.
It got its name because the colour reminded Cipriani of the pink colour of the toga of a saint in a painting by 15th-century Venetian artist Giovanni Bellini.

</doc>
<doc id="282561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282561" title="Transduction">
Transduction

Transduction is a science term. It can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="282572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282572" title="Friedensreich Hundertwasser">
Friedensreich Hundertwasser

Friedensreich Hundertwasser (born 15 December 1928, died 19 February 2000) was an Austrian artist. He often called himself "Friedensreich Regentag Dunkelbunt Hundertwasser" ("Rich-of-Peace Rainy-Day Dark-Colourful Hundred-Water") . Hundertwasser became known for designing buildings, but he also created stamps, painted, designed posters, and other works. He even designed a new flag for New Zealand, based on a local fern frond, called the Koru.
Hundertwasser was born in Vienna as Friedrich Stowasser. His mother, Elsa, was Jewish, so the Second World War was a difficult time for them. They pretended to be Catholic during the war, and to escape notice, Friedrich even joined the Hitler Youth.
After the war ended, he changed his name from Friedrich Stowasser to Friedensreich Hundertwasser. Part of the meaning of "Friedensreich" is "peaceful realm (country)". He studied briefly at the Academy of Fine Arts in Vienna, but when his money ran out, he started to travel a lot. He began to develop his own style, and in 1952, he exhibited his paintings for the first time. 
Hundertwasser married twice - in 1957 and 1962 - but both marriages ended in divorce. He had one daughter, Heidi Trimmel, who was born in 1982. 
In 1975, Hundertwasser left Europe and went to live in a small town called Kawakawa in New Zealand, where he could live mostly self-sufficiently. The artist bought several properties, joined them together to give himself enough access to nature, built solar panels and a water purification plant, and grew his own food. He lived there until he died of a heart attack in 2000. 
He was buried at home in New Zealand. On top of his grave, a tree was planted. Hundertwasser said in 1989, A dead person is entitled to reincarnation in the form of... a tree that grows on top of him and through him. 
As a result of his experience of being persecuted by the Nazi regime, Hundertwasser developed an anti-totalitarian position early on. His early fears of the square marching battalions associated with dictatorships may have led him to oppose any "geometrization" of people and their architecture. In a letter in 1954 Hundertwasser described the square as "geometric rectangles compressed columns on the march". 
Hundertwasser had a lively imagination; his art was unruly and chaotic. In his work, he used spirals, organic forms, wavy lines, bright colours, and a strong individualism. He wanted humans to live in harmony with nature, where there are no straight lines. Once, he called straight lines "something cowardly drawn with a ruler, without thought or feeling." 
Hundertwasser believe that a person has three 'skins. First, her 'epidermis', her skin. Second, her clothes. And finally, her house or home. Later on in the 1970s, he added two more skins: social environment (family, friendships, nation) and the planet (environment, the ecology, nature).
You can see examples of Hundertwasser's paintings here. Colour is a large part of Hundertwasser's art. He didn't select colours for any special significance; instead he used bright, fierce, burning colours, and combined colours to form competing patterns.
While he began as a painter, later in life the third skin - the home, or architecture - greatly interested Hundertwasser. He hated the way most buildings had straight lines and angles. He felt that buildings should fit and represent those who lived inside them. His building designs use natural forms, and often fit around nature rather than trying to bend nature to fit them. In the Hundertwasserhaus, an apartment building in Vienna, Austria, the floors aren't flat and even: they undulate.
Hundertwasser used nature in his buildings, which often have roof gardens. Grass roofs also have ecological, health and insusaltion advantages. A grass roof produces oxygen and makes life possible. It absorbs dust and dirt and converts the earth. Body and soul of man is at ease, both, who looks at it as well as who lives beneath it. (Hundertwasser 1991)
The artist also believed in a human's right to a window. He thought that "Some people say houses consist of walls. I say houses consist of windows.The repetition of identical windows next to each other and above each other as in a grid system is a characteristic of concentration camps.Windows in rank and file are sad, windows should be able to dance.A person in a rented apartment must be able to lean out of his window and scrape off the masonry within arm's reach. And he must be allowed to take a long brush and paint everything outside within arm's reach, so that it will be visible from afar to everyone in the street that someone lives there who is different from the imprisoned, enslaved, standardised man who lives next door. (Hundertwasser 1990)Hundertwasser wanted to allow the residents of his building to personalise their windows.
In the late 1970s, Hundertwasser was asked by City of Vienna to build a housing project - housing for poorer citizens who could not afford it otherwise. Inside, there were wavy, undulating floors ("an uneven floor is a divine melody to the feet"), a roof covered with earth and grass, and large trees growing from inside the rooms, with limbs extending from windows. Hundertwasser took no payment for the design of the house, declaring that it was worth it, to prevent something ugly from going up in its place. Within the house there are 52 apartments, four offices, 16 private terraces and three communal terraces, and a total of 250 trees and bushes. The Hundertwasser House is one of Vienna's most visited buildings and has become part of Austria's cultural heritage.
In Kawakawa, New Zealand, where Hundertwasser lived between 1975 and 2000, he designed the public toilets. Coach-loads of tourists visit every day to see these toilets, which are designed according to the artist's strict beliefs. All of the plants and vegetation which were displaced by the toilet were replanted on the roof, and it was built from recycled bricks from an old bank, and the residents' used glass bottles.

</doc>
<doc id="282573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282573" title="Edgar Degas">
Edgar Degas

Edgar Degas (19 July 1834 – 27 September 1917) was a French artist. He is famous for his paintings and sculptures: he was one of those who started Impressionism, although he rejected the term, and preferred to be called a realist. 
A superb draughtsman, he is identified with the subject of the dance, and over half of his works depict dancers. These display his mastery in the depiction of movement, as do his racecourse subjects and female nudes. His portraits are notable for their psychological complexity and the way they show human isolation.
He was born in Paris, France. He began to paint early in his life. Because his father wanted it, he went to university to become a lawyer in 1853. Edgar did not like this, and he went to study at the "École des Beaux-Arts", an important art-school in Paris in 1855. In 1856 he traveled to Naples in Italy, he stayed there for 3 years. He studied famous painters like Michelangelo and Raphael and learnt by copying their work. 
In 1859 he came back to Paris. He started his first important painting "The Bellelli Family", and also started on a few paintings on historical myths, like "Alexander and Bucephalus" and "The Daughter of Jephthah". In 1861 he visited Normandy and made his first drawings of horses which were an important subject for his paintings.
After the start of the Franco-Prussian War in 1870, Degas worked for the National Guard. He did not have time to paint. After the war he went to stay with his brother Rene in New Orleans, Louisiana. In 1873 he went back to Paris and in 1874 his father died. He then found out his brother had large business debts. Edgar had to sell the house and a collection of art he had inherited. He now had to depend on his paintings for his income. He created a lot of great paintings in next 10 years. With the money he earned, he bought paintings by painters he liked a lot. Examples are Manet, Paul Cézanne, Pissarro, Gauguin, Van Gogh and others. 
In 1874 Edgar Degas and a group of other painters started to organise their own art exhibition. Their exhibitions were called "Impressionist Exhibitions". At the end of the 1880s, he started to take photographs of his friends. Other photographs, of dancers and nudes, were used as an example for some of his later paintings.
As the years passed, he became isolated. They think that he made sculptures up until 1910. He probably stopped working in 1912. He never married, and he was nearly blind at the end of his life. He died in Paris in 1917.

</doc>
<doc id="282585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282585" title="Luigi Russolo">
Luigi Russolo

Luigi Russolo (30 April 1883 – 4 February 1947) was a painter and musician from Italy. He was part of the Futurism movement and built his own musical instruments. His instruments were destroyed in World War II in Paris, because the Germans bombed the city, others have simply disappeared.

</doc>
<doc id="282587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282587" title="Bacterial conjugation">
Bacterial conjugation

Bacterial conjugation is the transfer of genetic material between bacterial cells by direct cell-to-cell contact or by a bridge-like connection between two cells. 
Conjugation is a mechanism of horizontal gene transfer, as are transformation and transduction, though these two other mechanisms do not involve cell-to-cell contact.
Bacterial conjugation was discovered by Nobel Prize winners Joshua Lederberg and Edward Tatum. They showed that the bacterium "Escherichia coli" entered a sexual phase during which it could share genetic information. 
Bacterial conjugation is often incorrectly regarded as the equivalent of sexual reproduction, since it involves the exchange of genetic material. During conjugation the "donor" cell provides a conjugative or mobilizable genetic element that is most often a plasmid or transposon. Most conjugative plasmids have systems ensuring that the "recipient" cell does not already contain a similar element.
The genetic information transferred is often beneficial to the recipient. Benefits may include antibiotic resistance, xenobiotic tolerance or the ability to use new metabolites. Such beneficial plasmids may be considered bacterial endosymbionts. Other elements, however, may be viewed as bacterial parasites and conjugation as a mechanism evolved by them to allow for their spread.
The basic conjugative plasmid is the F-plasmid, or F-factor. The F-plasmid is an episome (a plasmid that can integrate itself into the bacterial chromosome) with a length of about 100,000 base pairs. 
There can only be one copy of the F-plasmid in a given bacterium, either free or integrated, and bacteria that possess a copy are called "F-positive" or "F-plus" (denoted F). Cells that lack F plasmids are called "F-negative" or "F-minus" (F) and can function as recipient cells.
The nitrogen fixing "Rhizobia" are an interesting case of inter-kingdom conjugation. 
For example, the tumor-inducing (Ti) plasmid of "Agrobacterium" and the root-tumor inducing (Ri) plasmid of "A. rhizogenes" contain genes that are capable of transferring to plant cells. These genes turn plant cells into factories producing chemicals used by the bacteria for nitrogen and energy. Infected cells form crown galls or root tumours, respectively. The Ti and Ri plasmids are thus endosymbionts of the bacteria, which are in turn endosymbionts (or parasites) of the infected plant.
Conjugation is a convenient means for transferring genetic material to a variety of targets. In laboratories successful transfers have been reported from bacteria to yeast, plants, mammalian cells, and isolated mammalian mitochondria. 
Conjugation has advantages over other forms of genetic transfer. In plant engineering, "Agrobacterium"-like conjugation complements other standard vehicles such as tobacco mosaic virus (TMV). While TMV is capable of infecting many plant families these are primarily herbaceous dicots. "Agrobacterium"-like conjugation is also primarily used for dicots, but monocot recipients are not uncommon.

</doc>
<doc id="282588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282588" title="Plasmid">
Plasmid

A plasmid is a DNA molecule that is separate from the chromosomal DNA and that can replicate (copy itself) independently. 
The term "plasmid" was first introduced by the American molecular biologist Joshua Lederberg in 1952.
Plasmids are double stranded and, in many cases, circular. Plasmids usually occur naturally in bacteria, but are sometimes found in eukaryotic organisms (e.g., the "2-micrometre-ring" in "Saccharomyces cerevisiae").
Plasmid size varies from 1 to over 1,000 kilobase pairs (kbp). The number of identical plasmids within a single cell can range from one to thousands. Plasmids are often associated with conjugation, a mechanism of horizontal gene transfer.
Plasmids are transferable genetic elements, or "replicons", capable of independent self copying in a suitable host. Plasmids can be found in all three major domains, Archaea, Bacteria and Eukarya. Similar to viruses, plasmids are not considered a form of "life" as it is currently defined. Unlike viruses, plasmids are "naked" DNA and do not encode genes necessary to encase the genetic material for transfer to a new host.
Plasmid host-to-host transfer requires direct, mechanical transfer by conjugation or changes in host gene expression allowing the intentional uptake of the genetic element by transformation. 
Microbial transformation with plasmid DNA is neither parasitic nor symbiotic in nature, since each implies the presence of an independent species living in a commensal or detrimental state with the host organism. Rather, plasmids provide a mechanism for horizontal gene transfer within a population of microbes and may provide a selective advantage under a given environmental state.
Plasmids may carry genes that provide resistance to naturally occurring antibiotics in a competitive environmental niche, or alternatively the proteins produced may act as toxins under similar circumstances. Plasmids also can provide bacteria with an ability to fix elemental nitrogen or to degrade difficult organic compounds. This may provide an advantage under conditions of nutrient deprivation.

</doc>
<doc id="282592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282592" title="Horizontal gene transfer">
Horizontal gene transfer

Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) (or "Lateral gene transfer") is any process in which an organism gets genetic material from another organism without being the offspring of that organism. 
By contrast, "vertical transfer" occurs when an organism gets genetic material from its ancestor, e.g., its parent or a species from which it has evolved.
Most thinking in genetics has focused on vertical transfer, but there is a growing awareness that horizontal gene transfer is a significant phenomenon. Amongst single-celled organisms it may be the dominant form of genetic transfer. Artificial horizontal gene transfer is a form of genetic engineering.
There are several mechanisms for horizontal gene transfer:
Horizontal gene transfer was first described in Japan in a 1959 publication that demonstrated the transfer of antibiotic resistance between different species of bacteria. 
In the mid-1980s, Syvanen suggested that lateral gene transfer not only had biological significance, but was involved in shaping evolutionary history from the beginning of life on Earth. 
"Increasingly, studies of genes and genomes are indicating that considerable horizontal transfer has occurred between prokaryotes". The phenomenon appears to have had some significance for unicellular eukaryotes as well. As Bapteste et al. observe, "additional evidence suggests that gene transfer might also be an important evolutionary mechanism in protist evolution".
There is some evidence that even higher plants and animals have been affected and this has raised concerns for safety. However, Richardson and Palmer (2007) state: "Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) has played a major role in bacterial evolution and is fairly common in certain unicellular eukaryotes. However, the prevalence and importance of HGT in the evolution of multicellular eukaryotes remains unclear".

</doc>
<doc id="282597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282597" title="Transduction (genetics)">
Transduction (genetics)

Transduction is the process by which DNA is transferred from one bacterium to another by a virus. 
Joshua Lederberg and his graduate student Norton Zinder showed in 1952 that bacteriophages could transfer genetic information between bacteria in "Salmonella". This process explained how bacteria of different species could gain resistance to the same antibiotic very quickly. 
Transduction also refers to the process whereby foreign DNA is introduced into another cell via a viral vector. This is a common tool used by molecular biologists to introduce a foreign gene into a host cell's genome.
When bacteriophages infect a bacterial cell, their normal mode of reproduction is to harness the replicational, transcriptional, and translation machinery of the host bacterial cell to make numerous complete viral particles, including the viral DNA or RNA and the protein coat. Errors in this process can result in the virus carrying over DNA from one bacterium to another.

</doc>
<doc id="282602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282602" title="Ferdinand de Lesseps">
Ferdinand de Lesseps

Ferdinand Marie, Vicomte () de Lesseps, GCSI (19 November 1805 – 7 December 1894) was the French developer of the Suez Canal, which joined the Mediterranean and Red Seas in 1869. He also tried to build a Panama Canal during the 1880s, but malaria and yellow fever was so bad that he gave up and the Panama Canal Company went bankrupt. A different canal was later built by the United States and completed in 1914.
Ferdinand de Lesseps was born at Versailles, Yvelines, in 1805. His first years were spent in Italy, where his father was a diplomat.
In 1828 de Lesseps was sent as an assistant vice-consul to Tunis, where his father was consul-general. He aided the escape of Youssouff, pursued by the soldiers of the Bey, of whom he was one of the officers, for violation of the seraglio law. 
In 1832 de Lesseps was appointed vice-consul at Alexandria, and in 1833 he became consul in Cairo, and soon afterwards given the management of the consulate general at Alexandria, until 1837. Near the end of 1837 he returned to France, and on 21 December married Mlle Agathe Delamalle (Garches, Hauts-de-Seine, 15 October 1819 – Paris, 13 July 1853), daughter of the prosecuting attorney at the court of Angers. They had five sons.
In 1839 he was appointed consul at Rotterdam, and in the following year transferred to Málaga, the ancestral home of his mother's family. In 1842 he was sent to Barcelona, and soon afterwards promoted to the grade of consul general. From 1848 to 1849 he was minister of France at Madrid.
In 1849 the government of the French Republic sent him to Rome to negotiate the return of Pope Pius IX to the Vatican. He tried to negotiate an agreement whereby Pope Pius could return peacefully to the Vatican but also ensuring the continued independence of Rome. But during negotiations, the elections in France caused a change in the foreign policy of the government. 
He was created on 30 August 1851 the 334th Commander and then the 200th Grand Cross of the Order of the Tower and Sword.
De Lesseps then retired from the diplomatic service, and never again occupied any public office. In 1853 he lost his wife and his son Ferdinand Victor at a few days' interval. In 1854, the accession to the viceroyalty of Egypt of Said Pasha gave de Lesseps a new impulse to act upon the creation of a Suez Canal.
Said Pasha invited de Lesseps to pay him a visit, and on 7 November 1854 he landed at Alexandria; on the 30th of the same month Said Pasha signed the concession authorizing him to build the Suez Canal.
De Lesseps died at Château de La Chesnaye in Guilly, Vatan, Indre, on 7 December 1894. He was buried in the Père Lachaise cemetery in Paris.
His name was used in a speech by Egyptian President Gamal Nasser as the codeword to order the raiding of the Suez Canal Company's offices on 26 July 1956, the first step to its nationalization. In the course of the raid and seizure of the canal by Nasser, the statue of de Lesseps at the entrance of the Suez Canal was removed from its pedestal, to symbolize the end of European ownership of the waterway. The statue now stands in a small garden of the Port Fouad shipyard.
Parker, Matthew. Panama Fever: The Epic Story of One of the Greatest Human Achievements of All Time - the Building of the Panama Canal. New York: Doubleday, 

</doc>
<doc id="282606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282606" title="Transformation (genetics)">
Transformation (genetics)

In molecular biology, transformation is the genetic alteration of a cell by the direct uptake and expression of DNA from its surroundings. 
Transformation occurs naturally in some species of bacteria, and can also be done artificially. Bacteria that are capable of being transformed, whether naturally or artificially, are called "competent". 
Transformation is one of three processes by which outside genetic material may be got into bacterial cells. The other two are conjugation (transfer of genetic material between two bacterial cells in direct contact), and transduction (injection of foreign DNA by a bacteriophage into the host). 
Transformation may also used to describe the insertion of new genetic material into nonbacterial cells, such as animal and plant cells. Introduction of foreign DNA into eukaryote cells is usually called "transfection".
Transformation was first demonstrated in 1928 by British bacteriologist Frederick Griffith. Griffith discovered that a harmless strain of "Streptococcus pneumoniae" could be made virulent after being exposed to heat-killed virulent strains.
Griffith thought some "transforming principle" from the heat-killed strain was responsible for making the harmless strain virulent. In 1944 this transforming principle was identified as being genetic by Oswald Avery, Colin MacLeod, and Maclyn McCarty. They isolated DNA from a virulent strain of "S. pneumoniae" and using just this DNA were able to make a harmless strain virulent. They called this uptake and incorporation of DNA by bacteria 'transformation'. See Avery–MacLeod–McCarty experiment.
The results of these experiments were at first sceptically received by the scientific community. Not until the discovery of other methods of genetic transfer (conjugation in 1947 and transduction in 1953) by Joshua Lederberg were Avery's experiments accepted. Transformation did not become routine procedure in laboratories until 1972 when Cohen successfully transformed "Escherichia coli" by treating the bacteria with calcium chloride. This created an efficient and convenient procedure for transforming bacteria and opened the way for biotechnology and research. 
Transformation of animal and plant cells was also investigated with the first transgenic mouse being created by injecting a gene for a rat growth hormone into a mouse embryo in 1982. 
In 1907 a bacterium that caused plant tumors, "Agrobacterium tumefaciens", was discovered and in the early 1970s the tumor inducing agent was found to be a DNA plasmid called the Ti plasmid. By removing the genes in the plasmid which caused the tumour and adding in new genes researchers were able to infect plants with "A. tumefaciens" and let the bacteria insert their chosen DNA into the genomes of the plants. 
Not all plant cells are susceptible to infection by "A. tumefaciens" so other methods were developed including electroporation and micro-injection. Particle bombardment was made possible with the invention of the Biolistic Particle Delivery System (gene gun) by John Sanford in 1990.

</doc>
<doc id="282608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282608" title="Charles Ranhofer">
Charles Ranhofer

Charles Ranhofer (November 7, 1836, Saint-Denis, France — October 9, 1899, New York) was the chef at the famous Delmonico's Restaurant in New York from 1862 to 1876 and 1879 to 1896. Ranhofer wrote "The Epicurean", (1894), a cookbook of over 1,000 pages, similar in scope to Escoffier's "Le Guide Culinaire".
Ranhofer was sent to Paris at the age of 12 to begin his training by studying pastry-making, and at 16 became the private chef for the prince d'Hénin, comte d'Alsace. In 1856 he moved to New York to become the chef for the Russian consul, and later worked in Washington, D.C. and New Orleans.
He returned to France in 1860 for a short time, where he arranged balls for the court of Napoleon III at the Tuileries Palace, but then came back to New York to work at what was then a fashionable location, "Maison Dorée". In 1862, Lorenzo Delmonico hired him for Delmonico's Restaurant, and it was there that Ranhofer made his real fame, though others say that he made the fame of the restaurant as well. At that time, Delmonico's was considered the finest restaurant in the United States. He was the chef at Delmonico's until his retirement in 1896, except for a short break from 1876 and 1879 when he owned the "Hotel American" at Enghien-les-Bains.
Ranhofer invented or made famous a number of dishes that Delmonico's was known for, such as Lobster Newberg, and had a talent for naming dishes after famous or prominent people—particularly those who dined at Delmonico's--as well as his friends, and events of the day. Examples include:
"Many others may be found under "List of foods named after people.""
Ranhofer did not invent baked Alaska, but he popularized it in 1876 when he named it in honor of the newly acquired Alaskan territory.
Ranhofer and his wife Rose had five children: three sons and two daughters. He died at home of Bright's Disease in 1899. He was buried at Woodlawn Cemetery.

</doc>
<doc id="282611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282611" title="Category:Deaths from nephritis">
Category:Deaths from nephritis


</doc>
<doc id="282613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282613" title="Malibu, California">
Malibu, California

Malibu is a city in Los Angeles County, California. It is famous for Hollywood stars and others who are associated with the entertainment industry. Malibu was incorporated as a city around 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="282616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282616" title="Joshua Lederberg">
Joshua Lederberg

Joshua Lederberg (May 23, 1925 – February 2, 2008) was an American geneticist. He was known for his work on bacterial transduction, artificial intelligence, and space exploration. He was just 33 years old when he won the 1958 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for discovering that bacteria can mate and exchange genes. He shared the prize with Edward Tatum and George Beadle who won for their work on the genetics of the fungus "Neurospora".
In addition to his contributions to biology, Lederberg did extensive research in artificial intelligence. This included work in the NASA experimental programs seeking life on Mars and the chemistry expert system Dendral.
In 1946 and 1947, Lederberg took a leave of absence to study under Edward Tatum at Yale University. Lederberg and Tatum showed that the bacterium "Escherichia coli" entered a sexual phase during which it could share genetic information through bacterial conjugation. With this discovery and some mapping of the "E. coli" chromosome, Lederberg got his PhD. from Yale University in 1947. 
Lederberg and his graduate student Norton Zinder went on to show in 1952 that bacteriophages could transfer genetic information between bacteria in "Salmonella". This process, called transduction, explained how bacteria of different species could gain resistance to the same antibiotic quickly. This was followed in 1952 by papers written by Zinder and Lederberg dealing with bacteriophage lambda. 
In 1957, Lederberg founded the Department of Medical Genetics at the University of Wisconsin–Madison.
In 1958, Joshua Lederberg received the Nobel Prize and moved to Stanford University where he was the founder and chairman of the Department of Genetics. He collaborated with Frank Macfarlane Burnet to study viral antibodies. 
With the launching of "Sputnik" in 1957, Lederberg became concerned about the biological impact of space exploration. In a letter to the National Academies of Sciences, he outlined his concerns that extraterrestrial microbes might gain entry to Earth onboard spacecraft, causing catastrophic diseases. He also argued that, conversely, microbial contamination of manmade satellites and probes may obscure the search for extraterrestrial life. He advised quarantine for returning astronauts and equipment and sterilization of equipment before launching. 
Teaming up with Carl Sagan, his public advocacy for what he termed exobiology helped expand the role of biology in NASA. In the 1960s, he collaborated with Edward Feigenbaum in Stanford's computer science department to develop DENDRAL.
In 1978, he became the president of Rockefeller University, until he stepped down in 1990 and became professor-emeritus of molecular genetics and informatics at Rockefeller University.
Throughout his career, Lederberg was active as a scientific advisor to the U.S. government. Starting in 1950, he has been a member of various panels of the Presidential Science Advisory Committee. In 1979, he became a member of the U.S. Defense Science Board and the chairman of President Jimmy Carter's President's Cancer Panel. In 1989, he received National Medal of Science for his contributions to the scientific world. In 1994, he headed the Department of Defense's Task Force on Persian Gulf War Health Effects, which investigated Gulf War Syndrome.
In 2006, Lederberg was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom.

</doc>
<doc id="282620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282620" title="Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Mìthrandir">
Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Mìthrandir


</doc>
<doc id="282630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282630" title="Spirochaete">
Spirochaete

Spirochaetes (or Spirochetes) are the phylum Spirochaetae. These are double-membrane bacteria with long, helically coiled (spiral-shaped) cells. 
Spirochaetes are bacteria. They have flagella, which run lengthwise between the cell wall and outer membrane. The flagella cause a twisting motion which moves the spirochaete about. 
Most spirochaetes are free-living and anaerobic, but there are many parasitic species.
The spirochaetes are divided into three families (Brachyspiraceae, Leptospiraceae, and Spirochaetaceae). They are all put in a single order, the Spirochaetales. Disease-causing members of this phylum include:

</doc>
<doc id="282632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282632" title="Avery–MacLeod–McCarty experiment">
Avery–MacLeod–McCarty experiment

The Avery–MacLeod–McCarty experiment was an experimental demonstration, reported in 1944 by Oswald Avery, Colin MacLeod, and Maclyn McCarty, that DNA is the substance that causes bacterial transformation. 
This was the culmination of research in the 1930s and early 1940s at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research to purify and characterize the "transforming principle" responsible for the phenomenon first described in Griffith's experiment of 1928. In this early experiment dead "Streptococcus pneumoniae" of the virulent strain type III-S, when injected along with living but non-virulent type II-R pneumococci, resulted in a deadly infection of type III-S pneumococci. 
At that time it was thought protein might be the hereditary material. In their paper of 1944, Avery and his colleagues suggest that DNA, rather than protein was the hereditary material of bacteria, and could be analogous to genes and/or viruses in higher organisms.
This was an epoch-making experiment, but the three men did not get the Nobel Prize. The Nobel laureate Arne Tiselius said that Avery was the most deserving scientist not to receive the Nobel Prize for his work.

</doc>
<doc id="282633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282633" title="Category:Experiments">
Category:Experiments


</doc>
<doc id="282658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282658" title="Alton, Kansas">
Alton, Kansas

Alton is a city in Osborne County, Kansas, United States. There were 103 people living in Alton in the 2010 census. Alton was previously known as "Bull City".

</doc>
<doc id="282659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282659" title="Lebanon, Kansas">
Lebanon, Kansas

Lebanon is a city in Smith County, Kansas, United States, in the north central part of the state. The population was 303 at the 2000 census.

</doc>
<doc id="282660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282660" title="Sprint Corporation">
Sprint Corporation

Sprint Nextel Corporation () is a telecommunications company based in Overland Park, Kansas. The company owns and operates Sprint, the fourth largest wireless telecommunications network in the United States behind Verizon, AT&T and T-Mobile, with 56.3 million customers, behind Verizon Wireless and AT&T Mobility.

</doc>
<doc id="282662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282662" title="Montgomery County, Kansas">
Montgomery County, Kansas

Montgomery County (county code MG) is a county in southeast Kansas, in the Central United States. The population was 36,252 at the 2000 census. Its county seat is Independence, and its most populous city is Coffeyville.

</doc>
<doc id="282670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282670" title="Rajon Rondo">
Rajon Rondo

Rajon Pierre Rondo (born February 22, 1986 in Louisville, Kentucky) is an American basketball player who currently plays for the Dallas Mavericks of the NBA as a point guard. Rondo was selected with the 21st overall pick in the first round of the 2006 NBA Draft by the Phoenix Suns. Rondo played college basketball for the University of Kentucky.

</doc>
<doc id="282671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282671" title="Bette Midler">
Bette Midler

Bette Midler (born 1 December 1945) is an American actress, singer and comedian. She starred in movies such as "Ruthless People", "Beaches" and "Hocus Pocus". Midler has won many awards in the entertainment industry. She was born in Honolulu, Hawaii.
Midler released her first album, "The Divine Miss M", in December 1972. Midler won the 1973 Grammy Award for Best New Artist because of it.
In 1979 Midler appeared in her first film, "The Rose" as the main character.
In 1998 she played Cecilia Bloom in "Beaches". The film's soundtrack featured a cover version of "Wind Beneath My Wings" sung by Midler. It reached No.1.
In 2000 she had her own sitcom called "Bette". It ended after one season.

</doc>
<doc id="282675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282675" title="Subway (restaurant)">
Subway (restaurant)

Subway is a fast food restaurant that produces submarine sandwiches, pizzas and salads. The restaurant name is the same as the name of the New York City public transport system. Many restaurants are decorated with historic photographs and maps of the New York City Subway.The first Subway outside of North America opened in Bahrain, in December 1984. Since 2007, Subway has consistently ranked in entrepreneur magazines' top 500 Franchise list. It also ranked 2nd on the "Fastest Growing Franchise" lists. In March 2011, Subway was named "the most loved fast food chain in the US" by Amplicate.com. At the end of 2010, Subway became the largest food chain worldwide, with 33,749 restaurants- 1,012 more than McDonald's. In terms of revenue, McDonald's still led Subway.
Subway opened a lot of stores. In Japan, Subway opened the stores in Akita, Tottori, Kochi, Nagasaki, Oita, Kagoshima prefectures.
Subway's main operations office is in Milford, Connecticut; five religional centers support Subway's growing international operations. The religional offices for European franchises are in Amsterdam, Netherlands; the Australia; the Asian locations are supported from offices in Beirut, Lebanon, Malaysia, Singapore and India and the Latin America support center is in Miami, Florida.
Subway's main product is called Submarine sandwich or Sub. Each sub is made from a combination of baguette, meat, cheese and vegetables. Subway has different menu items for different countries. But the restaurants in most countries have some common products. They are:
Subway formerly had 23 kosher restaurants in Israel. All were closed by 2004. In the United States, there used to be 12 locations with kosher food. As of 2011 only 5 were open.
Subway opened its first restaurant in India in 2001 in New Delhi. Subway restaurants in India do not serve beef and pork products in deference to Hindu and Muslim beliefs respectively. Subway opened its first all-vegetarian outlet on the campus of Lovely Professional University (LPU) in Jalandhar, Punjab.

</doc>
<doc id="282677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282677" title="Brandon Bochenski">
Brandon Bochenski

Brandon Bochenski (born April 4, 1982 in Blaine, Minnesota) is an American ice hockey right winger that currently plays in the Kontinental Hockey League for Barys Astana. He was picked by the Ottawa Senators with the 223rd overall pick in the 2001 NHL Entry Draft. He played in the NHL for many teams including the Ottawa Senators from 2004-2006, Chicago Blackhawks from 2005-2007, Boston Bruins from 2006-2008, Anaheim Ducks in 2007, Nashville Predators in 2007 and the Tampa Bay Lightning from 2008-2010 before leaving North America to sign a one-year contract with the Kontinental Hockey League's, Barys Astana.

</doc>
<doc id="282679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282679" title="Elimination Chamber">
Elimination Chamber

Elimination Chamber is a professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event held by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). The Event replaced the No Way Out pay-per-view except in Germany where it is still called, No Way Out.
WWE released a DVD with the title "Satan's Prison: The Anthology of the Elimination Chamber" ("Iron Will" in Europe), which included every Elimination Chamber match up until Elimination Chamber 2010, in July of 2010. The DVD is very edited mostly because of Chris Benoit.

</doc>
<doc id="282680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282680" title="Dixie Carter">
Dixie Carter

Dixie Virginia Carter, (May 25, 1939, McLemoresville, Tennessee - April 10, 2010, Houston, Texas), was an American movie, television and stage actress. She was best known for playing Julia Sugarbaker in the television series "Designing Women" (1986-1993). She competed in Miss Tennessee pageants in 1959.
Carter was born in McLemoresville, Tennessee, and spent many of her early years in Memphis. She attended college at the University of Tennessee at Knoxville and Southwestern at Memphis (now Rhodes College). She was a graduate of Memphis State with a degree in English.
She divorced Arthur Carter in 1977, and married Broadway and TV actor George Hearn the same year. Two years later, in 1979, she divorced Hearn. She married for the third time on May 27, 1984, to Hal Holbrook (14 years her senior), who is most noted for his appearances as Mark Twain. Carter renovated her old family home in McLemoresville with the designs of architect Hoyte Johnson of Atlanta. 
She and Holbrook divided their time between their homes in Beverly Hills, California, and McLemoresville, Tennessee, where Carter's elderly father, Halbert, resided until his death in early 2007, at age 96.
Carter died on April 10, 2010, in Houston, Texas. Her death was announced by her husband, actor Hal Holbrook, who stated the cause as complications from endometrial cancer which was diagnosed earlier in 2010. In addition to Holbrook, she is survived by her daughters from her first marriage: Ginna Carter (of Los Angeles) and Mary Dixie Carter (of Brooklyn) as well as a sister, Melba Helen Heath (of San Anselmo, California) and several nephews and nieces. In addition to family, her funeral, held on April 15, 2010, was attended by "Designing Women" co-stars Delta Burke, Annie Potts and Jean Smart. Dixie Carter was interred in her hometown, McLemoresville, Tennessee.

</doc>
<doc id="282682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282682" title="Bouvier des Flandres">
Bouvier des Flandres

The Bouvier des Flandres is a breed of dog that originated in Flanders. They are now known to be guard dogs, police dogs and pets. They were originally known for cattle droving, sheep herding, and cart pulling. Their name means "Cow Herder of Flanders" in English.

</doc>
<doc id="282690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282690" title="Peter Forsberg">
Peter Forsberg

Peter Mattias "Foppa" Forsberg (born July 20, 1973 in Örnsköldsvik, Sweden) is a retired Swedish ice hockey center.
Forsberg was known for his on-ice vision and physical play when he was on the ice. Forsberg won the Stanley Cup in 1996 and again in 2001 while part of the Colorado Avalanche. Forsberg played his NHL career while apart of 4 teams and had a career that spanned over 15 NHL seasons. Forsberg also played in the Swedish Elite League for the Modo Hockey. Forsberg announced that he would make a return to the NHL on January 21, 2011 but later retired after only 2 road games.

</doc>
<doc id="282691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282691" title="Marie François Sadi Carnot">
Marie François Sadi Carnot

Marie François Sadi Carnot (; 11 August 1837 – 25 June 1894) was a French statesman, the fourth president of the Third French Republic. He served as the President of France from 1887 until he was murdered by Sante Geronimo Caserio in 1894.
Carnot had a reputation for honesty, this made him a popular candidate to succeed Jules Grévy who had resigned following a scandal. He was elected by 616 votes out of 827. He assumed office at a critical period, when the republic was all but openly attacked by .
Carnot's popularity helped to force General Boulanger into exile. Boulanger. Boulanger was a conservative and a supporter of the monarchy, and it was feared he would try to overthrow the Republic.
Carnot was near his most popular, when, on 24 June 1894, he attended a public banquet in Lyon. Afterwards he was stabbed by an Italian anarchist named Sante Geronimo Caserio and died shortly after midnight on 25 June. The stabbing aroused widespread horror and grief, and the president was honoured with an elaborate funeral ceremony in the Panthéon.

</doc>
<doc id="282692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282692" title="Category:Presidents of France">
Category:Presidents of France


</doc>
<doc id="282696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282696" title="Leaf insect">
Leaf insect

The family Phylliidae (often misspelled 'Phyllidae') contains the living true leaf insects or walking leaves, which include some of the most remarkable leaf mimics in the entire animal kingdom. They occur from South Asia through Southeast Asia to Australia. There are different views about their taxonomy.
Leaf insects use camouflage to take on the appearance of a leaf. They do this so accurately that predators often aren't able to distinguish them from real leaves. In some species the edge of the leaf insect's body even has the appearance of bite marks. To further confuse predators, when the leaf insect walks, it rocks back and forth, to mimic a real leaf being blown by the wind.
They and stick insects go together in the Order Phasmatodea.
The scholar Antonio Pigafetta may have been the first to document the creature. Sailing with Ferdinand Magellan's circumnavigational expedition, he studied and chronicled the fauna on the island of Cimbonbon as the fleet hauled ashore for repairs.
 

</doc>
<doc id="282707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282707" title="Dictyoptera">
Dictyoptera

Dictyoptera includes three orders of insects – cockroaches (Blattaria), termites (Isoptera) and mantids (Mantodea).
While all modern Dictyoptera have short ovipositors, the oldest fossils of Dictyoptera have long ovipositors, much like members of the Orthoptera.
The term Dictyoptera is usually considered a superorder, with Isoptera, Blattaria and Mantodea being its three orders. In some classifications, however, Dictyoptera is shifted to order status. 
Regardless, in all classifications the three constituent groups are the same, just treated at different rank. Termites and cockroaches are very closely related, with ecological and molecular data pointing to a relationship with the cockroach genus "Cryptocercus".
Based on genetic evidence, the closest living relatives of the Dictyoptera are the phasmids. If the Dictyoptera are a superorder they might be included in it.

</doc>
<doc id="282711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282711" title="Frances Fisher">
Frances Fisher

Frances Fisher (born 11 May 1952) is an England-born American actress. She played Strawberry Alice for 1992's "Unforgiven". She also played Ruth DeWitt Bukater in the 1997 movie "Titanic". Both movies won the Academy Award for "Best Pictuce". Before those, Fisher starred in the soap opera "The Edge of Night" (1976-1981).
Fisher was born in Milford on Sea, Hampshire, England.

</doc>
<doc id="282715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282715" title="Fredonia, Kansas">
Fredonia, Kansas

Fredonia is a city in Wilson County, Kansas, United States. The population was 2,600 at the 2000 census. It is the county seat of Wilson County.

</doc>
<doc id="282720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282720" title="Grylloblattidae">
Grylloblattidae

Grylloblattidae is a family of extremophile and wingless insects that live in the cold on top of mountains. 
They are commonly called grylloblattids, but are also sometimes called ice crawlers or icebugs. 
Most are nocturnal and appear to feed on detritus (rubbish). They have long antennae (23–45 segments) and long cerci (appendages on the rear; 5–8 segments), but no wings. 
Their closest living relatives are the recently-discovered Mantophasmatidae.
The family is placed in its own suborder, Grylloblattodea, and sometimes in its own order, Grylloblattaria. It contains 5 genera and 25 species.

</doc>
<doc id="282723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282723" title="Parapneuroptera">
Parapneuroptera

Paraneoptera is a monophyletic superorder of insects. 
It includes four orders, the bark lice, true lice, thrips, and hemipterans, the true bugs. 
The mouthparts of the Paraneoptera reflect diverse feeding habits. Basal groups are microbial surface feeders, whereas more advanced groups feed on plant or animal fluids.
Hemiptera is an order of insects often known as the "true bugs" (bug). They are about 50,000–80,000 species of cicadas, aphids, planthoppers, leafhoppers, shield bugs, and others. They range in size from to around , and share a common arrangement of sucking mouthparts.
Psocoptera, the bark lice, include 4,400 described species arranged in 3 suborders. There are 50 families of bark lice with over 200 genera. This is the first insect order to show the beginnings of a transition to sucking mouthparts. It is sister group to the Phthiraptera. Bark lice are found on foliage, under bark, or in leaf litter.
Phthiraptera, the lice, includes 5,000 described species divided into 4 suborders. 
The body of a louse is dorsoventrally flattened and the eyes are absent or nearly so. The legs are strong for holding onto fur or feathers of the host. All species of lice are parasitic. Lice parasitise all orders of birds and most orders of mammals. 
Order Thysanoptera includes 5,500 species classified into two suborders. These insects are called thrips.
The mouth is in the form of an asymmetrical mouth cone, consisting of piercing stylets. Thrips are commonly found on and in flowers. Most species are phytophagous, feeding on flowers. 

</doc>
<doc id="282728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282728" title="Exopterygota">
Exopterygota

The Exopterygota are a superorder of insects. They are in the subclass Pterygota in the infraclass Neoptera. 
In Exopterygotes the young resemble adults but have externally-developing wings. They undergo a modest change between immature and adult, without going through a pupal stage. The nymphs develop gradually into adults through a process of moulting.
The Exopterygota are a diverse insect superorder, divided into eight orders. They include locusts, thrips, and lice among other types of insects.
They are distinguished from the Endopterygota (or Holometabola) by the way in which their wings develop. Endopterygota (meaning literally "internal winged forms") develop wings inside the body and undergo an elaborate metamorphosis involving a pupal stage. Exopterygota ("external winged forms") develop wings on the outside of their bodies without going through a true pupal stage, though a few have something resembling a pupa.

</doc>
<doc id="282732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282732" title="Xiphosura">
Xiphosura

Xiphosura is an order of marine chelicerates. It includes a large number of extinct lines and only four recent species in the family Limulidae, which include the horseshoe crabs. 
The group has hardly changed in millions of years. The modern horseshoe crabs look almost identical to prehistoric genera such as the Jurassic "Mesolimulus", and are considered to be living fossils.
Xiphosura are traditionally placed in the class Merostomata. This term was originally made for the eurypterids; now, with the Xiphosura added, it is known to be paraphyletic. 
Although the name Merostomata is still seen in textbooks, without reference to the Eurypterida, some have urged that this usage should be discouraged. The shared features of the two groups traditionally grouped in the Merostomata are now thought to be retentions of primitive conditions (symplesiomorphies).
The Xiphosura is basal to a clade comprising Eurypterida and Arachnida. It is estimated that the Xiphosura diverged from the Arachnida 480 million years ago.

</doc>
<doc id="282733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282733" title="Eurypterid">
Eurypterid

The eurypterids, related to arachnids, were the largest known arthropods. They are members of the extinct order Eurypterida. It is a most diverse Chelicerate order.
The largest, such as "Jaekelopterus", reached 2½ metres in length, but most species were less than 20 cm (8 inches). They were the largest arthropods of all time. They were predators which thrived in the warm, shallow seas and lakes of the Ordovician to the Permian periods, around 460 to 248 million years ago. Recent research suggsts their eyesight was not very good.
The move from the sea to fresh water probably occurred by the Pennsylvanian period. Eurypterids went extinct during the Permian–Triassic extinction event 251 million years ago, and their fossils have a near global distribution.
The typical eurypterid had a large, flat, semicircular carapace, followed by a jointed section, and finally a tapering, flexible tail, most ending with a long spine at the end ("Pterygotus", though, had a large flat tail, possibly with a smaller spine). Behind the head of the eurypterids were twelve body segments. These segments are formed by a dorsal plate, called a tergite, and a ventral plate, called a sternite. The tail, known as the telson, is spiked in most eurypterids.

</doc>
<doc id="282739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282739" title="Amblypygi">
Amblypygi

Amblypygi is an order of Arachnids also known as whip spiders or tailless whip scorpions. The name 'amblypygid' means "blunt rump", a reference to a lack of the telson (tail). They are harmless to humans.
The Amblypygs are in the subphylum Chelicerata of the phylum Arthropoda. The order has 5 families, 17 genera and about 155 species. They are found in tropical and subtropical regions worldwide. Some species are subterranean; many are nocturnal. During the day, they may hide under logs, bark, stones, or leaves. They prefer a humid environment.

</doc>
<doc id="282783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282783" title="Bushel">
Bushel

A bushel is an Imperial unit of dry volume, equal to 4 pecks or 8 gallons. It is most often used in agriculture. A bushel is abbreviated as bsh. or bu.

</doc>
<doc id="282784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282784" title="Adelina Patti">
Adelina Patti

Adelina Patti (10 February 184327 September 1919) was an highly acclaimed Italian-French 19th-century opera diva, earning huge fees, sometimes $5000 in gold, at the height of her career in the music capitals of Europe and America. She first sang in public as a child in 1851, and gave her last performance before an audience in 1914.
She was born Adelina Juana Maria Patti, in Madrid, the last child of tenor Salvatore Patti (1800–1869) and soprano Caterina Barilli (died 1870). Her Italian parents were working in Madrid, Spain, at the time of her birth. Because her father came from Sicily, Patti was born a subject of the King of the Two Sicilies, but had a French passport for most of her life, as two of her three husbands were French. She settled in South Wales in 1903, and after her last concert, for the Red Cross, in 1914 she died there, of natural causes.

</doc>
<doc id="282785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282785" title="Category:Opera singers">
Category:Opera singers


</doc>
<doc id="282788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282788" title="Lebanon (disambiguation)">
Lebanon (disambiguation)

Lebanon is a Middle Eastern country on the Mediterranean Sea.
Lebanon may also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="282791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282791" title="Oculocerebrorenal syndrome">
Oculocerebrorenal syndrome

Oculocerebrorenal syndrome (also called Lowe Syndrome) is a rare genetic disorder in humans. It affects the eyes, the brain and the kidneys. It is also known as Oculocerebrorenal syndrome. People with lowe syndrome are born with cataracts, that is the lenses of their eyes are not totally clear. Many people with the syndrome develop kidney problems at an early age. The brain develops differently, the development of the child happens slower. Such children may often have learning difficulties. Epilepsy can also occur.
The disorder is caused by a gene defect on the X-chromosome. As a result, much more boys are affected than girls. The syndrome is named after Dr. Charles Lowe, who first described it in 1952. Its occurrence is about one case in half a million live births.

</doc>
<doc id="282795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282795" title="Rubicon">
Rubicon

The Rubicon is a river that flows into the Adriatic Sea south of Ravenna, Italy. In the time of Julius Caesar, a river with this name was the border between the Roman province Gallia Cisalpina, and Italy, which was not a province at the time. The exact river Caesar referred to is unknown; the river that is known as "Rubicone" today was selected and named by Benito Mussolini.

</doc>
<doc id="282801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282801" title="In Rainbows">
In Rainbows

In Rainbows is an album by the band Radiohead. It was released in October 2007.
All songs written by Radiohead.

</doc>
<doc id="282802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282802" title="OK Computer">
OK Computer

OK Computer is an album by the band Radiohead. It was released in 1997. It reached No.1 in the UK Albums Chart. Four singles were released from it. "Paranoid Android" reached No.3 in the UK. "No Surprises" reached No.4. It got good reviews. Pitchfork gave it 10 out of 10.
"OK Computer" received near-unanimous critical acclaim. Critics in the British and American press generally agreed that the album was a landmark of its time and would have far-reaching impact and importance, and that the band's willingness to experiment made it a challenging listen. According to Footman, "Not since 1967, with the release of "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band", had so many major critics agreed immediately, not only on an album's merits, but on its long-term significance, and its ability to encapsulate a particular point in history." In the English press, the album garnered favourable reviews in "NME", "Melody Maker", "The Guardian", and "Q". Nick Kent wrote in "Mojo" that "Others may end up selling more, but in 20 years time I'm betting "OK Computer" will be seen as the key record of 1997, the one to take rock forward instead of artfully revamping images and song-structures from an earlier era." "Every word sounds achingly sincere, every note spewed from the heart," wrote John Harris in "Select", "and yet it roots itself firmly in a world of steel, glass, random-access memory and prickly-skinned paranoia."
In an otherwise positive review, Andy Gill wrote for "The Independent", "For all its ambition and determination to break new ground, "OK Computer" is not, finally, as impressive as "The Bends", which covered much the same sort of emotional knots, but with better tunes. It is easy to be impressed by, but ultimately hard to love, an album that luxuriates so readily in its own despondency."
The album was well received by critics in North America. "Rolling Stone", "Spin", and Pitchfork Media published positive reviews. In "The New Yorker", Alex Ross praised its progressiveness, and contrasted Radiohead's risk-taking with the musically conservative "dadrock" of their contemporaries Oasis. Ross wrote that "Throughout the album, contrasts of mood and style are extreme ... This band has pulled off one of the great art-pop balancing acts in the history of rock."
Reviews for "Entertainment Weekly", the "Chicago Tribune", and "Time" were mixed or contained qualified praise. Robert Christgau from "The Village Voice" said Radiohead immersed Yorke's vocals in "enough electronic marginal distinction to feed a coal town for a month" and to compensate for how soulless the songs are, resulting in "arid" art rock.
The album appeared in many 1997 critics' lists and listener polls for best album of the year. It topped the year-end polls of "Mojo", "Vox", "Entertainment Weekly", "Hot Press", "Muziekkrant OOR", "HUMO", "Eye Weekly" and "Inpress", and tied for first place with Daft Punk's "Homework" in "The Face". The album came second in "NME", "Melody Maker", "Rolling Stone", "Village Voice", "Spin" and "Uncut". "Q" and "Les Inrockuptibles" both listed the album in their unranked year-end polls. It was a nominee for the 1997 Mercury Prize, a prestigious award recognising the best British or Irish album of the year.
The near universal positive reception to the album overwhelmed the band, and some members thought the press was excessively congratulatory. Particularly irksome to the band were links to progressive rock and art rock, with frequent comparisons to Pink Floyd's 1973 album "The Dark Side of the Moon". Yorke responded: "We write pop songs ... there was no intention of it being 'art'. It's a reflection of all the disparate things we were listening to when we recorded it." He was nevertheless pleasantly surprised that many listeners identified the album's musical influences: "What really blew my head off was the fact that people got all the things, all the textures and the sounds and the atmospheres we were trying to create."
"In England, I think a lot of the reviews have been slightly over-the-top," remarked Jonny Greenwood, "because the last album ["The Bends"] was somewhat under-reviewed possibly and under-received."
"OK Computer" was reissued again on 24 March 2009 simultaneously with "Pablo Honey" and "The Bends", without Radiohead's involvement. The reissue came in two editions: a 2-CD "Collector's Edition" and a 2-CD 1-DVD "Special Collector's Edition". The first disc contains the original studio album, the second disc contains B-sides collected from "OK Computer" singles and live recording sessions, and the DVD contains a collection of music videos and a live television performance. All material on the reissue had been previously released.
In a March 2009 interview, O'Brien claimed that EMI had not notified the band members of the reissue and said "I think the fans have got most of [the material on the reissues], it's all the stuff up on YouTube. This is just a company who are trying to squeeze every bit of lost money, it's not about [an] artistic statement." Press reaction to the reissue announcement reflected the concern that EMI was exploiting Radiohead's back catalogue. Larry Fitzmaurice of "Spin" accused EMI of planning to "issue and re-issue [Radiohead's] discography until the cash stops rolling in", and Pitchfork's Ryan Dombal said it was "hard to look at these reissues as anything other than a cash-grab for EMI/Capitol—an old media company that got dumped by their most forward-thinking band." Daniel Kreps of "Rolling Stone" defended EMI, saying "While it's easy to accuse Capitol of milking the cash cow once again, these sets are pretty comprehensive."
The reissue was critically well received, although critics were mixed about the supplemental material. Reviews in AllMusic, "Uncut", "Q", "Rolling Stone" and PopMatters praised the supplemental material, but with reservations. A review written by Scott Plagenhoef for Pitchfork awarded the reissue a perfect score, arguing that it was worth buying for fans who did not already own the rare material. Plagenhoef said, "That the band had nothing to do with these is beside the point: This is the final word on these records, if for no other reason that the Beatles' September 9 remaster campaign is, arguably, the end of the CD era." "The A.V. Club" writer Josh Modell praised both the bonus disc and the DVD, and said of the album, "And what can be said about 1997's "OK Computer" that hasn't been said before? It really is the perfect synthesis of Radiohead's seemingly conflicted impulses."
Footnotes 
Citations

</doc>
<doc id="282803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282803" title="Category:Athletes">
Category:Athletes


</doc>
<doc id="282806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282806" title="Niklas Bäckström">
Niklas Bäckström

Niklas Oskar Bäckström (born February 13, 1978) is a Finnish professional ice hockey goaltender. He plays for the Minnesota Wild of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played in the SM-liiga for HIFK, SaiPa and Kärpät and in the Elitserien for AIK. He won the William M. Jennings Trophy in 2007 along with Manny Fernandez. He also played for Finland at the 2006 Winter Olympics where he won a silver medal and at the 2010 Winter Olympics where he won a bronze medal.

</doc>
<doc id="282813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282813" title="Marcin Gortat">
Marcin Gortat

Marcin Gortat (born February 17, 1984 in Łódź, Poland) is a Polish basketball player who currently plays for the Phoenix Suns as a Power forward and Center. 
He has also played for the Orlando Magic from 2008 to 2010 before being traded to the Phoenix Suns along with Vince Carter, Mickael Pietrus, a 2011 first-round draft pick, and $3 million for Hedo Türkoğlu, Jason Richardson, and Earl Clark.

</doc>
<doc id="282814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282814" title="Soulmate (song)">
Soulmate (song)

"Soulmate" is a 2007 song by the English singer and songwriter Natasha Bedingfield. The song was released during July 2007 in United Kingdom. It was not until late 2008 that this song was released in the United States. It got mixed to negative review from critics within the United Kingdom, though Soulmate did become commercial success. This song gained popularity in the U.S. after being played on an episode of MTV's "The Hills".

</doc>
<doc id="282822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282822" title="Achterhoek">
Achterhoek

Achterhoek (English: back-corner) is a region in the province Gelderland in the Netherlands.
The area of this region today is in fact the former County of Zutphen. The backcorner of this county belonged to Münster in Germany, the former county of Lohn with places as Winterswijk, Aalten, Borculo Bredevoort, Eibergen, Geesteren, Groenlo, Hengelo, Lichtenvoorde, Neede, Silvolde, Varsseveld, Vragender, Winterswijk en Zelhem. After 1326 they conquered those areas and added it to their "Graafschap" (County) 1326, the same area nowadays known as "Achterhoek". Doetinchem, Winterswijk and Zutphen are the biggest populated areas in the Achterhoek.
In the south-west there is a small area called "Liemers". Many people think that its a part of the Achterhoek, but in fact its an other region.

</doc>
<doc id="282827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282827" title="Sally Kirkland">
Sally Kirkland

[
Sally Kirkland (born October 31, 1941) is an American movie and television actress. Kirkland was named after her mother. Her mother was a fashion editor for "Vogue" and "LIFE" magazines). She had small roles for 1970s movies ("The Sting", "The Way We Were" and "A Star is Born"). She also starred in many television roles in the soap operas "Valley of the Dolls" and "Days of Our Lives". She was born in New York City.

</doc>
<doc id="282829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282829" title="Magnus Johansson">
Magnus Johansson

Magnus Johansson (born September 4, 1973 in Linköping, Sweden) is an Swedish ice hockey defenceman for the Linköpings HC of the SHL where he is also the captain. He has also played in the NHL for the Chicago Blackhawks for 1 season and the Florida Panthers for 1 season before being signing a contract with the Atlant Moscow Oblast of the KHL and then retured back to Linköpings HC where he was named the team's captain. 

</doc>
<doc id="282830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282830" title="Lorraine Bracco">
Lorraine Bracco

Lorraine Bracco (born October 2, 1954) is an American actress. She is best known for playing Karen Hill in the 1990 movie "Goodfellas" and Jennifer Melfi in the HBO series "The Sopranos". She has also been in other movies, such as "Medicine Man" and "The Basketball Diaries".

</doc>
<doc id="282831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282831" title="Dejima">
Dejima

"Dejima Dutch Trading Post" is now a Japanese national historic site.
In 1543 Portuguese traders were the first to set foot in Japan, on the island of Tanegashima. Six years later Jesuit missionary Francis Xavier came to the island of Kyushu at Kagoshima. At first Portuguese traders were based in Hirado. Then they started a search for better port. In 1570 a powerful landowner or "daimyo" called Ōmura Sumitada became a Catholic. (He chose Bartolomeu as his Christian name.) He made a deal with the Portuguese to make Nagasaki better for trading. Soon the port was open. In 1580 Sumitada gave the jurisdiction of Nagasaki to the Jesuits. The Portuguese became the only ones trading silk with China through Macau. 
Shogun Iemitsu ordered the creation of the artificial island in 1634. He did this at first to keep the Portuguese merchants living in Nagasaki in one area. After a rebellion of the mostly Christian population in the Shimabara-Amakusa region, the Tokugawa government banned all Western nationals except the Dutch employees of the Dutch East India Company ("Vereenigde Oostindische Compagnie", VOC). Without the yearly Portuguese ships from Macau, the economy of Nagasaki suffered heavily.
Since 1609 the Dutch had a trading post on the island of Hirado. Government officials made the Dutch move from Hirado to Dejima. From 1641 on, only Chinese and Dutch ships were allowed to come to Japan.
Every ship that came to Dejima was inspected. The sails were taken off until that ship was ready to leave. Religious books and weapons were taken away. Religious services were not allowed on the island.
The island of Dejima was part of the city of Nagasaki. Dejima was small, 120 by 75 meters. 25 local Japanese families owned the land. They got a yearly rent rent from the Dutch. The island was linked to the mainland by a small bridge with guards. There were houses for about twenty Dutchmen and warehouses for goods. 
The Dutch were watched by a number of Japanese officials, gatekeepers and night watchmen. There was also a head supervisor ("otona") who had about fifty people working for him. There were a number of traders to sell the people on Dejima food and drink and other items they needed. There were also about 150 "tsūji" ("translators"). They all had to be paid by the "VOC". Like the city of Nagasaki, Dejima was under direct supervision of Edo by a governor ("Nagasaki bugyō").
It was very expensive for the Dutch to pay for their trading post. But their trade with Japan was very profitable for the "VOC". At first they made profits of 50% or more. Trade became less in the 18th century. This was because only two ships per year were allowed to dock at Dejima. The "VOC" had no more money in 1795, and went bankrupt. After that, the Dutch government took over the trade with Japan. Life on Dejima became especially difficult when the Netherlands (then called the Batavian Republic) was under French Napoleonic rule. All contact with the homeland was broken off. For a time Dejima was the only place in the world where the Dutch flag was flown because they were not ruled by France.
The most important Dutch official in Dejima was called the "Opperhoofd" by the Dutch. The Japanese also called him "Kapitan" (from Portuguese "capitão").

</doc>
<doc id="282835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282835" title="Lua">
Lua

Lua is an open source programming language. It was created in 1993 by Roberto Ierusalimschy, Luiz Henrique de Figueiredo, and Waldemar Celes. Lua is used for many different things and is widely used in video games such as World of Warcraft. In June 2010, Apple Inc. changed the terms of use for the software development kit of its iOS operating system to allow the use of Lua. This led to Lua being used to make iPhone applications such as Angry Birds. In June 2011, Lua was ranked the tenth most popular programming language by the TIOBE Index.
An example Hello World program in Lua:
An example of setting a value, then printing it:

</doc>
<doc id="282836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282836" title="Innate immune system">
Innate immune system

The innate immune system defends the host from infections. It includes cells which recognize and respond to pathogens (germs) right away. The innate immune system response is not specific: it responds the same way to all pathogens that it recognises. 
Unlike the adaptive immune system, the innate immune system does not give long-lasting immunity against specific infections. 
Innate immune systems give immediate defence against infection, and are found in all plant and animal life. The innate system is the evolutionarily older defense strategy. It is the main immune system found in plants, fungi, insects, and in primitive multicellular organisms. The system is not adaptable and does not change over the course of an individual's lifetime.
The vertebrate innate immune system:
The innate immune system includes the skin. The outer layers of the skin are called "epithelial". Epithelial cells form a waxy physical barrier that keeps out most infectious agents. These cells are the innate immune system's first line of defense against invading organisms.
Old skin cells drop off, and this helps remove bacteria that have stuck to the skin. 
The skin continues internally as the lining of the intestine and lung. In the intestines or lungs, movement by peristalsis or cilia helps to remove infectious agents. Also, mucus traps infectious agents. In the intestines, gut flora can prevent pathogenic bacteria by secreting toxic substances, or by competing with pathogenic bacteria for nutrients or for attachment to cell surfaces. 
The flushing action of tears and saliva helps prevent infection of the eyes and mouth.
Inflammation is one of the first responses of the immune system to pathogens or foreign substances that get past the anatomical barriers.
Inflammation is stimulated by chemical factors released by injured cells. It sets up a physical barrier against the spread of infection, and promotes healing of damaged tissue after the clearance of pathogens.
Chemical factors produced during inflammation attract phagocytes, especially neutrophils. Neutrophils then trigger other parts of the immune system.
The complement system is a biochemical cascade of the immune system that helps antibodies clear pathogens or mark them for destruction by other cells.
The cascade is composed of many plasma proteins, which are made in the liver. The proteins work together to:
Elements of the complement cascade can be found in many non-mammalian species including plants, birds, fish and some species of invertebrates.
All white blood cells (WBC) are known as leukocytes. Leukocytes are different from other cells of the body: they work like independent, single-celled organisms. They can move freely, and capture cell debris, foreign particles, or invading microorganisms. They are produced by blood-forming stem cells in the bone marrow. 
The innate leukocytes include: Natural killer cells, mast cells, eosinophils, basophils; and the phagocytic cells including macrophages, neutrophils and dendritic cells. They identify and eliminate pathogens that cause infection.
Mast cells are a type of innate immune cell in connective tissue and the mucous membranes. They are intimately associated with defence against pathogens and wound healing. They are also often associated with allergy and anaphylaxis. When activated, mast cells rapidly release characteristic granules, rich in histamine and heparin, along with various hormonal mediators, and chemotactic cytokines into the environment. Histamine dilates blood vessels, causing the signs of inflammation, and recruits neutrophils and macrophages.
The word 'phagocyte' literally means 'eating cell'. These are immune cells that engulf, i.e. phagocytose, pathogens or particles. To engulf a particle or pathogen, a phagocyte extends portions of its plasma membrane, wrapping the membrane around the particle until it is enveloped (i.e. the particle is now inside the cell). Once inside the cell, the invading pathogen is contained inside an endosome which merges with a lysosome. The lysosome contains enzymes and acids that kill and digest the particle or organism. Phagocytes generally patrol the body searching for pathogens, but are also able to react to a group of highly specialized molecular signals produced by other cells, called cytokines. The phagocytic cells of the immune system include macrophages], neutrophils, and dendritic cells.
Phagocytosis of the hosts’ own cells is common as part of regular tissue development and maintenance. When host cells die, phagocytic cells remove them from the affected site. By removing dead cells, phagocytosis is an important part of the healing process.
Macrophages are large phagocytic leukocytes. They can move across the cell membrane of capillary vessels and go between cells to hunt invading pathogens. Macrophages are the most efficient phagocytes, and can phagocytose substantial numbers of bacteria or other cells or microbes. 
The binding of bacterial molecules to receptors on the surface of a macrophage triggers it to engulf and destroy the bacteria. Pathogens also stimulate the macrophage to produce chemokines, which summon other cells to the site of infection.
 
Neutrophils and two other cell types (eosinophils and basophils), are known as granulocytes (because they have granules in their cytoplasm) or polymorphonuclear cells (PMNs) due to their distinctive lobed nuclei. 
Neutrophil granules contain a variety of toxic substances that kill or inhibit growth of bacteria and fungi. The main products of the neutrophil are strong oxidizing agents. These include hydrogen peroxide, free oxygen radicals and hypochlorite. Neutrophils are the most abundant type of phagocyte, with 50 to 60% of the total circulating leukocytes. They are usually the first cells to arrive at the site of an infection. The bone marrow of a normal healthy adult produces more than 100 billion neutrophils per day, and more than 10 times that many per day during acute inflammation.
Dendritic cells (DC) are phagocytic cells present in tissues that are in contact with the external environment, mainly the skin (where they are often called Langerhans cells), and the inner mucosal lining of the nose, lungs, stomach and intestines. Dendritic cells are very important in the process of antigen presentation, and serve as a link between the innate and adaptive immune systems.
Basophils and eosinophils are cells related to the neutrophil (see above). When activated by a pathogen encounter, basophils releasing histamine are important in defense against parasites, and play a role in allergic reactions (such as asthma). When they are activated, eosinophils secrete a range of highly toxic proteins and free radicals that kill bacteria and parasites. The same chemicals also cause tissue damage during allergic reactions. Activation and toxin release by eosinophils is therefore tightly regulated to prevent any inappropriate tissue destruction.
Natural killer cells, or NK cells, are a part of the innate immune system which does not directly attack invading microbes. Instead, NK cells destroy compromised host cells, such as tumor cells or virus-infected cells. It recognises such cells by a condition known as "missing self". This term describes cells with low levels of a cell-surface marker called MHC I (major histocompatibility complex). This can occur in viral infections of host cells. They were named "natural killer" because they do not require activation in order to kill cells that are "missing self".
Antimicrobial peptides, or host defence peptides, are part of the innate immune response. They are found among all classes of life. These peptides are potent, broad spectrum antibiotics. They kill both gram negative and gram positive bacteria, mycobacteria (including "Mycobacterium tuberculosis"), enveloped viruses, fungi and even transformed or cancerous cells. 
Marine fish sources have high levels of antimicrobial compounds. Testing with live fish showed that fish peptides used in food/feed ingredients worked well.

</doc>
<doc id="282842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282842" title="Adolphe-Marie Hardy">
Adolphe-Marie Hardy

Adolphe-Marie Hardy (23 May 1868 in Dison – 19 June 1954 in Laeken) was a Belgian writer first published in 1888 He rose to be a major figure in French literature.
Hardy was educated at Herve, before starting at the University of Louvain in 1886, studying law. After getting his doctorate he returned to Dison, where he carried on his literary work as well as working as a lawyer.
Hardy was editor or assistant editor of several literary journals from 1900 onwards, including Rappel de Charleroi, Dépêche de Liège and the Journal de Bruxelles.
In 1931 Hardy received the Grand Prix de Langue française from the French Academy. He was the first Belgian to win the prize, and he won it for his poem "Le Cortège des mois".
In 1935 he married Madeleine Verhelst. In 1940, they escaped to Issigeac, France. After his wife's death, in 1941, he married Germaine Van Den Boeck. 
In May 1954 he was made a Freeman of the City of Dison, and died at Laeken on June 19 of that year. 
Charles Ranhofer, chef at Delmonico's honoured Hardy early in his publishing career by naming a goose liver pate after him, and Ranhofer's book "The Epicurean", also lists a chicken dish, "Cotelettes De Poulet A La Adolphe Hardy".

</doc>
<doc id="282843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282843" title="Category:French poets">
Category:French poets


</doc>
<doc id="282846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282846" title="Category:Companies listed on the TSX">
Category:Companies listed on the TSX


</doc>
<doc id="282855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282855" title="Gnarls Barkley">
Gnarls Barkley

"Not to be confused with Charles Barkley."
Gnarls Barkley is a music group with DJ and music producer Danger Mouse and American rapper Cee Lo Green. The group had a hit song in 2006 with "Crazy". "Rolling Stone" later named the song as one of the "Best Songs of the 2000s". Gnarls Barkley has released two albums: "St. Elsewhere" in 2006, and "The Odd Couple" in 2008. 
In 2006 Gnarls Barkley released their first album "St. Elsewhere". It went straight to number one in the UK. The album's first single "Crazy" was the best-selling song of 2006 in the UK. The song won a Grammy Award for Best Urban/Alternative Performance in 2007. In 2008 Gnarls Barkley released their second album "The Odd Couple". It had a less pop sound than their first album. It was nominated for the Grammy for Best Alternative Album.

</doc>
<doc id="282863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282863" title="All Saints (group)">
All Saints (group)

The All Saints are an English-Canadian pop group. They were founded in 1993. The members of All Saints are British Melanie Blatt, Shaznay Lewis and Canadian sisters Natalie and Nicole Appleton. The group were one of the most successful pop groups in the UK in the 1990s with nine Top 10 singles, two platinum albums and two gold albums.

</doc>
<doc id="282888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282888" title="Oxygen difluoride">
Oxygen difluoride

Oxygen difluoride is the chemical compound with the formula OF. It has a V-shaped molecular structure like HO, but has different properties. It is a strong oxidizer.
Oxygen difluoride was first prepared in 1929. It was made by the electrolysis of molten potassium fluoride and hydrofluoric acid. The chemicals had small amount of moisture. Nowadays, it is prepared by the reaction of fluorine with a dilute aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide. Sodium fluoride is left as a side-product:
It is a very powerful oxidizing agent. This is proved by the oxidation number of +2 for the oxygen atom. This oxidising number is quite unusual. Above 200 °C, OF decomposes to oxygen and fluorine.
OF reacts with many metals. It produces oxides and fluorides. Nonmetals also react with it. Phosphorus reacts with OF to form PF and POF. Sulfur produces SO and SF with it. A noble gas, xenon also reacts with it. It produces XeF and xenon oxyfluorides.
Oxygen difluoride reacts very slowly with water to form hydrofluoric acid:
Oxygen difluoride oxidizes sulfur dioxide to sulfur trioxide:
However, in the presence of UV radiation the products are sulfuryl fluoride, , and pyrosulfuryl fluoride, :
OF is a dangerous chemical. This is because it is highly oxidising.

</doc>
<doc id="282902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282902" title="Phosphorus pentafluoride">
Phosphorus pentafluoride

Phosphorus pentafluoride, PF, is a phosphorus halide. It's a colorless gas at room temperature and pressure. It can be formed when OF reacts with phosphorus.

</doc>
<doc id="282906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282906" title="Adaptive immune system">
Adaptive immune system

The adaptive immune system is made of specialized cells and processes which kill pathogens or prevent their attack.
The adaptive immune system is switched on by the evolutionarily older innate immune system. This older system is non-specific, whereas the adaptive system is tailored to specific targets.
Whereas the innate immune system is found in all metazoa, the adaptive system is only found in vertebrates. It is thought to have arisen in the first jawed vertebrates.
The adaptive immune response gives the vertebrate immune system the ability to recognize and remember specific pathogens. The system mounts stronger attacks each time a particular pathogen is encountered. It is "adaptive" immunity because the body's immune system prepares itself for future challenges.
The immune system protects organisms from infection with layered defences. In simple terms, physical barriers prevent pathogens such as bacteria and viruses from entering the organism.
If a pathogen breaches these barriers, the innate immune system provides an immediate, but non-specific response. Innate immune systems are found in all plants and animals.
If pathogens successfully evade the innate response, vertebrates possess a third layer of protection, the adaptive immune system, which is activated by the innate response. Here, the immune system adapts its response during an infection to improve its recognition of the pathogen.
After the pathogen has been killed, the offspring of B and T cells continue. They are ready for a faster response next time. This is a kind of 'immunological memory'. These cells allow the adaptive immune system to mount faster and stronger attacks each time this pathogen is encountered.
Both innate and adaptive immunity depend on the ability of the immune system to distinguish between self and non-self molecules. In immunology, "self" molecules are those components of an organism's body that can be distinguished from foreign substances by the immune system. Conversely, "non-self" molecules are those recognized as foreign molecules. One class of non-self molecules are called antigens (short for "anti"body "gen"erators) and are defined as substances that bind to specific immune receptors and elicit an immune response.
Adaptive immunity is triggered in vertebrates when a pathogen evades the innate immune system and generates a threshold level of antigen.
The major functions of the adaptive immune system include:

</doc>
<doc id="282908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282908" title="Alexander Urbom">
Alexander Urbom

Alexander Urbom (born December 20, 1990) is a professional Swedish ice hockey defenseman who is currently playing for the Albany Devils. He was drafted by the New Jersey Devils in the third round, 73rd overall, in the 2009 NHL Draft.

</doc>
<doc id="282910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282910" title="Daniel Tetrault">
Daniel Tetrault

Daniel Tetrault (born September 4, 1979) is a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman for the Wichita Thunder of the Central Hockey League. He won the Central Hockey League Most Outstanding Defenseman in the 2001-02 CHL season.

</doc>
<doc id="282913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282913" title="Silas Marner">
Silas Marner

Silas Marner: The Weaver of Raveloe is a novel by George Eliot. It is her third novel. It was first published in 1861. It tells the story of Silas Marner, a lonely linen weaver.

</doc>
<doc id="282915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282915" title="Robbie Neale">
Robbie Neale

Robbie Neale (born April 17, 1953) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey forward who played in the World Hockey Association.

</doc>
<doc id="282919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282919" title="Category:1861 books">
Category:1861 books


</doc>
<doc id="282923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282923" title="Rapid City Rush">
Rapid City Rush

The Rapid City Rush is an American ice hockey team in the Central Hockey League (CHL). It plays its home games at the Rushmore Plaza Civic Center in Rapid City, South Dakota. The team began playing in 2008, and won the Ray Miron President's Cup, which is the championship of the CHL, in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="282946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282946" title="Ministries Trial">
Ministries Trial

The Ministries Trial (or, officially, The United States of America vs. Ernst von Weizsäcker, et al.) was the eleventh of the twelve trials for war crimes the US authorities held in their occupation zone in Germany in Nuremberg after the end of World War II.
Disagreements between the Allies meant only one trial was held by the International Military Tribunal (IMT). Other trials were held by the Allies in their own zones of occupation. The Americans held twelve trials, in the same rooms at the Palace of Justice as the IMT. These twelve trials are known as the "Subsequent Nuremberg Trials" or, more formally, as the "Trials of War Criminals before the Nuremberg Military Tribunals" (NMT).
This case is also known as the Wilhelmstrasse Trial, because the German Foreign Office was on the Wilhelmstrasse in Berlin. The defendants in this case were officials of various "Reich" ministries, facing various charges for their jobs in Nazi Germany and responsibility for the numerous atrocities committed both in Germany and in occupied countries during the war.
The judges in this case, heard before Military Tribunal IV, were William C. Christianson (presiding judge) from Minnesota, Robert F. Maguire from Oregon, and Leon W. Powers from Iowa. The Chief of Counsel for the Prosecution was Telford Taylor; the chief prosecutor was Robert Kempner. The indictment was filed on November 15, 1947; the hearings lasted from January 6, 1948 until November 18 that year, and then the judges took a whole five months to compile their 833-page judgment, which they presented on April 11, 1949. The sentences were handed down on April 13, 1949. Of all the twelve trials, this was the one that lasted longest and ended last. Of the 21 defendants arraigned, two were acquitted, the others were found guilty on at least one count of the indictment and received prison sentences ranging from three years including time served to 25 years' imprisonment.
 Stuckart was tried again in 1950 before a denazification court and sentenced as a "Mitläufer" (follower) a fine of DM 50,000.
Herbert Ernst Backe, the former minister for agriculture who should also have been tried, committed suicide on April 6, 1947 while in custody awaiting the trial.

</doc>
<doc id="282952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282952" title="Mitläufer">
Mitläufer

Mitläufer is a German term (plural: "Mitläufer") used in the denazification proceedings in West Germany after World War II to describe people who supported Nazism without directly participating in Nazi atrocities such as genocide. "Mitläufer" is usually translated in English as either "fellow-traveler" or "hanger-on". 
http://www.woxikon.com/wort/mitl%C3%A4ufer.php

</doc>
<doc id="282955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282955" title="Freiherr">
Freiherr

Freiherr was a title of nobility used in German speaking countries. Its equivalent in English is "Baron".
Since the end of the German Empire titles of nobility have not been allowed, but are still used, as if they were part of the name.
In Austria the use of titles, even as names, is illegal.

</doc>
<doc id="282956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282956" title="Dresdner Bank">
Dresdner Bank

Dresdner Bank AG was one of Germany's largest banking corporations and was based in Frankfurt. It was formed in 1872, and bought by competitor Commerzbank in December 2009.
Dresdner Bank was established in 1872. It moved its headquarters to Berlin in 1884, although its registered office stayed in Dresden until 1950. 
By 1900, Dresdner Bank had the largest German branch network. During the First World War, the London branch was forced to close; however, the overall branch network expanded.
After the banking crisis in 1931 the Weimar Republic owned 66% Dresdner Bank shares. Its deputy director was Dr Schacht, Minister of Economy under Nazism. The Bank was reprivatised in 1937. 
During World War II, Dresdner Bank controlled various banks in countries under German occupation. 
The introduction of the Deutsche Mark in 1948 helped return banking to normality.
Dresdner Bank expanded its network with acquisition and opening new offices not only in Europe but also in the United States, Singapore, Canada, Australia, Japan, Hong Kong, and China. Dresdner Bank was the first to open its own office in former East Germany in Dresden in 2 January 1990. 
In 2002 Dresdner Bank became a wholly owned subsidiary of the insurance corporation Allianz. Allianz sold Dresdner Bank, which was legally merged with Commerzbank on 11 May 2009 and ceased to be an independent company.
Dresdner Bank was known as the bank of choice for Heinrich Himmler's SS.
The bank took part early on in the Third Reich's policy of confiscating Jewish property and wealth. The bank helped to finance concentration camps, including Auschwitz.
The bank was closely involved in the occupation of Europe, "essentially acting as the bank of the SS in Poland".
Dresdner Bank attempted to get a banking operating licence in Saint Petersburg, where former KGB agent Vladimir Putin was in charge of foreign economic relations. Dresdner Bank appointed Matthias Warnig, a former Stasi agent and Vladimir Putin's former KGB contact , to negotiate with Putin. The office was opened in 1991. Warnig became Chairman of the Board of Directors of Dresdner Bank ZAO, Dresdner Bank Russian subsidiary.
The bank has had a lucrative business relationship with Gazprom and the state oil company Rosneft. The bank was also involved in the controversial forced sale of Yukos assets.

</doc>
<doc id="282961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282961" title="Daily News (New York)">
Daily News (New York)

The Daily News of New York City is a daily tabloid newspaper. As of a 2009 study by BurrellesLuce, a media relations measurement service, it is the fifth most-widely distributed daily newspaper in the United States, publishing and selling. The original "New York Daily News" was started by Benjamin Wood, but the business fell after his death. Joseph Medill Patterson went onto create a newspaper of the same name in 1919, it was America's first official tabloid journal. The paper has won 10 Pulitzer Prizes. 

</doc>
<doc id="282967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282967" title="LoveGame">
LoveGame

LoveGame is a 2009 electropop single by Lady Gaga. It was released from her 2008 debut record "The Fame". This was the third single from that album to be released in North America. The video for the song was banned by MTV Arabia.

</doc>
<doc id="282976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282976" title="Hurricane Gracie">
Hurricane Gracie

Hurricane Gracie was a major hurricane in September of 1959. This hurricane moved erratically for five days before making landfall over South Carolina as a strong Category 3 hurricane. Gracie caused $14 million in damage (1959 USD). Twenty-two people died due to this storm.

</doc>
<doc id="282977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282977" title="Tabloid">
Tabloid

The term tabloid is used to describe newspapers or magazines with pages smaller than regular journals, although there is no standard for the exact dimensions of a tabloid. It is also used (sometimes inappropriately or as an insult) to describe a newspaper that sensationalizes news stories, often with a focus on personalities and gossip, and much less detailed coverage of topics such as politics and economics than is offered by newspapers regarded as more serious. Tabloids usually include more "celebrity" news than political.

</doc>
<doc id="282984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282984" title="Paraná Association of Electrical Engineers">
Paraná Association of Electrical Engineers

The Paraná Association of Electrical Engineers () exists to promote scientific and technological development and to protect the interests of professional electrical engineering, such as: Electrical, Electronics, Telecommunications, Computer, Automation, of the state of Paraná, Brazil. It is a nonprofit organization.
It was founded on August 2, 1984, in Curitiba, capital of Paraná.

</doc>
<doc id="282985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282985" title="Sissy Spacek">
Sissy Spacek

Mary Elizabeth "Sissy" Spacek (born December 25, 1949) is an American actress and singer. She played Carrie White in the 1976 movie "Carrie". She also played country singer Loretta Lynn in the 1980 movie "Coal Miner's Daughter". Spacek is known mainly as a dramatic actress, but she has acted in comedies. She was born in Quitman, Texas.

</doc>
<doc id="282986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282986" title="Durham, North Carolina">
Durham, North Carolina

Durham is a city in the U.S. state of North Carolina. It has about 229,000 people. Durham has two universities, Duke and NC Central. It is northwest of Raleigh, and northeast of Chapel Hill. It is the county seat of Durham County
Before Europeans came to the Durham area, there were some Native American tribes nearby.
Durham was officially started in 1869, but there was a train station and some stores before that. It grew quickly in the late 1800s and early 1900s because of tobacco. NC Central was one of the first publicly funded (paid for) African-American colleges, and was started in 1924.
In the mid 1900s, people were buying less tobacco, so Durham became poorer. Some civil rights people also visited Durham during this time. The Research Triangle Park near Raleigh helped it some, but not very much. 
Recently, Durham's downtown has gotten better and Durham is growing more. The old tobacco buildings are now being used for other things.
Durham is located in north-central North Carolina, near Chapel Hill and Raleigh, in an area known as The Triangle. One of the few rivers in Durham is the Eno River. It goes into Falls Lake.
Durham has a sort of mild climate with hot summers and cool winters. In the summer temperatures usually go from 90° Fahrenheit during the day to 70°F at night. In the winter, is about 50°F during the day and 30°F at night. It can change more. Durham gets about of rain and of snow.
Durham has a lot of transportation, or roads, trains, and airplanes. Some freeways in Durham are Interstates 40 and 85 and highway 147. Durham is right next to an airport. Durham also has a train station.
Duke University is in Durham. Durham also has the Museum of Life and Science and the Nasher Art Museum. Downtown, there are also several tall buildings.

</doc>
<doc id="282991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282991" title="Valerie Plame">
Valerie Plame

Valerie Elise Plame Wilson, known simply as Valerie Plame, is a former officer of the Central Intelligence Agency and the author of two books related to her career. Her identity was revealed to public on July 14, 2003; that ended Plame's career with the CIA, from which she resigned around December 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="282999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282999" title="Paul Menard">
Paul Menard

Paul Menard (born August 21, 1980 in Eau Claire, Wisconsin) is an American racecar driver. Menard drives the #27 Menards Chevrolet for Richard Childress Racing in the NASCAR Sprint Cup series, and runs part-time for them in the NASCAR XFINITY Series. Menard won the 2006 AT&T 250 (now NorthernTool.com 250) in the Nationwide Series. 
Menard won his first NASCAR Sprint Cup race, The Brickyard 400, on July 31, 2011 at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. Menard is the son of home improvement store magnate John Menard.

</doc>
<doc id="283000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283000" title="Ricki Lake">
Ricki Lake

Ricki Pamela Lake (born September 21, 1968) is an American actress, producer, and television host. She hosted her own talk show, named "Ricki Lake" from 1993 until 2004. Lake played Tracy Turnblad in the 1988 movie "Hairspray". During the 1990s she starred in many movies. These included "Serial Mom" and "Mrs. Winterbourne". She recently hosted another talk show named "The Ricki Lake Show" which began in 2012.
Lake was born to secular, Jewish parents, Barry who is a pharmacist and Jill who is a housewife. Lake went to Ithaca College and Professional Children's School.
Lake hosted "Gameshow Marathon" on CBS in 2006.
In September 2011, Lake competed in "Dancing with the Stars" with Derek Hough. She got third place. She lost to Rob Kardashian and J. R. Martinez, respectively.
Lake married Rob Sussman on March 1994. They have two sons, Milo Sebastian Sussman born March 22, 1997 and Owen Tyler Sussman born June 18, 2001. They separated in August 2003. Lake and Sussman divorced in 2005. She started dating Christian Evans in 2009. They were engaged in August 2011. Lake and Evans married on April 8, 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="283010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283010" title="Valerie Bertinelli">
Valerie Bertinelli

Valerie Anne Bertinelli (23 April 1960) is an American television and movie actress. She is best known for starring as Barbara Cooper Royer in the television series "One Day at a Time" (1975-1984) and Melanie Moretti in the sitcom "Hot in Cleveland" (2010-present). She was born in Wilmington, Delaware.

</doc>
<doc id="283013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283013" title="Designing Women">
Designing Women

Designing Women was an American television sitcom. It starred Dixie Carter, Annie Potts, Jean Smart and Delta Burke. It was broadcast from September 1986 to May 1993 on CBS. This series was about the working and personal lives of four southern women.
Shout! Factory has released all seven seasons of "Designing Women" on DVD in Region 1.

</doc>
<doc id="283015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283015" title="Spiritual séance">
Spiritual séance

Spiritual séance or, simply, Séance is a meeting at which a group of people often including a medium attempts to contact a ghost and communicate with it. Participants of such meeting need not be seated while engaged in a séance.
One of the earliest books on the subject is "Communitation With the Other Side" by George, First Baron Lyttelton, published in England in 1760.
Some notable people who attended séances and believed in all that include the United States President Abraham Lincoln, and his wife Mary Todd Lincoln; the social reformer Robert Owen; the journalist and pacifist William Thomas Stead, and more.
Scientists who have conducted a search for real séances and believed that contact with the dead is a reality include the evolutionary biologist Alfred Russel Wallace, the inventor of telephone Alexander Graham Bell, and the inventor of television technology John Logie Baird, who claimed to have contacted the spirit of the inventor Thomas Edison, and more.

</doc>
<doc id="283017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283017" title="Murray-Darling Basin">
Murray-Darling Basin

The Murray-Darling Basin is an area in Australia around the Murray and Darling Rivers. Three million Australians inside and outside the basin are directly dependent on its water. 
About 6 per cent of Australia's total rainwater falls into the Murray-Darling Basin. About 85 per cent of all irrigation in Australia takes place in the basin, which supports an agricultural industry worth more than $9 billion per annum.
The Murray-Darling Basin covers or approximately one-seventh (14%) of the total area of Australia. 
Over two million people live in the Basin.

</doc>
<doc id="283021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283021" title="Buick Regal">
Buick Regal

The Buick Regal is a mid-size car that is built by General Motors's Buick brand. The Buick Regal has had five generations, the newest one in 2011. The assembly for the car's are in Shanghai, China, Rüsselsheim, Germany and Oshawa, Ontario, Canada. Prior to the fifth generation Buick Regal was strictly front-wheel drive, beginning with the fifth generation all-wheel drive (AWD) became an option. From 1974-2003 certain generations shared the same frame and design with the Buick Century, in 1997 the Regal was released with a new design making it a more upscale version of the Century the only changes were the grille and interior.

</doc>
<doc id="283024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283024" title="Bucky Covington">
Bucky Covington

William Joel "Bucky" Covington III (born November 8, 1977 in Rockingham, North Carolina) is an American country music singer and songwriter.
Covington was part of the 5th season of "American Idol" where he placed eighth.
Covington released his debut album, "Bucky Covington", in 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="283026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283026" title="Mileage">
Mileage

The term "mileage" refers to distance traveled. It often refers to distance per unit of fuel, such as miles per gallon (mpg) or litres per 100 kilometres (L/100 km). In the U.S., the fuel efficiency of motorized vehicles (such as cars, trucks, or motorcycles) is measured in mpg, as miles per U.S. gallon of gasoline. However, in the UK, the fuel efficiency is often measured in litres of fuel used per 100 kilometres, or in miles per imperial gallon.

</doc>
<doc id="283030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283030" title="Patsy Cline">
Patsy Cline

Patsy Cline (born Virginia Patterson Hensley; September 8, 1932–March 5, 1963) was an American country music singer.
Some of Cline's greatest known hits were "She's Got You," "I Fall to Pieces," "Walkin' After Midnight," "Sweet Dreams," and "Crazy".
In 1973, Cline was posthumously (after death) inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame, making her the first woman to be inducted.
She died on March 5, 1963 in a plane crash near Camden, Tennessee, and she is buried at Shenandoah Memorial Park in Winchester, Virginia.

</doc>
<doc id="283038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283038" title="Daniel Nathans">
Daniel Nathans

Daniel Nathans (October 30, 1928 - November 16, 1999) was an American biologist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1978. His parents were both Russian Jews who came to the U.S for a better life.
Daniel Nathans parents, Samuel and Sarah Nathans met each other in the U.S and were married in Philadelphia in 1910. Sarah Nathans (Daniel’s mother) came to the U.S from Russia when she was 18 years old. Samuel Nathans (Daniel’s father) came to the U.S when he was a teenager. Daniel was born on October 30, 1928. He was the last of nine children in his family. He attended the University of Delaware in 1950 and earned a Bachelor of Science in Chemistry. He then attended the Washington University in St. Louis and earned a Master's Degree in 1954.
In 1978, he won a Nobel Prize with Werner Arber and Hamilton Smith for finding restriction enzymes. He won a National Medal of Science in 1993. Nathans died on November 16, 1999 at the age of 71.

</doc>
<doc id="283044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283044" title="Chris Bosh">
Chris Bosh

Christopher Wesson Bosh (born March 24, 1984 in Dallas, Texas) is an American basketball player. He attended college at Georgia Tech where he played basketball. Chris Bosh started his NBA career when he was drafted by the Toronto Raptors in the 2003 NBA Draft with the 4th pick in the 1st round. Bosh would play 7 seasons with the Raptors becoming a star player before doing a sign-and-trade deal with the Miami Heat after the 2009–10 NBA season.

</doc>
<doc id="283046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283046" title="Fiat Cinquecento">
Fiat Cinquecento

The Fiat Cinquecento is a car produced by Fiat, introduced in 1991. It was replaced by the Fiat Seicento in 1998.

</doc>
<doc id="283064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283064" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Tomlinopolis">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Tomlinopolis


</doc>
<doc id="283077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283077" title="Category:People from Berkshire">
Category:People from Berkshire


</doc>
<doc id="283078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283078" title="Category:Socialites">
Category:Socialites


</doc>
<doc id="283079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283079" title="Bowers Coaches">
Bowers Coaches

Bowers Coaches was a bus operator based in Chapel-en-le-Frith, Derbyshire.
It operated local bus services centered around the towns of Buxton, Glossop and New Mills. The company specialised in local bus services and the service area covers the High Peak Borough and some surrounding areas such as the town of Marple in Stockport and Ashbourne in the Derbyshire Dales.
The company became 'defunct' on 1 April 2012 as it combined with Trent Barton to form High Peak. 

</doc>
<doc id="283083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283083" title="American Civil Liberties Union">
American Civil Liberties Union

The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) is a group of two non-profit organizations that fight for what they believe are important civil liberties issues. It was started in 1920 by Crystal Eastman, Roger Nash Baldwin, and Walter Nelles.
Some issues that are important to the ACLU are the First Amendment to the United States Constitution (which says that people have free speech and freedom of religion, as well as other rights), privacy, the right of people to be treated fairly if they are accused of a crime and arrested, and the right for everybody to be treated the same under the law. 
One way the ACLU tries to reach its goals is by helping people in court whom it believes are not being treated fairly by the law. The ACLU has lawyers that file lawsuits for people it represents. The ACLU also tries to change laws by teaching people about issues and by lobbying the government about what it believes.
Some people in the United States disagree with the ACLU. Some conservatives do not like that the ACLU believes that people have the right to an abortion and that it believes in the separation of church and state. Also, some of the people or groups that the ACLU has represented in court have been unpopular, such as the Westboro Baptist Church, which is famous for protesting the funerals of American soldiers who died at war.

</doc>
<doc id="283088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283088" title="Louise Henriette de Bourbon">
Louise Henriette de Bourbon

Louise Henriette de Bourbon (20 June 1726 – 9 February 1759) was Duchess of Orléans and the mother of Philippe Égalité. By birth and marriage she held the prestigious rank of a Princess of the blood.
Louise Henriette was born in Paris the only daughter of Louis Armand de Bourbon, Prince of Conti and Louise Élisabeth de Bourbon. In her youth she was known at court as "Mademoiselle de Conti" and had been bought up in a convent. 
One of Louise Henriette's cousins, Louis Jean Marie de Bourbon, grandson of Louis XIV, had proposed marriage to her, but her mother's choice fell upon the Duke of Chartres. As a result on 17 December 1743, aged of seventeen, Louise Henriette married her second cousin Louis Philippe d'Orléans at Versailles. 
The Duke of Chartres' father, Louis d'Orléans, Duke of Orléans, known as the "Pious", accepted her as she had had a religious upbringing however after a passionate beginning, Louise Henriette's scandalous behaviour caused the couple to break up. She later had an affair with the Count of Melfort after the birth of her son. Her son later said that he was in fact the illegitimate son of the Count of Melfort but this was ignored as he looked so much like his father.
Louise Henriette died on 9 February 1759 at the age of thirty-two, with her husband and children at her side, at the Palais-Royal, the Orléans residence in Paris. Her premature death was a consequence, it was said, of her debaucheries.
After her death, her husband had several mistresses, ultimately finding the love of his life, the witty but married marquise de Montesson, whom he married after she became a widow.

</doc>
<doc id="283094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283094" title="Earth's core">
Earth's core

The Earth's core is the part of Earth in the middle of our planet. It has a solid inner core and a liquid outer core.
The outer core of the Earth is a liquid layer about 2,260 kilometers thick. It is made of iron and nickel. This is above the Earth's solid inner core and below the mantle. Its outer boundary is beneath the Earth's surface. The transition between the inner core and outer core is approximately 5,150 km beneath the Earth's surface.
The temperature of the outer core ranges from 4400 °C in the outer regions to 6100 °C near the inner core. Eddy currents in the nickel iron fluid of the outer core are believed to influence the Earth's magnetic field. 
The average magnetic field strength in the Earth's outer core was measured to be 25 Gauss, 50 times stronger than the magnetic field at the surface. 
The outer core is not under enough pressure to be solid, so it is liquid even though it's mostly made of the same stuff as the inner core. Sulfur and oxygen could also be in the outer core.
Without the outer core, life on Earth would be very different. Convection of liquid metals in the outer core creates the Earth's magnetic field. This magnetic field extends outward from the Earth for several thousand kilometers, and creates a protective bubble around the Earth that deflects the Sun's solar wind. Without this field, the solar wind would directly strike the Earth's atmosphere. This might have removed the Earth's atmosphere, making the planet nearly lifeless. It may have happened to Mars.
The inner core of the Earth, as detected by seismology, is a solid sphere about in radius, or about 70% that of the Moon. It is believed to be an iron–nickel alloy, and may have a temperature similar to the Sun's surface, approximately 5778 K (5505 °C).
In 2015 a Chinese scientist suggested the inner core has two layers. The seismic wave data suggests that crystals in the "inner inner core" are in an east-to-west direction. Those in the "outer inner core" are lined up north to south. Another scientist commented: "If this is true, it would imply that something very substantial happened to flip the orientation of the core to turn the alignment of crystals in the inner core north-south as is seen today in its outer parts". Other scientists are checking their data.

</doc>
<doc id="283113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283113" title="Seminole County, Florida">
Seminole County, Florida

Seminole County, Florida is a county in Florida.

</doc>
<doc id="283115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283115" title="Seminole County">
Seminole County

Seminole County is the name of many counties in the United States:

</doc>
<doc id="283116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283116" title="Baker County, Florida">
Baker County, Florida

Baker County, Florida is a county in Florida.

</doc>
<doc id="283117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283117" title="Bay County, Florida">
Bay County, Florida

Bay County, Florida is a county in Florida.

</doc>
<doc id="283119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283119" title="Baker County">
Baker County

Baker County is the name of three counties in the United States:

</doc>
<doc id="283121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283121" title="Seminole County, Georgia">
Seminole County, Georgia

Seminole County, Grorgia is a county in Georgia.

</doc>
<doc id="283130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283130" title="Puppet (software)">
Puppet (software)

Puppet is a computer program for managing the options of other software. It is open source.

</doc>
<doc id="283132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283132" title="Baker County, Georgia">
Baker County, Georgia

Baker County, Georgia is a county in Georgia. Its county seat is Newton.

</doc>
<doc id="283140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283140" title="Barbara Hershey">
Barbara Hershey

Barbara Lynn Herzstein (b. February 5, 1948), better known as Barbara Hershey, is an American movie and television actress. She has starred in many movies and television series. Her acting career began around 1965, but she did not get famous until the second half of the 1980s. She was born in Hollywood, California.
She won the Golden Globe Award in 1991 for "Best Performance by an Actress in a Mini-Series or Motion Picture Made for TV". She was also in "Black Swan", "The Last Temptation of Christ" and "Hannah and Her Sisters".

</doc>
<doc id="283146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283146" title="Buddh International Circuit">
Buddh International Circuit

The Buddh International Circuit (or BIC) is a track (circuit) that had opened in 2011, which is used for motor racing. The main event is the Indian Grand Prix, the first to be held in that country.
The track was designed by Hermann Tilke, the FIA's most commonly used Track Designer.
The track was originally known as the Jaypee Group Circuit, after the owners, the Jaypee Group. The track was renamed in April 11, 2011

</doc>
<doc id="283149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283149" title="Category:Television stubs">
Category:Television stubs

If you would like to request a stub type, please bring it up first. Thank you.

</doc>
<doc id="283150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283150" title="Mike Fisher">
Mike Fisher

Michael Andrew Fisher (born June 5, 1980 in Peterborough, Ontario) is a Canadian professional ice hockey centre. He currently plays for the Nashville Predators of the NHL (NHL). Fisher also played for the Ottawa Senators and played 10 seasons also becoming the assistant captain for them. 
On July 10, 2010, Fisher married country music singer, Carrie Underwood after proposing to her on December 20, 2009. He is a devout Christian.
In 2016 after the former Nashville Predators captain, Shea Weber, was traded, he was made captain of the team.

</doc>
<doc id="283152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283152" title="Mount Buninyong">
Mount Buninyong

Mount Buninyong is large extinct volcano 15 kilometres south east of Ballarat, Victoria, Australia. The 745 metre volcano is on the Western Victorian Volcanic Plains.
The scoria cone of the volcano is more than 200 metres higher than the land around it which makes it one of biggest scoria volcanoes in Victoria. It has a deep central crater. The volcano erupted several times, and during one eruption the west side of the volcano was breached. In later eruptions the lava flowed through this gap in the side. It is possible that the breach was actually another crater.
There is a road that goes up to the top of the mountain, and there are a number of communication towers and a bushfire watching tower. There are three walking tracks: the Crater Walk, the Summit Walk and the Southern Walk. It is also one of the last koala habitats in the area, with large manna gums and messmate trees.
The name "Buninyong" comes from the Australian Aboriginal people known as the Wauthaurung. Their word for the mountain was "Bunnin Yowang" which meant "big hill like knee".

</doc>
<doc id="283153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283153" title="Derrick Rose">
Derrick Rose

Derrick Martell Rose (born October 4, 1988 in Chicago, Illinois) is an American basketball player. He currently plays for the New York Knicks. He plays at the position of point guard. He attended college at University of Memphis where he played basketball with the Memphis Tigers. Rose was drafted out of college by the Chicago Bulls with the 1st overall pick in the 1st round of the 2008 NBA Draft. Rose was named the 2011 NBA Most Valuable Player. He is the youngest person to win an NBA MVP.
On October 9, 2012, Rose's girlfriend, Mieka Reese, gave birth to their son, Derrick Rose, Jr.
On June 22, 2016, Rose was traded to the New York Knicks

</doc>
<doc id="283154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283154" title="Visual arts">
Visual arts

The visual arts are art forms that create works which are primarily visual in nature. The visual arts (also known as the plastic arts) produce objects. They are contrasted with the performing arts.
Examples are ceramics, drawing, painting, sculpture, printmaking. Also, modern visual arts which use technology: photography, video, filmmaking and architecture. 
These definitions should not be taken too strictly as many artistic disciplines (performing arts, conceptual art, textile arts) involve aspects of the visual arts as well as arts of other types. Movies and performing arts, for example, make use of set and costume design, sometimes by prominent artists.
Also included within the visual arts are the applied arts such as industrial design, graphic design, fashion design, interior design and decorative art.

</doc>
<doc id="283158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283158" title="Sammy Sosa">
Sammy Sosa

Samuel Peralta "Sammy" Sosa (born November 12, 1968 in San Pedro de Macorís, Dominican Republic) is a retired Dominican baseball player. Sosa played for the Texas Rangers, Chicago White Sox, Chicago Cubs, Baltimore Orioles and the Texas Rangers during his career. 
Sosa has also run into some controversy for steroids which he denied taking.
He will become eligible for the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="283164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283164" title="Teri Garr">
Teri Garr

Teri Garr (born December 11, 1944) is an American movie and television actress. Her movie debut was the 1963 movie "A Swingin' Affair". Her career breakthrough was in 1974 with the movie "Young Frankenstein". Garr has acted in many other movies. She has been acting on TV since the late 1960s. She appeared on "". She has multiple sclerosis. Garr was born in Lakewood, Ohio.
In 1983 she was nominated for "Best Supporting Actress" in "Tootsie".
In October 2002, Garr said that she was battling multiple sclerosis.

</doc>
<doc id="283167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283167" title="Category:Dominican Republic athletes">
Category:Dominican Republic athletes


</doc>
<doc id="283171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283171" title="Jamie Benn">
Jamie Benn

Jamie Benn (born July 18, 1989 in Victoria, British Columbia) is a Canadian professional ice hockey left winger . He currently plays for the Dallas Stars of the National Hockey League (NHL). His older brother Jordie Benn also plays for the Dallas Stars.
Before playing in the NHL, Benn played 2 seasons with the Kelowna Rockets of the Western Hockey League (WHL). He won a gold medal with Canada at the 2009 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships when they defeated Sweden in the Finals. He also scored the game-winning goal in Canada's first game against Norway and the only goal in a 1-0 win against the United States in the semi-final game.

</doc>
<doc id="283173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283173" title="Hearing aid">
Hearing aid

A hearing aid is a small electrical machine which fits in or behind a person's ear. The purpose of a hearing aid is to make sounds louder so the person can hear spoken words and other sounds.
The two most common types of modern hearing aids are "behind the ear aids" and "in the ear aids".
Before hearing aids were invented, people used "ear trumpets" also called ear horns.
There are many different types of hearing aids as shown in the "different hearing aids," image on this page. Depending on your lifestyle as well as how much help you need to hear, you will use different hearing aids. An audiologist can help make hearing aids even better suited to you by customising them depending on what you need. 

</doc>
<doc id="283175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283175" title="Shapiro delay">
Shapiro delay

The Shapiro time delay is a physics experiment. It is one of the four classic solar system observations or experiments which test general relativity. 
Radar signals passing near a massive object take slightly longer to travel to a target and longer to return than it would if the mass of the object were not present.
The time delay effect was first noticed in 1964, by Irwin I. Shapiro. Shapiro proposed an observational test of his prediction: bounce radar beams off the surface of Venus and Mercury, and measure the round trip travel time. When the Earth, Sun, and Venus are most favorably aligned, Shapiro showed that the expected time delay, due to the presence of the Sun, of a radar signal traveling from the Earth to Venus and back, would be about 200 microseconds, well within the limitations of 1960s era technology.
The first tests, performed in 1966 and 1967 using the MIT Haystack radar antenna, were successful, matching the predicted amount of time delay. The experiments have been repeated many times since then, with increasing accuracy.

</doc>
<doc id="283182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283182" title="Miller–Urey experiment">
Miller–Urey experiment

The Miller and Urey experiment (or "Urey–Miller experiment") was an experiment that made organic compounds out of inorganic ones by applying a form of energy.
The idea was to simulate hypothetical conditions thought to be present on the early Earth (Hadean or early Archaean). It was a test of the chemical origins of life. Specifically, the experiment tested Alexander Oparin's and J.B.S. Haldane's hypothesis that conditions on the primitive Earth favored chemical reactions that synthesized organic compounds from inorganic precursors. Considered to be the classic experiment on the origin of life, it was conducted in 1952 and published in 1953 by Stanley Miller and Harold Urey at the University of Chicago.
After Miller's death in 2007, scientists examined sealed vials preserved from the original experiments. They were able to show that there were well over 20 different amino acids produced in Miller's original experiments. That is considerably more than those Miller originally reported, and more than the 20 that naturally occur in life.
Moreover, some evidence suggests that Earth's original atmosphere might have had a different composition than the gas used in the Miller–Urey experiment. There is abundant evidence of major volcanic eruptions 4 billion years ago, which would have released carbon dioxide, nitrogen, hydrogen sulfide (HS), and sulfur dioxide (SO) into the atmosphere. Experiments using these gases in addition to the ones in the original Miller–Urey experiment have produced more diverse molecules.
Note that organic compounds, including amino acids, are present in the meteorite dust which rains down on Earth. Therefore, interest in abiogenesis and the origin of life has shifted to the question of how cells and large macromolecules formed.

</doc>
<doc id="283185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283185" title="Tony Amonte">
Tony Amonte

Anthony Lewis Amonte (born August 2, 1970) is an American retired professional ice hockey right winger. He played a career total of 1174 regular season games and 99 playoff games in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the New York Rangers, Chicago Blackhawks, Phoenix Coyotes, Philadelphia Flyers, and the Calgary Flames. He currently works as the head coach of Thayer Academy Varsity Hockey Team.
Before playing in the NHL, Amonte played 2 years of college hockey with the Boston University Terriers. He was drafted with the 68th overall pick by the New York Rangers in the 1988 NHL Draft. Amonte played in the NHL for five teams, New York Rangers from 1991 to 1994, Chicago Blackhawks from 1994 to 2002, Phoenix Coyotes from 2002 to 2003, Philadelphia Flyers from 2003 to 2004 and the Calgary Flames from 2005 to 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="283189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283189" title="Kristján Eldjárn">
Kristján Eldjárn

Dr. Kristján Eldjárn (December 6, 1916 – September 14, 1982) was the 3rd president of Iceland. He was president from 1968 to 1980.
He won as the underdog in the 1968 presidential election, winning 65.6% of the vote on a 92.2% voter turnout running against Gunnar Thoroddsen.
His son is Þórarinn Eldjárn who is a popular author in Iceland and his daughter Sigrún Eldjárn is also an author.

</doc>
<doc id="283194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283194" title="Henry Lawson">
Henry Lawson

Henry Lawson (17 June 1867 – 2 September 1922) was an Australian writer and poet. Along with Banjo Paterson, he is remembered as one of the best Australian writers. He wrote about life in the Australian bush.

</doc>
<doc id="283197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283197" title="Nellie Melba">
Nellie Melba

Dame Nellie Melba GBE (19 May 1861–23 February 1931), born Helen Porter Mitchell, was an Australian opera soprano. She became one of the most famous singers of the late Victorian Era and the early 20th century. Melba was the first Australian to become a world famous classical musician.
Melba was born in Richmond, Victoria. Her father was Scottish. She died of septicemia in Sydney.

</doc>
<doc id="283198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283198" title="Category:Presidents of Russia">
Category:Presidents of Russia


</doc>
<doc id="283199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283199" title="Category:Presidents of Venezuela">
Category:Presidents of Venezuela


</doc>
<doc id="283200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283200" title="Skeeter Davis">
Skeeter Davis

Mary Frances Penick (December 30, 1931–September 19, 2004) better known by her stage name, Skeeter Davis was an American country music singer.
Her best known song is her 1963 hit, The End of the World.
She released 30 studio albums during her musical career.
She died on September 19, 2004 because of breast cancer which she had been battling for years.

</doc>
<doc id="283201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283201" title="Barry Humphries">
Barry Humphries

John Barry Humphries, AO, CBE (born 17 February 1934) is an Australian comedian, satirist, dadaist, artist, author and character actor. His is probably best known for making up and playing the characters of Dame Edna Everage, a Melbourne housewife and "gigastar", and Sir Les Patterson, who is an really rude "Australian diplomat". He is also a movie producer and script writer, a star of London's West End musical theatre, an award-winning writer and a landscape painter. He has been on TV, in movie and on stage. He became popular in Austtralia in the 1950s, then Britain from the 1960s and finally in America in the 1990s. He has been called the most important comedian since Charlie Chaplin.

</doc>
<doc id="283205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283205" title="Category:Presidents of Philippines">
Category:Presidents of Philippines


</doc>
<doc id="283208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283208" title="Australian country music">
Australian country music

Australian country music is a part of the music of Australia. It comes from American country music, as well as British and Irish folk music and the work of traditional Australian poets like Banjo Paterson and Henry Lawson. Australian country music often uses guitars, banjos, fiddles and harmonicas and has songs about things like: outback life, stockmen, truckers and outlaws, romance, political protest and the "beauty and the terror" of the Australian bush. Famous musicians include: Slim Dusty, Joy McKean, Olivia Newton-John, John Williamson, Keith Urban, Lee Kernaghan and Kasey Chambers. Others singers influenced by it include Nick Cave and Paul Kelly. Popular songs include Waltzing Matilda (1895), Pub With No Beer (1957), Lights on the Hill (1973), I Honestly Love You (1974), True Blue (1981), and Not Pretty Enough (2002).

</doc>
<doc id="283211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283211" title="Get Closer (Keith Urban album)">
Get Closer (Keith Urban album)

Get Closer is the sixth studio album by New Zealand-born Australian country music singer Keith Urban. It was released on November 16, 2010. The producers of the album was Dan Huff and Keith Urban. The album peaked at #7 on the Billboard 200 and peaked #2 on the U.S. Billboard Top Country Albums. The song "Put You in a Song" peaked at #2 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Country Songs.

</doc>
<doc id="283219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283219" title="Category:Presidents of Chile">
Category:Presidents of Chile


</doc>
<doc id="283220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283220" title="Marie Thérèse of Savoy">
Marie Thérèse of Savoy

Maria Teresa of Savoy (31 January 1756 – 2 June 1805) was a Princess of Savoy and the wife of Charles Charles, Count of Artois future Charles X of France. In France she was known as Marie Thérèse de Savoie. 
Born at the Royal Palace of Turin, she was the child of Victor Amandeus of Savoy and his wife Maria Antonia of Spain and was baptised with the names "Maria Teresa". At the time of her birth her grandfather, Charles Emmanuel III of Sardinia, was the King of Sardinia and her father was the heir to the throne. 
Maria Teresa was engaged to Charles Philippe of France, youngest grandson of Louis XV. Her marriage with Charles Philippe, known as the Count of Artois, was the last of three marriages which were carried out between 1771 and 1775. These marriages were between her oldest brother and sister and the younger grandsons of Louis XV and his older granddaughter Marie Clotilde of France. 
She was married officially at the Palace of Versailles on 16 November 1773. The most important female at court was her sister-in-law, Marie Antoinette. Maria Teresa's sister, Marie Joséphine had a higher rank than Maria Teresa as she had married the older brother, the Count of Provence. The two sisters did not have good relations with Marie Antoinette. Despite this, Maria Teresa was more popular than her sister Marie Joséphine who was very ugly. Despite this it was said that she was silent and was interested in absolutely nothing. 
The marriage produced four children, two of which survived infancy. She fled France with her husband shortly after the storming of the Bastille on 14 July 1789 which marked the beginning of the French Revolution. Some time after, she took refuge in her homeland of Savoy under the protection of her father who had become king in 1773. Moving to Austria, she died in exile at Graz in 1805. She was buried in the Imperial Mausoleum next to Graz cathedral. Her husband became Charles X of France in 1824. 

</doc>
<doc id="283223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283223" title="Category:Presidents of Austria">
Category:Presidents of Austria


</doc>
<doc id="283237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283237" title="Category:Dinosaurs of North America">
Category:Dinosaurs of North America


</doc>
<doc id="283241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283241" title="Ensifera">
Ensifera

Ensifera is a suborder of the order Orthoptera. It includes the insects commonly known as crickets, katydids and bush crickets. "Ensifer" means "sword bearer" in Latin, and refers to the long and blade-like ovipositor of the females. 

</doc>
<doc id="283243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283243" title="Tetrigidae">
Tetrigidae

Tetrigidae is a family in the order Orthoptera, which also includes crickets, grasshoppers, and katydids. Species within the Tetrigidae are variously called grouse locusts, pygmy locusts, groundhoppers or pygmy grasshoppers. There are roughly 1,600 species in about 250 genera altogether.

</doc>
<doc id="283249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283249" title="Born This Way">
Born This Way

Born This Way is the second full length studio album by American singer-songwriter Lady Gaga. The album was released on May 23, 2011. It was released under Streamline, and Kon Live Records. The album was produced by DJ White Shadow and RedOne. The album's lead single "Born This Way" was released on Friday, February 11, 2011. "Born This Way" became Gaga's first number-one album on the "Billboard" 200 after it debuted at that position.

</doc>
<doc id="283250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283250" title="Born This Way (song)">
Born This Way (song)

"Born This Way" is a single by American pop singer Lady Gaga. It was released on February 11, 2011. The song premiered on KIIS-FM's American Top 40 with Ryan Seacrest on February 11th. The single was produced by Mexican music producer Fernando Garibay as well as DJ White Shadow and Gaga herself. The song is the lead single for Gaga's 2nd studio album "Born This Way" which was released on May 23, 2011. The single's music video was filmed on January 22, 2011. Gaga performed the song live at the 53rd Annual Grammy Awards on February 13, 2011, two days after the song's release.
While accepting the Video of the Year award (for "Bad Romance") at the 2010 MTV Video Music Awards, Gaga, after tearfully announcing her forthcoming album's title, sang a few lines from the song: "I'm beautiful in my way, 'cause God makes no mistakes; I'm on the right track, baby, I was born this way." Given as a Christmas "gift" to her fans at the stroke of midnight on New Year's Day 2011, she announced (via Twitter) that May 23, 2011 and February 13, 2011 would see the release of Born This Way and this song respectively. The song, however, was released on February 11, two days prior to its original release, after revealing this on her Twitter page on February 7. Prior to its release in late January, Gaga (via Twitter) released the full set of lyrics to "Born This Way" onto the Internet.
On February 16, 2011, Billboard announced that "Born This Way" entered at the number-one position of the "Billboard" Hot 100. The song became the 1000th number-one single in the chart's history and the nineteenth song to debut at number one. The song also reached number one in Australia and Canada and reached the top three in the United Kingdom.
Critics positively reviewed the song, though it faced criticism for having similarities with Madonna's 1989 single "Express Yourself".

</doc>
<doc id="283253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283253" title="Bad Romance">
Bad Romance

"Bad Romance" is a song by American recording artist Lady Gaga. It was released as the lead single from her third extended play (EP), and second major release "The Fame Monster" on October 26, 2009.
Gaga has said that the song is about being in love with a best friend. There are some lines sung in French in the song.
The song reached #1 in many countries including Canada, the UK, Germany, France, Italy, and Spain, while reaching #2 in the US and Australia. It was certified Diamond in America and has sold over 5.5 million downloads in that country. "Bad Romance" won Gaga the 2011 Grammy Awards for Best Pop Vocal Performance and for Best Short Form Music Video.

</doc>
<doc id="283257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283257" title="Pastor Maldonado">
Pastor Maldonado

Pastor Rafael Maldonado Motta (born March 9, 1985 in Maracay) is a Venezuelan racing driver. His career so far has been in single-seater Formula racing. He is the 2010 GP2 Champion, and a former champion of Italian Formula Renault. He is currently a driver for the Williams Formula One team. His first F1 race was the Australian Grand Prix.
Maldonado started formula racing in Italy in 2003. He competed in the Italian Formula Renault Championship. He had three podium finishes and one pole position.
In 2004, Maldonado ran in both the Italian and European Formula Renault series. He won the Italian championship He had eight wins and six pole positions. In the European championship, he finished in eighth position, with two wins. Maldonado also entered one round of the Formula Renault V6 Eurocup at Spa-Francorchamps.
In 2005, Maldonado made four starts in the Italian F3000 Championship. He won one race and finish in ninth place. He also entered nine races (and made seven starts) in the Spanish-based World Series by Renault (WSR). Maldonado only started seven of the races, and his best finish was seventh place. 
Maldonado received a four-race ban in the WSR for dangerous driving. He did not slow down at the scene of an accident at Monaco. There were warning flags displayed. He hit and seriously injured a marshal.
Maldonado received a full-time drive in the Formula Renault 3.5 Series with Draco Racing in 2006. He was finished in third place. He won three race and finished on the podium six other times. Maldonado had five pole positions.
Maldonado signed a contract to drive in GP2 for Trident Racing in 2007. He first win came in his fourth race in the series at Monaco. He missed the final four rounds of the season after breaking a collarbone during training. He finished the season outside the top 10. He has moved to the Piquet Sports team for the 2008 season. He finished in fifth place in the drivers' championship.
Maldonado signed to drive for the ART Grand Prix team for the 2009 season. As part of the deal, he also joined the team for three rounds of the 2008–09 GP2 Asia Series season. He finished sixth overall, helping ART to the teams title.
Maldonado drove for the Rapax Team in the 2010 season. He won the Championship that year.
In November 2004, Maldonado was given a test with the Minardi Formula One team. Maldonado was considered for the Campos Meta team (now Hispania Racing) in . Karun Chandhok got the drive with HRT. 
After Williams said that Nico Hülkenberg had been dropped from the team's 2011 line-up, Maldonado was announced as his replacement on December 1. Maldonado also brings sponsorship from the Venezuelan government to Williams. This is through the state-owned PDVSA oil company.
Maldonado has strong feelings about politics and talks about them openly. This is not very common in the racing world. He says he is a socialist and a friend of Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez.
 Season in progress.
 Season in progress.

</doc>
<doc id="283259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283259" title="Chapel Hill, North Carolina">
Chapel Hill, North Carolina

Chapel Hill is a town in the U.S. state of North Carolina. It has about 50,000 people. It is in an area called The Triangle, because it is next to Raleigh and Durham.
Chapel Hill is in southeastern Orange County. It is southwest of Durham and northwest of Raleigh. Interstate 40 goes north and east of Chapel Hill, while highways 15-501 and 54 go through it.
Chapel Hill got its name from a chapel on a hill, that was around in the 1700s. In 1792, The University of North Carolina (UNC) was started, which helped Chapel Hill grow. But it was a small town until the 1950s, when it started growing faster, like the rest of The Triangle. By 1970, it had 25,000 people. Since then, Chapel Hill has been somewhat rich. The town was the place where the 2015 Chapel Hill shooting happened, which some newspapers described as Islamophobic.

</doc>
<doc id="283266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283266" title="Pedobear">
Pedobear

Pedobear is an internet meme that gained popularity on 4chan. Pedobear is usually posted as a way to mock users requesting or posting sexualized images of children on 4chan.
Pedobear first appeared on 2channel, a popular bulletin board system in Japan and was originally called Kumā (interjection of Kuma which means bear in Japanese) or Safety Bear.
Pedobear has also been featured as iStockphoto wallpaper and was in the background of a cover of the auto magazine Import Tuner.
On July 3, 2009, Michael R. Barrick, a Canadian artist had created two pictures showing Pedobear together with the mascots of 2010 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games. Gazeta Olsztyńska, a Polish newspaper mistakenly used one of the pictures for a February 4, 2010 front page story about the Olympics in Vancouver.

</doc>
<doc id="283274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283274" title="Category:Austrian chancellors">
Category:Austrian chancellors


</doc>
<doc id="283276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283276" title="Lady Antebellum">
Lady Antebellum

Lady Antebellum are a country musical group formed in Nashville, Tennessee. The group consist of Dave Haywood, Hillary Scott and Charles Kelsey. They have had multiple hit songs and won several awards for their singing.

</doc>
<doc id="283277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283277" title="Category:People from Kent">
Category:People from Kent


</doc>
<doc id="283288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283288" title="Victoria Principal">
Victoria Principal

Victoria Principal (born January 3, 1950) is an American actress and businessperson. She has starred in many movies and TV programs. Her most notable acting was playing Pamela Barnes Ewing in the nighttime television series "Dallas". 

</doc>
<doc id="283290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283290" title="Winton, Victoria">
Winton, Victoria

Winton is a small town nine kilometres north east of Benalla, Victoria. About 2,800 people live in the town and the other small towns in the area. It is home to the Winton Motor Raceway, a three kilometre motor racing track. Winton was first settled in 1853, and the town was surveyed in 1857. The Hume Highway from Melbourne to Sydney passed through the town, but the Hume Freeway bypassed Winton in 1987.

</doc>
<doc id="283292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283292" title="Grevillea">
Grevillea

Grevillea is a genus of about 360 species of evergreen flowering plants in the protea family Proteaceae. It comes from Australia, New Guinea, New Caledonia, and Sulawesi. It was named after Charles Francis Greville. The species are quite different from each other, from low growing shrubs less than 0.5 m tall to trees 35 m tall. Common names include Grevillea, Spider Flower, Silky-oak and Toothbrush.
Grevilleas are closely related to the genus "Hakea", the genus gives its name to the subfamily Grevilleoideae. Many species of grevilleas are popular garden plants, especially in Australia but also in other temperate and subtropical climates. Many grevilleas interbreed freely, and some specially picked hybrids have been grown for sale. Among the best known are "Grevillea" 'Robyn Gordon', a small shrub up to 1.5 metres high and wide which can flower 12 months of the year in subtropical climates.

</doc>
<doc id="283295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283295" title="Category:Proteaceae">
Category:Proteaceae


</doc>
<doc id="283300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283300" title="Category:1450 deaths">
Category:1450 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="283301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283301" title="Agnès Sorel">
Agnès Sorel

Agnès Sorel (1421 – 9 February 1450), was a favourite mistress of King Charles VII of France. Charles VII was the father of her three daughters.
She was the subject of several contemporary paintings and works of art, including Jean Fouquet's "Virgin and Child Surrounded by Angels".
Sorel was twenty years old when she was first introduced to King Charles. She was a very beautiful young woman, and was also of above-average intelligence. The French king immediately fell in love, and she soon became his mistress. The King gave her the Château de Loches (where he had been persuaded by Joan of Arc to be crowned King of France) as her private residence.
Sorel's presence was alleged to have brought the king out of a protracted depression. She had a very strong influence on the king, and that, in addition to her extravagant tastes, earned her a number of powerful enemies at court.
Agnès gave birth to three daughters fathered by the King: Marie de France, Charlotte de France, and Jeanne de France. While pregnant with their fourth child, she journeyed from Chinon in deep midwinter to join Charles on the campaign of 1450 in Jumièges, wanting to be with him as moral support. There, she suddenly became ill and died at the age of 28. While the cause of death was originally thought to be dysentery. In 2005 French forensic scientist Philippe Charlier examined her remains and found that the cause of death was mercury poisoning. This did not mean Sorel was murdered, because mercury was sometimes used in cosmetic preparations and also to treat worms. this could therefore have been the reason for her death.
Sorel's cousin Antoinette de Maignelais took her place as mistress to the king after her death.
Woodcock salmis Agnès Sorel was a dish probably created by herself, but many chefs have name recipes after her because she was known to be interested in food

</doc>
<doc id="283304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283304" title="Category:People with foods named after them">
Category:People with foods named after them


</doc>
<doc id="283305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283305" title="Strip Me">
Strip Me

Strip Me is the third album by Natasha Bedingfield. It was released exclusively in the United States and Canada on December 7, 2010. The record was not as successful as the previous records "Unwritten" and "Pocketful of Sunshine", although the song, also titled "Strip Me", reached number 23 on the Adult Contemporary format.

</doc>
<doc id="283306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283306" title="Death mask">
Death mask

A death mask is a wax or plaster cast made of a person’s face after their death. Death masks may be mementos of the dead, or be used for creation of portraits. It is sometimes possible to tell if paintings have been copied from death masks, because shape of the face is changed by the weight of the plaster during the making of the mold. In some cultures a death mask may be a clay or other item placed on the face of the dead person before burial rites. The best known of these are the masks used by ancient Egyptians as part of the mummification process, such as Tutankhamon’s burial mask.
In the 17th century in some European countries, it was common for death masks to be used as part of the effigy of the deceased, displayed at state funerals. During the 18th and 19th centuries they were also used to keep a record the faces of unknown bodies. This is now done with photographs.
Phrenologists and ethnographers also used both death masks and life masks (taken from living people) for scientific and pseudoscientific purposes.
Masks of dead people are a tradition in many countries. The most important process of the funeral ceremony in ancient Egypt was the mummification of the body. After prayers and consecration, the body was put into a sarcophagus decorated with gold and gems. A special part of the rite was a sculpted mask, put on the face of the dead person. This mask strengthened the spirit of the mummy and guarded the soul from evil spirits on its way to the afterworld. The best known mask is that of Tutankhamun. Made of gold and gems, the mask shows the highly stylized features of the ancient ruler. Such masks were not, however, made from casts of the features. The mummification process itself kept the features of the dead person.
In 1876 the archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann discovered in Mycenae six graves, which he believed were those of kings and ancient Greek heroes—Agamemnon, Cassandra, Evrimdon and others. To his surprise, the skulls were covered with gold masks. It is now thought by some unlikely that the masks actually belonged to Agamemnon and other heroes of the Homeric epics.
The lifelike character of Roman portrait sculptures has been linked to the earlier Roman use of wax to keep the features of dead family members. The wax masks were then remade in stone.
In the late Middle Ages, a shift took place from sculpted masks to true death masks, made of wax or plaster. These masks were not buried with the dead. Instead, they were used in funeral ceremonies and were later kept in libraries, museums and universities. Death masks were taken not only of dead royalty and nobility (Henry VIII, Sforza), but also of important people—poets, philosophers, and dramaturges, such as Dante, Filippo Brunelleschi, Torquato Tasso, Blaise Pascal and Voltaire. Like in ancient Rome, death masks were often then used in making marble sculpture portraits, busts or engravings of the deceased.
Oliver Cromwell’s death mask is kept at Warwick Castle. Another famous death mask is that of Napoleon Bonaparte, taken on the island of Saint Helena and displayed at London’s British Museum.
In Russia, the death mask tradition dates back to the times of Peter the Great, whose death mask was made by Carlo Bartolomeo Rastrelli. Also well known are death masks of Alexander I, Nicholas I and Alexander II. 
One of the first real Ukrainian death masks was that of the poet Taras Shevchenko, made by Peter Clodt von Jürgensburg in St. Petersburg, Russia.
Death masks were used by scientists from the late 18th century onwards to record differences in human physiognomy. The life mask was also increasingly common at this time, taken from living persons. Anthropologists used such masks to study physiognomic features in famous persons and notorious criminals. Masks were also used to collect data on racial differences.
Before the invention of photography, the faces of unknown bodies were sometimes kept by making death masks so that relatives of the dead could recognize them if they were looking for a missing person. 
One such mask, known as "L'Inconnue de la Seine", recorded the face of a young woman who had drowned in the Seine River at Paris around the late 1880s. A worker at the Paris morgue was so taken by her beauty that he made a plaster cast of her face. She was considered so beautiful that in the following years copies of the mask became a fashionable item in Parisian Bohemian society. The face of Resusci Anne, the world’s first CPR training mannequin, introduced in 1960, was modeled after "L'Inconnue de la Seine".

</doc>
<doc id="283307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283307" title="Al Smith">
Al Smith

Alfred Emanuel Smith, Jr. (December 30, 1873 – October 4, 1944), known in private and public life as Al Smith, was an American statesman who was elected the 42nd Governor of New York four times, and was the Democratic US presidential candidate in 1928. He was a leader of the Progressive Movement, and was noted for making a wide range of reforms as governor in the 1920s. He was also linked to the Tammany Hall machine that controlled Manhattan politics; he was a strong opponent of prohibition. 
Smith was the first Catholic to run for President, and attracted many thousands of ethnic voters. However he was especially unpopular among Southern Baptists and German Lutherans, who feared the pope would dictate his policies. It was a time of national prosperity, and Smith lost in a landslide to Republican Herbert Hoover. Smith tried for the 1932 nomination, but was defeated by his former ally Franklin D. Roosevelt. Smith entered business in New York City, and became an increasingly vocal opponent of Roosevelt's New Deal.
In 1939 he was appointed a Papal Chamberlain of the Sword and Cape, one of the highest honors the Papacy bestowed on a layman, which today is styled a Gentlemen of His Holiness.
Smith died at the Rockefeller Institute Hospital on October 4, 1944 of a heart attack, at the age of 70, broken-hearted over the death of his wife from cancer five months earlier. He is interred at Calvary Cemetery.
Alfred Smith is the namesake of buildings, schools, a playground, a fireboat, a park, a youth center, a military camp and a philanthropic foundation.

</doc>
<doc id="283309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283309" title="Edwardstone">
Edwardstone

Edwardstone is a village and civil parish in the Babergh district, in the county of Suffolk, England. In 2011, there were 352 people living in Edwardstone civil parish. The parish contains the villages and hamlets of Mill Green, Priory Green, Round Maple and Sherbourne Street.
The name Edwardstone means Farmstead of a man called Edweard. Edwardstone was listed in the Domesday Book as "Eduardestuna". Edwardstone was once in the Babergh hundred.
Edwardstone Hall was a country house located in the village. It was demolished in 1952, but there are several other buildings still located on its land, including two listed buildings described below: the Church of St Mary the Virgin and Temple Bar.
Edwardstone civil parish had a population (population is the number of people living in a place) of 352 in 2011, 343 in 2001, 299 in 1961, 349 in 1951, 368 in 1931, 341 in 1921, 415 in 1911, 416 in 1901, 420 in 1891, 438 in 1881, 479 in 1851, 495 in 1841, 503 in 1831, 416 in 1821, 374 in 1811 and 362 in 1801. In 1086 there were 32 households in Edwardstone, which was quite large compared to other settlements.
The parish contains the villages and hamlets (a hamlet is a settlement without a church) of Mill Green, Priory Green, Round Maple and Sherbourne Street. Edwardstone has a church called the Church of St Mary the Virgin. Edwardstone is on a tributary (a tributary is a smaller river that flows into another) of the River Stour. Edwardstone civil parish has 31 Listed buildings. Edwardstone has a Cricket Team in Hunts County Division 2. The team plays its home games at Homefields, Boxford. In the "History, Gazetteer, and Directory of Suffolk, and the Towns Near Its Borders" Edwardstone had 1872 acres of land which was mostly arable (land that can be used for growing crops), but it also included 105 acres of woodland.
The forest surrounding the village is called Edwardstone Woods. It is mainly broadleaved, mixed and yew woodland. It has been classified as scientifically important by the British government.
There are 31 listed buildings in Edwardstone.
GENUKI

</doc>
<doc id="283310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283310" title="Groton, Suffolk">
Groton, Suffolk

Groton is a village and civil parish in the Babergh district, in the county of Suffolk, England. Groton has a church called St Bartholomew Church. The parish contains the hamlets of Broad Street, Castling's Heath, Gosling Green, Horner's Green and Parliament Heath. In 2001, there were 222 people living in Groton.
The name Groton might mean sandy or pebbly stream. Groton was listed in the Domesday Book as "Grotena". 

</doc>
<doc id="283318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283318" title="Booker T. Jones">
Booker T. Jones

Booker T. Jones (born November 12, 1944) is an American musician, songwriter, record producer and arranger. He is famous as the leader of the band Booker T. & the M.G.'s. He has also worked in recording studios with some of the highest regarded musicians of the 20th and 21st centuries, and in 2007 was given a Grammy Award for a lifetime of good work.

</doc>
<doc id="283322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283322" title="Louis Gabriel Suchet">
Louis Gabriel Suchet

Louis Gabriel Suchet, 1st Duc d'Albufera (2 March 1770 – 3 January 1826) was a Marshal of France and one of Napoleon's most brilliant generals.
He was the son of a silk manufacturer at Lyon, where he was born, originally intended to follow his father's business; but as a volunteer in the cavalry of the national guard at Lyons in 1792 his military ability got him rapid promotion. As "chef de bataillon" he was present at the Siege of Toulon in 1793, where he took General O'Hara prisoner.
Suchet was one of the few senior French officers serving in Spain who managed to preserve their reputation intact.
In the campaigns of 1805 and 1806 he greatly enhanced his reputation at Austerlitz, Saalfeld, Jena, Pułtusk and Ostrolenka. He obtained the title of count on 19 March 1808, married on 16 November of the same year Mlle. Honorine Anthoine de Saint-Joseph (Marseille, 26 February 1790 – Paris, 13 April 1884), a niece of Julie Clary, the wife of Joseph Bonaparte, and soon afterwards was ordered to Spain. He was named commander of the army of Aragon and governor of that region, and in two years brought the area into complete submission. Beaten by the Spanish at Alcañiz, he sprung back and soundly defeated the army of Blake at María on 14 June 1809, and on 22 April 1810 defeated Henry Joseph O'Donnell, Count of La Bisbal at Lleida.
He was made marshal of France (8 July 1811). In 1812 he captured Valencia, for which he was rewarded with the ducal victory title of "duc d'Albufera da Valencia" in 1813.
The restored Bourbon king Louis XVIII made him a peer of France on 4 June, with a seat in the upper house, but, having commanded one of Napoleon's armies on the Alpine frontier during the Hundred Days, he was deprived of his peerage on 24 July 1815. He died near Marseille on 3 January 1826.
He married in 1808 Honorine de Saint-Joseph (1790 – 1884) and had 3 children:
Carême named several dishes after Albufera, including

</doc>
<doc id="283324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283324" title="Category:French generals">
Category:French generals


</doc>
<doc id="283325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283325" title="Category:Marshals of France">
Category:Marshals of France


</doc>
<doc id="283327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283327" title="Category:British chefs">
Category:British chefs


</doc>
<doc id="283328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283328" title="Category:Chefs by nationality">
Category:Chefs by nationality


</doc>
<doc id="283329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283329" title="Category:Northern Ireland politicians">
Category:Northern Ireland politicians


</doc>
<doc id="283331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283331" title="Category:Zimbabwe politicians">
Category:Zimbabwe politicians


</doc>
<doc id="283332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283332" title="Category:Mexican politicians">
Category:Mexican politicians


</doc>
<doc id="283335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283335" title="Category:Presidents of Mexico">
Category:Presidents of Mexico


</doc>
<doc id="283338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283338" title="Porter Wagoner">
Porter Wagoner

Porter Wayne Wagoner (August 12, 1927 – October 28, 2007) was an American country music singer and songwriter. 
Wagoner made 53 studio albums. He had 80 singles, including three number one singles.
Wagoner was part of Grand Ole Opry. He was nicknamed, Mr. Grand Ole Opry.
Wagoner won three Grammy Awards.
He was elected into the Country Music Hall of Fame in 2002.
On October 28, 2007, Wagoner died of lung cancer in Nashville, Tennessee.

</doc>
<doc id="283340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283340" title="Category:Medicine templates">
Category:Medicine templates

Medicine related templates.

</doc>
<doc id="283341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283341" title="Tennessee Ernie Ford">
Tennessee Ernie Ford

Ernest Jennings Ford (February 13, 1919 – October 17, 1991) was an American country music and gospel singer and actor. 
He served in World War II as a bombardier and flew missions over Japan.
He made 57 studio albums and had 83 singles during the course of his musical career. In 1955 he sang the song "Sixteen Tons". He snapped his fingers on the recording. The song sold over a million copies.
He won a Grammy Award in 1964 for best album.
He hosted a daytime talk/variety show from 1962 to 1965 known as The Tennessee Ernie Ford Show (later Hello, Peapickers).
He was elected into the Country Music Hall of Fame in 1990 and was also elected into the Gospel Music Hall of Fame in 1994.
He died of liver failure on October 17, 1991 in Reston, Virginia.

</doc>
<doc id="283347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283347" title="Vevey">
Vevey

Vevey is a town in Switzerland. Vevey is the site of the world headquarters of Nestlé, founded in 1867. Milk chocolate was invented in Vevey by Daniel Peter in 1857.

</doc>
<doc id="283349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283349" title="Sandy Duncan">
Sandy Duncan

Sandra Kay "Sandy" Duncan (b. 20 February 1946) is an American singer, songwriter and actress. She starred in many television programs and movies. She has also been doing stage acting during her career. Sandy starred in the television sitcom "The Hogan Family". She was born in Henderson, Texas.

</doc>
<doc id="283354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283354" title="Steve Cropper">
Steve Cropper

Steven Lee Cropper (born October 21, 1941 in Willow Springs, Missouri), also known as Steve "The Colonel" Cropper, is an American guitarist, songwriter and producer. He is best known as the guitarist with Booker T. & the M.G.'s who made instrumental music for singers such as Otis Redding, Sam & Dave, Carla Thomas, Rufus Thomas and Johnnie Taylor. He sometimes also helped make records by these singers. He also became known as a member of the Blues Brothers band. "Rolling Stone" lists him 36th on their list of the 100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time.

</doc>
<doc id="283357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283357" title="Jesse Carmichael">
Jesse Carmichael

Jesse Royal Carmichael (born 2 April 1979) is an American musician, guitarist & keyboardist. He is best known as the secondary guitar player and keyboardist for the Grammy Award winning band "Maroon 5". In 1994, he joined with Maroon 5 frontman Adam Levine and Mickey Madden, current bassist, and formed Kara's Flowers. He recorded the debut album "Songs About Jane" with the rest of the band Levine, Madden, James Valentine, and Ryan Dusick.
Carmichael was born in Boulder, Colorado, United States on April 2, 1979. He went to Five Towns College with the rest of his band mates. While he was in college he began getting interested in playing the piano and keyboards. He then joined Kara's Flowers and released the album "The Fourth World" in 1998. Kara's Flowers then disbanded and re connected years later in 2002 and began recording material with Maroon 5.
As a solo artist, Carmichael uses a stage name 1863. He released his debut EP album "Five Songs" on June 4, 2012 digitally. 

</doc>
<doc id="283358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283358" title="Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Albacore">
Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Albacore

<div class="boilerplate metadata rfa" style="background-color: #f5fff5; margin: 2em 0 0 0; padding: 0 10px 0 10px; border: 1px solid #AAAAAA;">
"End date: 17:19, 26 February 2011 (UTC)"
Hello, everybody. I have come here to nominate for adminship. Albacore has amassed over 3000 edits since he became active here in last August, and has written and improved several articles. Apart from writing content, he has also tagged over 150 pages for deletion and is active in anti-vandalism work. He is active in , and . If he becomes an admin, I believe it would be a net positive for the wiki. Regards, ( · · ) 17:19, 19 February 2011 (UTC)
"Candidate's acceptance:" Accept. ( · ) 17:31, 19 February 2011 (UTC)
<!---Please don't type anything below this line--

</doc>
<doc id="283359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283359" title="Alexander I of Russia">
Alexander I of Russia

Alexander I of Russia (, Aleksandr I Pavlovich) ( – ), also known as Alexander the Blessed (, Aleksandr Blagoslovennyi) was Emperor of Russia from 23 March 1801 to 1 December 1825 and the first Russian King of Poland from 1815 to 1825. He was also the first Russian Grand Duke of Finland and Lithuania.
He was born in Saint Petersburg to Grand Duke Paul Petrovich, later Emperor Paul I, and Maria Feodorovna, daughter of the Duke of Württemberg. He succeeded to the throne after his father was murdered, and ruled Russia during the Napoleonic Wars. 
His sudden death in Taganrog, under allegedly suspicious circumstances, caused the spread of the rumours that Alexander did not die in 1825, but disappeared to live the rest of his life in anonymity.
On 9 October 1793, Alexander married Louise of Baden, known as Elisabeth Alexeyevna after her conversion to the Orthodox Church. He later told his friend Frederick William III that the marriage, a political match devised by his grandmother, Catherine the Great, regrettably proved to be a misfortune for him and his wife. Their two children of the marriage died young.
Alexander had nine illegitimate children.
With Sophia Vsevolojsky (1775–1848)
With Maria Naryshkina (1779–1854)
With Marguerite-Josephine Weimer (1787–1867)
With Veronica Dzierzanowska
With Princess Barbara Tourkestanova (1775 – 20 March 1819)
With Maria Ivanovna Katatcharova (1796–1824)
Tsar Alexander I became increasingly suspicious of those around him, especially after an attempt was made to kidnap him when he was on his way to the conference in Aachen, Germany.
In the autumn of 1825 the Emperor sailed to the south of Russia due to the increasing illness of his wife. During his trip he caught a cold which developed into typhus from which he died in the southern city of Taganrog on 19 November (O.S.)/ 1 December 1825. His wife died a few months later as the emperor's body was transported to Saint Petersburg for the funeral. He was interred at the Sts. Peter and Paul Cathedral of the Peter and Paul Fortress in Saint Petersburg on 13 March 1826.
The unexpected death of the Tsar far from the capital caused rumours that his death and funeral were staged so he could spend the rest of his life in solitude. Some say the former emperor became a monk in Pochaev Lavra or Kievo-Pecherskaya Lavra or elsewhere. A mysterious hermit, Feodor Kuzmich, (or "Kozmich") emerged in Siberia in 1836, died in the vicinity of Tomsk in 1864 and was eventually glorified as a saint of the Orthodox Church. Many people, including some historians, have theorized that he was Alexander I under an assumed identity. While there are testimonies that "Feodor Kozmich" in his earlier life might have belonged to a higher level of society, claims that he was Alexander I were never established beyond reasonable doubt.
Alexander I was the godfather of future Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom who was christened Alexandrina Victoria in honour of the tsar.
Alexander I was the namesake for the Alexanderplatz in Berlin, Germany, and of the Alexandertorte.

</doc>
<doc id="283372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283372" title="Valerie Harper">
Valerie Harper

Valerie Harper (b. August 22, 1939) is an American movie and television actress. She is best known for playing Rhoda Morgenstern on "The Mary Tyler Moore Show" and starring in the sitcom "Valerie". She also does stage acting. She began her career as a dancer and chorus girl on Broadway in the late 1950s and early 1960s. 
She was born in Suffern, New York. Harper is Wendy Schaal's former step-mother. She was married to Richard Schaal from 1964 until they divorced in 1978. She has been married to Tony Cacciotti since 1987.
On March 11, 2013, Harper announced that she has an incurable brain tumor. Doctors say that she has less than three months to live. Although the disease is incurable, her doctors said they were treating her with chemotherapy in an effort to slow its progress. On July 30, 2015, Harper was hospitalized in Maine after falling unconscious. Later on the 30th she was taken via medevac to a larger hospital for further treatment. She was later released.

</doc>
<doc id="283373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283373" title="Jackie Wilson">
Jackie Wilson

Jack Leroy "Jackie" Wilson, Jr. (June 9, 1934 – January 21, 1984) was an American singer and performer. He was called "Mr. Excitement". Wilson helped to change rhythm and blues into soul. He was a master showman, and a dynamic singers. He was a member of the R&B vocal group Billy Ward and His Dominoes. On his own, beginning in 1957, he recorded over 50 hit singles. These songs included R&B, pop, soul, doo-wop and easy listening. During a 1975 benefit concert, he collapsed on-stage from a heart attack. Then he fell into a coma. The coma lasted nearly nine years until his death in 1984. By then, he had become one of the most influential artists of his generation.
A two-time "Grammy Hall of Fame" Inductee, Jackie Wilson was inducted to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1987. In 2004, "Rolling Stone" magazine ranked Jackie Wilson #68 on their list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time. At the 1984 Grammy Awards Michael Jackson dedicated his Album of the Year Grammy for Thriller to Wilson. After this Tarnapol released the first Wilson album in nearly nine years.
"For a detailed listing of singles and albums, see Jackie Wilson discography."

</doc>
<doc id="283376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283376" title="Alaska Interior">
Alaska Interior

The Alaska Interior covers most of the U.S. state's territory. It is largely wilderness. Mountains include Mount McKinley (Denali) in the Alaska Range, the Wrangell Mountains, and the Ray Mountains.
The largest city in the interior is Fairbanks, which is Alaska's second-largest city. Other towns include North Pole, Eagle, Tok, Glennallen, Delta Junction, Nenana, Anderson, Healy and Cantwell.
Temperatures in Interior Alaska change a lot between the seasons. Winter temperatures in Fairbanks are usually around −12 °F (−24 °C) and summer temperatures are around 62 °F (17 °C). Temperatures there can get as low as −65 °F (−54 °C) in mid-winter, and as high as 99 °F (37 °C) in summer. Both the highest and lowest temperature records for the state were set in the Interior, with 100 °F (38 °C) in Fort Yukon and −80 °F (−64 °C) in Prospect Creek. Temperatures within a given winter can ghange a lot also. Long cold snaps can be followed by sudden warmth with temperatures above freezing. this is because of changes in the wind.
Summers can be warm and dry for a long time. This can make it easy for wildfires to start. Weak thunderstorms can produce lightning that starts a fire. These fires are often left to burn if they are far away from where people live. The 2004 season had the most fires. Over were burned.
The average annual precipitation in Fairbanks is 11.3 inches (28.7 cm). Most of this is snow during the winter. Most storms in the interior of Alaska originate in the Gulf of Alaska. Most of these storms are blocked or weakened by passing over the mountains. 
The months from May to July in the summer have no darkness at night. They only have a twilight during the night hours. The months of November to January are the other way around. They have little daylight. It is light for about 21 hours every day between May 10 and August 2. It is light less than four hours each day between November 18 and January 24. On clear winter nights, the aurora borealis, or "Northern lights" can often be seen dancing in the sky.
A lot of the ground in the Interior has permafrost, meaning that there is a layer of soil that is always frozen.

</doc>
<doc id="283378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283378" title="Category:Autism">
Category:Autism


</doc>
<doc id="283379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283379" title="Polymorphism">
Polymorphism

Polymorphism in biology is when two or more clearly different phenotypes exist in the same population of a species. The words "forms" or "morphs" are sometimes used. 
Polymorphism is common in nature. The most common example is sexual dimorphism, which occurs in many organisms. 
Another example is sickle-cell anaemia.
In order to be classified as such, morphs must occupy the same habitat at the same time and belong to a population with random mating.
The mechanism which decides which of several morphs an individual displays is called the "switch". This switch may be genetic, or it may be environmental. Taking sex determination as the example, in man the determination is genetic, by the XY sex determination system. In Hymenoptera (ants, bees and wasps), sex determination is by haplo-diploidy: the females are all diploid, the males are haploid. 
However, in some animals an environmental trigger determines the sex: alligators are a famous case in point. In ants the distinction between workers and guards is environmental, by the feeding of the grubs. Polymorphism with an environmental trigger is called polyphenism.
The polyphenic system does have a degree of environmental flexibility not present in the genetic polymorphism. However, such environmental triggers are the less common of the two methods.
Since all polymorphism has a genetic basis, "genetic polymorphism" has a particular meaning:
The definition has three parts: a) sympatry: one interbreeding population; b) discrete forms; and c) not maintained just by mutation.
Genetic polymorphism is actively and steadily maintained in populations by natural selection. This contrasts with "transient polymorphisms" where a form is progressively replaced by another. 
By definition, genetic polymorphism relates to a balance or equilibrium between morphs. The mechanisms that conserve it are types of balancing selection.
Such a balance is seen more simply in sickle-cell anaemia, which is found mostly in tropical populations in Africa and India. 
An individual homozygous for the recessive sickle haemoglobin, HgbS, has a short expectancy of life. The life expectancy of the standard haemoglobin (HgbA) homozygote and also the heterozygote is normal (though heterozygote individuals will suffer periodic problems). 
The sickle-cell variant survives in the population "because the heterozygote is resistant to malaria" and the malarial parasite kills a huge number of people each year. 
This is heterozygote advantage, a kind of balance between fierce selection against homozygous sickle-cell sufferers, and selection against the standard HgbA homozygotes by malaria. The heterozygote has a permanent advantage (a higher fitness) so long as malaria exists; and it has existed as a human parasite for a long time. Because the heterozygote survives, so does the HgbS allele survive at a rate much higher than the mutation rate. 
Mammals normally produce lactase only as long as the mother has milk. Then the enzyme lactase is cut off. Modern humans are different. 
The human ability to drink milk during adult life is supported by a lactase mutation. Human populations have a high proportion of this mutation wherever milk is important to the diet. The spread of milk tolerance is promoted by natural selection: it helps people survive where milk is available. 
Genetic studies suggest that the oldest mutations associated with lactase persistence only reached appreciable levels in human populations in the last ten thousand years. Therefore, lactase persistence is often cited as an example of recent human evolution. As lactase persistence is genetic, but animal husbandry a cultural trait, this is gene–culture coevolution.
Ants exhibit a range of polymorphisms. First, there is their characteristic haplodiploid sex determination system, whereby all males are haploid, and all females are diploid. 
Second, there is differentiation based mostly on feeding of larvae. This determines, for example, whether the adult is capable of reproduction. 
Lastly, there is differentiation of size and 'duties' (particularly of females), which are usually controlled by feeding and/or age, but which may sometimes be genetically controlled. Thus the order exhibits both genetic polymorphism and extensive polyphenism.
An example of a botanical genetic polymorphism is heterostyly, in which flowers occur in different forms with different arrangements of the pistils and the stamens. 
Pin and thrum heterostyly occurs in dimorphic species of "Primula", such as "P. vulgaris". There are two types of flower. The pin flower has a long style bearing the stigma at the mouth and the stamens half-way down; and the thrum flower has a short style, so the stigma is half-way up the tube and the stamens are at the mouth. 
So when an insect in search of nectar inserts its proboscis into a long-style flower, the pollen from the stamens stick to the proboscis in exactly the part that will later touch the stigma of the short-styled flower, and vice versa.
Another most important property of the heterostyly system is physiological. If thrum pollen is placed on a thrum stigma, or pin pollen on a pin stigma, the reproductive cells are incompatible and relatively little seed is set. Effectively, this ensures outcrossing, as described by Darwin. Quite a lot is now known about the underlying genetics; the system is controlled by a set of closely linked genes; these act as a single unit, a so-called super-gene. 
All sections of the genus "Primula" have heterostyle species, altogether 354 species out of 419. Since heterostyly is characteristic of nearly all races or species, the system is at least as old as the genus.
Between 1861 and 1863, Darwin found the same kind of structure in other groups, such as flax ("Linum") and in Purple Loosestrife and other species of "Lythrum".
Heterostyly is known in at least 51 genera of 18 families of Angiosperms.
Studies over many years have shown that natural populations of "Drosophila" are polymorphic for chromosome inversions. The inversions are so common that they must be kept in the population by natural selection.

</doc>
<doc id="283381" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283381" title="Kid A">
Kid A

Kid A is the fourth album by the band Radiohead. It was released in October 2000 on the Parlophone label. It was a success, and was certified platinum in the United Kingdom after only one week. "Kid A" was the band's first number one in America, and was named as 'The best album of the 2000s' by Rolling Stone magazine.
All tracks written by Radiohead except where noted.

</doc>
<doc id="283383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283383" title="Hail to the Thief">
Hail to the Thief

Hail to the Thief is an album by the band Radiohead. It was released in June 2003.
All songs written by Radiohead.

</doc>
<doc id="283384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283384" title="The King of Limbs">
The King of Limbs

The King of Limbs is an album by the band Radiohead. It was released in 2011. No singles were released from the album, but a video was released for "Lotus Flower". The album got good reviews from critics. PopMatters gave it 9/10 and called it "a beautiful record". It was nominated for five Grammy Awards.

</doc>
<doc id="283385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283385" title="Category:2010 albums">
Category:2010 albums


</doc>
<doc id="283386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283386" title="Category:2011 albums">
Category:2011 albums


</doc>
<doc id="283387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283387" title="Category:Radiohead albums">
Category:Radiohead albums


</doc>
<doc id="283392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283392" title="Amnesiac">
Amnesiac

Amnesiac is an album by the band Radiohead. It was released in June 2001. It went straight to No.1 in the UK Albums Chart. Most critics gave it good reviews. Pitchfork gave it 9/10.
All tracks written by Radiohead.

</doc>
<doc id="283394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283394" title="The Bends">
The Bends

The Bends is an album by the band Radiohead. It was released in April 1995.
All songs written by Radiohead.

</doc>
<doc id="283396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283396" title="Pablo Honey">
Pablo Honey

Pablo Honey is an album by the English alternative rock band Radiohead. It was released in April 1993. Three singles were released from it. "Creep" was released in 1992 and was not successful. In 1993 it was released again and became popular around the world. The album reached No.22 in the UK charts. In 2009 the album was re-released with an extra CD of demos and live songs.
All songs written by Radiohead.

</doc>
<doc id="283400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283400" title="Category:Muse albums">
Category:Muse albums


</doc>
<doc id="283403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283403" title="List of SpongeBob SquarePants characters">
List of SpongeBob SquarePants characters

Below is a list of characters from the television show "SpongeBob SquarePants".

</doc>
<doc id="283406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283406" title="Grace Under Fire">
Grace Under Fire

Grace Under Fire was an American television sitcom which aired on ABC between 1993 and 1998. It was part of a wave of 1980s-1990s television shows built around a comedian. Brett Butler starred as Grace, a divorced single mother with three children. This was the highest rated new show for its first season. It was distributed through the Carsey-Werner Company.

</doc>
<doc id="283410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283410" title="Absolution">
Absolution

Absolution is the name of a sacrament of the Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Anglican and Lutheran churches. Using absolution, a priest or the church can forgive a sin, after confession. 

</doc>
<doc id="283411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283411" title="Petrified wood">
Petrified wood

Petrified wood (from the Greek root Petro meaning "rock" or "stone"; literally "wood turned into stone") is the name given to a special type of fossilized remains of terrestrial vegetation. It is the result of a tree having turned completely into stone by the process of per mineralization. All the organic materials have been replaced with minerals (most often a silicate, such as quartz), while retaining the original structure of the wood. Unlike other types of fossils which are typically impressions or compressions, petrified wood is a three dimensional representation of the original organic material.
The petrifaction process occurs underground, when wood becomes buried under sediment and is initially preserved due to a lack of oxygen which inhibits aerobic decomposition.

</doc>
<doc id="283412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283412" title="Dolores Claiborne (movie)">
Dolores Claiborne (movie)

Dolores Claiborne is a 1995 American crime drama movie set in Maine. Kathy Bates plays the title character. Also starring in the movie is Jennifer Jason Leigh, who plays her daughter. Dolores is accused of murdering her employer, an elderly woman. Dolores is also accused of murdering her husband. He was a violent alcoholic sexually abusing her daughter. 
This movie is based on the Stephen King novel of the same name.

</doc>
<doc id="283415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283415" title="Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Rollback/Archives/2011/February/Notdone">
Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Rollback/Archives/2011/February/Notdone


</doc>
<doc id="283416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283416" title="Christian de Duve">
Christian de Duve

Christian René, viscount de Duve (2 October 1917 – 4 May 2013) was a Belgian biochemist. He was born in Thames Ditton, Surrey and grew up in Antwerp, Belgium. 
Duve won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1974. He discovered two cell organelles, lysosomes and peroxisomes. He described them, and was the first to investigate their functions. Duve shared the Nobel prize with Albert Claude and George E. Palade.
De Duve died in Grez-Doiceau, Belgium, on 4 May 2013, when he asked that his life be ended through euthanasia.

</doc>
<doc id="283418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283418" title="Corvus (constellation)">
Corvus (constellation)

Corvus is a small constellation in the southern sky. Its name is Latin for raven or crow. It has only 11 stars that can be seen without a telescope. It was one of the 48 constellations listed by Ptolemy. However, he only included 7 stars. Corvus is one of the 88 modern constellations.
Four principal stars, δ, γ, ε, and β Crv, make a group of stars called "Spica's Spanker" or "the Sail".
31 Crateris (which was originally numbered in Crater) is a 5.2 magnitude star which was once mistaken for a moon of Mercury.
Corvus has no Messier objects.
The Antennae galaxies are made up of two galaxies that are colliding, NGC 4038 and NGC 4039. It has a heart shape as seen from Earth. The name name comes from the huge tidal tails that come off the ends of the two galaxies.
There is a planetary nebula NGC 4361 at the center of Corvus. The nebula looks like a small elliptical galaxy, but it is not. The center star is only magnitude 13, so it cannot be a large galaxy.
"The story of Corvus is related to two other constellation, Crater and Hydra."
Once the crow had beautiful silver or snowy white feathers and could speak to humans. The crow was a very special bird for the god Apollo. When Apollo's lover Coronis was pregnant, Apollo told the raven to watch over her. Coronis slowly lost interest in Apollo and was attracted to a human. The crow had been spying on her secretly. He told Apollo that Coronis had a new lover. Apollo was so angry that he turned the loyal raven's feathers black and took away the bird's ability to speak. Coronis was killed by Apollo's twin sister Artemis. The child of Coronis and Apollo lived. He then became Asclepius, the god of medicine and healing.
In another story, Apollo sent his raven to get some water in the god's cup called the Crater. The raven waited for some figs to become ripe and ate them. He came back very late with a water snake called a Hydra and the water in the cup. The foolish raven said he was late because of the water snake. Apollo was not tricked. He put the raven in the sky along with the water snake and the cup. The snake stops the thirsty raven from getting to the water in the cup. The raven can see the water, just out of reach.
Corvus is similar to the Babylonian raven (MUL.UGA.MUSHEN). The Babylonians also put the raven sitting on the tail of a snake. The Babylonian constellation was special to the god Adad. Adad was the god of rain and storms. In the time of the Babylonians, the constellation would have risen just before the start of the autum rainy season.

</doc>
<doc id="283420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283420" title="Eric Kandel">
Eric Kandel

Eric Richard Kandel (born 7 November 1929) is an American neuropsychiatrist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2000 for describing the physiological basis of memory storage in neurons. Kandel shared the Nobel prize with Arvid Carlsson and Paul Greengard.
Kandel was born in Vienna. He moved to Brooklyn, New York City in 1939. 

</doc>
<doc id="283422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283422" title="D. J. King">
D. J. King

Dwayne "D.J." King (born June 27, 1984) is a Canadian professional ice hockey left winger. He currently plays for the Ontario Reign of the ECHL. He previously played 118 games in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the St. Louis Blues and the Washington Capitals. 
Before playing in the NHL, King played 4 seasons in the Western Hockey League; 3 seasons with the Lethbridge Hurricanes and 1 season with the Kelowna Rockets. He was drafted by the St. Louis Blues with the 190th overall pick in the 2002 NHL Entry Draft.
King is of Métis heritage. He has a younger brother named Dwight, that plays for the Los Angeles Kings.

</doc>
<doc id="283425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283425" title="Nuclear fallout">
Nuclear fallout

Fallout is the left over radiation hazard from a nuclear explosion. The name is because radioactive material "falls out" of the atmosphere into which it is spread during the explosion. These materials continue to undergo radioactive decay for minutes, days or centuries. "Fallout" commonly refers to the radioactive dust created when a nuclear weapon explodes. 
There was also radioactive fallout after a part of the nuclear power station at Chernobyl exploded. The fallout caused serious contamination over an area including Ukraine, Belarus, Russia, Scandinavia and some parts of Europe. All people living in an area of 30 kilometres radius around the power plant were forced to move because of the fallout with villages and towns being abandoned.

</doc>
<doc id="283427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283427" title="Drillbit Taylor">
Drillbit Taylor

Drillbit Taylor is a 2008 comedy movie that was produced by Judd Apatow and Susan Arnold and directed by Steven Brill. The movie was the last movie written by John Hughes before he died on August 6, 2009. It was released on February 8, 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="283431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283431" title="Canary">
Canary

The Canary ("Serinus canaria"), also called the Island Canary, Atlantic Canary or Common Canary, is a small passerine bird. It belongs to the genus "Serinus" in the finch family. It is native to the Canary Islands, the Azores, and Madeira. Wild birds are mostly yellow-green, with brownish streaking on the back. The species is common in captivity. Different colour varieties have been bred. Canaries are domestic birds. They are popular pets. 

</doc>
<doc id="283432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283432" title="Cars 2">
Cars 2

Cars 2 is a 2011 movie and Pixar's 12th film. It is a sequel to the 2006 film "Cars". It was released on June 24, 2011. The teaser trailer for "Cars 2" appeared on the DVD and Blu-ray versions of "Toy Story 3" and the full length trailer was featured before the movie "Tangled". The theme song of Cars 2 is sung by Japanese singing group, Perfume.
In this sequel, the cars go overseas to compete in the first-ever World Grand Prix which determines the world’s fastest car. They meet friends and fight enemies.
Finn McMissile, Holley Shiftwell and Francesco Bernoulli are new characters which have important roles in Cars 2. Finn McMissile is a spy of England. He has a lot of equipment. Holley Shiftwell is a supporter of Finn Mcmissile. Francesco Bernoulli is a top Italian race car. He is a rival of McQueen.

</doc>
<doc id="283433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283433" title="Françoise Barré-Sinoussi">
Françoise Barré-Sinoussi

Françoise Barré-Sinoussi (born 30 July 1947 in Paris, France) is a French virologist. She won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2008 for her discovery of HIV. She shared the Nobel prize with Luc Montagnier and Harald zur Hausen.

</doc>
<doc id="283435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283435" title="Official Opposition">
Official Opposition

The Official Opposition is a political position, it is common in countries that were in the past part of the UK. Examples of countries with an Official Opposition are Canada, Australia, and the UK.

</doc>
<doc id="283438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283438" title="Flowering plant sexuality">
Flowering plant sexuality

Flowering plant sexuality describes some of the technical terms for common arrangements of flowers.
Terms for the sexuality of individual flowers:
Many plants have complete flowers with both male and female parts, others only have male or female parts, and still other plants have flowers on the same plant that are a mix of male and female flowers.
Some plants even have mixes that include all three types of flowers, where some flowers are only male, some are only female and some are both male and female.
A distinction needs to be made between arrangements in single plants versus the larger plant population.
Some plants also undergo what is called sex-switching, like "Arisaema triphyllum" which express sexual differences at different stages of growth. In some arums smaller plants produce all or mostly male flowers and as plants grow larger over the years the male flowers are replaced by more female flowers on the same plant. "Arisaema triphyllum" thus covers a multitude of sexual conditions in its life time; from nonsexual juvenile plants to young plants that are all male, as plants grow larger they have a mix of both male and female flowers, to large plants that have mostly female flowers.
Other plant populations have plants that produce more male flowers early in the year and as plants bloom later in the growing season they produce more female flowers. In plants like "Thalictrum dioicum" all the plants in the species are either male or female.
Specific terms are used to describe the sexual expression of individual plants within a population.

</doc>
<doc id="283440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283440" title="Mean Streets">
Mean Streets

Mean Streets is a 1973 American crime drama movie directed by Martin Scorsese. It is set in New York City and stars Harvey Keitel and Robert De Niro. This movie was released by Warner Bros. on October 2, 1973. It received mostly positive reviews from movie critics.

</doc>
<doc id="283441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283441" title="Aaron Sherritt">
Aaron Sherritt

Aaron Sherritt (1855 - 26 June 1880) was a close friend of Joe Byrne and later Ned Kelly. His murder in 1880 was the first of the actions that led to the Kelly Gang's final shoot out with the police at Glenrowan.
Sherritt lived about three miles from Byrne, in the Woolshed Valley, near Beechworth, Victoria. He went to school with Byrne, and in 1876 were sent to prison for stealing meat. Soon after being let out of prison, Sherritt and Byrne were sent back again. They had fought with Chinese man who had tried to stop them from swimming in his dam. In 1878 Byrne was said to be engaged to Sherritt's sister. He had a reputation for being tough; at times he would sleep out in the open at night. 
After the Kelly Gang robbed the bank at Jerilderie, New South Wales, they disappeared for 18 months. In January 1879, Sherritt went to the police station at Benalla and gave them information about where the Kelly Gang was hiding, and what they were going to do next. He was paid £2 for the information. Sherritt helped the police find a cave from where they could watch Byrne's mother's house. He was interested in Byrne's sister, Kate. The police told Sherritt that they would not kill Byrne. When the police in the cave were found out, Sherritt then tried to get close to Ned Kelly's younger sister, Kate Kelly. He showed the police a place from where they could watch the Kelly house, but this was soon discovered. Sherritt sold Kate Kelly a horse he had stolen from Kate Byrne. When Ned Kelly's older sister, Maggie Skillion, found out she reported it to the police. It went to court, but the case against Sherritt was dropped because the police said that the Byrnes and the Kellys were criminals and not to be trusted. Byrne's mother said she thought the whole thing was a trick by the police to get the Kelly Gang to come out of hiding.
Late at night on 26 June 1880, Joe Byrne and Dan Kelly went to Sherritt's house at Sebastopol. Sherritt and his family were being guarded by four policemen who were living at the house. When Sherritt opened the door, he was shot dead by Joe Byrne. The police did not come out of the house and remained there until the next day. Byrne and Kelly left Sebastopol and rode across country to Glenrowan. They knew the police would send a large group by train to Beechworth to try and capture them. Ned Kelly and Steve Hart had gone to Glenrowan earlier and had pulled up the train tracks. They had planned on the police sending the train to Beechworth during the night. The plan failed when the police at Sherritt's house did not report the murder until midday.

</doc>
<doc id="283442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283442" title="Parliament of Victoria">
Parliament of Victoria

The Parliament of Victoria is a bicameral legislature that makes the laws for the state of Victoria, Australia. Its two houses are a lower house the Legislative Assembly, and an upper house, the Legislative Council. The Legislative Assembly has 88 members, and the Legislative Council has 40 members. The political party with the most members in the lower house forms the government, and is led by the Premier of Victoria. In 2014, the Labor Party won the November election, and its leader, Daniel Andrews, became the Premier. The third part of the Parliament is the Crown, Queen Elizabeth II. She is represented in Victoria by the Governor of Victoria. The current governor is Professor David de Kretser, A.C.
The parliament meets at Parliament House in Spring Street, Melbourne. This building was also the home of the Parliament of Australia from 1901 to 1927.

</doc>
<doc id="283447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283447" title="Rita Levi-Montalcini">
Rita Levi-Montalcini

Rita Levi-Montalcini (22 April 1909 - 30 December 2012) was an Italian neurologist. 
She won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1986 for her discovery of nerve growth factor (NGF). She shared the Nobel prize with Stanley Cohen with whom she made the discovery.
She was the first Nobel Prize winner to have reached 100 years of age.

</doc>
<doc id="283454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283454" title="The Big Chill (movie)">
The Big Chill (movie)

The Big Chill is a 1983 American comedy-drama movie. It is about baby boomer friends reuniting after 15 years due to a friend's suicide. This movie stars Tom Berenger, Glenn Close and Mary Kay Place. It was filmed in Beaufort, South Carolina and set in South Carolina.

</doc>
<doc id="283456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283456" title="Nate Marquardt">
Nate Marquardt

Nathan Joel Marquardt (born April 20, 1979 in Lander, Wyoming) is an American mixed martial artist. He currently fights for the UFC in the middleweight division and fights out of Denver, Colorado. Marquardt holds a second black belt in both Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu and Jujutsu. His current record is 32 wins, 10 losses and 2 draws.

</doc>
<doc id="283458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283458" title="The Painted Veil (2006 movie)">
The Painted Veil (2006 movie)

The Painted Veil is a 2006 romantic drama movie that was directed by John Curran. It was based on the 1925 novel with the same name. This is the third movie version of the novel the first in 1934 and the second in 1957 called "The Seventh Sin". This movie won a Golden Globe Award for Best Original Score in 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="283459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283459" title="Victoria Police">
Victoria Police

Victoria Police provides police services to the people of Victoria, Australia. It employs more than 13,800 people and has 339 police stations.
Victoria Police started in the 1850s. One of their early jobs was to collect licence fees from miners searching for gold. In 1854 the miners at Ballarat refused to pay the fee and built a defensive fort, known as the Eureka Stockade. A military force of the British Army and 94 policemen attacked the stockade. About 30 miners and four soldiers were killed.

</doc>
<doc id="283460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283460" title="T. J. Oshie">
T. J. Oshie

Timothy Leif "T. J." Oshie, Jr. (born December 23, 1986 in Mount Vernon, Washington) is a American professional ice hockey center and right winger that currently plays for the Washington Capitals of the National Hockey League (NHL). He was drafted by the St. Louis Blues with the 24th overall pick in the 2005 NHL Draft.
He played ice hockey in college at University of North Dakota with the Fighting Sioux.

</doc>
<doc id="283462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283462" title="Royal Commission">
Royal Commission

In states that are Commonwealth Realms a Royal Commission is a major government public inquiry into an important issue. They have been held in the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Kenya and Saudi Arabia. In Hong Kong, Ireland and South Africa, they are called a Commission of Enquiry or Commission of Inquiry.
A Royal Commissioner has a lot of power, more than those of a judge but these are limited to the "Terms of Reference" of the Commission. The Commission is created by the Head of State (the Sovereign, or his/her representative in the form of a Governor-General or Governor) on the advice of the Government. In practice–unlike other forms of inquiry–once a Commission has started the government cannot stop it. Because of this governments are usually very careful about framing the Terms of Reference and generally include in them a date by which the commission must finish.
Royal Commissions are called to look into very important matters and usually controversy. For example, these can be about government structure, the treatment of minorities, or the events that had received concern from the public or economic questions.
Many Royal Commissions last many years and, often, a different government is left to respond to the findings. In Australia–and particularly New South Wales–Royal Commissions have been investigations into police and government corruption and organised crime. They have used the powers of the Royal Commissioner to force powerful, but corrupt, public officials to tell the truth.
Royal Commissions are usually run by one or more notable figures. Because of their legal powers the Commissioners are often retired senior judges.
Royal Commissions usually research issues, consult with experts both within and outside of government and the public as well. They can call witnesses under oath, offer indemnities, seize documents and other evidence (sometimes including those normally protected, such as classified information), holding hearings "in camera", and can force all government officials to help the Commission. 
The results of Royal Commissions are published in, often, massive reports of findings containing policy recommendations. They often have long and complex names, for example, the "Royal commission into whether there has been corrupt or criminal conduct by any Western Australian Police Officer". Because of this they are commonly known by the name of the main Commissioner. These reports are often quite important, with the government making some or all recommendations into law. The work of some Commissions have been almost completely ignored by the government. In other cases, where the Commissioner has not kept to the terms of reference, the commission has been stopped by a superior court.

</doc>
<doc id="283464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283464" title="Delmonico's">
Delmonico's

Delmonico's is the name of series of restaurants in New York City. The original and most famous was operated by the Delmonico family during the 19th and early 20th centuries, but the last family-owned restaurant closed due to a Prohibition-era slowdown in 1923. Since that time restaurants using the Delmonico's name have reopened elsewhere in Manhattan under different owners. 
The original Delmonico's began in a rented pastry shop at 23 William Street in 1827, appearing listed as a restaurant in 1830. They moved several times before settling at 2 South William Street for eighty years, it is credited with being the first restaurant in America to allow patrons to order from a menu "à la carte", as opposed to "table d’hôte". It is also claimed to be the first to employ a separate wine list.
At the peak of "Delmonico's" fame the family operated four restaurants under the name at the same time, and a total of ten during their ownership.
Six years after they closed the doors of their last restaurateur Oscar Tucci opened a Delmonico's at 2 South William Street, which stayed in business until 1977. Other Delmonicos have operated in the space from 1981–1992 and from 1998 to present.
The restaurant was opened by the brothers John and Peter Delmonico, from Ticino, Switzerland. In 1831, they were joined by their nephew, Lorenzo Delmonico, who eventually became responsible for the restaurant's wine list and menu. When the William Street building was opened on a grand scale in August 1837, after the Great Fire of New York, New Yorkers were told that the columns by the entrance had been imported from the ruins of Pompeii.
Beginning in the 1850s, the restaurant hosted the annual gathering of the New England Society of New York which featured many important speakers of the day. In 1860, Delmonico's provided the supper at the Grand Ball welcoming the Prince of Wales at the Academy of Music on East 14th Street. Supper was set out in a specially constructed room; the menu was French, and the "pièces montées" represented Queen Victoria and Prince Albert, the "Great Eastern" and Flora's Vase. "The New York Times" reported, "We may frankly say that we have never seen a public supper served in a more inapproachable fashion, with greater discretion, or upon a more luxurious scale". In 1862, the restaurant hired Charles Ranhofer, considered one of the greatest chefs of his day.
In 1919, Edward L.C. Robins purchased Delmonico's. Its grand location at Fifth Avenue and 44th Street closed in 1923 as a result of changing dining habits due to Prohibition. That was the Delmonico's linked with the original family business.
Almost immediately after the closing of the last Delmonico's, a number of imitators opened "Delmonico's" restaurants. The Delmonico family attempted to retain exclusive rights to the name, but a court ruled that with the closing of the last restaurant the name had passed into the public domain.
In 1927, Oscar Tucci reopened Delmonico's popularly called "Oscar's Delmonico" at the old restaurant at 2 South William Street in New York. Tucci used the original menus and recipes. Tucci created the famous Wedge Salad. Oscar's Delmonico became distinguished in its own right, continuing to attract prominent politicians and celebrities.. The Tucci legacy continued in Greenwich, CT, when Mario Tucci, son of Oscar, opened Delmonico's in 1986.
In 1989, a new Delmonico's was opened at the location by Ed Huber, which operated until 1992.
The building was vacant until 1998, when the Bice Group acquired the property and again opened a Delmonico's, with Gian Pietro Branchi as executive chef. In 1999, the restaurant was sold to the Ocinomled partnership, which continues to operate Delmonico's at the South William Street location.
Lobster Newberg, and Delmonico Potatoes were invented at Delmonico's restaurant, and possibly Chicken à la King, but it was most famous for Delmonico steak. Eggs Benedict were also said to have originated at Delmonico’s, although others claim that dish as well.
Baked Alaska's name was coined at Delmonico's as well.
Among the many well-known people who patronized Delmonico's are Jenny Lind, who, it was said, ate there after every show, Theodore Roosevelt, Mark Twain, "Diamond Jim" Brady, Lillian Russell, usually in the company of Diamond Jim, Charles Dickens, Oscar Wilde, J.P. Morgan, James Gordon Bennett, Jr., Walter Scott, Nikola Tesla, Edward VII, then the Prince of Wales, and Napoleon III of France. Journalist Jacob A. Riis claimed to be a patron of a different sort: in his book, "The Making of an American", he mentioned that when he was down on his luck, a kindly French-speaking cook at Delmonico’s would pass him rolls through the basement window.
The New Orleans, Louisiana, Delmonico's, which opened in 1895, was purchased by Emeril Lagasse in 1997. Lagasse refurbished the restaurant and reopened it as Emeril’s Delmonico.
The unconnected Delmonico's Hotel, at Park Avenue and East 59th Street, was a center of Beatlemania in August 1964, when the Beatles stayed there.

</doc>
<doc id="283466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283466" title="Frank Heller">
Frank Heller

Frank Heller was the pen name of a Swedish writer. His real name was Gunnar Serner. He lived from July 20, 1886 - October 14, 1947. He wrote a series of light novels. His books were about suspicious international business. Heller created the character Philip Collin in most popular books. Collin who was a detective and a thief. Collin also used the name Professor Pelotard.
F. W. Murnau made a film called "The Grand Duke's Finances" (German: "Die Finanzen des Großherzogs") that was based on of Heller's novel with the same name.

</doc>
<doc id="283469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283469" title="Consommé">
Consommé

In cooking, a consommé is a type of clear soup made from richly flavoured stock or bouillon. "Double" consommé is clarified often through a fining process involving egg protein. It usually requires an advanced knowledge of cooking and past experience to create a high quality consommé. Consommé has maintained its place as one of the most highly regarded and appreciated soups in the world.
gelatin desserts.

</doc>
<doc id="283479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283479" title="Generation gap">
Generation gap

The term generation gap refers to the fact that a younger generation and their parents are thinking differently. The term was made popular in the 1960s.

</doc>
<doc id="283486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283486" title="Shawinigan">
Shawinigan

Shawinigan is a city on the Saint-Maurice River in Quebec, Canada. In 2011, 50060 people lived there.
Michel Angers was elected as mayor in the 2009 municipal election.
The name of the city has also been spelled different over periods of time: Chaouinigane, Oshaouinigane, Assaouinigane, Achawénégan, Chawinigame, Shawenigane, Chaouénigane and could either mean "portage", "portage of beeches", "angular portage" or "summit" or "crest".

</doc>
<doc id="283489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283489" title="Caroline Rhea">
Caroline Rhea

Caroline Gilchrist Rhea is a Canadian actress and stand-up comedian. She was the original host for the NBC reality show "The Biggest Loser" until Alison Sweeney took her place. Rhea also starred as Hilda Spellman for the situation comedy "Sabrina, the Teenage Witch" and replaced Rosie O'Donnell as the hostess for her syndicated talk show (which was renamed the "Caroline Rhea Show"). She was born April 13, 1964 in Montreal, Quebec.

</doc>
<doc id="283490" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283490" title="Nova">
Nova

A nova (plural "novae" or "novas") is a huge nuclear explosion on a white dwarf star. It causes a sudden brightening of the star. 
Novae are not to be confused with other brightening phenomena such as supernovae. Novae occur on the surface of a white dwarf in a binary system. If the two stars of the system are close enough, material is pulled from the companion star's surface onto the white dwarf. This collection of hydrogen onto the surface of the star starts a runaway fusion reaction.
In spite of their violence, the amount of material ejected in novae is usually only about 1⁄10,000 of a solar mass, quite small relative to the mass of the white dwarf. Only five percent of the accreted mass is fused during the power outburst. This is enough energy to accelerate nova ejecta to velocities as high as several thousand kilometers per second—higher for some novae than others—with a concurrent rise in luminosity from a few times solar to 50,000–100,000 times solar. In 2010 scientists using NASA's Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope were surprised to discover, for the first time, that a nova can also emit gamma-rays (>100 MeV).
A white dwarf can potentially generate multiple novae over time as additional hydrogen continues to accrete onto its surface from its companion star. An example is RS Ophiuchi, which is known to have flared six times (in 1898, 1933, 1958, 1967, 1985, and 2006). Eventually, the white dwarf could explode as a type Ia supernova if it approaches the Chandrasekhar limit.
Occasionally a nova is bright enough and close enough to be seen by the unaided eye. The brightest recent example was Nova Cygni 1975. This nova appeared on 29 August 1975, in the constellation Cygnus about five degrees north of Deneb and reached magnitude 2.0 (nearly as bright as Deneb). The most recent were V1280 Scorpii, which reached magnitude 3.7 on 17 February 2007, and Nova Delphini 2013. Nova Centauri 2013 was discovered 2 December 2013 and is so far the brightest nova of this millennium reaching magnitude 3.3.
Astronomers estimate that the Milky Way experiences roughly 30 to 60 novae per year, with a likely rate of about 40. The number of novae discovered in the Milky Way each year is much lower, about 10. Roughly 25 novae brighter than about magnitude 20 are discovered in the Andromeda Galaxy each year and smaller numbers are seen in other nearby galaxies.

</doc>
<doc id="283497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283497" title="It Was a Good Day">
It Was a Good Day

"It Was a Good Day" is a 1993 single by American rapper Ice Cube. It was released from the album "The Predator". "It Was a Good Day" peaked at number seven on the "Billboard" Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs and number fifteen on the "Billboard" Hot 100. The song also peaked at number twenty-seven on the UK Singles Chart.
UK single

</doc>
<doc id="283499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283499" title="Category:People from Gloucestershire">
Category:People from Gloucestershire


</doc>
<doc id="283501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283501" title="Category:Novelists">
Category:Novelists


</doc>
<doc id="283511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283511" title="Warming center">
Warming center

A warming center is a place where people can go to stay warm and dry when it is rainy or wet outside. They are like homeless shelters, except that they are only open when the weather is bad. 
Their main goal is to make sure that nobody is left out in the cold. Many people die from being wet and cold, every year.
Sometimes when it is windy, trees fall on them. Sometimes people get frostbite if it is very cold. But the main thing that people worry about is called hypothermia - that's when the body temperature gets too low. It can be fatal. When it is cold and windy, the wind chill factor makes it worse.
If people are old, drinking, or homeless, things can get very bad very fast if the weather goes bad. These things are all called risk factors. The level of risk goes way up making it more likely that they will become sick or maybe even die out in the cold. Scientists study these "risk factors" and put them all together with numbers. That kind of study is discussed below; it is called a "vulnerability index".
Warming Centers are mostly for people who are homeless who do not stay in homeless shelters. Sometimes they are also set up when blizzards occur or the power goes out. Sometimes they are set up when the roads are out due to landslides, avalanches, and blizzards. 
In some cases, when cold snaps threaten wildlife, warming centers are created and operated to protect endangered wild animals. Cold-blooded animals such as turtles are particularly vulnerable, as are their hatchlings. Emergency shelters vary in policy on pet, companion, or domesticated animals. During large-scale disasters, there are frequently separate locations including a safe place for horses. 
Sometimes warming centers are set up in existing homeless shelters. However, the law says that only a certain number of people are allowed at any one time. This is because of things like fire codes. Sometimes an agreement with the neighbors prevents too many people because of parking and overcrowding of the neighborhood. 
Therefore, they need to find different locations. 
These include churches and community organizations, but also may involve special real estate such as National Guard armories.
Warming centers are generally opened for only a few days at a time based on the conditions of the area, although some are open for a specific portion of the year when weather conditions are bad.
The City of Chicago opens its shelters from December 1 to March 1 each year, as well as any other times the temperature drops below freezing.
The City of Portland, Oregon, uses a more complicated formula to determine when to open centers; wet or dry conditions, the night's predicted lowest temperature, the three-day weather trend, wind, and whether snow may fall.
Opening a center depends on the weather conditions and the formula at that center. Each one is different because weather is different in each place. Lane County, Oregon utilizes an elaborate system of tiered readiness levels in collaboration with the American Red Cross. The Red Cross is involved with some warming centers. They use a system to tell the staff people to get ready. They refer to these levels as their "alert status". It goes all the way from normal good weather OUTLOOK status all the way up through different levels. Finally they reach "ACTIVATE", which means it is time to get to work.
Once a center has been set up, it is always a problem to make sure people know about it. 
A lot of people do not want to deal with the "authorities". Other people may be connected with the helping system. In the USA, some people came up with an idea to help fix that problem. The government agency in charge of these issues is called Housing and Urban Development. That agency requires a homeless count every two years. Organizations such as w:Common Ground are trying to reach out to more people with the homeless counts and use these counts to get a list of homeless people who need some help. Hopefully one of the good things to come from all of that work is there will be better ways to make sure people know about the warming centers. 
Centers often coordinate with outside programs such as 211. Newspapers are generally published weekly or less frequently, which makes them useful only for general information such as contact numbers and locations. 
For transportation to centers, some shelters offer free transportation. In some cases for persons being released from jail can get rides, if the weather is bad.
In blizzard conditions, snowmobilers have been mobilized.
Once opened and populated, warming centers typically offer only the most bare-bones of service: a cot and perhaps a bowl of hot soup. They are generally operated with one or more experienced professional staff person. This is due to the difficulties which untrained volunteers might encounter in dealing with the clientele. Often, users of warming centers are persons who are not participating in routine homeless shelter services due. This may be due to disciplinary problems and issues with behavior, such as drinking and fighting. Sometimes it takes a professional to figure out who might be disruptive or even dangers as opposed to who is just a little bit eccentric or odd. That is why it is important to have experienced staff.
Some people who use warming centers do not have major issues: maybe they are just on the road and the weather takes a turn for the worse. Or they do not stay in shelters because they do not like the rules or have personality problems with a staff person.
Sometime warming centers are started because someone dies from the cold or many people are at risk.They seem to go back as far as 1945, at the end of World War II. In Berlin, Germany, clothing and blankets were allowed for under the air lift plan. Also, an extensive plan was developed for public "warming centers."
Nowadays, U.S. warming centers are springing up all over the place. They are seen as a means to help the homeless who usually stay outdoors. The main time is during temperature and rainfall "spikes". 
However, there may not be room in the shelters for everyone who needs them. According to Detroit writer Naomi Spencer, they serve also as "a last resort for homeless people to find respite [relief] from the cold, especially those with drug addictions, mental illness, or criminal backgrounds, who may not meet requirements imposed by some homeless shelters or religious charity operations."
Others, including straight edge, DIY, or anarchist-identified persons may choose to live "off-the-grid", outside the regular system of housing. They are not there because of sobriety issues.
Others simply find shelters too regimented, too much like jail. Newspaperman Mike Hendricks quotes a former resident of an unauthorized homeless encampment named Crow, who said that "some guys would sooner do what they want and not be told what to do."
Tom Brown's "Field Guide to City and Suburban Survival" contains chapters on shelters and heating. He also outlines means of creating a personal warming center by using ATM access cards. His recommendations have been circulated by Chicago's urban community activist Chrisdian Wittenburg, including instructions on building a makeshift stove and a plethora of collaborative cultural projects.
Perception of the importance and priority of warming centers varies. At one extreme, their under-utilization or minimal level of service is said to be unfriendly. During the blizzard of February 2011, the City of Ottawa, Illinois did not have established warming centers. A temporary facility was set up. People had to bring their own food and blankets. There was criticism of that. According to a man calling himself "Poppy", the "have-nots...can all freeze to death...here in the friendly city." In Detroit, there was federal money for a warming center, but the money was not given to the proper officials in time, or at all. This failure to distribute Community Development Block Grants resulted in a situation where people slept in plastic chairs or "in cold hallways".
At the other end, critics have asked if churches are the right place for handling the kind of people who are likely to come in the door. Many people say that the warming centers tend to keep things the way they are, to maintain the "status quo". That is because they do not get to the root of the problems.
Sue Murphy is the administrative director of Interfaith Action of Evanston, Illinois, which has a daytime center. It is used for a time slot when the overnight shelters are closed. She states that warmth and snacks "is not nearly enough...what we need is a place where they can go the whole winter."
Her concerns are seconded by Sue Loellebach of Connections for the Homeless, who laments the lack of warm refuge during daylight hours..

</doc>
<doc id="283514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283514" title="Bobby Hull">
Bobby Hull

Robert Marvin "Bobby" Hull, OC (born January 3, 1939 in Pointe Anne, Ontario) is a Canadian retired ice hockey left winger.
Hull is highly regarded as one of the greatest ice hockey players of all time and perhaps the greatest left winger to ever play the game of hockey. Hull was known for his blonde hair, blinding skating speed, and having the fastest shot in the game which also earned him the nickname, "the Golden Jet".
Hull played 17 seasons in the NHL with 3 teams, the Chicago Black Hawks for 15 seasons, the Winnipeg Jets for 1 season and the Hartford Whalers for 1 season.
Hull was inducted in the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1983.

</doc>
<doc id="283523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283523" title="Scarp (landform)">
Scarp (landform)

Scarp is a term in geology and geography with several similar meanings.
Scarps are generally formed by one or both: 
Most commonly, an escarpment is a transition from one series of sedimentary rocks to another series of a different age and composition.
Escarpments are also frequently formed by faults. When a fault displaces the ground surface so that one side is higher than the other, a fault scarp is created. This brings a piece of high ground next to an area of lower ground.
More loosely, the term scarp describes the zone between coastal lowlands and continental plateaus. A marked, abrupt change in height is caused by coastal erosion at the base of the plateau.

</doc>
<doc id="283525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283525" title="Georg von Békésy">
Georg von Békésy

Georg von Békésy (3 June 1899 – 13 June 1972) was an Hungarian biophysicist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1961 for his findings on the function of the cochlea in the mammalian inner ear. He was born in Budapest, Hungary and died in Honolulu, Hawaii, United States.

</doc>
<doc id="283528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283528" title="Frostbite">
Frostbite

Frostbite is the localized medical condition where very cold temperatures damage skin and other tissue. It is most likely to happen in body parts farthest from the heart and in body parts with large exposed areas. It most often occurs in toes.
Also, if the affected parts are not amputated, the person is likely to suffer from a disease called gangrene. 

</doc>
<doc id="283531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283531" title="Category:Homelessness">
Category:Homelessness


</doc>
<doc id="283542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283542" title="Category:Engineers">
Category:Engineers


</doc>
<doc id="283543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283543" title="Gustave Eiffel">
Gustave Eiffel

Alexandre Gustave Eiffel (December 15, 1832 – December 27, 1923; , ) was a French structural engineer and architect. He is known for designing the Eiffel Tower. He also designed the armature (supporting framework) for the Statue of Liberty, New York Harbor, United States.

</doc>
<doc id="283548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283548" title="Bullshit">
Bullshit

Bullshit (also bullcrap, bullplop, bullbutter, bovine stool) is a common American English expletive. It can be used also as an interjection or as many other parts of speech. Usually, it is a noun, verb or interjection that describes a lie. It shows that someone is trying to deceive, e.g. "Stop bullshitting me" ("Don't try to deceive me. I know what you are saying is a lie.").

</doc>
<doc id="283558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283558" title="Black-eyed pea">
Black-eyed pea

The black-eyed pea, also called black-eyed bean, a subspecies of the cowpea, is a medium-sized edible bean. Humans first grew the pea probably in West Africa, but it is now grown all over the world.

</doc>
<doc id="283562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283562" title="Circuit of the Americas">
Circuit of the Americas

The Circuit of the Americas is a motor racing circuit in Austin, Texas. Hermann Tilke designed the circuit in the middle of 2010. Construction was started in early 2011. It is planned to open in 2012. The circuit will run counter-clockwise.
The circuit will host the United States Grand Prix. Starting in 2013, it will host MotoGP races for 10 years. It will also host a round of V8 Supercars, an Australia-based touring car racing series, starting in 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="283563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283563" title="2012 Formula One season">
2012 Formula One season

The 2012 Formula One season was the 63rd season of the Formula One World Championship. The season had twenty races, which started in Australia on 18 March and ended in Brazil on 25 November. The 2012 season saw the return of the United States Grand Prix, which was held at the Circuit of the Americas, a circuit in Austin, Texas. After being cancelled in 2011 due to civil protests, the Bahrain Grand Prix also returned to the calendar.
The start of the season was unpredictable, with seven different drivers winning the first seven races of the championship; a record for the series. It was not until the European Grand Prix in June that a driver, Ferrari's Fernando Alonso, won his second race of the year. Alonso was the championship leader for the next seven races, taking his third win in Germany and finishing on the podium in the United Kingdom, Italy and Singapore. However, first-lap retirements in Belgium and Japan allowed his rivals to catch up, and defending World Champion Sebastian Vettel — like Alonso, a two-time winner — took the lead in the sixteenth race of the season. Vettel, too, encountered difficulties throughout the season; contact with a backmarker left him to finish outside the points in Malaysia, while alternator failures at the European and Italian Grands Prix cost him valuable points and exclusion from qualifying in Abu Dhabi led him to start from the pit lane. Vettel entered the final race of the season with a thirteen-point lead over Alonso. Alonso needed a podium finish to stand any chance of becoming World Drivers' Champion, but in a race that finished under the safety car, Vettel finished in sixth place, scoring enough points to win his third consecutive championship, becoming the third driver to do so. In the World Constructors' Championship, Red Bull Racing secured their third consecutive title when Sebastian Vettel finished second at the United States Grand Prix.
In addition to seeing seven different winners at the first seven races, the season also had the most races ever in a season with twenty, beating the last record of nineteen, which was first set in 2005. Six current or former World Drivers' Champions — Sebastian Vettel, Fernando Alonso, Jenson Button, Lewis Hamilton, Kimi Räikkönen, and Michael Schumacher — started the season, breaking the record of five established in 1970.
The pre-season testing season began immediately after the 2011 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix with a three-day 'Young Driver Test' (for drivers with fewer than three Formula One race starts to their name) at the Yas Marina Circuit from 15–17 November 2011. Toro Rosso test driver and Formula Renault 3.5 Series runner-up Jean-Éric Vergne was the fastest driver in every session over the three-day test, driving for Red Bull Racing. The Young Driver Tests also saw the debut of Pirelli's 2012 tyre compounds, with all bar one of the tyre compounds used in 2011 having undergone significant revisions. Several teams, including Williams and Mercedes used the tests as an opportunity to test parts for the 2012 season in the face of a ban on exhaust-blown diffusers.
After a dispute between the Formula One Teams Association and the FIA in the first half of , a new Concorde Agreement was signed on 1 August 2009 by the then FIA president Max Mosley and all of the existing teams at the time. The new agreement provides for a continuation of the terms of the 1998 Concorde Agreement, and runs until 31 December 2012.
The FIA published a provisional entry list on 30 November 2011.
Bernie Ecclestone has expressed a desire to see the calendar expand to a record twenty rounds, the maximum he feels is viable. However, a provisional calendar was announced in June 2011, with a record twenty-one races. FIA President Jean Todt later clarified this position, stating that the 2012 calendar would have no more than twenty races, but gave no indication as to which race would be removed from the calendar. On 29 July 2011, a second provisional calendar was released, confirming that the Turkish Grand Prix would be discontinued. The final calendar was released on 7 December 2011.
Points are awarded to the top 10 classified finishers.
Notes:
Notes:

</doc>
<doc id="283564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283564" title="Great horned owl">
Great horned owl

The Great horned owl ("Bubo virginianus") is the largest owl in North America. It is sometimes called the hoot owl. 
This widespread bird of prey lives in mountains, grasslands, conifer forests, deserts, chapparals, and many other habitats in North and South America. Its call is a far-carrying hoot.
This owl is 18 to 25 inches (46-64 cm) long and has a wing span of 52 to 55 inches (1.3-1.4 m); its weight averages about 3 pounds (1.5 kg). 
The feathers of the horned owl are gray to brown to buff to black. There is a patch of white feathers on the brown chest (called a "gular"). The eyes are yellow with round black pupils.
The great horned owl hunts and eats mammals (like rabbits, woodchucks, mice, rats, and squirrels), birds (ducks, quail, and geese), and fish. 
The owl is at the top of the food web; it has no major predators. It sometimes eats its prey whole and later regurgitates the bones, fur, and feathers in pellets.

</doc>
<doc id="283566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283566" title="Capital Region International Airport">
Capital Region International Airport

Capital Region International Airport , is a public airport in DeWitt Township, Clinton County, Michigan. The airport is northwest of Lansing, Michigan. The airport has three runways and is 2160 acres (874.12 ha) in size. The airport is owned and operated by the Capital Region Airport Authority.
The airport opened in July 1928. Cargo service from the airport began on July 17, 1928, on Transamerican Airlines. Passenger service began on September 1, 1929, on Kohler Airlines. The current terminal building opened in 1959. The first international flights (to Cancún, Mexico) began in December 2009 on USA3000 Airlines. Allegiant Air served the airport from 2003-2009 and 2012-2015 with flights to Florida.
Delta Air Lines, Sun Country Airlines, and United Airlines are passenger airlines that serve Capital Region International Airport. UPS Airlines is a cargo airline that serves the airport.
The airport has domestic passenger flights to Atlanta, Chicago, Detroit, Minneapolis, and Washington, D.C. The airport has seasonal international passenger flights to Cancún, Mexico and Puerto Vallarta, Mexico. The airport has cargo flights to Columbus and Louisville.
376,790 passengers flew to and from Capital Region International Airport in 2014. 418,850 passengers flew in 2013. 656,703 passengers flew in 2000. 45,896,074 pounds (20,818,109 kg) of cargo flew to and from the airport in 2014. 64,844,276 pounds (29,412,869 kg) of cargo flew in 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="283572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283572" title="Daniel Bedingfield">
Daniel Bedingfield

Daniel Bedingfield (born 3 December 1979) is a New Zealand-born British singer-songwriter. He was raised in South London. His song "Gotta Get Thru This" became #1 in United Kingdom's Top 40 in December 2001. His album, also titled "Gotta Get Thru This" went to number 2 on the UK albums chart. His sisters are singers Natasha Bedingfield and Nikola Rachelle. Bedingfield was a judge on the first season of The X Factor NZ in 2013.
In 2004, Bedingfield won a BRIT Award for "Best British Male Artist".
Bedingfield is a Christian.

</doc>
<doc id="283579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283579" title="Belén Esteban">
Belén Esteban

Belén Esteban Menéndez is a Spanish television personality. She presents the television show "Sálvame" with Jorge Javier Vazquez.

</doc>
<doc id="283582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283582" title="Holy Week">
Holy Week

Holy Week (Latin: "Hebdomas Sancta" or "Hebdomas Maior", "Greater Week"; Greek: "Μεγάλη Ἑβδομάς", "Megale Hebdomas") is the commemoration of the last week of Jesus Christ's ministry on earth. Holy Week is the last week of Lent. It begins with Palm Sunday and leads up to Easter Sunday.

</doc>
<doc id="283586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283586" title="Amanda Seyfried">
Amanda Seyfried

Amanda Michelle Seyfried (born December 3, 1985, Allentown, Pennsylvania) is an American actress, singer-songwriter and former child model. At 11, she became a child model, and at 15 she became a television actress. She starred in "As the World Turns" and "All My Children". In 2004, Seyfried started her film career, acting in "Mean Girls". She also appeared in a number of other movies: "Nine Lives" (2005), "Alpha Dog" (2006), "Mamma Mia!" (2008), "Jennifer's Body", "Chloe", "Dear John", "Veronica Mars" and "Letters to Juliet". In 2006, she had a lead role on HBO's television series "Big Love".

</doc>
<doc id="283587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283587" title="Mario Casas">
Mario Casas

Mario Casas Sierra (born 12 July, 1986, A Coruña) is a Spanish actor. He has starred in "Los hombres de Paco" (2007–2010), "Fuga de cerebros" (2009), and "Tres metros sobre el cielo" (2010)

</doc>
<doc id="283589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283589" title="Sinodelphys">
Sinodelphys

Sinodelphys is an extinct mammal from the Lower Cretaceous. It is a member of the infraclass Metatheria, the group which contains modern marsupials.
To date, it is the oldest metatherian fossil known, estimated to be 125 million years old. This makes it almost contemporary to the earliest placental fossils, which have been found in the same area.
It was discovered and described in 2003 in rocks of the Yixian Formation in Liaoning Province, China, by a team of scientists. 
"Sinodelphys szalayi" grew only 15 cm (5.9 in) long and possibly weighed about 30 g (1.05 oz). 
Its fossilized skeleton is surrounded by impressions of fur and soft tissue. Rapid burial followed volcanic events, and the fine sediment preserved details. 
From its foot structure it is thought that "Sinodelphys" was a tree-dweller, like its non-marsupial contemporary "Eomaia" and modern opossums such as "Didelphis". "Sinodelphys" probably hunted worms and insects. 
Most Mesozoic metatherians have been found in North America and Asia. Most lived during the Upper Cretaceous between 90-65 million years ago.

</doc>
<doc id="283594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283594" title="The Art of Getting By">
The Art of Getting By

The Art of Getting By is a 2011 American romantic drama movie that was produced by Darren Goldberg, Gia Walsh, Kara Baker and P. Jennifer Dana and was directed by Gavin Wiesen. "Homework" (its original name) was first shown at the Sundance Film Festival on January 23, 2011, and was released in theaters in North America on June 17, 2011. The movie premiered under the title "Homework" at the 2011 Sundance Film Festival and was released as "The Art of Getting By".

</doc>
<doc id="283605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283605" title="Peppermint">
Peppermint

The Peppermint is a hybrid plant of the mint family. It is originally from Europe, but grown and sold all over the world. It is a hybrid of watermint and spearmint. Carolus Linnaeus first described the plant in 1753, from samples that had been collected in England. He treated it as a species, but modern biology mostly treats it as a hybrid.
The peppermint is found in some medications, in particular Skumin’s mixture.

</doc>
<doc id="283618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283618" title="Emotional intelligence">
Emotional intelligence

Emotional intelligence is a thought model that claims that to be successful, people must be able to know their own feelings. They must also be able to guess and influence the emotions of other people, and of groups of other people. There are several different models that disagree about the exact definition of the term. Even though there does not seem to be an exact definition, the model itself can be applied in various ways, across different domains.
Nowadays, there are 3 main models of Emotional intelligence:
Emotional Intelligence (EI), often measured as an Emotional Intelligence Quotient (EQ).

</doc>
<doc id="283620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283620" title="Bulletproof (La Roux song)">
Bulletproof (La Roux song)

Bulletproof is a 2009 song by the English electropop duo La Roux off their self-titled album. It was released in the United Kingdom in June 2009 and was highly received by the critics. This song debuted at #1 on the UK Singles Chart. It was a sleeper hit in the United States, peaking at number eight.

</doc>
<doc id="283621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283621" title="Truffle">
Truffle

A truffle is the fruiting body of an underground mushroom. Its spores are dispersed by fungivores, animals that eat fungi. Almost all truffles are found in close association with trees.
There are hundreds of species of truffles that are big, but the fruiting body of some (mostly in the genus 'Tuber') are highly prized as a food. The 18th-century French gastronome Brillat-Savarin called these truffles "the diamond of the kitchen". Edible truffles are held in high esteem in French, Spanish, northern Italian and Greek cooking, as well as in international .
The "white truffle" or "" () comes from the Montferrat and Langhe areas of the Piedmont region in northern Italy and, most famously, in the countryside around the city of Alba. It is also found in Croatia, on the Istria peninsula in the Motovun forest alongside Mirna river. They grow with oak, hazel, poplar and beech trees, and fruit in autumn, they can reach 12 cm diameter and 500 g, though are usually much smaller. The flesh is pale cream or brown with white marbling. Like the French black truffles, Italian white truffles are very highly esteemed ("illustration, left"). The white truffle market in Alba is busiest in the months of October and November, where a 1.6-pound white truffle sold to "The Cody" of southern California for $150,000 on November 8, 2009 during the 79th White Truffle Festival. In 2001, the truffles sold for between US$1,000 and $2,200 per pound; as of December 2009 they were being sold at €10,200 per kilogram.
Giancarlo Zigante and his dog Diana found one of the largest truffles in the world near Buje, Croatia. The truffle weighed and has entered the Guinness Book of Records.
The record price paid for a single white truffle was set in December 2007, when Macau casino owner Stanley Ho paid US$330,000 (£165,000) for a specimen weighing , discovered by Luciano Savini and his dog Rocco. One of the largest truffles found in decades, it was unearthed near Pisa and sold at an auction held simultaneously in Macau, Hong Kong and Florence. This record was then matched on November 27, 2010 when Ho again paid US$330,000 for a pair of white truffles including one weighing nearly a kilogram.
The white truffle is found mostly in northern and central Italy, while the , or whitish truffle, is found in Tuscany, Romagna, the Marche and Molise. Neither of these is as aromatic as those from Piedmont.
The "black truffle" or "black Périgord truffle" () is named after the Périgord region in France and grows only with oak. Specimens can be found in late autumn and winter, reaching 7 cm in diameter and weighing up to 100 g. Production is almost exclusively European, with France accounting for 45%, Spain 35%, Italy 20%, and small amounts from Slovenia, Croatia and the Australian states of Tasmania and Western Australia (see below). In 1900, France produced around 1,000 metric tonnes (1,100 short tons) of . Production has considerably shrunk in the past century, and is now around 20 metric tonnes (22 short tons) per year, with peaks at 46 metric tonnes (50 short tons) in the best years. About 80% of the French production comes from southeast France: upper Provence ("départements" of Vaucluse and Alpes-de-Haute-Provence), part of Dauphiné ("département" of Drôme), and part of Languedoc ("département" of Gard); 20% of the production comes from southwest France: Quercy ("département" of Lot) and Périgord. The largest truffle market in France (and probably also in the world) is at Richerenches in Vaucluse. The largest truffle market in southwest France is at Lalbenque in Quercy. These markets are busiest in the month of January, when the black truffles have their highest perfume. As of December 2009, black truffles were sold for about €1,000 per kilo in a farmer's market and €3,940 per kilo in a retail saler.
Looking for truffles in open ground is almost always carried out with specially trained pigs (truffle hogs) or, more recently, dogs. The Lagotto Romagnolo is currently the only dog breed recognized for sniffing out truffles (although virtually any breed could be trained for this purpose).
The female pig's natural truffle-seeking, as well as her intent to eat the truffle, is due to a compound in the truffle. This compound is similar to androstenol, the sex pheromone of boar saliva, to which the sow is keenly attracted.
In Italy, the use of the pig to hunt truffles is prohibited since 1985 due to damage caused by animals to truffle's mycelia during the digging that dropped the production rate of the area for some years.
Truffles can be cultivated, but it is not easy. The two world wars disrupted the growing of truffles in Europe, and changes in land use has reduced the available area. Truffles are now being cultivated in Australia and New Zealand.

</doc>
<doc id="283624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283624" title="Sweetbread">
Sweetbread

Sweetbreads or ris are culinary names for the thymus or the pancreas glands especially of the calf ("ris de veau") and lamb ("ris d'agneau") (although beef and pork sweetbreads are also eaten).
Various other glands used as food have also been called 'sweetbreads', including the parotid gland, the sublingual glands, and testicles ("cf." Rocky Mountain oyster). The "heart" sweetbreads are more spherical in shape, and surrounded symmetrically by the "throat" sweetbreads, which are more cylindrical in shape.
One common preparation of sweetbreads involves soaking in salt water, then poaching in milk, after which the outer membrane is removed. Once dried and chilled, they are often breaded and fried. They are also used for stuffing or in pâtés. They are grilled in many Latin American cuisines, such as in the Argentine asado, and served in bread in Turkish cuisine.
The word "sweetbread" is first known in the 16th century, but the logic behind the name is unclear. "Sweet" is perhaps used since the thymus is sweet and rich tasting, as opposed to savoury tasting muscle flesh. "Bread" may come from "brede" 'roasted meat'.

</doc>
<doc id="283628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283628" title="Culinary name">
Culinary name

Culinary name is the name of an ingredient when used in the kitchen for preparing food. Sometimes the kitchen name is used because it sounds more attractive than the real name, or because a cheaper ingredient can be linked with a more expensive one. The culinary name may also refer to a way of cooking or to a region, or using a particular ingredient

</doc>
<doc id="283630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283630" title="Ken Salazar">
Ken Salazar

Ken Salazar (born March 2, 1955) was the United States Secretary of the Interior. Salazar was a member of the United States Senate from Colorado before being appointed as the Secretary of the Interior. Salazar is a Democrat.

</doc>
<doc id="283631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283631" title="Jean Casimir Perier">
Jean Casimir Perier

Jean Paul Pierre Casimir-Perier (; 8 November 1847 – 11 March 1907) was a French politician, fifth president of the French Third Republic.
He was born in Paris, the son of Auguste Casimir-Perier and the grandson of Casimir Pierre Perier, premier of Louis Philippe. He entered public life as secretary to his father, who was minister of the interior under the presidency of Thiers.
On 17 August 1883 he became under-secretary of state for war, a post he retained until 7 January 1885. From 1890 to 1892 he was vice-president of the chamber, then in 1893 president. On 3 December he became prime-minister and foreign minister, but heresigned in May 1894, and was re-elected president of the chamber.
On 24 June 1894, after the assassination of President Carnot, he was elected president of the republic by 451 votes against 195 for Henri Brisson and 97 for Charles Dupuy. He was president for only six months. The day after Dupuy resigned, on 14 January 1895, Casimir-Perier resigned, saying he was ignored by the ministers, who did not consult him before taking decisions, and did not keep him informed upon political events, especially in foreign affairs.
From that time he completely abandoned politics, and devoted himself to business - especially mining. At the trial of Alfred Dreyfus at Rennes, Casimir-Perier's evidence, as opposed to that of General Mercier, was of great value to the cause of Dreyfus. 

</doc>
<doc id="283638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283638" title="Hilda Solis">
Hilda Solis

Hilda Solis (born October 20, 1957) is an American politician. She is currently a member of the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors for District 1. Before being elected to the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors for District 1, she was the United States Secretary of Labor from 2009 to 2013. Solis was a member of the United States House of Representatives from California's 32nd congressional district before being elected as the Secretary of Labor. Prior to being a U.S. Representative, she was a California State Senator and a member of the California State Assembly. She was the first Hispanic woman to serve in the California State Senate. Solis is a Democrat. She was elected to the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors for District 1 on June 3, 2014. She was sworn in on December 1, 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="283640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283640" title="Louis de Béchamel">
Louis de Béchamel

Louis de Béchamel, marquis de Nointel (1630–1703) was a French "financier" and patron of the arts.
Son of Jean-Baptiste Béchamel, Louis was a rich tax farmer and superintendent to the house of the Philippe II, Duke of Orléans. In 1697, Béchamel bought the "marquisat" of Nointel and later became Louis XIV's head steward.
Béchamel and his wife, Marie Colbert (d. April 3, 1686) had two children, Marie Louise Béchamel de Nointel (1661 – April 2, 1740) and Louis Béchamel de Nointel (1649 – December 31, 1718).
The white sauce called béchamel sauce (Fr. "sauce béchamel") acquired its name from him for he perfected an older sauce made from cream originally made by François Pierre de la Varenne (1615–1678), the cook of the marquis d'Uxelles. The sauce was dedicated to Béchamel to flatter him, at which the Duke of Escars commented: 

</doc>
<doc id="283645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283645" title="Category:People from Somerset">
Category:People from Somerset


</doc>
<doc id="283648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283648" title="Kathleen Sebelius">
Kathleen Sebelius

Kathleen Sebelius (born May 15, 1948) is an American politician. She sered as the United States Secretary of Health and Human Services from 2009 to 2014. Before becoming the Secretary of Health and Human Services, Sebelius was a governor from Kansas. "Time Magazine" listed Sebelius as one of America's five best governors in 2005. Sebelius is a Democrat. She resigned on April 10, 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="283661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283661" title="MediaWiki:Abusefilter-disallowed">
MediaWiki:Abusefilter-disallowed


</doc>
<doc id="283662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283662" title="MediaWiki:Abusefilter-edit-action-flag">
MediaWiki:Abusefilter-edit-action-flag

Flag the change in the abuse log

</doc>
<doc id="283670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283670" title="Lojze Grozde">
Lojze Grozde

Lojze Grozde was a Slovenian student who was killed by partisans during World War II. His death is recognised as martyrdom by the Catholic Church. He was beatified on June 13, 2010.
Grozde was born on May 27, 1923 in the village of Gorenje Vodale, Tržišče near Mokronog in Lower Carniola, Slovenia.
He was an illegitimate child. When he was four years old, his mother married. His stepfather chased him away each time he wanted to see his mother. Later, because Lojze was a good pupil, the stepfather became friendlier towards him, and so he remained at the house and his aunt took care of him. She saw to his schooling and sent him to a school in Ljubljana, where she was working as a servant. Some benefactors helped her support her nephew. He stayed at the Marijanišče boarding school and attended "Classical Secondary School" ("Klasična gimnazija") in Ljubljana. There he was an outstanding student; but found time for literary creativity too and so became poet and writer. He was a member of Catholic Action and a member of the Marian Congregation. Towards the end of his high schooling World War II was approaching. Circumstances were becoming increasingly strained. This was also the time when Lojze had to make a decision about his vocation. He sought his path in life through meditation and learning, in deep prayer, and in apostolic work for others.
During his summer vacation of 1942 he did not go home because there was a lot of violence and it was not easy to travel. It was only for New Year 1943 that he decided to visit his relatives. He asked for a permit to travel home. First he visited a friend of his at the village of Struge. On 1 January 1943, the first Friday, he attended mass at the monastery at Stična, where he received communion for the last time in his young life; then travelled by train from Ivančna Gorica to Trebnje, where he found he could not travel further because the rails had been destroyed. He decided to continue to Mirna on foot, and on the way he rode in a cart. By the first house at Mirna he had to get out of the cart because a partisan guard seized and interrogated him. On him they found a devotional book, The Imitation of Christ by Thomas a Kempis and a booklet on Our Lady of Fatima. He was taken to a nearby inn and interrogated, tortured, and killed. Three hours earlier the seminarian Janez Hočevar, who wanted to visit his relatives in nearby Šentrupert, had been also shot. Lojze Grozde was suspected of being an informant; the communists saw in him the mentality that they deprecated and persecuted.
Soon rumors spread about cruel way the Tone Tomšič Partisan Brigade, which had conquered Mirna, celebrated the New Year.
Some others maintain that Grozde was not tortured. 
Other sources state that he was tortured.
On 23 February 1943 the fate of Lojze Grozde was partly revealed, indicating that he had been tortured. Schoolchildren picking snowdrops found his corpse. Although there were traces of torture on his body, the corpse itself was uncorrupted. His body was taken to nearby Šentrupert, where a committee made a report. The body of Lojze Grozde was buried at the cemetery in Šentrupert because it was impossible to take it to his home parish of Tržišče under the difficult circumstances of those days. The news of the violent torture and death of this innocent student struck fear among people and shocked the students in Ljubljana.
On the 50th anniversary of the death of Lojze Grozde, the Archdiocese of Ljubljana started a process to recognize his martyrdom and also his beatification and canonization. When Pope John Paul II visited Slovenia for the first time in 1996, he mentioned Lojze Grozde twice. He said, "The servant of God Lojze Grozde is just one of innumerable innocent victims of Communism that raise the palm of martyrdom as an indelible memory and admonition. He was a disciple of Christ." Pope Benedict XVI said that "saints are not the past, but they represent the present and the future of the Church and society. They fully realized love in truth, which is the highest value in Christian life; their figures are like prisms that in various casts reflect the unique light of Christ."
On March 27, 2010 the news came from Rome that Pope Benedict XVI had affirmed the martyrdom of Lojze Grozde. Thus a solemn beatification is allowed that took place at the Slovenian eucharistic congress in Celje on June 13, 2010.
In his introduction to the biography of Lojze Grozde by Anton Strle, who is also a candidate for sainthood, Taras Kermauner wrote: "Grozde combines the ardour and apostolate of Friderik Baraga, the asceticism and suffering of Janez Frančišek Gnidovec, a gift for organization, and the Slovenian national consciousness of Blessed Anton Martin Slomšek ... He symbolizes the entire martyrdom suffered by Christians and Catholic Slovenians during World War II and afterwards for their affiliation to their faith ... His personality should be returned to the common Slovenian consciousness of heroes that have been praised and elevated to the first plane as the only models. Today a man like Grozde is needed as our model – a martyr, a saint. Not a man of aggressive military action thinking he will put forward God with arms and the blood of other or foreign people ... I do not fear to write that Grozde belongs among the greatest young Slovenians; that his attitude is fitting and most precious."

</doc>
<doc id="283672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283672" title="Szilárd Bogdánffy">
Szilárd Bogdánffy

Szilárd Ignác Bogdánffy was a Roman Catholic auxiliary bishop of Satu Mare and Oradea of the Latins. On October 30, 2010 he was proclaimed blessed in a ceremony held in St. Mary's Basilica, Oradea, Romania, being recognized as a martyr of the Communist period.
Szilárd Bogdánffy was born on February 21, 1911 in the village of Feketetõ, then part of Torontal district, Austria-Hungary; today called Crna Bara, near the town of Kikinda, district Northern Banat, autonomous province of Vojvodina, Serbia. He lived there with his family until 1925. He was baptized in the parish church of Čoka to which his village belonged and where his father was a cantor.
Bogdánffy went to elementary school in Crna Bara, until 1925 when the Bogdánffy family moved to Timişoara a city in Eastern part of Banat. There he went to the Piarists high school. After his final exams, he was accepted to the Catholic seminary of the Latin-rite Diocese of Oradea. He was ordained a priest by the bishop of Oradea Stefan Fiedler on the June 29, 1934. He continued his studies at the University of Budapest, where he earned a PhD in philosophy and dogmatics (with a thesis on “Apocalyptics in the Synoptic Gospels”). Upon his return to Romania he became professor of the Catholic seminary in Oradea and confessor at the Ursuline convent in the city. In 1939 he was followed by the Royal Romanian Secret Services for alleged anti-Romanian activity. During World War II – because he was hiding Jews – he was also interrogated by the Hungarian Fascist „Nyílás” gendarmes.
After the end of the war, the new Romanian communist leadership started a campaign against Christian (especially against the catholic Christian) religion. As a consequence, the Vatican allowed secret consecration of bishops. Dr. Szilárd Bogdánffy was consecrated as bishop of Oradea of the Latins and auxiliary bishop of Satu Mare on February 14, 1949 by Gerald Patrick O’Hara, Regent of the Apostolic Nunciature to Bucharest. The new bishop was arrested and imprisoned only two months later. He had previously been approached, on several occasions, by representatives o the regime, with the request that he lead an "independent Romanian Latin-rite Church, with no ties to the Vatican" which he adamantly refused. Until his death he spent four years as a captive in various prisons throughout Romania, including the evil reputed Capul-Midia camp. He fell seriously ill, being affected by bad conditions and regular tortures. In Aiud Prison, as the Byzantine rite Catholic bishop of Lugoj, Ioan Ploscaru recalled, Bishop Bogdánffy was "humble and serene, always ready to help his fellow sufferers". Although lying with serious pneumonia, the prison doctor refused him the necessary medication claiming he was not worthy of it. He died in solitary confinement on October 3rd, 1953 in the prison of Aiud, Romania.
His beatification took place on October 30th, 2010, in Oradea. Saint mass with 200 priests, 42 bishops and two cardinals guided and during it preached Cardinal Péter Erdő, Archbishop of Esztergom-Budapest, President of the Council of European Bishops' Conferences (CCEE). The same ceremony of beatification was presided by the Cardinal and Archbishop Angelo Amato, President of the Congregation for causes of the Saints. He is the first Catholic martyred during the Communist regime in Romania to be elevated to the honor of the altars.

</doc>
<doc id="283673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283673" title="Category:Agnostics">
Category:Agnostics


</doc>
<doc id="283674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283674" title="Trevor Bayne">
Trevor Bayne

Trevor Bayne (born February 19, 1991) is an American race car driver. In the Sprint Cup Series, he drives the No. 6 Ford Fusion for Roush Fenway Racing. On February 20, 2011 Trevor Bayne won the 2011 Daytona 500. Bayne is now the youngest driver to win the Daytona 500.
Trevor Bayne started racing Go-Karts when he was 5 years old. Bayne won over 300 races and 22 championships in Go-Karts. In 2005, Bayne started racing in the Allison Legacy Series. He drove in 22 races, and won 12 of those races. In 2006, Bayne raced for Team Rensi in the USAR Pro Hooters Cup, and he won the Rookie of the Year award at age of 15. In 2007, Bayne left Team Rensi to race for Dale Earnhardt, Inc.
For the 2008 season, Bayne drove the #1 car for Dale Earnhardt Incorporated in the NASCAR Camping World East Series. Bayne had 6 Top 5's, two poles and one win at Thompson International Speedway in his 6th start. In the 2009 season Bayne made his first NASCAR Nationwide Series start for Means Racing in the #52 Taco Bell Chevrolet at Bristol Motor Speedway. Bayne also agreed to drive the #99 Aarons Toyota for Michael Waltrip Racing for 8 races. Bayne got his career best finish at O'Reilly Raceway Park when he finished 7. In September 2010, Bayne left Diamond-Waltrip Racing and went to drive for Roush-Fenway Racing. He will drive for Roush-Fenway Racing in the 2011 season in the NASCAR Nationwide Series. He made his first NASCAR Sprint Cup Series start in the 2010 AAA Texas 500 at Texas Motor Speedway with Wood Brothers Racing. Bayne is the first driver to compete in one of the top three NASCAR series to be born in 1991.
Bayne drove the #21 Wood Brothers Racing Ford in 17 Sprint Cup Series races in 2011. He did not competing for the Rookie of the Year award because he was racing the full Nationwide Series season. Bayne won his first Sprint Cup Series race in his second race ever, the 2011 Daytona 500. This win makes him the second youngest driver ever to win a Sprint Cup Series race, and the youngest ever driver to win the Daytona 500. In 2015 Bayne started racing full time in the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series for Roush Fenway Racing.

</doc>
<doc id="283678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283678" title="Ambrosia (band)">
Ambrosia (band)

Ambrosia are a pop rock music group. It formed in the Los Angeles area around 1970. They had many radio hits in the 1970s, although much of the material is progressive in nature. The founding members of Ambrosia grew up in southern California.

</doc>
<doc id="283679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283679" title="Miguel Olivo">
Miguel Olivo

Miguel Olivo (born July 15, 1978) is a Major League Baseball player from Villa Vasquez, Dominican Republic. Olivo plays as a catcher for the Seattle Mariners. In 1996, Olivo was signed as a free agent by the Oakland Athletics. In December, 2000, he was traded to the Chicago White Sox for Chad Bradford. Olivo made his Major League Baseball debut on September 15, 2002, for the Chicago White Sox. On December 9, 2010, Olivo signed a two year, seven million dollar deal with the Seattle Mariners.

</doc>
<doc id="283681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283681" title="Vulnerability index">
Vulnerability index

The vulnerability index is a tool for finding out who among the street homeless population needs health care and housing the most. It is being used in more and more cities in the USA. Volunteeers conduct a survey of people living in homeless shelters, warming centers and people who do not have any housing at all.
The vulnerability index is from the work of Dr. Jim O'Connell of Boston's Healthcare for the Homeless. He was concerned about the causes of death of unsheltered homeless individuals living on the street. A national drive is underway by Common Ground to work with the HUD homeless count. Since communities are doing the count, he believes that is a good time to do the vulnerability index too. Its' people say that using it will help getting needy individuals off the street.
The vulnerability index has been tried out in a lot of other places not just the East Coast. These include Charlotte, North Carolina, Albuquerque, New Mexico and Santa Monica, California.

</doc>
<doc id="283685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283685" title="Common Ground">
Common Ground

Common Ground is a nonprofit social services organization. It provides housing for the homeless and others. Their philosophy holds that housing costs less than homeless shelters. It also costs many times less than jail cells or hospital rooms, They also believe that people with psychiatric and other problems can better manage them once they have a place to live. It was started in 1990 by Rosanne Haggerty. Since then the organization has created more than 2,000 units of housing for the homeless. "This is about creating a small town, rather than just a building," according to Haggerty. "It’s about a real mixed society, working with many different people."
Haggerty’s work was recognized in 2001. She was selected as a prize winner and received and award called a MacArthur Fellowship award. The MacArthur Foundation praised her work in saving historic buildings, and fixing them up. She used creative financing which means new ways to deal with banks and other organizations that provide money for housing. 
Among Common Ground's activities is documentation of the homeless population. In other words, to study them and write down what is going on so that people can figure out a plan of action. Sometimes this is done while counting the homeless. These counts are sometimes called "enumeration" because they put a number on how many homeless there are. 
In these counts, there is a way of writing down who is most vulnerable, who is most in danger from being homeless. This is called a vulnerability index. Workers complete the vulnerability index by asking about medical problems. Then they try to persuade those who spend the most time on the streets to seek permanent housing. They do this even if the people still have drug, alcohol or medical problems. Some of those involved in the issue of homelessness consider Common Ground a pioneer - someone who thinks up new ways to deal with old problems. 
However, the count is not an end to itself, but a first step. According to Becky Kanis, the Director of Common Ground’s "Innovations Department",
The important part is what we do with this information. We want to move from crisis management to lasting solutions. Other cities have done that successfully. We plan to do the same. ... At the real end of the day the only thing that’s going to matter is the people who have been ... unwilling to accept the offers of shelter... Can we reach them and make a positive difference in their lives?... " 
Some people have asked if what works in New York will work in other places. 
Kanis states: "We don’t know exactly what’s going to work here in New York, but we know what’s worked in other cities. Therefore, we’re going to spend our efforts doing those things, and as we find smarter and better ways to do things we will adopt them.

</doc>
<doc id="283697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283697" title="Chinese mountain cat">
Chinese mountain cat

The Chinese Mountain cat ("Felis bieti"), also known as the Chinese Desert cat, is a small wild cat of western China. It is the least known member of the genus "Felis", the common cats.
Some authorities regard the chutchta and vellerosa subspecies of the Wildcat as Chinese Mountain cat subspecies.

</doc>
<doc id="283702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283702" title="Mason Ryan">
Mason Ryan

Barri Griffiths (born January 13, 1982 in Tremadog, Wales) better known by his ring name Mason Ryan, is a Welsh professional wrestler currently signed to World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) and to the Raw brand where he used to be part of the stable, The Nexus. He also wrestled for Florida Championship Wrestling where was a one time FCW Florida Heavyweight Championship. Griffiths is a former Gladiator where he was known by the name, Goliath. He has also wrestled in several wrestling tournaments throughout his home country Wales before joining the WWE.

</doc>
<doc id="283703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283703" title="Expansion pack">
Expansion pack

An expansion pack is an addition (extra part) of a video game, that adds to it. Expansion packs can add characters, worlds, weapons, or scenarios. They can be for all types of video games.
Most expansion packs need the main version of the game to play, although there are a few exceptions which can be purchased stand-alone, such as "The Ultimate Doom".
Expansion packs are usually cheaper than the main game, or may even be free.
The term "Expansion Pack" was also used by Nintendo for a hardware add-on that plugged into the Nintendo 64 and was required for some games. It increased the RAM from 4 MB to 8 MB.

</doc>
<doc id="283704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283704" title="Florence Henderson">
Florence Henderson

Florence Agnes Henderson (February 14, 1934 – November 24, 2016) was an American actress and singer. She starred as Carol Brady in "The Brady Bunch" between 1969 and 1974. She was hosting her own talk show, "The Florence Henderson Show", on television.
Henderson died suddenly of heart failure at a hospital in Los Angeles, California on November 24, 2016, aged 82.

</doc>
<doc id="283708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283708" title="The Subtle Knife">
The Subtle Knife

The Subtle Knife is the second book of the "His Dark Materials" trilogy written by Philip Pullman and first published in 1997.
In the first world that Lyra enters, Lyra meets a boy of 12 years named Will Parry who comes from Oxford of the reader's universe and is escaping from the authorities. Defending his sick mother he has accidentally killed a man.They travel through a silent world to resolve many mysteries. They begin to realize that there is something special about that world.

</doc>
<doc id="283710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283710" title="Minerva McGonagall">
Minerva McGonagall

Minerva McGonagall is a fictional character in the Harry Potter books written by J. K. Rowling. This character is a teacher at the school Hogwarts, and a good character in the series; she helps Harry Potter, the main character, many time in the series. She teaches a subject called "transfiguration", this a type of magic where you change objects or animals into other objects and animals. All the way at the end of the books, McGonagall becomes the school principle, her honorary title is called Hogwarts Headmistress.
When McGonagall was young she went to Hogwarts too, where went to Griffindor, a house for brave and bold students. When she got older she decided to train herself to be an "animagus", that is a wizard who can transform themselves into an animal without a wand, now she can transform into a cat. Later, she became a member of the Order Of the Phoenix, an organization trained to fight evil wizards.
She is played by Maggie Smith in the movies.

</doc>
<doc id="283712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283712" title="Knots Landing">
Knots Landing

Knots Landing was an American soap opera which began December 27, 1979 and ended May 13, 1993. It is a spin-off of "Dallas". The show aired on CBS throughout its run. It was set around a fictional coastal suburb of Los Angeles and focuses on four married couples living in a cul-de-sac. By the time of the show's end, it had become one of the longest running primetime drama shows on television in the US.

</doc>
<doc id="283714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283714" title="Okra">
Okra

Okra ("Abelmoschus esculentus") are known in many English-speaking countries as lady's fingers or gumbo) is a flowering plant in the mallow family, related to cotton and hibiscus. It is valued for its edible green seed pods. It is cultivated for the pods, which are harvested in the immature stage and used in salads and soups.

</doc>
<doc id="283718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283718" title="Daniel (name)">
Daniel (name)

Daniel is a Hebrew given name for males and a surname. It means, "God is my judge".
There are many nicknames for "Daniel": "Dan", "Danny, Dani" (English) and "Danya" (Russia). For females, nicknames include "Danielle", "Daniela", "Dani", and "Danitza". "Daniel" as a surname developed into Daniels, meaning "son of Daniel".

</doc>
<doc id="283728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283728" title="Ruthless People">
Ruthless People

Ruthless People is a 1986 American black comedy crime movie which stars Danny DeVito, Helen Slater, Bette Midler and Judge Reinhold. Also starring in the movie is Bill Pullman in his movie debut. David Zucker, Jerry Zucker and Jim Abrahams are the directors of this movie. It was distributed via Touchstone Pictures.

</doc>
<doc id="283731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283731" title="Alexandertorte">
Alexandertorte

Alexandertorte, also known as Alexander Torte or Aleksander Torte, is a dessert of pastry strips filled with raspberry preserves.
Its origin is not really known. Although Alexander I employed Carême, this dessert is not claimed by Carême. It was possibly first made in Finland, by Swiss pastry chefs in Helsinki in 1818, when Alexander was due to visit. It is also said to be a Latvian dish.

</doc>
<doc id="283742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283742" title="2011 Christchurch earthquake">
2011 Christchurch earthquake

The 2011 Christchurch earthquake was a 6.3 magnitude earthquake which struck the South Island of New Zealand at on NZT. (This is 23:51 UTC). It was about 5 km underground. It struck the Canterbury region of the island and caused a lot of damage and many deaths in Christchurch, New Zealand's second largest city.
It was the largest aftershock of the 4 September 2010 Canterbury earthquake, although it is being regarded as a separate earthquake. It was smaller than the September earthquake, but it was more damaging because it was closer to Christchurch and nearer to the surface of the earth. It also happened at lunchtime on a Tuesday compared to before dawn on a Saturday, which meant that more people were outside and in danger of being injured by falling buildings. Buildings were also already weakened from the previous quakes. The intensity felt in Christchurch was MM VIII.
Prime Minister John Key said that the 22nd of February "may well be New Zealand's darkest day".
At least 166 people have been confirmed dead with the final death toll expected to be over 200.
At the end of the first day 65 people were known to have died, and the number is expected to rise. Over 100 people may be trapped in one building alone. The New Zealand Fire Service says many people were injured and trapped in buildings. At 5pm local time Radio New Zealand reported that 80% of the city was without electricity. Water and wastewater services are not working in many parts of the city. People are being asked to use as little water as possible and to collect rainwater. It is expected that the State of Emergency Level 3, the highest possible in a regional disaster, will last at least five days. Medical staff from the army are being used.
The "Sydney Morning Herald" reported that two buses and a number of cars were crushed by falling buildings.
Buildings have collapsed around Cathedral Square in downtown Christchurch. The spire of ChristChurch Cathedral has completely collapsed. Christchurch Hospital was evacuated due to damage in some areas, but soon reopened to treat the injured. It has treated over 220 serious injuries so far, even though sometimes they were working by torchlight. The New Zealand defence forces have been called in to help move people out of the central business district. Fires were reported at the Canterbury Television (CTV) building.
The Pyne Gould Corporation building on Cambridge Terrace has suffered a lot of damage (photo), and some of the building's 200 workers are believed to be trapped within. Screams have been heard from inside.
The historic Canterbury Provincial Chambers building has also suffered major damage from the earthquake.
The Statistics New Zealand buildings in Christchurch were also damaged. They were due to process much of the March 2011 census of New Zealand. The census has been cancelled because people living in Christchurch have had their lives seriously disrupted. This is the third time the census has been cancelled, the previous two times being during the Great Depression and World War II.
ChristChurch Cathedral has lost the top of its main spire and its roof has fallen in. (photos) Initial reports said 22 people were in the spire at the time of the collapse. However, after the building was made safe to enter over a week after the quake, and searched thoroughly, "no" bodies were located.
The Catholic cathedral of Christchurch, the Cathedral of the Blessed Sacrament, has half collapsed.
Buildings in Lyttelton have been damaged; a fire officer said that 60% of the buildings in the main street have collapsed. The town's historic Timeball Station was also badly damaged. The New Zealand Historic Places Trust who own the building have decided that it is unsafe to try to repair it. It will be dismantled, if possible, and perhaps re-constructed.
Around 30 million tonnes of ice fell off Tasman Glacier into Tasman Lake, about from the epicentre, hitting tour boats with waves 3.5 high.
The quake was felt as far north as Tauranga and as far south as Invercargill, where the 111 emergency network was damaged and stopped working.
New Zealand Prime Minister, John Key, said "All Civil Defence procedures have now been activated; the Civil Defence bunker at Parliament is in operation here in Wellington." Civil Defence has alerted all Urban Search and Rescue teams in Christchurch. The New Zealand Red Cross is also involved.
Australia has offered help, and immediately sent a search and rescue team of 70 from New South Wales on a RAAF C-130 Hercules. Foreign Affairs Minister Kevin Rudd also said a second team from South Australia will also be sent with more equipment. Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard has offered John Key any other help he may need.
The United States and Japan have also offered help.
Christchurch International Airport was only open for emergency air traffic, but has now been opened to all local and domestic flights. The earthquake has affected all air traffic in New Zealand. Air traffic control services by Airways New Zealand, the national Air Traffic Control organisation, have been disrupted.

</doc>
<doc id="283743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283743" title="Adolphe Dugléré">
Adolphe Dugléré

Adolphe Dugléré (born Bordeaux, June 3, 1805 - died Paris April 4, 1884) was a French chef and a pupil of Carême.
Dugléré was a "chef de cuisine" to the Rothschild family until 1848, and was manager at the restaurant "Les Frères Provençaux" at the Palais-Royal from 1848 to 1866 which was owned by three men from Provence named Barthélémy, Maneille and Simonas (who were, in reality, not brothers).
In 1866 he became the head chef of the which was the most famous Paris restaurant of the 19th century and where he is believed to have created the dish "Pommes Anna".
It was at the Café Anglais in 1867 that Dugléré served a famous meal that became known as the Dîner des trois empereurs, () for Tsar Alexander II of Russia, his son the tsarevitch (who later became Tsar Alexander III) and King William I of Prussia, as well as Prince Otto von Bismarck who were in Paris for "L'Exposition Universelle". The table service used for this meal is on display to this day at the oldest existing restaurant in Paris, "La Tour d'Argent" which is owned by the descendants of Claudius Burdel, the last owner of Café Anglais which was demolished in 1913.
The evening of 7 June 1867 is reputed to have been the most magnificent ever to have occurred in any restaurant in the world. The three emperors and Prince Bismarck had requested of Dugléré a meal that would live in their memories and the "maître de cave", Claudius Burdel, was instructed to accompany the dishes with the greatest wines in the world.
The most famous dish attributed to Dugléré is almost certainly "Pommes Anna". Other dishes created by Dugléré include "Potage Germiny", a sorrel soup created for the Count of Germiny, governor of the Bank of France, "Poularde Albufera", dedicated to Maréchal Suchet, Duke of Albufera, "Soufflé à l'anglaise", "Sole Dugléré" and "Culotte de bœuf Salomon", (dedicated to Salomon de Rothschild) and "Barbue à la Dugléré" (brill in tomato and parsley sauce).
He is also credited with inventing "Tournedos Rossini", but this dish has also been credited to both Escoffier as well as Carême (although not the title itself). It was composer Gioachino Rossini who dubbed Dugléré "Le Mozart de la cuisine" (The Mozart of the Kitchen). It was a title he used on the menu for the Dinner of the Three Emperors.

</doc>
<doc id="283752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283752" title="Sean Avery">
Sean Avery

Sean Christopher Avery (born April 10, 1980 in Pickering, Ontario) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey left winger. He played 12 years in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played with the Detroit Red Wings, Los Angeles Kings, New York Rangers, and Dallas Stars. Avery was known for his agitating playing style, as well as his controversial behavior both on and off the ice.
He has also worked as an intern for Vogue, a male model and a restaurateur.
Avery has been featured on MTV Cribs, Punk'd and TRL and has also opened a sports bar called, Warren 77 in Manhattan.

</doc>
<doc id="283754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283754" title="Cul-de-sac">
Cul-de-sac

A cul-de-sac (literally "bottom of bag") is a word that came from the French language and means a small street without a way through at the far end. It is also used in Catalan and Occitan, its meaning being equivalent to a dead end, close, or no through road (United Kingdom, Australian and Canadian English). While culs-de-sac were built in history for other reasons, its modern use is to calm down the traffic.

</doc>
<doc id="283763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283763" title="Daniel Boone">
Daniel Boone

Daniel Boone (1734 – 1820) was an American explorer and frontiersman. He is probably most famous for exploring Kentucky when it was not part of the U.S. In 1775 he made the Wilderness Road, a trail through the Appalachian Mountains from North Carolina and Tennessee and through Kentucky. He spent the last 20 years of his life in Missouri.
Boone was born on 22 October 1734 (N.S.). Boone's grandfather, George Boone, a Quaker, immigrated from England in 1717. Daniel Boone was born in Berks County, Pennsylvania, the son of Squire Boone and Sarah Morgan. His father was a weaver while his mother ran the family farm. In addition to his chores on the farm, Boone learned to hunt, fish and trap. When he was 15 his family moved to the Yadkin Valley of North Carolina.
Boone was a part of an British expedition in 1755 into French territory. When the column was attacked by Indians allied to the French, the British commander, General Edward Braddock was mortally wounded and many of the soldiers were killed. This was the Battle of the Monongahela where then colonel George Washington rallied the British and the Virginia militia into an organized retreat. Boone, who was supervisor of the wagon train was one of those who retreated with Washington. He returned to North Carolina and settled on a farm near his father's. In 1756 he married Rebecca Bryan.
1757 saw several more British defeats but life on Boone's farm remained peaceful. In 1758 the British had several victories over the French. But at the same time their Cherokee allies were becoming tired of poor treatment by the British and the Americans. The French took advantage of this and encouraged the Cherokees to attack American homesteads. In 1759 the indians attacked in Virginia, North and South Carolina. To protect their families many settlers left their farms for safer areas. Boone took his wife, two young sons, and all the belongings they could carry in a single wagon to Culpeper County, Virginia. To make a living Boone hauled tobacco to market in Fredericksburg, Virginia. In 1763 Boone and his family returned to their farm in North Carolina.
Boone first heard of the lands of Kentucky while he was serving with General Braddock in 1755. The person he heard it from was John Findley, another member of the wagon train. Findley had been there as a trader at a Shawnee village called "Blue Lick". He talked about Kentucky as a paradise full of wild game. Boone decided he had to see Kentucky. On a long hunt in the winter of 1767–68 he, his brother Squire and a friend named William Hill moved westward trying to find Kentucky. They reached as far as the present site of Prestonsburg, Kentucky where they remained the rest of the winter. Not realizing they had reached Kentucky, they returned to North Carolina in the spring. Boone again met John Findley and asked him for the route from North Carolina to Kentucky. Findley was not a but did know of a trail the Cherokee used when they made war on the Carolina colonies. In the summer of 1769 Boone and five companions used the warrior's trail to get to Kentucky. They hunted and explored the area. Most of his friends were killed or captured by Indians, but Boone and his brother escaped every time. He made another attempt to reach eastern Kentucky in 1763 but had to turn back. In 1775 he founded the settlement of Boonesborough, Kentucky.
In 1778, Boone and a party were gathering salt when they were attacked. Boone was captured and taken to Detroit where the indians made him a member of their tribe. Boone soon escaped and returned to Boonesborough. In one of the last battles of the American Revolutionary War, Boone, a lieutenant colonel, was at the Battle of Blue Licks on 19 August 1782. The Americans were led into an ambush. Boone was one of the last to retreat. His son Israel Boone was killed in the battle. Boone was the hero of the battle, but other leaders had not listened to his warnings that it was a trap. Boone remained a leading figure in Kentucky for the next 24 years. Through a series of defective land titles and being cheated by land speculators, Boone lost all his lands in Kentucky. There were swarms of people coming into Kentucky and Boone felt crowded. Kentucky was no longer the wilderness it was when he first came there. Now he wanted to discover new lands. He was drawn to the wilds of what is now eastern Missouri.
In 1799, Boone moved with much of his extended family to what is now Warren County, Missouri. It was then part of Spanish Louisiana. The area later became part of Missouri. The Spanish were eager to promote settlement in the sparsely populated region. So they did not enforce the requirement that all immigrants had to be Roman Catholic. The Spanish governor appointed Boone "syndic" (Justice of the peace) of the "Femme Osage" district. Boone served as syndic and commandant until 1804, when the area became part of the Louisiana Purchase. His land grants from the Spanish government had been largely based on verbal agreements. But the former Lieutenant-governor, Zenon Trudeau made the promise in writing and Boone's lands were confirmed. But Boone had not made the necessary improvements under the law and the lands were again taken away. About 1810 Boone sent a petition to Congress to restore his lands. It took them until 1814 to create a special bill which was signed by President James Monroe on 10 February 1814. Boone spent his final years in Missouri, often in the company of children and grandchildren, where he continued to hunt and trap as much as his health and energy levels permitted. He died on 26 September 1820 just before sunrise. His body was taken to Charette, Louisiana territory (now Marthasville, Missouri) and buried next to his wife Rebecca.
In 1845 a group from Kentucky removed the bones of Daniel and Rebecca Boone from their cemetery in Missouri. They took them to Frankfort, Kentucky to be buried in a tomb there. Reverend Philip Fall made a plaster cast of the skull of the body they removed from Missouri. The plaster cast was then presented to the Kentucky State Historical Society. In 1862 the State of Kentucky created a monument over the grave in the Frankfurt cemetery.
A forensic anthropologist, Dr. David Wolf, examined the plaster cast and stated it was probably that of a black slave. Wolf said the cast made by Rev. Fall did not provide enough evidence to be certain, but several clues also point to the conclusion it may not be Daniel Boone. Wolf stated he does not believe the skull shape, slope of the brow, the brow ridges and occipital bone are caucasian. The body removed from Missouri was that of a "large and robust man". According to Boone's brother-in-law Daniel Bryan described Boone as about 5 foot 8 or 9 inches tall. Boone had blonde hair and blue eyes.
Several Missouri historians have stated before that the bones taken from the Missouri cemetery were actually those of a slave. When Boone died at age 85, the gravediggers discovered an unmarked body had been buried next to Rebecca Boone (died 1813). The stranger was left in his grave and Daniel was buried at the foot of his wife's grave. But 16 years later a gravestone was mistakenly placed over the stranger's grave. When the party from Kentucky took the bodies in 1845 they took the bodies of Rebecca and the stranger next to her, wrongly marked as Daniel Boone. Both states claim to have the actual grave of Daniel Boone.

</doc>
<doc id="283766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283766" title="International Labour Organization">
International Labour Organization

The International Labour Organization (ILO) is an international organization created in Geneva in 1919 for better for working conditions and standard of living. In 1946, this organization has become a special organization of the United Nations and won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1969.
The constitution of the International Labour Organization affirms that "universal and lasting peace can be established only if it is based upon social justice." An additional declaration adopted in Philadelphia at the 26th section affirms that "Labour is not a commodity" (I (a)), "Freedom of expression and association are essential to sustained progress" (I (b)), "Poverty anywhere constitutes a danger to prosperity everywhere" (I (c)), and that "All human beings, irrespective of race, creed or sex, have the right to pursue both their material well-being and their spiritual development in conditions of freedom and dignity, of economic security and equal opportunity". (II (a))
For this purpose, ILO has made 189 Conventions called "International Labour Convention" but many countries do not ratify the Conventions despite its importance.

</doc>
<doc id="283768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283768" title="James Graham Brown">
James Graham Brown

James Graham Brown (August 18, 1881 — March 20, 1969) was an American businessman and philanthropist. He was a hotel owner in Louisville, Kentucky. It was his hotel, the Brown Hotel, which first served the hot sandwich. 
The name Hot Brown meaning a type of hot sandwich comes either from Brown himself, or his hotel.

</doc>
<doc id="283770" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283770" title="Social justice">
Social justice

Social justice is an idea of justice that affirms social equality against any kind of discrimination or abuse out of social class, social status or any other reasons.
This idea is discussed by modern philosophers such as John Rawls. It is a fundamental idea for International Labour Organization for universal and lasting peace; And Vienna Declaration also affirm social justice as a subject and a purpose of education for human rights.
Social justice has been criticized by many people.

</doc>
<doc id="283771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283771" title="Baker County, Oregon">
Baker County, Oregon

Baker County, Oregon is a county in Oregon.

</doc>
<doc id="283774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283774" title="Bradford County">
Bradford County

Bradford County is the name of two counties in the United States:

</doc>
<doc id="283775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283775" title="Bradford County, Florida">
Bradford County, Florida

Bradford County is a county in Florida.

</doc>
<doc id="283778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283778" title="Bradford County, Pennsylvania">
Bradford County, Pennsylvania

Bradford County is a county in Pennsylvania.

</doc>
<doc id="283779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283779" title="Calhoun County">
Calhoun County

Calhoun County is the name of many counties in the United States, mostly named after Senator John C. Calhoun:

</doc>
<doc id="283780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283780" title="Calhoun County, Florida">
Calhoun County, Florida

Calhoun County is a county in Florida.

</doc>
<doc id="283782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283782" title="2011 Daytona 500">
2011 Daytona 500

The 2011 Daytona 500 took place on February 20th 2011 at the Daytona International Speedway. It was the first race of the 2011 NASCAR Sprint Cup Series. Dale Earnhardt, Jr. won the pole in qualifying, however he did not start in 1st place because he crashed his car during practice. The race was won by Trevor Bayne. At 20 years old, he is the youngest driver to win the race.

</doc>
<doc id="283783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283783" title="Melrose Place (1992 TV series)">
Melrose Place (1992 TV series)

Melrose Place was an American primetime soap opera which began July 8th, 1992 and ended May 24, 1999. The show lasted seven seasons on Fox. Starring in the show were Daphne Zuniga, Marcia Cross, Courtney Thorne Smith, Josie Bissett, Heather Locklear and many others. Aaron Spelling was the executive producer for Melrose Place throughout its seven year run. Many cast changes happened during this time period.

</doc>
<doc id="283786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283786" title="Speciation">
Speciation

Speciation is about how species form. It is a major part of evolutionary biology.
Darwin thought most species arose directly from pre-existing species. This is called anagenesis: species by changing, or 'phyletic evolution'. Now we think most species arise by previous species splitting: cladogenesis.
The general view is that most species splitting is caused or helped on its way by isolating mechanisms.
Isolating mechanisms are things which prevent successful breeding between groups in a species. Reproductive isolation of populations is established. This is particularly important to the biological species concept, as species are defined by reproductive isolation. 
Isolating mechanisms can be divided into two groups, before and after fertilisation.
Factors which prevent individuals from mating. 
Factors which prevent mating being successful, such as genetic incompatibility, hybrid inviability or sterility.
This is thought to be the most comon cause of speciation. The first person to think of it was Moritz Wagner, a German explorer and natural historian.
Wagner's early career was as a geographer, and he published a number of geographical books about North Africa, the Middle East, and Tropical America. He was also a keen naturalist and collector, and it is for this work he is best known among biologists. Ernst Mayr, the evolutionist and historian of biology, has given an account of Wagner's significance. 
During his three years in Algeria, Wagner (amongst other activities) studied the flightless beetles "Pimelia" and "Melasoma". Each genus is split into a number of species, each of which is confined to a stretch of the north coast between rivers which descend from the Atlas Mountains to the Mediterranean. As soon as one crosses a river, a different but closely related species appears.
This was an early description of a process of one kind of geographic speciation. In 1942 it was reintroduced by Mayr, and the importance of geographic speciation became one of the core ideas of the evolutionary synthesis. 
Another term for geographic speciation is allopatric speciation. Allopatry means 'different land'. 
Volcanic islands are formed with no life, and all life has to arrive carried by wind or water. We know from the Hawaiian islands and from the Galapagos Islands that all forms of life change when they reach the islands from the mainland.
In about , the Hawaiian Islands have the most diverse collection of drosophilid flies in the world, living from rainforests to mountain meadows. About 800 Hawaiian drosophilid species are known.
Studies show a clear "flow" of species from older to newer islands. There are also cases of colonization back to older islands, and skipping of islands, but these are much less frequent. 
By potassium/argon radioactive dating, the present islands date from 0.4 million years ago (mya) (Mauna Kea) to 10mya (Necker). The oldest member of the Hawaiian archipelago still above the sea is Kure Atoll, which can be dated to 30 mya. 
The archipelago itself, produced by the Pacific plate moving over a hot spot, has existed for far longer, at least into the Cretaceous. The Hawaiian islands plus former islands which are now beneath the sea make up the Hawaiian–Emperor seamount chain; and many of the underwater mountains are guyots.
All of the native drosophilid species in Hawaii have apparently descended from "a single ancestral species" that colonized the islands, about 20 million years ago. The subsequent adaptive radiation was spurred by a lack of competition and a wide variety of vacant niches. Although it would be possible for a single pregnant female to colonise an island, it is more likely to have been a group from the same species.
There are other animals and plants on the Hawaiian archipelago which have undergone similar, if less spectacular, adaptive radiations.
In biology, a ring species is a connected series of neighboring populations, each of which can interbreed with next-door populations. The two ends of the chain overlap.
The two end populations in the series are too distantly related to interbreed. Such non-breeding-though-genetically-connected 'end' populations may co-exist in the same region, thus closing a 'ring'.
Ring species provide important evidence of evolution: they illustrate what happens over time as populations genetically diverge. Richard Dawkins observed that ring species "are only showing us in the spatial dimension something that must always happen in the time dimension".
However, it is difficult to find a simple, straightforward example.
A classic example of ring species is the "Larus" gulls' circumpolar species ring. The range of these gulls forms a ring around the North Pole, which is not normally flown over by individual gulls.
Broadly speaking, the gulls can interbreed to some extent with their neighbours, except at the two ends of the ring.
The Lesser Black-backed Gulls and Herring Gulls are sufficiently different that they do not normally hybridize; thus the group of gulls forms a continuum except where the two lineages meet in Europe.
Although the reality is much more complicated, it shows the general idea well.
The "Ensatina" salamander is a ring species in the mountains around the Californian Central Valley. The complex forms a horseshoe shape around the mountains. Though interbreeding can happen between each of the 19 populations around the horseshoe, the "Ensatina eschscholtzii" subspecies on the western end of the horseshoe cannot interbreed with the "Ensatina klauberi" on the eastern end. It is an illustration of "nearly all stages in a speciation process" (Dobzhansky). Richard Highton argued that "Ensatina" is a case of multiple species and not a continuum of one species.
The "Greenish Warbler" ("Phylloscopus trochiloides") has a number of subspecies, of which "P. t . viridianus" is the most familiar in Europe. It is a ring species with populations diverging east and westwards of the Tibetan Plateau, later meeting on the northern side. Their relationships are fairly confusing.
Sympatric speciation refers to the formation of two or more descendant species from a single ancestral species all occupying the same geographic location.
In sympatric speciation, species diverge while inhabiting the same place. Often-cited examples of sympatric speciation are found in insects that become dependent on different host plants in the same area. 
However, the existence of sympatric speciation as a mechanism of speciation is still hotly contested. People have argued that the evidences of sympatric speciation are in fact examples of micro-geographic speciation. The most widely accepted example of sympatric speciation is that of the cichlids of Lake Nabugabo in East Africa, which is thought to be due to sexual selection.
Polyploidy has caused many rapid speciation events because offspring of, for example, tetraploid x diploid matings often result in triploid sterile progeny. 
However, not all polyploids are reproductively isolated from their parental plants, and gene flow may still occur for example through triploid hybrid x diploid matings that produce tetraploids.
Many of the existing plant and most animal species have apparently undergone polyploidization in their evolutionary history. Reproduction of successful polyploid species is sometimes asexual, by parthenogenesis. For unknown reasons many asexual organisms are polyploid. 
One example of evolution at work is the case of the hawthorn fly, "Rhagoletis pomonella", which appears to be undergoing sympatric speciation. 
Different populations of hawthorn fly feed on different fruits. A distinct population emerged in North America in the 19th century some time after apples, a non-native species, were introduced. This apple-feeding population normally feeds only on apples and not on the historically preferred fruit of hawthorns. The current hawthorn feeding population does not normally feed on apples. 
Some evidence suggests that sympatric speciation is occurring. Hawthorn flies mature later in the season and take longer to mature than apple flies; and there is little evidence of interbreeding (researchers have documented a 4-6% hybridization rate). 
The emergence of the new hawthorn fly is an example of evolution in progress.
Rarely, a new species forms when individual members of different species mate. Usually, the products of such hybrid matings are infertile (not fertile), or relatively so, and so get eliminated by natural selection. 
One example of a new and successful hybrid species has been found. The new species is a hybrid of the Italian and Spanish sparrows, and the basic facts have been checked by sequence analysis from the DNA in their blood. The bird lives in Italy in a region where both parent species live. It does not reproduce with the Spanish sparrow even though it lives with them side-by-side.
New species have been created by domesticated animal husbandry, but the initial dates and methods are not clear. For example, domestic sheep were created by hybridisation, and no longer produce viable offspring with "Ovis orientalis", one species from which they are descended. 
Domestic cattle, on the other hand, can be considered the same species as several varieties of wild ox, gaur, yak, etc., as they readily produce fertile offspring with them.
The best-documented creations of new species in the laboratory were performed in the late 1980s. William Rice and G.W. Salt bred fruit flies, "Drosophila melanogaster," using a maze with three different choices of habitat such as light/dark and wet/dry. 
Each generation was placed into the maze, and the groups of flies that came out of two of the eight exits were set apart to breed with each other in their respective groups. After thirty-five generations, the two groups and their offspring were isolated reproductively because of their strong habitat preferences: they mated only within the areas they preferred, and so did not mate with flies that preferred the other areas. The history of such attempts is described in Rice and Hostert (1993).
Diane Dodd was also able to show how reproductive isolation can develop from mating preferences in "Drosophila pseudoobscura" after only eight generations using different food types, starch and maltose.
Dodd's experiment has been easy for many others to replicate, including with other kinds of fruit flies and foods.
Reinforcement is the process by which natural selection increases reproductive isolation. 
It may occur after two populations of the same species are separated and then come back into contact. If their reproductive isolation was complete, then they will have already developed into two separate incompatible species. 
If their reproductive isolation is incomplete, then further mating between the populations will produce hybrids, which may or may not be fertile. If the hybrids are infertile, or fertile but less fit than their ancestors, then there will be no further reproductive isolation and speciation has essentially occurred (e.g., as in horses and donkeys.) 
The reasoning behind this is that if the parents of the hybrid offspring each have naturally selected traits for their own different environments, the hybrid offspring will bear traits from both, and would not fit either niche as well as either parent. The low fitness of the hybrids would cause selection to favour assortative mating, which would reduce hybridization. 
This is sometimes called the Wallace effect after the evolutionary biologist Alfred Russel Wallace who suggested in the late 19th century that it might be an important factor in speciation. 
If the hybrid offspring are more fit than their ancestors, then the populations will merge back into the same species within the area they are in contact.
Reinforcement is required for separation when there is a "hybrid zone" between two forms of a species. Hybrid zones are regions where diverged populations meet and interbreed. Hybrid offspring are very common in these regions, which are usually created by diverged species coming into secondary contact. 
Without reinforcement the two populations or species would have uncontrollable interbreeding. Reinforcement may be induced in artificial selection experiments as described above.

</doc>
<doc id="283794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283794" title="Calhoun County, Alabama">
Calhoun County, Alabama

Calhoun County is a county in the U.S. state of Alabama. As of 2010 the population was 118,572. It is included in the Anniston-Oxford Metropolitan Statistical Area. Its county seat is Anniston.
Benton County was formed on December 18, 1832. It was named for Thomas Hart Benton, a member of the United States Senate from Missouri. The first county seat was at Jacksonville. 
An F4 tornado struck here on Palm Sunday March 27, 1994. It destroyed Piedmont's Goshen United Methodist Church twelve minutes after the National Weather Service of Birmingham issued a tornado warning for northern Calhoun, southeastern Etowah, and southern Cherokee.
According to the 2000 census, the county has a total area of . (or 99.37%) is land and (or 0.63%) is water.
Calhoun County is home to the Anniston Museum of Natural History and the Berman Museum of World History. It also contains a part of the Talladega National Forest.

</doc>
<doc id="283795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283795" title="Dallas (TV series)">
Dallas (TV series)

Dallas is an American soap opera. It is about the Ewings, a family from Texas involved in oil and cattle ranching. The show began as a television miniseries during April 1978. It was broadcast until May 3, 1991 on CBS. The cast included Charlene Tilton, Victoria Principal, Priscilla Presley, Patrick Duffy, and Larry Hagman as J.R. Ewing. The series lasted for fourteen seasons.
The show was revived on TNT in June 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="283796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283796" title="Calhoun County, Arkansas">
Calhoun County, Arkansas

Calhoun County is a county in Arkansas.

</doc>
<doc id="283798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283798" title="Calhoun County, Georgia">
Calhoun County, Georgia

Calhoun County is a county in Georgia. Its county seat is Morgan

</doc>
<doc id="283800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283800" title="Calhoun County, Illinois">
Calhoun County, Illinois

Calhoun County is a county in Illinois

</doc>
<doc id="283806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283806" title="Elasmobranchii">
Elasmobranchii

Elasmobranchii is a subclass of Chondrichthyes or cartilaginous fish, that includes the sharks and the rays and skates.
Fossilised shark teeth are known from the early Devonian, around 400 million years ago. During the following Carboniferous period, the sharks underwent a period of diversification, with many new forms evolving. Many of these became extinct during the Permian, but the remaining sharks underwent a second burst of adaptive radiation during the Jurassic, around which time the skates and rays first appeared.

</doc>
<doc id="283809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283809" title="Category:People from Greater Manchester">
Category:People from Greater Manchester


</doc>
<doc id="283811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283811" title="Earl Wilbur Sutherland Jr.">
Earl Wilbur Sutherland Jr.

Earl Wilbur Sutherland, Jr. (November 19, 1915 – March 9, 1974) was an American pharmacologist and biochemist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1971 for his discoveries concerning the mechanisms of the action of hormones. He was born in Burlingame, Kansas in 1915 and died in Miami, Florida, United States in 1974.

</doc>
<doc id="283812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283812" title="Category:People from Edinburgh">
Category:People from Edinburgh


</doc>
<doc id="283817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283817" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Giraffatitan">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Giraffatitan


</doc>
<doc id="283818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283818" title="Persian Wikipedia">
Persian Wikipedia

Persian Wikipedia is a member of Wikimedia Foundation. It started work in December 2003. founder of Persian version is Roozbeh Pour-Nader. 
It is the 18th largest edition by article count. Persian Wikipedia has currently more than 500,000 articles.
Many of the first articles on the Persian Wikipedia were about chemical materials and historical subjects. The Wikipedia added geography and religious subjects soon after. On December 16, 2004, the Wikipedia reached 10,000 articles.

</doc>
<doc id="283823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283823" title="Edward B. Lewis">
Edward B. Lewis

Edward B. Lewis (May 20, 1918 – July 21, 2004) was an American geneticist. He shared the 1995 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.
Lewis was born in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania He received a BA in Biostatistics from the University of Minnesota in 1939. 
In 1942 Lewis received a PhD from California Institute of Technology (Caltech), working on "Drosophila melanogaster" under the guidance of Alfred Sturtevant. 
After serving as a meteorologist in the U.S. Air Force in World War II, Lewis joined the Caltech faculty in 1946 as an instructor. In 1956 he was appointed Professor of Biology, and in 1966 the Thomas Hunt Morgan Professor of Biology. 
His Nobel Prize winning studies with "Drosophila" founded the field of developmental genetics and laid the groundwork for our current understanding of the universal, evolutionarily conserved strategies controlling animal development. 
His key publications in the fields of genetics, developmental biology, radiation and cancer are available in a book.
During the 1950s, Dr. Lewis studied the effects of radiation from X-rays, nuclear fallout and other sources as possible causes of cancer. He reviewed medical records from survivors of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, as well as radiologists and patients exposed to X-rays. Lewis concluded that "health risks from radiation had been underestimated". Dr. Lewis published articles in "Science" and other journals and made a presentation to a Congressional committee on atomic energy in 1957.
At the scientific level of the debate, the crucial question was whether the "threshold theory" was valid or whether, as Lewis insisted, the effects of radioactivity were "linear with no threshold", where every exposure to radiation had a long-term cumulative effect.
In a series of experiments with the fruit-fly "Drosophila", Lewis was able to identify a complex of genes whose proteins bind to the regulatory regions of target genes. The latter then activate or repress cell processes which direct the final development of the organism. 
Furthermore, the sequence of these control genes show "co-linearity": the order of the loci in the chromosome parallels the order in which the loci are expressed in segments along the body. Not only that, but this cluster of master control genes programs the development of all higher organisms. 
Each of the genes contains a homeobox, a remarkably conserved DNA sequence. This suggests the complex itself arose by gene duplication. 
In his Nobel lecture, Lewis said "Ultimately, comparisons of the [control complexes] throughout the animal kingdom should provide a picture of how the organisms, as well as the [control genes] have evolved".

</doc>
<doc id="283852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283852" title="Christine Baranski">
Christine Baranski

Christine Jane Baranski (b. 2 May 1952) is an American stage, movie and television actress. On stage, she played Mrs. Lovett in "Sweeney Todd" and the title character in "Mame". She has also acted in multiple movies. Baranski was born in Buffalo, New York.

</doc>
<doc id="283859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283859" title="Angela Burdett-Coutts">
Angela Burdett-Coutts

Angela Georgina Burdett-Coutts, 1st Baroness Burdett-Coutts (21 April 1814 – 30 December 1906), born Angela Georgina Burdett, was a noted nineteenth century philanthropist. She was the daughter of Sir Francis Burdett, 5th Baronet and Sophia Coutts, daughter of Thomas Coutts the banker. In 1837 she became the wealthiest woman in England when she inherited her grandfather's fortune of nearly three million pounds sterling. At the same time she got a Royal Licence (permission from the monarch) to join her father's and grandfather's surnames and become Angela Burdett-Coutts.
Lady Burdett-Coutts did not mary until she was 67. She married her 29-year-old secretary, the American born William Lehman Ashmead Bartlett, who later became MP for Westminster on 12 February, 1881. Her new husband changed his surname to Burdett-Coutts. Lady Burdett-Coutts had no children.
She gave away most of her wealth, setting up on scholarships, endowments, and giving to a wide range of charitable causes. One of her earliest was to establish, with the novelist Charles Dickens, Urania Cottage, a home that helped young women who had 'turned to a life of immorality'including theft and prostitution.
Among many gifts to churches, she also personally endowed the bishoprics of Cape Town, and Adelaide (1847), and the founding bishopric of British Columbia (1857). The money from these endowments was invested to help pay for the Bishop's expenses.
The granite fountain in Edinburgh, with a statue of Greyfriars Bobby, was erected by Baroness Burdett-Coutts.
Other roles and charitable projects included:
In 1871, in recognition of her charity work, Queen Victoria made her a peer on her own under the title Baroness Burdett-Coutts, of Highgate and Brookfield in the County of Middlesex., although as a woman she was not a member of the House of Lords. On 18 July 1872 she became the first woman to be presented with the Freedom of the City of London at the Guildhall and in 1874 was Edinburgh's first woman Burgess, also being presented with the Freedom of that city.
Lady Burdett-Coutts died of acute bronchitis at her house in Stratton Street, Piccadilly. By the time of her death she had given more than £3 million to good causes. She was buried on 5 January 1907 near the West Door in the nave of Westminster Abbey. The barony became extinct on her death.
Charles Dickens dedicated his novel "Martin Chuzzlewit" to her and she had many royal and eminent friends. The book "Flashman's Lady" by George MacDonald Fraser makes reference to Angela Burdett-Coutts (fictional) love interest for James Brooke (The White Rajah); and his rejection of her due to his physical affliction.

</doc>
<doc id="283867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283867" title="General Secretary">
General Secretary

General Secretary is a title most often used in political parties, and is usually the leader of the party. The General Secretary (sometimes called First Secretary or Secretary-General) is usually the leader of the Secretariat and the Politburo.
On April 3, 1922, Joseph Stalin became General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and had the job of deciding who was a member of the party and where they went. Vladimir Lenin was "de facto" leader at the time. Once Lenin died, Stalin used his power to give allies jobs in the party to become more powerful than everybody else.

</doc>
<doc id="283874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283874" title="Sid Caesar">
Sid Caesar

Sid Caesar (Isaac Sidney Caesar; September 8, 1922 – February 12, 2014) was an American comedian and actor. Caesar stared in "Your Show of Shows" from 1950 until 1954 and in "Grease" as Coach Calhoun. Before becoming a comedian, Caesar was a musician. He won two Emmy Awards during his career.
Caesar was born on September 8, 1922 in Yonkers, New York. He was of Polish-Russian-Jewish descent. Caesar was married to Florence Levy from 1943 until her death in 2010. They had three children.
Caesar died on the morning of February 12, 2014 in Beverly Hills, California from natural causes, aged 91. 

</doc>
<doc id="283892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283892" title="Swallow">
Swallow

The swallows and martins are a group of passerine birds in the family Hirundinidae which are characterised by their adaptation to aerial feeding. Swallow is used colloquially in Europe as a synonym for the Barn Swallow.
Within the swallow, the name "martin" tends to be used for the squarer-tailed species, and the name "swallow" for the more fork-tailed species; however, there is no scientific distinction between these two groups. The family contains around 83 species in 19 genera.

</doc>
<doc id="283894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283894" title="Patti Page">
Patti Page

Clara Ann Fowler, better known as Patti Page, (November 8, 1927 - January 1, 2013) was an American singer. She is one of the best known female singers of traditional pop. She was the best selling female artist in the 1950s. She will win an honorary Grammy Award in 2013.
Page was born in Claremore, Oklahoma. Page died on January 1, 2013 in Encinitas, California from natural causes, aged 85.

</doc>
<doc id="283895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283895" title="Category:British musicians">
Category:British musicians


</doc>
<doc id="283898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283898" title="All My Children">
All My Children

All My Children was an American soap opera set in a fictional suburb of Philadelphia. Susan Lucci plays Erica Kane. Other famous people have starred, including Sarah Michelle Gellar. The show aired on ABC for 43 years since its beginning until September 23, 2011 when cancellation was announced on April 2011. It was canceled on April 14, 2011 along with "One Life to Live" due to low ratings and production costs. Another series was shown in 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="283902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283902" title="Oregon State University">
Oregon State University

Oregon State University is a four-year university in Corvallis, Oregon in the United States. It is the largest university in Oregon, and as of February 2011, has over 23,000 students. The university has classes for both graduate and undergraduate students, and also offers classes online.
Oregon State's athletic teams are known as the Beavers. Its baseball team won the College World Series in 2006 and 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="283903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283903" title="Category:Colleges and universities in Oregon">
Category:Colleges and universities in Oregon


</doc>
<doc id="283921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283921" title="Princess Alice, Countess of Athlone">
Princess Alice, Countess of Athlone

Princess Alice, Countess of Athlone (Alice Mary Victoria Augusta Pauline; née Princess Alice of Albany; 25 February 1883 – 3 January 1981) was a member of the British Royal Family. She was the longest-lived Princess of the Blood Royal of the British Royal Family and the last surviving grandchild of Queen Victoria. She also a Princess of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha and a "Duchess in Saxony" from birth, as well as a Princess of Teck by marriage, until 1917 when she was ordered to give up all German titles by the Letters Patent of George V. She was godmother to Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands, who was the granddaughter of her first cousin, Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands. Princess Alice was the last grandchild of Queen Victoria to die, in January 1981, almost 115 years after the death of Prince Sigismund of Prussia, the first grandchild of Queen Victoria to die. (He died in June 1866.)
Princess Alice was born 25 February 1883 at Windsor Castle. Her father was Prince Leopold, Duke of Albany, the youngest son of Queen Victoria and Albert, Prince Consort. Her mother was Princess Helena of Waldeck and Pyrmont. She had one brother, Prince Charles Edward, Duke of Albany (1884–1954) who was reigning Duke of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha (1900–1918). As the granddaughter of the Sovereign through the male line, she was a Princess of the United Kingdom and a Royal Highness. As the daughter of the Duke of Albany, she was, therefore, styled "Her Royal Highness" Princess Alice of Albany. 
 On 10 February 1904, at St George's Chapel, Windsor, Princess Alice of Albany married her second cousin once-removed, Prince Alexander of Teck, the brother of Queen Mary. After their marriage, Princess Alice was styled HRH Princess Alexander of Teck.
Prince and Princess Alexander of Teck had three children:
Princess Alice was one of the carriers of the gene for haemophilia which arose with Queen Victoria. Princess Alice inherited the gene from her father who himself was a sufferer. Her eldest son, Rupert, inherited the disease from her; this led to his early death following an automobile accident. 
When the British Royal Family abandoned all German titles by Letters Patent issued by King George V in June 1917, Prince Alexander of Teck gave up the title "Prince of Teck" in the Kingdom of Württemberg and the style "Serene Highness", and took the surname "Cambridge,". For a short time he was known as Sir Alexander Cambridge, then the Earl of Athlone. Their two surviving children also lost their Württemberg princely titles. 
Princess Alice gave up her titles of Princess of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha and Duchess of Saxony, but her brother Charles Edward, Duke of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, who held a commission in the German Army, did not and was stripped of his British titles instead. Alice stayed, a Princess of Great Britain and Ireland and a Royal Highness in her own right, as granddaughter of Queen Victoria in the male line. From June 1917 until her death, she was styled Her Royal Highness Princess Alice, Countess of Athlone.
The Earl was appointed Governor-General of the Union of South Africa and served from 1924-31: Princess Alice accompanied him and was the Vicereine during that period. Lord and Lady Athlone had a coastal beach house constructed at Muizenberg, which still stands today and is one of South Africa's national monuments. The Cape Town Suburb of Athlone was named in honour of the Governor-General and it and the beach house are the only physical reminder of the Athlones' residence at the Cape.
On the sudden death of the very popular John Buchan in 1940 Canada was without a Governor General in time of war. For a long time Canadian governments had intended appointing only Canadians as governors general — Australia had long since done so with the appointment of Sir Isaac Isaacs as its governor general. But wartime did not seem the right time for such a move. As the Royal Family had got a lot of public support during the Royal Tour of 1939, Lord Athlone seemed a very good candidate. He was Queen Mary's brother (and thus the King's uncle) and a former governor general of another of His Majesty's Dominions and Mackenzie King advised the King to appoint him. 
Princess Alice accompanied her husband to Canada where he served as Governor General from 1940–1946. 
It does not appear that the Athlones left any lasting mark in Canada, or indeed conducted any public works, delivered any speeches or performed any works of lasting value, though photos of the Earl with Roosevelt, Churchill and Mackenzie King on the ramparts of the Citadel during the Quebec Conference were amply published at the time.
At the end of World War II, the American Military Government in Bavaria, under the command of General George S. Patton, arrested and imprisoned Alice's brother, Charles Edward, Duke of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, (who served as a member of the Reichstag from 1937 to 1945), because of his Nazi sympathies. Alice, came to Germany with her husband to plead with for his release. They would not yield, and in 1946, he was sentenced by a de-nazification court, heavily fined and almost bankrupted.
In her lifetime, Princess Alice carried out many Royal duties. Apart from her normal duties as Vicereine of South Africa and then Canada, she attended the Coronations of four monarchs: Edward VII, George V, George VI, and Elizabeth II. She was also the Colonel-in-Chief of two British Army units and one Rhodesian Army unit. During the Second World War, she was Honorary Air Commandant of the Royal Canadian Air Force Women's Division. In 1950, she became the first Chancellor of the University of the West Indies (then the University College of the West Indies). From the 1930s-60s she was Chair of the Council (governing body) of Royal Holloway College, University of London.
The Earl of Athlone died in 1957 at Kensington Palace in London. Princess Alice lived on there until 1981, when she died at age 97 years and 313 days. At her death, she was the longest-lived British Princess of the Blood Royal and the last surviving grandchild of Queen Victoria.
Her funeral took place in St George's Chapel at Windsor Castle, attended by all members of the Royal Family. She is buried alongside her husband and son in the private British Royal Burial Grounds at Frogmore, directly behind the mausoleum of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert, in Windsor Great Park. Her daughter and son-in-law are also buried close by.
She lived through six reigns:- Victoria (grandmother), Edward VII (uncle), George V (cousin and brother-in-law), Edward VIII (nephew), George VI (nephew) and Elizabeth II (grand-niece).
As a granddaughter of Queen Victoria in the male line, Princess Alice was entitled to use the Royal Arms, with a 5-point label as a difference, the central point bearing a cross gules, the others hearts gules.
Until George V's warrant of 1917, her arms, like all those of Prince Albert's British royal descendants, bore an inescutcheon for Saxony.

</doc>
<doc id="283924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283924" title="André Theuriet">
André Theuriet

Claude Adhémar André Theuriet (8 October 1833, Marly-le-Roi - 23 April 1907) French poet and novelist, was born at Marly-le-Roi (Seine et Oise).
Theuriet studied law in Paris and became a civil servant. He retired as a civil servant in 1886, almost 20 years after his first published book was issued. The was the "Chemin des bois", a collection of poems, many of which had already appeared in the "Revue des Deux Mondes".
Theuriet received in 1890 the from the French Academy, and was made a member of the Academy in 1896.
An omelette of truffles & asparagus has been named after him.

</doc>
<doc id="283928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283928" title="Oliver Smithies">
Oliver Smithies

Oliver Smithies (23 June 1925 – 10 January 2017) was a British-American geneticist and Nobel laureate, 
He invented gel electrophoresis in 1955, which is now one of the basic techniques of biochemistry and molecular biology.
Much later, he worked on the technique of homologous recombination of transgenic DNA with genomic DNA. This is the most reliable method of altering animal genomes at present, and the technique behind gene targeting and knockout mice. 
Martin Evans and Mario Capecchi were also working on this idea, and they were jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="283934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283934" title="Danica McKellar">
Danica McKellar

Danica Mae McKellar (born January 3, 1975) is an American actress and mathematician. She is best known for playing Winnie Cooper in "The Wonder Years". She also starred in several television movies.
She is also a "New York Times" bestselling author. She wrote four popular non-fiction books: "Math Doesn't Suck", "Kiss My Math", "Hot X: Algebra Exposed" and "Girls Get Curves: Geometry Takes Shape". The books are meant to encourage middle-school and high-school girls to have confidence and succeed in mathematics. 
She married composer Mike Verta on March 22, 2009, in La Jolla, California. The couple had dated since 2001. They had their first child on September 7, 2010, a boy they named Draco. McKellar filed for divorce from Verta in June 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="283942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283942" title="Sleepwalking">
Sleepwalking

Sleepwalking, or somnambulism, is a disorder belonging to the parasomnia family of sleeping problems.
People with this disorder leave bed, without waking up, and walk around. In certain cases, people do things they also do in everyday life. According to research done, sleepwalking seems to be a problem related to the mechanism of waking up.
The activities can be as simple as sitting up in bed, walking to the bathroom, and cleaning. Sometimes they are dangerous; examples include cooking, driving, extremely violent gesture or grabbing at hallucinated objects, or even homicide.
Generally, sleepwalking cases consist of simple, repeated behaviours; occasionally there are reports of people performing complex behaviours while asleep, but the legitimacy of these claims is often disputed. In 2004, sleep medicine experts in Australia claimed to have successfully treated a woman who claimed to have sex with strangers in her sleep. In December 2008, reports were published of a woman who sent semi-coherent emails while sleepwalking, including one inviting a friend around for dinner and drinks. Sleepwalkers often have little or no memory of the what they do, because they are not truly conscious. Their eyes are open, but their expression is dim and glazed over. Sleepwalking may last as little as 30 seconds or as long as thirty minutes.
There is no data about how common sleepwalking is. Estimates say that one to two percent of adults are sleepwalkers. Sleepwalking seems to be more common in children, between ten and thirty percent of children are affected; in most cases, they stop sleepwalking during puberty. Most cases of sleepwalking are temporary, they occur once, or only a few times. It looks like some sleepwalking may be inherited; very often, people who are sleepwalkers have other sleepwalkers in the family.
Because people can hurt themselves while sleepwalking, it is a good idea to either wake a sleepwalker, or to guide the person back to bed. There are drugs that can be given to treat the condition. As there is no therapy, many experts are against the use of drugs. 

</doc>
<doc id="283943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283943" title="Inclusive education">
Inclusive education

Inclusive education is an idea in the field of education. It means that persons with disabilities or persons who need special care can learn in schools together with people who do not have special needs. This idea comes from the idea of social justice, which demands that all people have human rights without any discriminations. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities also says that access to education is a right. However, inclusive education may make special aid, care or knowledge for persons with disabilities difficult if enough reasonable accommodation are not given.

</doc>
<doc id="283945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283945" title="2011 Australian Open">
2011 Australian Open

The 2011 Australian Open was a tennis tournament featuring six different competitions. It was part of the 2011 ATP World Tour, the 2011 WTA Tour, ITF Junior Tour and the NEC Tour. The tournament took place at Melbourne Park in Melbourne, Australia, from 17 January to 30 January. The event was the 99th edition of the Australian Open. It was also the first Grand Slam event of 2011. The tournament was played on hard courts. It was organised by the International Tennis Federation and Tennis Australia. 
Novak Djokovic won the Australian Open for the second time. Kim Clijsters won her first Australian Open title. In the men's doubles the Bryan Brothers won their fifth Australian Open. Gisela Dulko and Flavia Pennetta won their first Grand Slam title in the women's doubles. Daniel Nestor claimed his second mixed doubles Grand Slam alongside Katarina Srebotnik who won her fourth mixed title.
In the junior tournaments both the singles and doubles titles in the boys and girls events were won by Jiří Veselý and An-Sophie Mestach. Vesely won the doubles alongside Filip Horanský. Mestach won her doubles crown with Demi Schuurs. Vesely and Mestach won their first Grand Slam titles. They became the first players to achieve the junior double together since Kristian Pless and Virginie Razzano. They achieved this at the 1999 Australian Open.
Shingo Kunieda and Esther Vergeer both won the singles and doubles in the men's and women's wheelchair tennis events. Kunieda won his fourth Australian Open in a row, his fifth overall. In the doubles Kuneda was partnered to the title by Maikel Scheffers. Vergeer's singles win was her eighth Australian Open crown. It was also her 17th Grand Slam title overall. The final also marked the fourth time that she has not lost a game during a Grand Slam final. The win in the final was Vergeer's 404th match win in a row. Vergeer was partnered by Sharon Walraven in the doubles. In the mixed events David Wagner won the singles. Andrew Lapthorne and Peter Norfolk won the doubles competition.
The 2011 Australian Open was the 99th edition of the Australian Open. It was held at Melbourne Park, in Melbourne, Victoria. The tournament was an event run by the International Tennis Federation (ITF). It was part of the 2011 ATP World Tour and the 2011 WTA Tour calendars. The tournament consisted of men's and women's singles and doubles draws as well as a mixed doubles event. There was also singles and doubles events for boys and girls (players under 18). The tournament was part of the Grade A group of tournaments of the junior tour. There was also events for wheelchair tennis players (they competed in three categories: men, women and quadipedic) as part of the NEC tour. The tournament was played on hard courts. The three biggest courts used were the Hisense Arena, the Margaret Court Arena and the Rod Laver Arena.
Below is a series of tables for each of the competitions showing the ranking points on offer for each event.
The 2011 Australian Open offered record prize money to both men and women. It had a total of A$25 million (US$24 million), up 3.8% on the total prize money from 2010. The winners of the singles titles took home A$2.2 million (US$2.1 million). The finalists finalists were given A$1.1 million (US$1 million). Below is the list of prize money given to each player in the main draw of the professional competitions; all prize money is in Australian dollars (A$). Prize money for the doubles is given as a team.
There were five competitions open to professional tennis players. The Association of Tennis Professionals and Women's Tennis Association awarded ranking points in all events apart from the mixed doubles. The singles draws were contested by one hundred and twenty eight players. Sixty four teams took part in the doubles events. Thirty two teams lined up in the mixed doubles competition.
At the start of the 2011 Australian Open, World Number one Rafael Nadal was on the edge of history. He had a chance to become the first man since Rod Laver in 1969 to hold all four Grand Slams at the same time. He had won the previous three. This would not be the Grand Slam, but the media had named it the "Rafa Slam." The name came from the "Serena Slam" which was used when Serena Williams won all four Grand Slam titles in a row.
Nadal was the number one seed and led the field. The other top ten seeds were; sixteen time Grand Slam champion, Roger Federer, 2008 Australian Open winner Novak Djokovic, two time Grand Slam finalists Robin Söderling and Andy Murray, Wimbledon runner up Tomáš Berdych, David Ferrer, 2003 US Open champion Andy Roddick, Fernando Verdasco and Mikhail Youzhny.
The start of the 2011 Australian Open saw all the seeds make it to the second round. But Gulbis, Querrey, who lost in the fifth set 8–6 and Davydenko did not win. Montanes, Fish, Monfils, Baghdatis, Tsonga, Bellucci and Nalbandian won their matches in the final set. The second round saw Michaël Llodra lose to qualifier Milos Raonic, Feliciano López who went out to Wildcard Bernard Tomic, Juan Mónaco lost to Robin Haase, Fish lose to Robredo and Montanes lost to Malisse. While Nalbandian had to retire against Berenkis and Bellucci lost 8–6 in the final set to Hernych. Youzhny, Verdasco, Almagro and Federer all survived final set deciders to progress to the third round. Raonic continued his form from the previous round as he upset Youzhny this time in four sets, the biggest upset to date. While Alexandr Dolgopolov upset Tsonga, coming back two sets to one down. The third round is also where the seeds meet for the first time, so Garcia–Lopez, Baghdatis, Gasquet, Ljubicic and Troicki all exited to higher seeds. Although Stanislas Wawrinka who was the nineteenth seed managed to defeat Gaël Monfils the twelfth seed in straight sets. While Marin Čilić, semifinalist from 2010 defeated John Isner 9–7 in the final set. The fourth round saw Ferrer end Raonic's run, and Dolgopolov edge out Soderling in the final set for the biggest upset in the tournament to date. There were also wins for Berdych, Djokovic, Federer, Murray and Nadal, all except Federer eliminated other seeds. There was one other upset as nineteenth seed Wawrinka beat Roddick in straight sets.
Djokovic, Federer and Murray successfully made their way into the semifinals, however the upset of the tournament happened as Nadal went out. The "Rafa Slam" attempt came to an end on Australia Day in straight sets against Ferrer, a year to the day since Nadal last lost a Grand Slam match. The semifinals witness Djokovic taking out Federer in straight sets while Murray overcame Ferrer the next night in four sets. In the final Djokovic defeated Murray for his second Australian Open crown in straight sets.
Championship match result
The 2011 women's draw was missing its defending champion Serena Williams who pulled out in late 2010 due to ligament damage. World number one Caroline Wozniacki of Denmark was the number one seed. The Dane headed up the top ten seeds which included Vera Zvonareva, three time US Open champion Kim Clijsters, seven time Grand Slam champion Venus Williams, Samantha Stosur, reigning French Open Champion Francesca Schiavone, Jelena Janković, Victoria Azarenka, Li Na and Shahar Pe'er. Former Grand Slam champions, Justine Henin, Ana Ivanović, Svetlana Kuznetsova and Maria Sharapova were also seeded.
The start of the 2011 Australian Open saw all the seeds apart from Rezaï, Hantuchová, Dulgheru. The biggest upset of the first round was Ivanović losing 10–8 in the final set to Ekaterina Makarova while Schiavone survived after being a set down to win the final set. The biggest loser in the second round was Janković as she lost to Peng in straight sets. The Serb was not the only seed to exit though as Iveta Benešová defeated Maria Kirilenko, Martinez–Sanchez lost to Cornet, Kleybanova, Kanepi, Pironkova, Bartoli and Wickmayer all joined her on the plane home. While Schiavone had to survive another final set decider this time winning it 9–7. The third round saw Kutznetsova defeat Henin, in what turned out to be the Belgium's last ever match as she announced her retirement in the second week of the tournament. Whilst Andrea Petkovic had a virtual bye into round four as Williams retired after just seven points of their match. Makarova caused another upset as she knocked out Nadia Petrova while Benešová defeated Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova in the final set. Other seeds who went out to other seeded players were Cibulková, Peer who lost in the final set. While Petra Kvitová ended home hopes as she disposed of Stosur, while Sharapova had to come from a set down to progress to the next round.
The fourth round witnessed women's tennis history, as the match between Kuznetsova and Schiavone broke records. The match became the longest match, in terms of time for women in a Grand Slam as it lasted for 4 hours, and 44 minutes. At 8–7 in the final set Kutznetsova had three match points, but the Italian saved all three. In the next game Schiavone broke her opponents serve but touched the net after hitting the winner, meaning the point went to Kutznetsova, when holding three break points. Kutznetsova had another three match points in the next game before a run of four games in a row where the serve was broken. Finally after breaking in the previous game and missing three match points Schiavone closed the match out to win 16–14 in the final set. Other fourth round matches saw Sevastova's run end against Wozniacki and Makarova's end against Clijsters, while Petkovic upset Sharapova in straight sets. Other upsets saw the seeded players of Li and Kvitová defeat higher seeded players.
The quarterfinals witnessed Wozniacki put an end to Schiavone's run by winning a final set decider. Into the semifinals with the Dane were Li who defeated Petkovic, Clijsters who defeated Radwańska and Zvonerava who took care of Kvitová. In the first semifinal Li caused an upset, as she saved match point, to defeat the world number one Wozniacki in three sets. Her opponent in the final, Clijsters, won in straight sets against Zvonerava. In the final Clijsters came from a set down to claim her first Australian Open title. It was her fourth grand slam title in her career and second consecutive slam having won the US Open in 2010.
Championship match result
The 2011 men's doubles competition saw the two-time defending champions and four-time champions overall come back to defend the two previous titles in the team of Bob and Mike Bryan, which they were the number one seeded team in the draw. Out of all of the seeded players, the teams that lost in the first round were the teams of 7th seeded Lukáš Dlouhý and Paul Hanley, 9th seeded team of Wesley Moodie and Dick Norman, 11th seeds Robert Lindstedt and Horia Tecău, Nicolás Almagro and Marc López the 15th seeds, Marcelo Melo and Bruno Soares the 16th seeded team. Those teams that lost in the second round of the event are the two teams of Mark Knowles and Michal Mertiňák the 12 seeds, and the 14th seeded Jonathan Erlich and Andy Ram. The only third round exit was by 13th seeded Marcel Granollers and Tommy Robredo. All of the top eight seeds made the quarterfinal or better with the lone exception of the seventh seeded team. Lastly, this event saw four teams exit in the quarterfinal round, which those was the 4th seeded team of Łukasz Kubot and Oliver Marach, Mariusz Fyrstenberg and Marcin Matkowski the 5 seeded team, the 6th seeded and 2010 Wimbledon Champions Jürgen Melzer and Philipp Petzschner, and the 8th seeded team of Michaël Llodra and Nenad Zimonjić. 
Thus, only three seeded teams survived to make it to the semifinals, which the lone team to lose during this stage was the second seeded team of Max Mirnyi and Daniel Nestor. This set up a dynamic final of the 1st and 3rd seeded teams respectively in the Bryan Brothers and the Indian duo of Mahesh Bhupathi and Leander Paes, which the Indian team never has won the Australian Open in men's doubles. This would be the third time that they would lose in the final, but albeit in different years. 
So, this was the Bryan Brothers' fifth Australian Open title in Men's doubles in the past six years, which this win was the third consecutive title at the event for them having won in 2009 and 2010, and the other two years they won were in 2006 and 2007. This was the Bryan Brothers tenth Men's Doubles Grand Slam title for their careers. 
Championship match result
The 2011 women's doubles competition was wide open with no team in the field having previously won a grand slam. Argentina's Gisela Dulko and Flavia Pennetta of Italy led the field as the number one seeds, who had won seven titles in 2010 including the WTA championships but they had never been past a Grand Slam semifinal. Second seeds were the French Open finalists Květa Peschke and Katarina Srebotnik, who had already won a tournament in 2011, the ASB Classic. Number three seeds are the US Open finalists Liezel Huber and Nadia Petrova; the number four seeds are the 2009 WTA Champions Nuria Llagostera Vives and María José Martínez Sánchez with Cara Black and Anastasia Rodionova seeded fifth heading the field.
All the seeds made it through the opening round with the exception of Francesca Schiavone and Rennae Stubbs, who lost winning just five games in what is Stubbs' last Australian Open. In round two the biggest casualties were the departure of the number four seeds; Llagostera Vives and Martínez Sánchez in straight sets. In the third round the number six, seven and eighth seeds all crashed out. In the quarterfinals Huber won the battle of the ex partners as she downed Black's team to set up a semi final with Dulko and Penetta. The other semi was filled by Azarenka and Kirilenko and the number two seeds. In the semis the Number one seeds advanced to the final where after a shock they faced Azerenka and Kilrenko. In the final Dulko and Pennetta came from a set down to win.
Championship match result
The mixed doubles field was led by top seeds and US Open champions Bob Bryan and Liezel Huber. Other significant seeds were: number two seeds Daniel Nestor and Katarina Srebotnik, Nestor's ex-doubles partner Nenad Zimonjić and Maria Kirilenko are the third seeds. Fourth seeds were defending champions Leander Paes and Cara Black, while the fifth and sixth seeds were Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi and Květa Peschke and Wesley Moodie and Lisa Raymond.
All the seeded teams made it through the first round apart from the teams of Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi and Květa Peschke who lost to Rennae Stubbs and Chris Guccione and Moody and Reymond who lost to Horia Tecău and Bethanie Mattek-Sands. The second round witnessed the number one seeds Bryan and Huber withdraw and the defending champions, Paes and Black go out to Paul Hanley and Chan Yung-jan after two tiebreak sets. The quarterfinals saw no upsets as Nestor and Srebotnik, Zimonjic and Kirlienko, Hanley and Chan and Tecau and Mettek–Sands made the semifinals. In the semifinals Nestor and Srebotnik won in straight sets against Zimonjic and Kirilenko. Their opponents in the final were Hanley and Chan after they won a match tiebreak 11–9 against Tecau and Mettek–Sands. The final came down to a match tiebreak which the number two seeds, Nestor and Srebotnik won. It was Nestor's second Australian Open mixed title while for Srebotnik it was her first.
Championship match result
Sixty four players competed in the boys and girls singles events, with thirty two teams competing in the boys and girls doubles events. The event is one of nine ITF Grade A junior competitions. Qualifying for the main draw took place between the 20 and 21 January 2011. Sixty four players attempted to qualify for the main draw of the boys and girls singles. There were eight qualifying spots available to join the forty six direct acceptance, two special exemptions and eight wildcards in the main draw. The qualifying event was held at the Pakenham Regional Tennis Centre. The main draws took place between the 23 and 29 January 2011.
World number one Jiří Veselý led the field. Other top seeds included World number two Dominic Thiem, Orange Bowl Champion George Morgan and World number five Mate Pavic. In the first round of the tournament Pavic exited in straight sets to Karim Hossam. While fellow seeds Dimitri Bretting, Joris De Loore and Ben Wagland also went out of the tournament. Also in action was Vesley and the 2010 finalist Sean Berman who both won their opening matches. Luke Saville casued the biggest upset in the second round as he outsted World number two Thiem in straight sets while Vesely and Morgan progressed with straight sets wins. The third round saw Morgan and Saville win epics in the final set. The quarterfinals saw Vesely, Morgan Baena and Saville reach the semifinals, where Vesely and Saville reached the final. In the final Vesely claimed his first junior Grand Slam title as he lost just three games against home hope Saville.
Championship match result
The 2011 Australian Open girls field was led by the World number one, US Open and youth Olympic champion, Daria Gavrilova. Joining the Russian leading the field was An-Sophie Mestach, Irina Khromacheva and Mónica Puig. While Orange Bowl champion Lauren Davis who competed in the main draw of the women's singles was the third seed and she was also joined by Caroline Garcia who also appeared in the women's draw. The first round saw all of the seeds bar Natalija Kostic move into the second round. Gavrilova, however was not in the second round as she was dumped out in straight sets by fifteen year old Kanami Tsuji Puig, in the second round got rid of the last of the home contingent losing just two games in the process. Eugénie Bouchard caused the biggest upset of round three when she lost just three games against Davis. Garcia caused an upset in the quarterfinals as she upset the number four seed Khromacheva in straight sets. The semifinals witnessed Mestach drop her first and only set of the tournament when she defeated Garcia whilst Puig saw off Bouchard in straight sets. In the final Mestach defeated Puig in straight sets to win her first junior Grand Slam title.
Championship match result
The first round witnessed Dimitri Bretting and Dennis Novak the fifth seeds and seventh seeds Luis Patiño and Filip Peliwo exit at the first hurdle. All the remaining seeds made it to the quarterfinals, where the number one seeds George Morgan and Mate Pavić who exited to the eighth seeds Mitchell Krueger and Karue Sell in a match tiebreak while second seeds Filip Horanský and Jiří Veselý knocked out sixth seeds Dominic Thiem and Matthias Wunner. Horansky and Vesely reached the final after defeating the fourth seeds Joris de Loore and Mate Delić who received a bye in the previous round in straight sets. While third seeds Ben Wagland and Andrew Whittington took care of Krueger and Sell in a match tiebreak. Horansky and Vesely triumphed in straight sets in the final over Wagland and Whttington.
Championship match result
All the seeds made it through the first round with out incident. Nastja Kolar and Danka Kovinić the fifth seeds, Tang Haochen and Tian Ran the seventh seeds and the biggest upset with the second seeds Eugénie Bouchard and Mónica Puig all went out in the second round. In the quarterfinals An-Sophie Mestach and Demi Schuurs sent the number one seeds Irina Khromacheva and Yulia Putintseva home for the loss of just three games. While Margarita Gasparyan and Daria Gavrilova the fourth seeds lost a match tiebreaker to Eri Hozumi and Miyu Kato whilst Lucia Butkovská and Anna Schmiedlová the eighth seeds won only one game. Kato and Hozumi progressed to the final, where they faced Mestach and Schuurs who knocked out the third seeds Natalija Kostić and Ilona Kremen in a match tiebreaker. In the final Mestach and Schuurs defeated Hozumi and Kato in straight sets for their first Grand Slam doubles title.
Championship match result
There are six events in the wheelchair tennis discipline; a singles and doubles draw for each of the three categories. The tournament was played between the 26 and 29 January 2011. All events were part of the NEC tour under the Grand Slam category. A total of $63,000 was awarded in prize money across all the events.
In the opening round World number one Shingo Kunieda defeated Ronald Vink for the loss of just one game. Kunieda would play Robin Ammerlaan in the semifinals after the Dutchman defeated home hope Ben Weekes. In the other half of the draw Stéphane Houdet saw off Maikel Scheffers while Stefan Olsson saw off Houdet's doubles partner Nicolas Peifer. In the semifinals Kunieda and Houdet emerged victorious in the battle for the final. Kunieda defeated Houdet for his twelfth Grand Slam title losing just three games.
Championship match result
There were eight entries into the singles competition. On her first appearance in a Grand Slam competition Marjolein Buis won in three sets against Annick Sevenans to reach the semifinals. Also into the semifinals were World number one Esther Vergeer who recorded her four hundred and second consecutive match win with a 6–0, 6–0 win over her doubles partner, Sharon Walraven. Buis then took on World number two and home favourite Daniela di Toro who lost just three games on Australia Day against Aniek van Koot. While Jiske Griffioen would play Vergeer in the semifinals after defeating Grand Slam debuant Jordanne Whiley in straight sets. The semifinals witnessed di Toro and Vergeer make the final with straight sets wins. In the final Vergeer claimed her eighth Australian Open title as she defeated di Toro without losing a game to chalk up her four hundredth and fourth consecutive win.
Championship match result
The tournament was played in a round robin format. Peter Norfolk, the defending champion, opened with a straight sets win over doubles partner Andrew Lapthorne. Whilst World number one David Wagner defeated his doubles partner Nick Taylor for the loss of two games. In the second round of matches Wagner edged Norfolk in a final set decider, whilst Grand Slam debuant Lapthorne recorded his first victory as he won in straight sets against Taylor. The loss for Taylor meant that he was elminated from the event. In the final round robin matches, Norfolk defeated Taylor for the loss of just three games, while Wagner defeated Lapthorne in straight sets. The win for Norfolk and the loss for Lapthorne meant that Norfolk would play Wagner in the final. In the final Wagner defeated Norfolk for the loss of just five games. It was Wagner's first Australian Open singles title.
Championship match result
There was four teams competing in this event. Shingo Kunieda and Maikel Scheffers beat Wimbledon champions, Robin Ammerlaan and Stefan Olsson in straight sets. They were joined in the final by the all French pairing of Stéphane Houdet and Nicolas Peifer who defeated Ronald Vink and Ben Weekes. In the final Kunieda and Scheffers came from a break down in the first set to defeat the French pair in straight sets.
Championship match result
There were four entries to this competition. Esther Vergeer and Sharon Walraven defeated Daniela di Toro and Jordanne Whiley in straight sets to make the final. The final was turned into an all Dutch affair as Aniek van Koot and Jiske Griffioen joined them after defeating Marjolein Buis and Annick Sevenans in two tiebreaks. In the final Vergeer and Walraven lost just two games as they defeated van Koot and Griffioen to claim their third consecutive Grand Slam title.
Championship match result
There was just two entries in the Quad doubles, and they played a straight final to decided the championship. In the one off match history was made as Lapthorne and Norfolk became the first all British pair to win a wheelchair Grand Slam doubles title. It was Lapthorne's first Grand Slam title and Norfolk's first Grand Slam doubles title as the pair defeated the all American pair of Taylor and Wagner in straight sets for their fourth win over them.
Championship match result
The 2011 Australian Open was broadcast around the world with eleven different broadcasters officially screening the event. Channel 7 was the host broadcaster, with ESPN covering North America with its International franchise covering South and Latin America. Eurosport holds the rights to broadcast the tournament in Europe. In Asia broadcasts were covered by ESPN Star Sports and in Japan by WOWOW and by CN Sports Interactive Media Group in China. In Africa coverage is by SuperSport, and in the middle east by Abu Dhabi TV. Pacific coverage was broadcast by Sky New Zealand in New Zealand and by FIJI TV in Fiji. During the course of the tournament, Tennis Australia and Eurosport, announced that they had extended their partnership for another five years, which extends Eurosports unbroken coverage of the Australian Open to over twenty years. For the first time in the history of the Australian Open, the qualifying competition for the main draw was streamed live on the internet. The qualifying competition was broadcast between 12 and 15 January. The charity event Rally for Relief was also broadcast live on australianopen.com and Australian network channel seven.
During the first week of the tournament, viewing figures in Australia were down for the second year running. 1.36 million people tuned in for the Men's singles final which was lower than the rating which the women's final received according to figures released by OzTAM.
2011 introduced a kids tennis day event, which took place on the Saturday before the tournament took place. Around eight thousand people turned up for the event. People entertained themselves through a variety of activities, including watching stringers string racquets and arts and crafts. The highlight of the day for many fans was a chance to watch past and present players. These players included, Pat Cash, Henri Leconte, Peter Luczak, Alicia Molik and Anastasia Rodionova.
A total of 651,127 people attended the tournament throughout the two weeks. This was lower than the attendance in 2010, although daily records were set. 51,276 people filled Melbourne Park, which was a record for the middle Saturday. The day was also the biggest crowd ever at the Australian Open for a day session. A further 25,845 attended the evening session which brought the total number of people for the day to 77,121 which was again record breaking. As it was the largest amount of spectators to have attended on one day.

</doc>
<doc id="283946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283946" title="Reasonable accommodation">
Reasonable accommodation

Reasonable accommodation is a necessary aid or support for persons with disabilities or other persons in weak situations, such as minority groups, but not to make an unreasonable burden on the society. This idea is born in American and Canadian lawsuits to abolish discrimination on the job and is also used by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Article 2.

</doc>
<doc id="283949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283949" title="Category:Arkansas counties">
Category:Arkansas counties

Counties in the U.S. State Arkansas.

</doc>
<doc id="283950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283950" title="List of cities in Iran">
List of cities in Iran

This is a list of cities in Iran.

</doc>
<doc id="283951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283951" title="Category:Oregon counties">
Category:Oregon counties

Counties in U.S. state Oregon.

</doc>
<doc id="283952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283952" title="Category:Wyoming counties">
Category:Wyoming counties

Counties in the U.S. State of Wyoming

</doc>
<doc id="283953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283953" title="Category:Pennsylvania counties">
Category:Pennsylvania counties

Counties in the U.S. State of Pennsylvania.

</doc>
<doc id="283954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283954" title="Category:Kansas counties">
Category:Kansas counties

Counties in the U.S. state of Kansas.

</doc>
<doc id="283955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283955" title="Category:New York counties">
Category:New York counties

Counties in the U.S. state of New York.

</doc>
<doc id="283956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283956" title="International Tennis Federation">
International Tennis Federation

The International Tennis Federation is the group that was created to govern world tennis. This means they decide on rules and make sure they are done. 

</doc>
<doc id="283959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283959" title="Mashhad">
Mashhad

Mashhad () is a city in the Razavi Khorasan Province in Iran. Masshad is second the second largest city in Iran. It is close to Iran's border with Afghanistan and Turkmenistan.
Mashhad is primarily known as the resting place of Imam Reza and also the great Persian poet, Ferdowsi.
Before the 9th century, Mashhad was a small village but became prosperous after imam Reza was killed and buried there by Al-Ma'mun the Abbasid caliph. Mashhad turned into a famous town, in the time of Shah IsmailI of the Safavid dynasty (1501) and later Nader Shah of his Empire chose Mashhad as his capital. Mashhad has remained one of Iran's most important cities till this day even with the relocation of the capital to Tehran.

</doc>
<doc id="283963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283963" title="Calhoun County, Iowa">
Calhoun County, Iowa

Calhoun County is a county in Iowa. Its county seat is Rockwell City.

</doc>
<doc id="283964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283964" title="Category:Iowa counties">
Category:Iowa counties

Counties in the U.S. state of Iowa.

</doc>
<doc id="283965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283965" title="Calhoun County, Michigan">
Calhoun County, Michigan

Calhoun County is a county in Michigan.

</doc>
<doc id="283966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283966" title="Category:Michigan counties">
Category:Michigan counties

Counties in the U.S. state of Michigan

</doc>
<doc id="283967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283967" title="True Jackson, VP">
True Jackson, VP

True Jackson, VP is a 2008 television series sitcom. The series stars Keke Palmer, Ashley Argota, Matt Shively, Greg Proops, Danielle Bisutti, Robbie Amell, Ron Butler, and Koplemen. The series ran from November 8, 2008 and is set to end in 2011 with 5 episodes left to air. It was created by Andy Gordon. 
Keke Palmer, Ashley Argota, and Matt Shively have appeared in every episode. Danielle Bisutti was absent for one epiode. Ron Butler was absent for eleven episodes. Greg Proops and Robbie Amell were absent for eighteen episodes. Even though he's not a main cast member, Dan Koplemen has only been absent for one episode. 

</doc>
<doc id="283971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283971" title="Calhoun County, Mississippi">
Calhoun County, Mississippi

Calhoun County is a county in Mississippi.

</doc>
<doc id="283972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283972" title="Category:Mississippi counties">
Category:Mississippi counties

Counties in the U.S. state of Mississippi.

</doc>
<doc id="283973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283973" title="Lark">
Lark

Larks are passerine birds of the family Alaudidae. All species occur in the Old World, and in northern and eastern Australia. Only one, the Shore lark, has spread to North America, where it is called the Horned lark. Habitats vary widely, but many species live in dry regions.

</doc>
<doc id="283975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283975" title="Ritchie Valens">
Ritchie Valens

Richard Eduardo "Ritchie" Valens (born Richard Steven Valenzuela; May 13, 1941 - February 3, 1959) was a Mexican-American singer-songwriter and musician who died with Buddy Holly, and "Big Bopper" Richardson in a plane crash in Iowa. He was 17.

</doc>
<doc id="283982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283982" title="Help:Gadget-HotCat">
Help:Gadget-HotCat


</doc>
<doc id="283983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283983" title="Calhoun County, South Carolina">
Calhoun County, South Carolina

Calhoun County is a county in South Carolina.

</doc>
<doc id="283984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283984" title="Category:South Carolina counties">
Category:South Carolina counties

Counties located in the U.S. state of South Carolina.

</doc>
<doc id="283992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283992" title="Wooden horse">
Wooden horse

The wooden horse or Spanish donkey is a torture device where the victim is made to straddle a triangular "horse" and place their full body weight on their genitals, which rested on the point of the angle which causes pain in the lower regions. Sometimes cannonballs or something similar would be tied to the victim's feet. There is also a less intense variation was probably developed for BDSM play.

</doc>
<doc id="283994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283994" title="Calhoun County, Texas">
Calhoun County, Texas

Calhoun County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas.

</doc>
<doc id="283995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283995" title="Calhoun County, West Virginia">
Calhoun County, West Virginia

Calhoun County is a county in the U.S. state of West Virginia.

</doc>
<doc id="283996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283996" title="Kenny vs. Spenny">
Kenny vs. Spenny

Kenny vs. Spenny was a Canadian reality-comedy television series created by Kenny Hotz. It starred Kenny Hotz and Spencer Rice.
In Canada reruns are still shown on the Showcase. The series had six seasons and ran from August 26, 2003 to December 23, 2010. Matt Stone and Trey Parker, creators of "South Park", were executive producers for 10 episodes in the fourth season of the show. The series was about two friends who competed in numerous competitions. The loser of the competition would have to do a humiliation that the winner picked out. The show ended with an hour-long Christmas special that aired on December 23, 2010 on Showcase.
The show spawned many many replicas including "Frank vs Girard" in French Canadian on VRAK.TV, "Ed vs. Spencer" in the United Kingdom, "Juan vs. Roman" in Latin America, "Elton vs. Simon" in Germany, "Katja vs. Bridget" and "Dennis vs. Valerio" in the Netherlands, and "Sid vs. Varun" in India.
TV.com rated the series a 8.4. It was ranked as at #8 among the top 10 Canadian television shows of the 21st century.

</doc>
<doc id="283997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283997" title="Kaw people">
Kaw people

The Kaw people (also known as the Kanza) are a Native American people living in the central part of the Midwestern United States. The US state of Kansas was named after the Kaw people. Kansas' capital city, Topeka, was named after a Kaw word meaning "a good place to dig potatoes".

</doc>
<doc id="283998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283998" title="Siouan languages">
Siouan languages

The Siouan languages (also known as Siouan proper or Western Siouan) are a group of Native American languages. The Siouan languages are spoken in central North America.

</doc>
<doc id="283999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283999" title="Category:Delaware counties">
Category:Delaware counties

Counties in the U.S. state Delaware.

</doc>
<doc id="284002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284002" title="1000 Ways to Die">
1000 Ways to Die

1000 Ways to Die is an American docufiction black comedy series which was first shown on the television channel "Spike" on May 14, 2008. It shows unusual deaths and uses black humor.

</doc>
<doc id="284005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284005" title="Wikipedia:FUCK">
Wikipedia:FUCK


</doc>
<doc id="284006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284006" title="Crisis">
Crisis

A crisis is a situation which is difficult, unexpected, or an emergency. It is often an important "turning point", where a decision must be taken, affecting many people. Very often, this decision must be taken in relatively little time. The word is related to the Greek "κρίσις" (krisis). Examples include the sudden threat of war, or the occurrence of a natural disaster.
According to Steven Fink, a crisis manager, crises may: 
Crises occur in different fields. People may develop post-traumatic stress disorder, because they cannot deal with a crisis situation. Many countries and associations offer help lines, which can help people deal with a crisis situation. 

</doc>
<doc id="284007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284007" title="Dust storm">
Dust storm

A dust storm, or sandstorm, is a storm of small particles of sand and dirt. Dust storms happen when a strong wind front blows loose sand and dust from a dry surface. Particles are picked up and suspended in the air, causing soil erosion where they were. The wind drops them in another place where they can form silt.

</doc>
<doc id="284021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284021" title="Jabiru">
Jabiru

The Jabiru (Jabiru mycteria) is a large stork found in the Americas from Mexico to Argentina, except west of the Andes. It is most common in the Pantanal region of Brazil and the Eastern Chaco region of Paraguay. It is the only member of the genus "Jabiru". The name comes from the Tupi-Guaraní language and means "swollen neck".

</doc>
<doc id="284028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284028" title="Big Dipper (disambiguation)">
Big Dipper (disambiguation)

Big Dipper is the American name for the seven brightest stars of Ursa Major. It is called the Plough in Britain.
Big Dipper also may refer to:
As a nickname in sport, Big Dipper may also refer to:
In music:

</doc>
<doc id="284031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284031" title="Greensboro, North Carolina">
Greensboro, North Carolina

Greensboro is a city in the U.S. state of North Carolina. It has about 260,000 people and is growing. Greensboro is near Winston Salem and High Point in an area called The Triad. It is in Guilford County.
Greensboro was started in 1808. It was built in the middle of Guilford County. It grew slowly, but was rich because of cotton. In the 1840s, a railroad was built going through Greensboro, making it grow faster. The Civil War did not hurt Greensboro much.
In the early 1900s, Greensboro grew a lot because of textiles. They also became rich.
A lot of stuff happened during the African-American Civil rights movement in the 1960s in Greensboro, including a sit-in at a counter in a restaurant.
Now, Greensboro continues to grow, and is located at the intersection of two big freeways, Interstate 40 and I-85.

</doc>
<doc id="284032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284032" title="Category:American Muslims">
Category:American Muslims

People who are followers of the religion of Islam and who are from the United States

</doc>
<doc id="284041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284041" title="Ophiuchus (disambiguation)">
Ophiuchus (disambiguation)

Ophiuchus is the name of a constellation Ophiuchus, a person holding a snake.
Ophiuchus also may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="284042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284042" title="Christie Brinkley">
Christie Brinkley

Christie Brinkley (born February 2, 1954) is an American model, actress, writer and designer. She was born Christie Lee Hudson in Monroe, Michigan. She moved to Los Angleles, California and changed her surname to that of her stepfather, writer Don Brinkley (1921-2012). She has appeared on magazine covers many times and has a long contract with CoverGirl (the longest of any model in history). All her four marriages ended in divorce. Her second marriage was to singer Billy Joel and lasted from 1985-1994. Their daughter Alexa Ray Joel (born 1985) is her eldest child and is a musician. Brinkley also has a son by her third husband and a daughter by her fourth.

</doc>
<doc id="284047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284047" title="Mike Bibby">
Mike Bibby

Michael "Mike" Bibby (born May 13, 1978 in Cherry Hill, New Jersey) is a retired American basketball player who played with the Sacramento Kings of the NBA for most of his career. He attended college at University of Arizona where he played basketball with the Wildcats. Mike Bibby started his NBA career when he was drafted by the Vancouver Grizzlies in the 1998 NBA Draft with the 2nd pick in the 1st round. Bibby played 3 seasons with the Vancouver Grizzlies, 7 seasons with the Sacramento Kings, 3 seasons with the Atlanta Hawks and two games with the Washington Wizards before having his contract bought out by the Wizards on February 28, 2011. 

</doc>
<doc id="284048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284048" title="Vancouver Grizzlies">
Vancouver Grizzlies

The Vancouver Grizzlies were a Canadian professional basketball team that played in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. They played in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The team started playing in 1995. They started with the Toronto Raptors, as part of the NBA's expansion into Canada. They relocated to Memphis, Tennessee in 2001 and became the Memphis Grizzlies. The Grizzlies played their home games at the General Motors Place (Now Rogers Arena). The Grizzlies were originally going to be called the Vancouver Mounties but were forced to find a new name because the RCMP objected it.
The team had struggled in their early years and they finished last in their division in five of their six seasons. Over their six seasons, they had an overall record of 101 wins and 359 loses and were never able to make it to the playoffs.
After the 1998–99 lockout, the team suffered low attendance and a weak Canadian dollar was making the owner Orca Bay Sports and Entertainment lose money on the franchise. After they failed to sell the team to Bill Laurie, it was instead sold to Michael Heisley. At the time, Heisley said that he was going to keep the team in Vancouver, but he then immediately started looking for a suitable relocation city in the US. He would eventually move the team to Memphis, Tennessee for the 2001-02 season.

</doc>
<doc id="284050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284050" title="Rango (2011 movie)">
Rango (2011 movie)

Rango is a 2011 American computer-animated action comedy movie that was produced by Gore Verbinski, Graham King and John B. Carls and was directed by Gore Verbinski. "Rango" was released on March 4, 2011 in North America. "Rango" received positive reviews with a 88% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 75 out of 100 from Metacritic. It won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature.

</doc>
<doc id="284052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284052" title="Abigail Breslin">
Abigail Breslin

Abigail Kathleen Breslin (born April 14, 1996) is an American actress. Breslin was born in New York City, New York. She first appeared in the 2002 science fiction movie, "Signs". Breslin had her breakthrough role in the 2006 comedy-drama "Little Miss Sunshine" where she played Olive Hoover. At age 10, she was one of the youngest people to be nominated for an Academy Award.

</doc>
<doc id="284054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284054" title="Cricket World Cup">
Cricket World Cup

The ICC Cricket World Cup is an international cricket competition. It is played in the One Day International (ODI) cricket format. The event is organised by the sport's governing body, the International Cricket Council (ICC). Cricket World Cup is the third largest sporting event in the world, behind soccer's World Cup and the Summer Olympic Games. The first Cricket World Cup contest was organised in England in 1975. A separate Women's Cricket World Cup has been held every four years since 1973.
The finals of the Cricket World Cup are contested by all ten Test-playing nations. They are joined by other nations who qualify through the Cup Qualifying competition. Australia has been the most successful team winning the title five times (in 1987, 1999, 2003 and 2007,2015). West Indies (in 1975 and 1979) and India (in 1983 and 2011) have won the title 2 times each. And Pakistan (in 1992) and Sri Lanka (in 1996) have won the title one time each.
The first ever international cricket match was played between Canada and the United States, on the 24 and 25 September 1844. However, the first credited Test match was played in 1877 between Australia and England, and the two teams competed regularly for The Ashes in subsequent years. South Africa was admitted to Test status in 1889. Representative cricket teams were selected to tour each other, resulting in bilateral competition. Cricket was also included as an Olympic sport at the 1900 Paris Games, where Great Britain defeated France to win the Gold medal. This was the only appearance of cricket at the Summer Olympics.
The first multi team competition at international level was the 1912 Triangular Tournament. It was a Test cricket tournament played in England between England, Australia and South Africa. In subsequent years, international Test cricket has been generally been organised as bilateral series. A multi team Test tournament was not organised again until the quadrangular Asian Test Championship in 1999.
In the early 1960s, English county cricket teams began playing a shortened version of cricket which only lasted for one day. Starting in 1962 with a four-team knockout competition known as the Midlands Knock-Out Cup, and continuing with the inaugural Gillette Cup in 1963, one-day cricket grew in popularity in England. A national Sunday League was formed in 1969. The first One-Day International event was played on the fifth day of a rain-aborted Test match between England and Australia at Melbourne in 1971, to fill the time available and as compensation for the frustrated crowd. It was a forty over match with eight balls per over.
The success and popularity of the domestic one-day competitions in England and other parts of the world, as well as the early One-Day Internationals, prompted the ICC to consider organising a Cricket World Cup.
The Test-playing nations qualify automatically for the World Cup main event, while the other teams have to qualify through a series of preliminary qualifying tournaments. The One Day International playing nations automatically enter the final qualification tournament, the World Cup Qualifier, along with other nations who have qualified through separate competitions.
Qualifying tournaments were introduced for the second World Cup, where two of the eight places in the finals were awarded to the leading teams in the ICC Trophy. The number of teams selected through the ICC Trophy has varied throughout the years; currently, six teams are selected for the Cricket World Cup. The World Cricket League (administered by the International Cricket Council) is the qualification system provided to allow the Associate and Affiliate members of the ICC more opportunities to qualify.The name "ICC Trophy" has been changed to "ICC World Cup Qualifier".
The format of the Cricket World Cup has changed greatly over the course of its history. The first four tournaments were played by eight teams, divided into two groups of four. The competition was held in two stages. A group stage and a knock-out stage. The four teams in each group played each other once in the group stage. The top two teams in each group went through to the semi-finals. The winners of the semi-finals played against each other in the final. With the return of South Africa in 1992 after the ending of the apartheid boycott, nine teams played each other once in the group phase, and the top four teams progressed to the semi-finals. The tournament was made bigger in 1996, with two groups of six teams. The top four teams from each group progressed to quarter-finals and semi-finals.
A new format was used for the 1999 and 2003 World Cups. The teams were split into two pools. The top three teams in each pool went into the Super 6. The "Super 6" teams played the three other teams that had made it through from the other group. The teams carried their points forward from the matches played against the other two who were in their group. The top four teams from the "Super 6" stage progressed to the semi-finals, with winners playing in the final.
The last format used in the 2007 World Cup, features 16 teams allocated into four groups of four. Each team played each other once within the group. Teams earn points for wins and half-points for ties. The top two teams from each group move forward to the Super 8 round. The "Super 8" teams play the other six teams that progressed from the different groups. Teams earned points in the same way as the group stage. Teams also carry their points forward from the match against the other team who qualified from the same group. The top four teams from the "Super 8" round advance to the semi-finals. The winners of the semi-finals play in the final.
The current format features 14 teams. The 14 teams are split into two groups of seven. Within each group each team will play each other once. The top four teams from each group will proceed to the knock out stage playing quarter-finals. Winners of the quarter-finals will play semi-finals and the winning semi-finalists will play in the final.
The ICC Cricket World Cup Trophy is presented to the winners of the World Cup finals. The current trophy was created for the 1999 championships, and was the first permanent prize in the tournament's history; prior to this, different trophies were made for each World Cup. The trophy was designed and produced in London by a team of craftsmen from Garrard & Co over a period of two months.
The current trophy is made from silver and gild, and features a golden globe held up by three silver columns. The columns, shaped as stumps and bails, represent the three fundamental aspects of cricket: batting, bowling and fielding, while the globe characterises a cricket ball. The trophy is designed with platonic dimensions, so that it can be easily recognised from any angle. It stands 60 cm high and weighs approximately 11 kilograms. The names of the previous winners are engraved on the base of the trophy, with space for a total of twenty inscriptions.
The original trophy is kept by the ICC. A replica, which differs only in the inscriptions, is permanently awarded to the winning team.
The tournament is the world's third largest (with only the FIFA World Cup and the Summer Olympics exceeding it), being televised in over 200 countries to over 2.2 billion television viewers. Television rights, mainly for the 2011 and 2015 World Cup, were sold for over US$1.1 billion, and sponsorship rights were sold for a further US$500 million. The 2003 Cricket World Cup matches were attended by 626,845 people, while the 2007 Cricket World Cup sold more than 672,000 tickets and recorded the highest ticketing revenue for a Cricket World Cup.
Successive World Cup tournaments have generated increasing media attention as One-Day International cricket has become more established. The 2003 World Cup in South Africa was the first to sport a mascot, "Dazzler" the zebra. An orange raccoon-like creature known as "Mello" was the mascot for the 2007 Cricket World Cup.
The International Cricket Council's executive committee votes for the hosts of the tournament after examining the bids made by the nations keen to hold a Cricket World Cup.
England hosted the first three competitions. The ICC decided that England should host the first tournament because it was ready to devote the resources required to organising the inaugural event. India volunteered to host the third Cricket World Cup, but most ICC members believed England to be a more suitable venue because the longer period of daylight in England in June meant that a match could be completed in one day. The 1987 Cricket World Cup was the first hosted outside England, held in Pakistan and India.
Since 1992, one player has been declared as "Man of the Tournament" at the end of the World Cup finals:
Previously, there was no tournament award, although Man of the Match awards have always been given for individual matches. Winning the Man of the Match in the final is logically noteworthy, as this indicates the player deemed to have played the biggest part in the World Cup final. To date the award has always gone to a member of the winning side. The Man of the Match award in the final of the competition has been awarded to:

</doc>
<doc id="284057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284057" title="Dicastillo">
Dicastillo

Dicastillo is a village in Navarre. There are 691 people in Dicastillo. Festivals are held on August. These festivals are celebrated on San Blas, 3rd of February, or on the Asparagu's day, which is in spring. There is a music band called Banda Bizkarra, formed by 30 musicians.

</doc>
<doc id="284059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284059" title="Desiccation">
Desiccation

Desiccation is the state of extreme dryness, or the process of extreme drying. 
A desiccant is a hygroscopic (water-attracting) substance that causes desiccation in a moderately sealed container.
Desiccation tolerance refers to the ability of an organism to withstand or endure extreme dryness, or drought-like conditions. 
Plants and animals living in arid or periodically arid environments such as temporary streams or ponds may face desiccation, therefore physiological or behavioural adaptations are necessary to ensure survival. In particular, insects occupy a wide range of ecologically diverse niches and so have a variety of strategies to avoid desiccation. 
Desiccation resistance in insects is generally measured by the change in mass during dry conditions. The overall mass difference between measurements before and after aridity exposure is attributed to body water loss.
Cryptobiosis refers to the state of an organism that has no detectable metabolic activity, resulting from extreme and unfavorable environmental conditions. Anhydrobiosis refers to the state of surviving the loss of (almost) all body water.
Tardigrades are able to live in environments that would kill most animals. In 2007, scientists discovered that some tardigrades were able to survive 10 days in outer space. Tardigrades can survive more than ten years without water.
Rotifers are specialists at living in habitats where water dries up regularly. 
The Monogononta, which have males, produce fertilised 'resting eggs' which can resist desiccation (drought) for long periods. 
The Bdelloids, who have no males, contract into an inert form and lose almost all body water, a process known as "cryptobiosis". Bdelloids can also survive the dry state for long periods: the longest well-documented dormancy is nine years. After they have dried, they may be revived by adding water.

</doc>
<doc id="284062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284062" title="R. Kelly">
R. Kelly

Robert Sylvester Kelly (born January 8, 1967 in Chicago, Illinois) is an American rapper better known by his stage name, R. Kelly. Also known for being the king of R&B. He produced Aaliyah's 1994 debut album "Age Ain't Nothing But a Number". In 1996, Kelly was nominated for a Grammy Award for writing Michael Jackson's song "You Are Not Alone".
He is also known for the hit songs, "Ignition", "I Believe I Can Fly" and the "Trapped in the Closet" series of songs. He sold more albums than any other male R&B musician in the 1990s.
Kelly has been nominated for 24 Grammy Awards. He has won three.
Kelly has released twelve studio albums and three collaboration albums.
In 1989 Kelly started MGM (Musically Gifted Men) with his friend Marc McWilliams. They released a single called "Why You Wanna Play Me".
In 1990 Kelly was signed by Jive Records. In 1991 he was on the TV talent show "Big Break". He won the $100,000 prize.
"Born into the 90's", Kelly's first album with Public Announcement, was released 1992. In January 1993 he stopped making music with them. He released his first solo single, "Sex Me", on August 6 1993.
In 1993 Kelly's first solo album, "12 Play" was released. The album's second single "Bump n' Grind" was Kelly's first No.1.
In 1995 "R. Kelly" was released. It was Kelly's first No.1 album. It got good reviews.
On November 26 1996 "I Believe I Can Fly", "R."'s first single, was released. It won three Grammy Awards in 1998.
On May 20 1998 Sparkle released her first album, "Sparkle". Kelly wrote and produced the album and released it on his record label, Rockland. Kelly sang in the first single from the album, "Be Careful".
Kelly's first double album, "R.", was released in November 1998. It had 40 songs. The album had a song with Celine Dion called "I'm Your Angel". It was No.1. Nine singles were released from the album. It is his best-selling album yet. It has sold over 12 million copies around the world.
Kelly wrote a ballad called "Cry" for Michael Jackson. It was released on Jackson's last album, "Invincible".
"TP-2.com" was released 2000. Its first single, "I Wish", was nominated for a Grammy.
On March 26 2002 Kelly's first album with Jay-Z, "The Best of Both Worlds" was released.
On September 2 2002 "The World's Greatest" was released as a single. In 2001 it was in the film "Ali".
"Chocolate Factory" was released 2003. It went straight to number one in the "Billboard" 200. The album's first single "Ignition" was Kelly's second UK No.1. It was on the soundtrack of the 2003 movie "Love Don't Cost a Thing". The album got mostly good reviews.
Kelly wrote "One More Chance" for Michael Jackson's album "Number Ones". It reached No.5 in the UK Singles Chart.
August 24, 2004 Kelly released his second double album, "Happy People/U Saved Me". The first disc, "Happy People", is eleven soul songs. The second disc, "U Saved Me", is ten gospel songs.
On October 26, 2004 "Unfinished Business", Kelly"s second album with Jay-Z, was released.
Kelly released "TP.3 Reloaded" on July 5 2005. It was his fourth number one album in the Billboard 200.
On November 5, 2005 Kelly released the first 12 chapters of his film Trapped in the Closet.
"Double Up", his eighth album, was released in May 2007. It was Kelly's fifth album to go straight to No.1 in the "Billboard" 200. Four singles were released.
On August 21, 2007 chapters 13-22 of Trapped in the Closet were released.
On June 3, 2009, Kelly released his first ever mixtape, The "Demo" Tape (Gangsta Grillz) presented by DJ Skee and DJ Drama. It had eighteen songs.
On June 20 2009 he performed in Africa for the first time.
Kelly's ninth album "Untitled" was released December 1 2009 in the US.
On September 13, 2010 "Epic", a collection of Kelly's most 'epic' ballads, was released in Europe.
Kelly's tenth solo album "Love Letter" was released on December 14, 2010. Kelly wrote and produced all of the songs. It got good reviews. The album has fourteen songs, and a cover of Michael Jackson's "You Are Not Alone" hidden at the end. "Love Letter" was nominated for Best R&B Album at the Grammy Awards. The single "Radio Message" was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Traditional R&B Performance.
On July 19 2011 Kelly was rushed to hospital for throat surgery. After this he didn't make music for a while.
On February 18, 2012 he performed "I Look to You" at Whitney Houston's memorial. "I Look to You" is a song that he wrote for Houston.
Kelly's eleventh album "Write Me Back" was released June 25, 2012. That summer his memoir "" was published.
On November 23, 2012 chapters 23-33 of Trapped in the Closet were released.
In June 2013 Kelly performed at the BET Awards with 2 Chainz.
On October 21 2013 Lady Gaga released the second single from her album "Artpop", "Do What U Want". Kelly sung on the song. They performed the song on Saturday Night Live on November 16.
"The Best Man Holiday" started showing at movie theatres on November 15, 2013. Kelly sung "Christmas, I'll Be Steppin'" on it.
On November 18 2013 Justin Bieber released a single called "PYD" with vocals by Kelly.
Kelly's twelfth album "Black Panties" was released in the United States on December 10, 2013. Two singles have been released from it, "Genius" and "My Story". A video was release for "Cookie". In 2014 Kelly will tour with Mary J Blige.
In 2014 the 34th episode of "Trapped in the Closet" will be released. "" will also be published.
In 1994 Kelly married Aaliyah. Aaliyah was 15, but said that she was 18 so that the marriage would be legal.
Kelly married Andrea Kelly in 1996. They have three children. Kelly divorced her in 2009.
On February 3, 2002 a video with Kelly urinating on a 14-year-old girl appeared. In 2008 Kelly was found not guilty of all the 14 counts of videotaping himself having sex with an underage girl that he was charged with.
R. Kelly has released 12 studio albums:

</doc>
<doc id="284063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284063" title="Space Jam">
Space Jam

Space Jam is a 1996 live-action/animated movie comedy movie that was produced by Ivan Reitman, Joe Medjuck and Daniel Goldberg and was directed by Joe Pytka. The movie won a Grammy Award in 1998 for Best Song Written Specifically for Motion Picture or for Television for R. Kelly's "I Believe I Can Fly".
It is actually replaced by " "and "Toy Story 3 (2010) "starring Garfield, Odie, Sheriff Woody, Buzz Lightyear, Jessie, Bullseye, Slinky Dog, Rex, Hamm, Mr. and Mrs. Potato Heads, and other Bonnie's toys.

</doc>
<doc id="284064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284064" title="DeMarcus Cousins">
DeMarcus Cousins

DeMarcus Cousins (born August 13, 1990 in Mobile, Alabama) is a professional basketball player. He plays for the Sacramento Kings of the National Basketball Association (NBA). His position is center. The Kings chose Cousins with the fifth pick in the first round of the 2010 NBA Draft. Cousins played basketball at the University of Kentucky with the Wildcats.

</doc>
<doc id="284065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284065" title="Fettuccine Alfredo">
Fettuccine Alfredo

Fettuccine alfredo is a pasta dish made from fettuccine pasta tossed with Parmesan cheese and butter.
This is an old and simple recipe, in Italy it is simply called "Fettuccine al burro" (). The Italian restaurateur Alfredo di Lelio doubled the amount of butter used. This made it easier for his pregnant wife to eat. He then started selling his variation at his restaurant "Alfredo alla Scrofa" in Rome.
Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks ate at "Alfredo alla Scrofa" on their honeymoon, and this helped make the restaurant, and Fettuccine alfredo, popular with tourists.
In U.S. cuisine it may be mixed with other ingredients such as broccoli, parsley, cream, garlic, shrimp, or chicken.
Fettuccine Alfredo is named for Alfredo di Lelio, an Italian restaurant owner. He ran a restaurant in Rome in the first half of the 20th century. 
In 1914, his wife, who was pregnant, was having difficulty eating so he adapted a meal of pasta and butter, "pasta al burro", for her. Later, he put the dish on the menu at his restaurant, the "Alfredo alla Scrofa", and called his version Fettuccine Alfredo. Hollywood celebrities Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks visited his restaurant on their honeymoon and eat the dish. When they returned home, they talked often about the dish. This caused the restaurant and the dish to become popular with American tourists.
In 1943, Di Lelio sold the restaurant but kept the right to the name and menu. In 1950, Alfredo Di Lelio reopened a new restaurant "Il Vero Alfredo" in Rome, Piazza Augusto Imperatore 30. He worked there until his death in 1959. "Il Vero Alfredo" is now managed by his nephews Alfredo and Ines, with the famous “gold cutlery”” (fork and spoon gold) donated in 1927 by two well-known American actors Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks (in gratitude for the hospitality).
Fettuccine Alfredo has now become ubiquitous in Italian-style restaurants in the United States and internationally, although in Italy this dish is not popular at all, as wrongly believed, and it is better known if called "Fettuccine al burro" instead of "Fettuccine Alfredo"

</doc>
<doc id="284067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284067" title="Knockout mouse">
Knockout mouse

A knockout mouse is a genetically engineered mouse in which one or more genes have been turned off by a gene knockout. 
Knockout mice are important animal models for studying the role of genes which have been sequenced but whose functions are not yet known. By causing a specific gene to be inactive in the mouse, and observing any differences from normal behaviour or condition, researchers can infer its probable function.
Mice are currently the most closely related laboratory animal species to humans for which the knockout technique can easily be applied. They are widely used in knockout experiments, especially those genetic questions which relate to human physiology. 
Gene knockout in rats is much harder and has only been possible since 2003.
The first knockout mouse was created by Mario R. Capecchi, Martin Evans and Oliver Smithies in 1989, for which they were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for 2007. 
A detailed explanation of how knockout (KO) mice are produced is at the website of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2007.
Aspects of the technology for generating knockout mice, and the mice themselves have been patented in many countries by private companies.

</doc>
<doc id="284069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284069" title="Eleocharis dulcis">
Eleocharis dulcis

The Chinese water chestnut (or simply water chestnut) is a plant. The corms of the plant are the water chestnuts and is a crispy white flesh and can be eaten raw, slightly boiled, grilled, pickled, or tinned. This plant comes from China. They are grown in flooded paddy fields.

</doc>
<doc id="284072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284072" title="Gene knockout">
Gene knockout

A gene knockout is a genetic technique in which one of an organism's genes is switched off or replaced by one which does not work. 
The organisms, such as knockout mice, are used to learn about a gene that has been sequenced, but whose function is unknown or incompletely known. Researchers draw inferences from the difference between the knockout organism and normal individuals. Knockout is often abbreviated as KO.
Gene knock-in is the opposite term. There a gene is switched on, or a working gene inserted.
Knockout is accomplished through a combination of techniques. It starts in the test tube with a plasmid, or other DNA construct, and proceeding to cell culture. 
Individual cells are genetically transformed with the DNA construct. Often the goal is to create an animal that has the altered gene. 
If so, embryonic stem cells are genetically transformed and inserted into early embryos. Resulting animals with the genetic change in their germline cells can then often pass the gene knockout to future generations.

</doc>
<doc id="284079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284079" title="Stewart-Haas Racing">
Stewart-Haas Racing

Stewart Haas Racing is a NASCAR racing team based in Kannapolis, North Carolina. The team is co-owned by Tony Stewart and Gene Haas. There are currently three NASCAR Sprint Cup drivers that race for the team; Tony Stewart, Ryan Newman and Danica Patrick.

</doc>
<doc id="284085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284085" title="Temple Square">
Temple Square

Temple Square is a National Historic Landmark and religious center in Salt Lake City, Utah, and is owned by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). Temple Square contains the Salt Lake Temple, Salt Lake Tabernacle, Salt Lake Assembly Hall, the Seagull Monument and two visitors' centers. With 3 million to 5 million visitors a year, Temple Square is the most popular tourist attraction in Utah.

</doc>
<doc id="284089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284089" title="DNA construct">
DNA construct

A DNA construct is an artificially constructed segment of nucleic acid which is going to be 'transplanted' into a target tissue or cell. 
It often contains a DNA insert, which contains the gene sequence encoding a protein of interest. The DNA insert has been subcloned into a molecular biology vector. 
A DNA construct may express wildtype protein, or prevent the expression of certain genes by expressing competitors or inhibitors. It may express mutant proteins, such as deletion mutations or missense mutations. A DNA construct is often used in molecular biology to analyze macromolecules such as proteins or RNA in more detail.
A molecular biology vector is a DNA molecule used as a vehicle to transfer foreign genetic material into another cell. 
The main types of vectors are plasmids, bacteriophages and other viruses, and artificial chromosomes. Common to all engineered vectors are an origin of replication, a multicloning site, and a selectable marker. 
The vector itself is generally a DNA sequence that consists of an insert (transgene) and a larger sequence that serves as the 'backbone' of the vector. The backbone will include bacterial resistance genes for growth in bacteria, and promoters for expression in the organism. 
The purpose of a vector which transfers genetic information to another cell is typically to isolate, multiply, or express the insert in the target cell. 
Insertion of a vector into the target cell is usually called transformation for bacterial cells, or transfection for eukaryotic cells. Insertion of a viral vector is often called transduction.

</doc>
<doc id="284090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284090" title="This Hour Has 22 Minutes">
This Hour Has 22 Minutes

This Hour Has 22 Minutes is a Canadian comedy television series created by Mary Walsh. In Canada reruns are shown on The Comedy Network and new episodes are shown on CBC. 
On a 2004-05 episode, Carolyn Parrish was shown stomping on a George W. Bush doll and performing voodoo on its head which ultimately lead to her dismissal from the Liberal caucus.

</doc>
<doc id="284096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284096" title="Category:Buildings and structures in Utah">
Category:Buildings and structures in Utah


</doc>
<doc id="284098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284098" title="Arnold Bennett">
Arnold Bennett

Enoch Arnold Bennett (27 May 1867 – 27 March 1931) was an English novelist.
He started as a journalist, and during World War I was in charge of propaganda in France.
Bennett was born in Hanley in the Potteries district of Staffordshire, and his best known books were about life in this area. He changed the names of the five towns in the district, but their names are easy to recognise.
When in London, Bennett liked to eat at the Savoy Hotel's Grill. He often ate an omelette made with smoked haddock, and this has become known as the Omelette Arnold Bennett. The Omelette Arnold Bennett has remained a Savoy standard dish ever since.

</doc>
<doc id="284101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284101" title="George Wald">
George Wald

George Wald (November 18, 1906 – April 12, 1997) was an American scientist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1967 for his discoveries in vision. He was born on November 18, 1906 in New York City and died on April 12, 1997 in Cambridge, Massachusettes, United States.

</doc>
<doc id="284103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284103" title="Passions (soap opera)">
Passions (soap opera)

Passions was a television soap opera which aired starting July 5, 1999 until September 7, 2007 on NBC and on DirecTV from September 17, 2007 to August 7, 2008. This show focused toward the romantic and paranormal issues of Harmony, a fictional New England town. The storylines centered around multi racial families (the white Cranes and Bennetts, the black Russells, the Hispanic Lopez-Fitzgeralds). It also focused on Tabitha Lenox, a town witch.

</doc>
<doc id="284104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284104" title="Category:English movie directors">
Category:English movie directors


</doc>
<doc id="284106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284106" title="Category:Movie directors">
Category:Movie directors


</doc>
<doc id="284111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284111" title="Gene targeting">
Gene targeting

Gene targeting is a genetic technique for replacing an existing gene with a mutated (changed) one. It can be done in lab mice or some other model organism.
The method can be used to delete a gene, remove control sections, add a gene, and introduce point mutations. 
Gene targeting can be permanent or conditional. Conditions, for example, can be a specific time during development in the life of the organism or limited to a specific tissue.
To date, this method has been applied to a number of species including "Drosophila melanogaster", tobacco, corn, human cells. mice, and rats.
Mario R. Capecchi, Martin J. Evans and Oliver Smithies were awarded the 2007 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for their work on "principles for introducing specific gene modifications in mice by the use of embryonic stem cells", in other words, gene targeting. 
First a DNA construct is made, usually in bacteria. The construct has the mutated gene or part of it, and a reporter gene, which may be a selectable marker. Mutated DNA is put into a stem cell genome derived from an embryo.
To target genes in mice, the construct is inserted into mouse embryonic stem cells in tissue culture. Cells with the correct insertion can be selected, because they carry a visible marker (such as a gene for white fur where the normal is brown). The treated cells can be added a mouse's tissue by embryo injection. Finally, "chimeric mice where the modified cells make up the reproductive organs are selected for breeding". After breeding to others of the same kind, the entire body of the offspring mice has the altered gene.
In practice, large numbers of the injected mice are mated, which produces a few white mice (this only occurs when there are white-type cells in the germ line). Cross-breeding the white mice produces 50% of offspring which are homozygous for the marker, and so pure-bred for the experimental gene being inserted. Tests on the mice with the gene insertion can now take place.

</doc>
<doc id="284113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284113" title="Category:Essayists">
Category:Essayists


</doc>
<doc id="284115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284115" title="Category:English playwrights">
Category:English playwrights


</doc>
<doc id="284117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284117" title="Pipit">
Pipit

The pipits are a cosmopolitan genus Anthus, of small passerine birds with medium to long tails. Along with the wagtails and longclaws, the pipits make up the family Motacillidae. The genus is widespread, occurring across most of the world, except the driest deserts, rainforests and the mainland of Antarctica.
They are slender, often drab, ground-feeding insectivores of open country. Like their relatives in the family, the pipits are monogamous and territorial. Pipits are ground nesters, laying up to six speckled eggs.

</doc>
<doc id="284120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284120" title="Potter Park Zoo">
Potter Park Zoo

The Potter Park Zoo is a zoo in Lansing, Michigan. Potter Park Zoo is the oldest public zoo in Michigan. The zoo is in size. The zoo has more than 160 species of animals. The zoo is owned by the City of Lansing, and operated by Ingham County. The zoo is a member of the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA).
Potter Park Zoo was dedicated on July 5, 1915. The zoo officially opened in 1920.
The Bird and Reptile building opened in 1929. In 1930 the Lion building opened. The bighorn sheep exhibit (originally called Monkey Island) was constructed in 1936. The aviary was constructed in 1941. The barnyard and petting zoo opened in 1949. In the 1950s, Potter Park Zoo had 138 mammals and 267 birds.
In the late 1960s, the zoo began a decline from municipal neglect. In 1969 a columnist of the "Lansing State Journal" encouraged residents to raise money for the zoo.
A magellanic penguin exhibit opened in 1985. In 1986 the zoo became a member of the American Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA). In 1989 the zoo's Lion House was renovated and renamed the Feline and Primate Building.
In 2005 endangered tiger cubs were born at the zoo. They were featured on NBC's Today Show. In 2005 the "River Otter" and "Arctic Fox" exhibits opened. In November 2006 Lansing transferred the operation and maintenance of the zoo to Ingham County.
In January 2009 the zoo announced plans to expand the eastern black rhinoceros exhibit. In 2009 the "Wings from Down Under" aviary opened with more than 600 Australian birds. In March 2010 Potter Park Zoo artificially inseminated a female snow leopard. It is believed to be the first successful procedure without surgery or anesthesia. A larger Eurasian Eagle-owl exhibit opened in September 2010. 
Potter Park Zoo's Feline and Primate Building has two Amur tigers, African lions, snow leopards, mandrills, Pallas' cats, cotton-top tamarins, black-headed spider monkeys,golden lion tamarins, mongoose, red-ruffed, and ring-tailed lemurs.
The Bird and Reptile House has rare flying creatures like Bali starlings, chestnut-fronted macaws, eastern screech owls, Eurasian eagle owls, green aracaries, Jambu fruit doves. There are scaly species like chukwallas, inland bearded dragons, leopard geckos, blue-tongued skinks, Gila monsters, water dragons, boa constrictors, green tree pythons, and more. 
The Coral Reef Room, showcases exotic fish, crustaceans, eels, and coral.
The Farmyard EdVentures is where children can pet and feed animals at the barnyard and petting zoo. The petting zoo has goats, burros, reindeer, yaks, toy pigs, tortoises, and rabbits.
The Wing From Down Under aviary has grass parakeets, cockatiels, and eastern rosellas.
Gardens and a pond have ducks, geese, swans, and pelicans. Other animals at the zoo are kangaroos, penguins, river otters, bongos, bald eagles, eastern timberwolves, red pandas, arctic foxes, and porcupines.

</doc>
<doc id="284123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284123" title="Anonymous work">
Anonymous work

Anonymous works are works, such as art or literature, made by someone who is anonymous. Some authors or artists choose to keep their identity a secret; others cannot reveal their names for legal reasons. In 2007, The Washington Post published an article by an anonymous author describing the use of national security letters by the FBI. In this case, the author, who would have preferred to be named, could not reveal his or her identity because it was against the law. 
Some anonymous works are not created by people who choose to be anonymous, but their creators are unknown (not by choice). With some very old or ancient works, the creator's name may simply be lost over the course of history, or historians are not sure. In such cases the author is often referred to as Anonymus, the Latin form of "anonymous". In the United States it is legally defined as "a work on the copies or phonorecords of which no natural person is identified as author." 

</doc>
<doc id="284126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284126" title="2011 Tucson shooting">
2011 Tucson shooting

The 2011 Tucson shooting was a mass murder in Tucson, Arizona. 
The shooting happened on Saturday, January 8, 2011. Nineteen people were shot. Six of the nineteen people died. Another person was injured. 
U.S. Representative Gabrielle Giffords was holding a public meeting in the parking lot of a Safeway store. 
Giffords was shot through the head from a very short distance. Her condition was said to be very bad just after the shooting. The six killed included John Roll, a chief judge for the District of Arizona. 
22 year old schizophrenic Jared Lee Loughner was arrested at the scene with five charges filed against him. Loughner pleaded guilty to 19 crimes. He never gave a reason for the shooting. In November 2012 was sentenced to life in prison.

</doc>
<doc id="284130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284130" title="Trey Songz">
Trey Songz

Tremaine Aldon Neverson (born November 28, 1984), better known by his stage name "Trey Songz". 
Songz was born in Petersburg, Virginia, and raised in a military family, He did not intend having a musical career as a child due to his shyness, saying "Singing wasn't a reality for me, until other people started noticing I sounded good." He recognized his vocal abilities at the age of 14 in 1998. 
A
Some refer to him as 'The Prince of R&B'. His 2010 album, "Passion, Pain and Pleasure", entered the Billboard magazine charts at Number 2 in September 2010. the song "Bottoms Up" from the album got into the Top Ten songs. 

</doc>
<doc id="284135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284135" title="Mad About You">
Mad About You

Mad About You is an American situation comedy. It began on NBC on September 23, 1992. It ended on May 24, 1999. It starred Paul Reiser and Helen Hunt. They played a married couple living in New York City. Near the end of the sitcom's run, the couple had a baby, Mabel.

</doc>
<doc id="284141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284141" title="Go Ask Alice">
Go Ask Alice

Go Ask Alice is a controversial book from 1971. The book is said to be the actual diary of an anonymous teenage girl who became addicted to drugs. The diarist's name is never given in the book. The title is from the lyrics to the Jefferson Airplane song "White Rabbit". Grace Slick wrote the song based on drug references in the classic novel "Alice's Adventures In Wonderland" by Lewis Carroll.
The story caused a sensation when published and remains in print as of 2011. Revelations about the book's origin have caused much doubt as to its authenticity and factual accounts, and the publishers have listed it as a work of fiction since at least the mid-late 1980s. Although it is still published under the byline "Anonymous", press interviews and copyright records suggest that it is largely or wholly the work of its purported editor, Beatrice Sparks. Some of the days and dates referenced in the book put the timeline from 1968 until 1970.
The teenage girl is insecure and wants more friends. She does this by taking drugs. Because of this she gets all kind of problems and is not a 'real' child anymore.
A 15-year-old girl begins keeping a diary. With a sensitive, observant style, she records her thoughts and concerns about issues such as crushes, weight loss, sexuality, social acceptance, and difficulty relating to her parents. The diarist's father, a college professor, accepts a teaching position at a new college. After the move the diarist feels like an outcast at the new school, with no friends. She then meets Beth and they become best friends. When Beth leaves for summer camp the diarist returns to her hometown to stay with her grandparents. She reunites with an old school neighbor, Jill. Jill is impressed by the diarist's move to a larger town, and invites her to a party. At the party, bottles of sodas—some of which are labeled with LSD—were served. The diarist was not known about LSD and has an intense and pleasure trip. Over the following days the diarist continues friendships with the people from the party and willingly uses more drugs. She loses her virginity while on LSD. She worries she may be pregnant, and her grandfather has a small heart attack. Gullets and lies were overwhelming her.

</doc>
<doc id="284144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284144" title="National Climatic Data Center">
National Climatic Data Center

The United States National Climatic Data Center (NCDC) in Asheville, North Carolina is the world's largest active archive of weather data. The center became established in late 1951, and moved into a new facility in early 1952. The center collects data on climate change, science, and transportation.

</doc>
<doc id="284145" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284145" title="Model organism">
Model organism

A model organism is a non-human species that is studied over many years, building up a lot of knowledge about it.
The purpose is to understand fundamental biological phenomena. The hope is that discoveries made in the model will give insight into how other organisms work. 
In particular, model organisms are widely used to explore potential causes and treatments for human disease when experimenting on humans would be impossible or less ethical. 
This strategy is made possible by the common descent of all living organisms, and the conservation of metabolic and developmental pathways and genes over the course of evolution.
"Drosophila melanogaster" was one of the first animals used for genetics. Today it is one of the most widely used and genetically best-known of all eukaryotic organisms. 
All organisms use common genetic systems; understanding transcription and replication in fruit flies helps to understand these processes in other eukaryotes, including humans.
Studies of X-linked traits confirmed that genes are found on chromosomes. Studies of linked traits led to the first maps of genetic loci on chromosomes. The first maps of "Drosophila" chromosomes were done by Alfred Sturtevant.
"Drosophila melanogaster" is one of the most studied organisms in biological research, particularly in genetics and developmental biology. Its complete genome was sequenced and first published in 2000.
Because great deal is known about its development from egg to larva to adult, it is a key model for developmental genetics, or evo-devo. The hox genes, or homeobox, which control development in metazoa, were worked out first of all in "Drosophila".
In 1946, Joshua Lederberg and Edward Tatum first described the phenomenon known as bacterial conjugation using "Escherichia coli" as a model bacterium. 
"E. coli" was an integral part of the first experiments to understand phage genetics, and early researchers, such as Seymour Benzer, used "E. coli" and phage T4 to understand the topography of gene structure. Before Benzer's research, it was not known whether the gene was a linear structure, or if it had a branching pattern.
"E. coli" was one of the first organisms to have its genome sequenced; the complete genome of "E. coli" K12 was published by "Science" in 1997.
The long-term evolution experiments using "E. coli", begun by Richard Lenski in 1988, have allowed direct observation of major evolutionary shifts in the laboratory.

</doc>
<doc id="284147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284147" title="John McGraw">
John McGraw

John McGraw (April 7, 1873– February 25, 1934) was a Major League baseball player/manager from 1894-1932. He was a player for the Baltimore Orioles and the New York Giants from 1894 until 1906. McGraw died one year after he stopped managing for the Giants.

</doc>
<doc id="284149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284149" title="History of the Cricket World Cup">
History of the Cricket World Cup

The inaugural Cricket World Cup was hosted in 1975 by England, the only nation able to put forward the resources to stage an event of such magnitude at that time. The 1975 tournament started on June 7. The first three events were held in England and officially known as the Prudential Cup after the sponsors Prudential plc. The matches consisted of 60 six-ball overs per team, played during the daytime in traditional form, with the players wearing cricket whites and using red cricket balls.
Eight teams participated in the first tournament: Australia, England, India, New Zealand, Pakistan, and the West Indies (the six Test nations at the time), together with Sri Lanka and a composite team from East Africa. One notable omission was South Africa, who were banned from international cricket due to apartheid. The tournament was won by the West Indies, who defeated Australia by 17 runs in the final at Lord's.
The 1979 World Cup saw the introduction of the ICC Trophy competition to select non-Test playing teams for the World Cup, with Sri Lanka and Canada qualifying. West Indies won a second consecutive World Cup tournament, defeating the hosts, England, by 92 runs in the final. At a meeting which followed the World Cup, the International Cricket Conference agreed to make the competition a quadrennial event.
The 1983 event was hosted by England for a third consecutive time. By this time, Sri Lanka had become a Test-playing nation, and Zimbabwe qualified through the ICC Trophy. A fielding circle was introduced, away from the stumps. Four fieldsmen needed to be inside it at all times. India, an outsider quoted at 66-1 to win by bookmakers before the competition began, were crowned champions after upsetting the West Indies by 43 runs in the final.
The 1987 tournament, named the Reliance World Cup after their Indian sponsors, was held in India and Pakistan, the first time that the competition was held outside England. The games were reduced from 60 to 50 overs per innings, the current standard, because of the shorter daylight hours in the Indian subcontinent compared with England's summer. Australia won the championship by defeating England by 7 runs in the final, the closest margin in World Cup final history.
The 1992 World Cup, held in Australia and New Zealand, introduced many changes to the game, such as coloured clothing, white balls, day/night matches, and an alteration to the fielding restrictions. The South African cricket team participated in the event for the first time, following the fall of the apartheid regime and the end of the international sports boycott. Pakistan overcame a dismal start to emerge as winners, defeating England by 22 runs in the final.
The 1996 championship was held in the Indian subcontinent for a second time, with the inclusion of Sri Lanka as host for some of its group stage matches. In the semi-final, Sri Lanka, heading towards a crushing victory over India at Eden Gardens (Calcutta) after their hosts lost eight wickets while scoring 120 runs in pursuit of 254, were awarded victory by default after riots broke out in protest against the Indian performance. Sri Lanka went on to win their maiden championship by defeating Australia by seven wickets in the final, which was held in Lahore.
In 1999 the event was hosted by England, with some matches also being held in Scotland, Ireland, Wales and the Netherlands. Australia qualified for the semi-finals after reaching their target in their Super 6 match against South Africa off the final over of the match. They then proceeded to the final with a tied match in the semi-final (also against South Africa) where a mix-up between South African batsmen Lance Klusener and Allan Donald saw Donald drop his bat and stranded mid-pitch to be run out. In the final, Australia dismissed Pakistan for 132 and then reached the target in less than 20 overs, with eight wickets in hand.
South Africa, Zimbabwe and Kenya hosted the 2003 World Cup. The number of teams participating in the event increased from twelve to fourteen. Kenya's victories over Sri Lanka and Zimbabwe, among others – and a forfeit by the New Zealand team, which refused to play in Kenya because of security concerns – enabled Kenya to reach the semi-finals, the best result by an associate. In the final, Australia made 359 runs for the loss of two wickets, the largest ever total in a final, defeating India by 125 runs.
In 2007 the tournament was hosted by the West Indies. The Cricket World Cup became the world tournament to be hosted on all six populated continents. Bangladesh progressed to the second round for the first time, after defeating India, and they later went on to defeat South Africa in the second round. Ireland making their World Cup debut tied with Zimbabwe and defeated Pakistan to progress to the second round, where they went on to defeat Bangladesh Following their defeat to Ireland, the Pakistani coach Bob Woolmer was found dead in his hotel room. The cause of death was heart failure, Australia defeated Sri Lanka in the final by 53 runs (D/L), extending their undefeated run in the World Cup to 29 matches and winning three straight World Cups.

</doc>
<doc id="284150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284150" title="The Huffington Post">
The Huffington Post

The Huffington Post is an American news website and political blog founded in 2005. On February 7, 2011, AOL announced it would acquire "The Huffington Post" for US$315 million.
The Huffington Post prints news stories and columns (called blogs) by celebrities, politicians, academics, and other well known people who have been invited to write for them.
The Huffington Post has around 25 million visitors each month and is the most well known political blog in the world. Der Spiegel calls The Huffington Post the most important source of information for millions of Americans.
"The Huffington Post" has both staff writers, and other individuals they have invited to write for them, from politicians and celebrities to academics and policy experts, who contribute on a wide range of topics. The term "blog" is used for columns written by both staff and invited columnists.

</doc>
<doc id="284154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284154" title="Denim">
Denim

Denim (which gets its name from the French town of Nîmes (de Nîmes)) is a very robust kind of textile. Denim has been used in the United States since the late 18th century. The word comes from the name of a fabric called serge. Serge was first made in Nîmes, France, by the André family. First called "serge de Nîmes", the name was soon shortened to denim. Denim was usually coloured blue with indigo dye to make blue "jeans", though "jean" meant a different, lighter cotton textile.
Between 1973 and 1975, Volkswagen made the Jeans Beetle, which had all-denim trim. They did this again in some later models. 

</doc>
<doc id="284158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284158" title="Autódromo Hermanos Rodríguez">
Autódromo Hermanos Rodríguez

The Autódromo Hermanos Rodríguez is a Mexican Formula One circuit near Mexico City. It was named after racing driver Ricardo Rodríguez (the brother of Pedro Rodríguez, a Formula One driver). It was finished in 1962 and held its first Formula One race there in the same year, though it did not count for the championship. A year later, the Mexican Grand Prix started, and continued from 1963 to 1970, where F1 did not return until 1986, and left once again 1992. The track still hosts various events, and even hosted the Nationwide Series from 2005 to 2008, before leaving once again.

</doc>
<doc id="284169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284169" title="Andromeda">
Andromeda

Andromeda may refer to:
In arts and literature:
In comics:

</doc>
<doc id="284174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284174" title="Andromeda (constellation)">
Andromeda (constellation)

Andromeda is a constellation in the northern sky. It is named after the princess Andromeda in Greek mythology. It is sometimes called "the Chained Lady" or "the Chained Woman" in English. It has also been called "Persea" ("Perseus's wife") or "Cepheis" ("Cepheus's daughter"). The astronomer named Ptolemy listed Andromeda when he made a list of 48 constellations. It is also one of the 88 constellations made by the International Astronomical Union.
The Andromeda Galaxy is inside Andromeda, so it has the same name. It is the closest spiral galaxy to Earth. The brightest star in Andromeda is called Alpha Andromedae, which is a binary star.

</doc>
<doc id="284178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284178" title="K.d. lang">
K.d. lang

Kathryn Dawn Lang, better known as k.d. lang (born November 2, 1961), is a Canadian country and pop singer-songwriter and guitarist. Her best known hit is "Constant Craving". She has contributed songs to many movie soundtracks.
Lang was born in Edmonton, Alberta. She is openly lesbian and is an activist for LGBT rights.

</doc>
<doc id="284190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284190" title="List of Premiers of the Soviet Union">
List of Premiers of the Soviet Union

The Premier of the Soviet Union was the head of government. Most western countries use the term "Prime Minister". In the former Soviet Union the job had many names:

</doc>
<doc id="284197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284197" title="Loretta Lynn">
Loretta Lynn

Loretta Lynn (born April 14, 1932 known as The First Known Lady of Country Music) is an American country music singer and songwriter born in Kentucky. She became a part of the country music scene in Nashville during the 1960s; in 1967 she charted her first of 16 number 1 songs overall. Certain country music radio stations would not play her songs, however, due to subject matter. Despite that, she had become the "First Known Lady of Country Music" and continues being one of the most successful vocalists of all time.
She is named after film star Loretta Young. Lynn's sisters are Crystal Gayle and Peggy Sue, who are also country singers. She was married to Oliver Lynn (August 26, 1926-August 22, 1996).

</doc>
<doc id="284199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284199" title="Microbial mat">
Microbial mat

A microbial mat is a multi-layered sheet of microorganisms, mainly bacteria and archaea. They were first described by Paracelsus (~1519), but their full significance was not realised until the last quarter of the 20th century. 
Microbial mats grow mostly on submerged or moist surfaces but a few survive in deserts. They colonize environments ranging in temperature from –40 °C to +120 °C. A few are endosymbionts of animals.
Although usually only a few centimetres thick, microbial mats create a wide range of internal chemical environments. They consist of layers of microorganisms that can feed on or tolerate the chemicals at their level. In moist conditions mats are held together by slimy substances (polysaccharides) secreted by the microorganisms. Some of the micro-organisms form tangled webs of filaments which make the mat tougher. The best known physical forms are flat mats and stubby pillars called stromatolites, but there are also spherical forms.
Microbial mats are the earliest form of life on Earth for which there is good fossil evidence, from 3500 million years ago, and were for a long period the most important members of the planet's ecosystems. 
Originally they may have depended on hydrothermal vents for energy and chemical "food". The development of photosynthesis gradually liberated them from the 'hydrothermal ghetto' by proving a more widely-available energy source, sunlight, although initially the photosynthesizing mats still depended on the diffusion of chemicals emitted by hydrothermal vents. The final and most significant stage of this liberation was the development of oxygen-producing photosynthesis, since the main chemical inputs for this are carbon dioxide and water.
As a result microbial mats began to produce the atmosphere we know today, in which free oxygen is a vital component. At around the same time they may also have been the birthplace of the more complex eukaryote type of cell, of which all multicellular organisms are composed. Microbial mats were abundant on the shallow seabed until the Cambrian substrate revolution, when animals living in shallow seas increased their burrowing capabilities and thus broke up the surfaces of mats and let oxygenated water into the deeper layers, poisoning the oxygen-intolerant micro-organisms that lived there. Although this revolution drove mats off soft floors of shallow seas, they still flourish in many environments where burrowing is limited or impossible, including rocky seabeds and shores, hyper-saline and brackish lagoons, and are found on the floors of the deep oceans. 
Because of microbial mats' ability to use almost anything as nutrients, there is considerable interest in industrial uses of mats, especially for water treatment and for cleaning up pollution.

</doc>
<doc id="284208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284208" title="Fiji Hindi">
Fiji Hindi

Fiji Hindi is an Indo-Aryan language which is the mother tongue of 313,000 people of Indian origin in Fiji.
This language is very different from the standard Hindi spoken in India and the relationship between the two languages ​​are similar to those between Dutch and Afrikaans. The language is composed of the Eastern Hindi dialects (Bhojpuri and Awadhi) with numerous English and Fijian words. It is spoken with a Pacific twang. 
In recent times, due to the political upheaval in Fiji, large numbers of Fiji Indians have migrated to Australia, New Zealand, United States and Canada, taking the Fiji Hindi language with them. 

</doc>
<doc id="284211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284211" title="Electronic money">
Electronic money

Electronic money is a digital equivalent of cash, stored on an electronic device or remotely at a server.
Most of the electronic money in Japan is used to pay for train fares. Electronic money has been applied, for example, as JR East’s prepaid train ticket (Suica) and JR West’s IC Operating card (ICOCA). Suica and ICOCA are plastic cards with a built-in IC chip. Suica was originally introduced in 2001.
In addition, many types of electronic money are used in other train stations in Japan. For example, Kitaca is electronic money in the Hokkaido area, Sugoca is used in the Kyusyu area, etc. Most electronic money is also used to pay for goods at convenience stores in Japan.
In 2004, NTT DoCoMo launched a mobile phone that uses smart card chip to realize electronic
money capability. Recently, many people have been using these kinds of electronic money cards in Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="284212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284212" title="Category:Fiji">
Category:Fiji


</doc>
<doc id="284214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284214" title="Sori Yanagi">
Sori Yanagi

He was born in 1915 in Tokyo, Japan, as the son of Soetsu Yanagi, who founded the "mingei" movement which celebrated Japanese folk crafts and the beauty of everyday objects. Soetsu helped establish the Nihon Mingeikon, the Folk Crafts Museum of Japan. Sori entered Tokyo Art School in 1934, where he studied both art and architecture. He was influenced by Le Corbusier as well as by Charlotte Perriand when she worked in Japan in the early 1940s. So, his interests moved from painting to buildings to design and objects.
After World War II, he designed many products: furniture, three-wheeled vehicles, Olympic cauldrons, pedestrian overpasses, etc. One of the most famous pieces of furniture is his Butterfly Stool. Announced in 1956, its' 2-piece form has been compared to a butterfly's open wings. Alternately, the shape can be seen as the gateway of a Shinto shrine or even an antique samurai helmet. In effect, it is a form that is both modern and timeless, that has won critical acclaim and prizes, and is included in major collections such as the Museum of Modern Art New York and the Ruble Museum.
Most of Yanagi's designs are very simple and beautiful. His products illustrate his thinking: true beauty is not made, it is born naturally. When he created a new product, he made the first versions over and over by hand, seeking new forms that took shape from both new and old ideas..
Sori Yanagi died at the age of 96 in 2011 . 

</doc>
<doc id="284216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284216" title="Yukata">
Yukata

The Yukata is a kind of kimono.
It is difficult to wear the official kimonos because they have many parts, and many Japanese people
can not put them on by themselves. Therefore most Japanese haven’t needed to wear official kimonos recently.
But, it is easy to wear the yukata, because it basically consists of only one piece and an obi. In addition, the yukata is cheap, cool and easy to dry, and comfortable. Therefore yukata are perfect for summer. For example, many young women wear the yukata and geta at summer festivals, fireworks displays, and Bon festival dances.
Recently, yukata have been adopted as summer uniforms in some of the restaurants and theme parks in Japan. The sumo wrestler wears a yukata in his daily life. In addition, facility yukata are prepared as night clothes in many Japanese hotels.

</doc>
<doc id="284218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284218" title="Tonkatsu">
Tonkatsu

Tonkatsu (, or ) is a Japanese dish of fried pork meat. 
Either pork fillet or pork loin, is sliced. It is then coated in flour, dipped into beaten eggs, and rolled in breadcrumbs. It is then fried in hot oil. People often use a Japanese Worcester sauce, but some use a vinegar-soy-sauce called ponzu when they eat it. Tonkatsu originated as a cutlet, but it is also used as a sandwich filling or in combination with curry. 
Tonkatsu came to Japan in the 19th century. Now it is known as a Japanese food by most of the world. It is usually prepared for special occasions, for example a wedding. It is always served with a type of alcoholic drink.

</doc>
<doc id="284221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284221" title="Wilderness Road">
Wilderness Road

The Wilderness Road was a trail made by Daniel Boone through the Appalachian Mountains and through Kentucky. This road was used for more than 50 years for settlers to travel from the East into Kentucky.

</doc>
<doc id="284226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284226" title="Iroquois">
Iroquois

The Iroquois (), also known as the Haudenosaunee or the "People of the Longhouse", are a group of tribes of indigenous people of North America. After the people who spoke Iroquoian came together as different tribes, which were mostly in what is now central and upstate New York, in the 16th century or earlier they came together in an group known today as the Iroquois League, or the "League of Peace and Power". The first Iroquois League was often known as the Five Nations, as it was made up of the Mohawk, Oneida, Onondaga, Cayuga and Seneca. After the Tuscarora nation joined the League in 1722, the Iroquois became known as the Six Nations. To this day, fifty "sachems" who represent different clans of the Iroquois meet at the Grand Council near Syracuse, New York.
When Europeans first arrived in North America, the Iroquois lived in what is now the northeastern United States, mostly in what is today upstate New York, west of the Hudson River and through the Finger Lakes region. Today, the Iroquois live mostly in New York and Canada.
The Iroquois League has also been called the Iroquois Confederacy. Some modern scholars now think the League and the Confederacy are different. According to this belief, the term "Iroquois League" stands for the ceremonies and culture found in the Grand Council, while the term "Iroquois Confederacy" stands for what was the spread out political and diplomatic group that was made after Europeans began colonizing America. The League still exists. The Confederacy broke up after the defeat of the British and allied Iroquois nations in the American Revolutionary War.
The Iroquois call themselves the "Haudenosaunee", which means "People of the Longhouse," or more accurately, "They Are Building a Long House." They believe that the Great Peacemaker came up with the name when the League was formed. It means that the nations of the League should live together as families in the same longhouse. Symbolically, the Mohawk guarded the eastern door, as they lived in the east closest to the Hudson River. The Seneca guarded the western door of the "tribal longhouse", the land they controlled in New York. The Onondaga, who lived in the center of Haudenosaunee territory, were keepers of the League's (both literal and figurative) central flame. 
The French colonists called the Haudenosaunee by the name of "Iroquois". There are several different places this name might have come from: 
Members of the League speak Iroquoian languages that are very different from those of other Iroquoian speakers. This suggests that while the different Iroquoian tribes had the same historical and cultural origin, they came apart over a long enough time that their languages became different. Evidence from archaeology shows that Iroquois ancestors lived in the Finger Lakes region from at least 1000 AD.
The Iroquois League was made before they first met European people. Most archaeologists and anthropologists think that the League was made sometime between about 1450 and 1600, although some people think it was even earlier.
According to tradition, the League was formed through the efforts of two men, "Deganawida", sometimes known as the Great Peacemaker, and "Hiawatha". They brought a message, called the Great Law of Peace, to the fighting Iroquoian nations. The nations who joined the League were the Seneca, Onondaga, Oneida, Cayuga and Mohawk. Once they stopped most of their fighting, the Iroquois fast became one of the strongest forces in 17th- and 18th-century northeastern North America.
According to legend, an evil Onondaga chieftain named "Tadodaho" was the last to be converted to the ways of peace by The Great Peacemaker and Hiawatha. He became the spiritual leader of the Haudenosaunee. This is said to have occurred at Onondaga Lake near Syracuse, New York. The title "Tadodaho" is still used for the league's spiritual leader, the fiftieth chief, who sits with the Onondaga in council. He is the only one of the fifty to have been chosen by the entire Haudenosaunee people. The current "Tadodaho" is Sid Hill of the Onondaga Nation.
In the 1600s, the Iroquois fought with other tribes for hunting land. This is called the Beaver Wars.
During the French and Indian War (the North American part of the Seven Years' War), the Iroquois took the side of the British against the French and their Algonquian allies, both of whom had been enemies of the Iroquois in the past. The Iroquois hoped that helping the British would also bring favors after the war. In actuality, few Iroquois joined the campaign, and in the Battle of Lake George, a group of Mohawk and French ambushed a Mohawk-led British column. The British government made the Royal Proclamation of 1763 after the war, which said that white people could not live past the Appalachian Mountains, but this proclamation was largely ignored by the settlers, and the Iroquois agreed to move this line again at the Treaty of Fort Stanwix in 1768, where they sold the British all their remaining claim to the lands between the Ohio and Tennessee Rivers.
During the American Revolution, many Tuscarora and the Oneida took the side of the colonists, while the Mohawk, Seneca, Onondaga and Cayuga remained loyal to Great Britain. This was the first major split among the Six Nations. Joseph Louis Cook offered his services to the United States and received a Congressional commission as a Lieutenant Colonel- the highest rank held by any Native American during the war. However, after a series of successful operations against frontier settlements – led by the Mohawk war chief Joseph Brant, other war chiefs, and British allies – the future United States wanted revenge. In 1779, George Washington ordered the Sullivan Campaign led by Col. Daniel Brodhead and General John Sullivan against the Iroquois nations to "not merely overrun, but destroy," the British-Indian alliance.
After the war, the ancient central fireplace of the League was made again at Buffalo Creek. Colonel Joseph Brant and a group of Iroquois left New York to settle in Canada. As a reward for their loyalty to the British Crown, they were given a large land grant, now called Brantford, Ontario on the Grand River.
Traditionally, the Iroquois were a mix of farmers, fishers, gatherers and hunters, although most of their food came from farming. The main crops they farmed were corn, beans and squash, which were called the three sisters and were considered special gifts from the Creator. These crops are grown strategically. The food was stored during the winter, and it lasted for two to three years. When the soil eventually became less fertile, the Iroquois moved.
Gathering was the job of the women and children. Wild roots, greens, berries and nuts were gathered in the summer. During spring, maple syrup was tapped from the trees, and herbs were gathered for medicine.
The Iroquois hunted mostly deer but also other game such as wild turkey and migratory birds. Muskrat and beaver were hunted during the winter. Fishing was also a big source of food because the Iroquois lived near a large river (St. Lawerence River). They fished salmon, trout, bass, perch and whitefish. In the spring the Iroquois netted, and in the winter fishing holes were made in the ice.
When Americans and Canadians of European descent began to study Iroquois customs in the 18th and 19th centuries, they found that women assumed a position in Iroquois society that was about equal in power to that of the men. Women could own property including homes, horses and farmed land, and when they married, they could keep their property without it being given to their husbands. A woman could keep the money she earned for herself. A husband lived in the longhouse of his wife's family. A woman choosing to divorce a husband who was not being a good husband was able to ask him to leave the dwelling, taking any of his possessions with him. Women had responsibility for the children of the marriage, and children were educated by members of the mother's family. The clans were matrilineal, which means that clan ties were traced through the mother's line. If a couple broke up, the woman kept the children.
The chief of a clan could be removed at any time by a council of the mothers of that clan. The chief's sister was responsible for nominating the next chief.
Important festivals were at the same time as the major events of the agricultural calendar, including a harvest festival of thanksgiving. The Great Peacemaker (Deganawida) was their prophet. After the Europeans arrived, many Iroquois became Christians, among them Kateri Tekakwitha, a young woman of Mohawk-Algonkin parents. Traditional Iroquois religious beliefs became somewhat more popular again in the second half of the 18th century by the teachings of the Iroquois prophet Handsome Lake.
The first five nations listed below formed the original Five Nations (listed from south to north); the Tuscarora became the sixth nation in 1720.
Within each of the six nations, people are divided into a number of matrilineal clans. The number of clans varies by nation, currently from three to eight, with a total of nine different clan names.
It is difficult to figure out exactly how many Iroquois there are today. About 45,000 Iroquois lived in Canada in 1995. In the 2000 census, 80,822 people in the United States said they were Iroquois, with 45,217 of them claiming only an Iroquois background. There were about 30,000 tribal registrations among the Six Nations in the United States in 1995.
The Grand Council of the Iroquois League is an assembly of 56 "Hoyenah" (chiefs) or Sachems, a number that has never changed. Today, the seats on the Council are distributed among the Six Nations as follows:
When anthropologist Lewis Henry Morgan studied the Grand Council in the 19th century, he thought it was a central government. This interpretation became influential, but some scholars have since argued that while the Grand Council served an important ceremonial role, it was not a government in the way that Morgan thought. According to this view, Iroquois political and diplomatic decisions are made on the local level, and are based on what the local communities think. A central government that makes policy and puts it into practice for the people at large is not how the Iroquois handle government.
In 1855, Minnie Myrtle saw that no Iroquois treaty came into effect unless it was approved by 75% of the male voters and 75% of the mothers of the nation. 
The women held real power, particularly the power to veto treaties or declarations of war. 
Councils of the mothers of each tribe were held separately from the men's councils. The women used men as runners to send word of their decisions, or a woman could appear at the men's council to speak, presenting the view of the women. Women often were the ones who suggested new laws.

</doc>
<doc id="284234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284234" title="Banach–Tarski paradox">
Banach–Tarski paradox

Banach–Tarski paradox is a theorem in mathematics that says that any solid shape can be reassembled into any other solid shape. For example, a sphere can be split up into a limited number of parts which can then be put back together again to make two identical copies of the original sphere. The Banach-Tarski paradox can also be used to turn a small sphere into a huge sphere. It is important when thinking about this to realize that the parts that the solid shape is being split into are not solid shapes themselves; they are infinite sets of points spread around the solid shape. For the Banach-Tarski paradox to work, you need to use the axiom of choice.
The reason this is called a paradox is because no stretching or bending of the parts takes place and no new material is added yet by the end the volume can be doubled. This goes against our geometric intuition. However, it is mathematically possible and it turns out that in this case our intuition is not correct.

</doc>
<doc id="284237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284237" title="Bill Irwin (wrestler)">
Bill Irwin (wrestler)

Barney William Irwin (born September 17, 1954 in Duluth, Minnesota) is an American professional wrestler who is best known for the ring names, Wild Bill Irwin and The Goon and for wrestling for WWF and WCW. Irwin recently appeared on the 15th-anniversary of WWE Raw special on December 10, 2007, where he wrestled and participated in the 15th Anniversary Battle Royal.

</doc>
<doc id="284240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284240" title="Annette Bening">
Annette Bening

Annette Bening (born May 29, 1958) is an American movie and television actress. She was born near Topeka, Kansas.
She has been nominated four times for an Academy Award during her career. 
Bening is a four-time Oscar nominee for her roles in "The Grifters", "American Beauty", "Being Julia", and "The Kids Are All Right", winning Golden Globe Awards for the latter two films. She won a BAFTA and a SAG award for her performance in "American Beauty".
In 1995, Bening appeared in "The American President", playing Sydney Wade, a PR (public relations) consultant who dates the President, played by Michael Douglas.
From 1984 to 1991, Annette was married to J. Steven White. On March 3, 1992, she married Warren Beatty. They have four children.

</doc>
<doc id="284242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284242" title="Dodge Nitro">
Dodge Nitro

The Dodge Nitro is a compact SUV that is built by Chrysler's Dodge brand. The Nitro has had 2 generations with the second one being built in 2011. The Nitro has been built since 2006 and made its debut in February of 2005 at the Chicago Auto Show. The Nitro was designed by Dennis Myles.

</doc>
<doc id="284243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284243" title="Category:Dodge automobiles">
Category:Dodge automobiles


</doc>
<doc id="284244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284244" title="Dodge Journey">
Dodge Journey

The Dodge Journey is a mid-size crossover SUV that is built by Chrysler's Dodge brand. The Journey has had one generation during its time. The vehicle has replaced the Dodge Caravan. The Journey has been built since 2008 and made its debut in 2007 at the Frankfurt Motor Show. The Journey was designed by Ryan Nagode. The Journey can seat five or seven people depending on the wheelbase length.

</doc>
<doc id="284245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284245" title="Nissan Cube">
Nissan Cube

The Nissan Cube is a Mini MPV that is built by the Nissan Motor Company. The first Cube arrived in 1998. It entered its second generation in 2002. It is currently in its third generation which has been on sale since 2008. The Cube has had 3 generations during its time. The assembly for the Nissan Cube is in Oppama, Japan. They are sold in Japan and North America and in Europe only for 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="284246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284246" title="Nissan Juke">
Nissan Juke

The Nissan Juke is a Mini SUV that is built by the Nissan Motor Company. The Juke has had 1 generation during its time. The assembly for the Nissan Juke is in Oppama, Japan and Sunderland, United Kingdom. The Juke made its debut at the 2010 Geneva Motor Show in March, and made its North America debut at the 2010 New York International Auto Show.

</doc>
<doc id="284247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284247" title="Jacques Monod">
Jacques Monod

Jacques Lucien Monod (Paris, 9 February 1910 – Paris, 31 May 1976) was a French biologist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1965 for his discoveries about the genetic control of enzyme and virus synthesis which he shared with François Jacob and Andre Lwoff.
Monod's best-known work explains how llife is the product of a combination of chance and necessity. It has been described as a "manifesto of materialist biology in the most reductivist sense", because Monod says that systems in nature can be explained without introducing any end-goal or purpose. He then argues that certain beliefs and ethics followed from his outlook on biology: atheism, rationalism, anti-Marxism.

</doc>
<doc id="284248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284248" title="Paul Hermann Müller">
Paul Hermann Müller

Paul Hermann Müller (January 12, 1899 – October 12, 1965) was an Swiss chemist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1948 for his discovery of insecticidal qualities and use of DDT in the control of vector diseases. He was born on January 12, 1899 in Olten, Switzerland and died on October 12, 1965 in Basel, Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="284249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284249" title="Max Theiler">
Max Theiler

Max Theiler (January 30, 1899 – August 11, 1972) was an South African-American virologist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1951 for developing a vaccine against yellow fever. He was born on January 30, 1899 in Pretoria, South African Republic and died on August 11, 1972 in New Haven, Connecticut.

</doc>
<doc id="284250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284250" title="Jack Szostak">
Jack Szostak

Jack William Szostak (London, November 9, 1952) is an Anglo-American biologist who was raised in Canada. Szostak is Professor of Genetics at Harvard Medical School. He shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2009 for the discovery of how chromosomes are protected by telomeres. His co-winners were Elizabeth Blackburn and Carol Greider. Szostak is also credited with the construction of the world's first yeast artificial chromosome.
His lab has moved on to working on RNA. "By the year 2000, I started to pay more attention to fundamental questions related to the origin of life" (RNA world hypothesis). "Here the big question is whether RNA was in fact the first genetic polymer, or whether RNA was preceded by some simpler, easier to make or more robust genetic material". Recent work suggests that the RNA hypothessis is still alive.

</doc>
<doc id="284251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284251" title="Hoopoe">
Hoopoe

The Hoopoe (Upupa epops), is a colourful bird that is found across Afro-Eurasia, notable for its distinctive 'crown' of feathers. 
It is the only living species in the family Upupidae. One insular species, the Giant Hoopoe of Saint Helena, is recently extinct, and the Madagascar subspecies of the Hoopoe is sometimes elevated to a full species. The English name is derived from Latin "upupa", which imitates the cry of the bird.
The Hoopoe is classified in the Coraciiformes clade, a group that also includes kingfishers, bee-eaters, rollers, and woodhoopoes (forming a clade with this one according to Hackett "et al." (2008)). A close relationship between the Hoopoe and the woodhoopoes is also supported by the shared and unique nature of their stapes. 
Nine subspecies of Hoopoe are recognised by the Kristin 2001 (in the "Handbook of the Birds of the World"). These subspecies vary mostly in size and the depth of colour in the plumage. Two more subspecies have been proposed, "U. e. minor" in South Africa and "U. e. orientalis" in north western India.

</doc>
<doc id="284252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284252" title="Harald zur Hausen">
Harald zur Hausen

Harald zur Hausen was born in Gelsenkirchen, Germany, 11 March 1936. He is a German virologist and professor emeritus. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2008 for his discoveries on the role of papilloma viruses which he shared with Luc Montagnier and Françoise Barré-Sinoussi. 

</doc>
<doc id="284253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284253" title="José Bautista">
José Bautista

José Antonio Bautista (born October 19, 1980 in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic) is a Dominican Major League Baseball player. He has played for the Baltimore Orioles in 2004, the Tampa Bay Devil Rays in 2004, Kansas City Royals in 2004, the Pittsburgh Pirates from 2004 to 2008 and the Toronto Blue Jays since 2008. Bautista plays as both an outfielder and third baseman. Most often, he plays right field. He is also one of 26 players in the 50 home run club. In both the 2010 and 2011 seasons, he hit more home runs than any other player. He hit 54 home runs in 2010 and 43 home runs in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="284255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284255" title="Category:Baltimore Orioles players">
Category:Baltimore Orioles players

Below is the list of Wikipedia articles about baseball players who have played for the "Baltimore Orioles" team.

</doc>
<doc id="284256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284256" title="Category:Kansas City Royals players">
Category:Kansas City Royals players

Below is the list of Wikipedia articles about baseball players who have played for the "Kansas City Royals" team.

</doc>
<doc id="284257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284257" title="Category:Toronto Blue Jays players">
Category:Toronto Blue Jays players

Below is the list of Wikipedia articles about baseball players who have played for the "Toronto Blue Jays" team.

</doc>
<doc id="284258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284258" title="Category:Pittsburgh Pirates players">
Category:Pittsburgh Pirates players

Below is the list of Wikipedia articles about baseball players who have played for the "Pittsburgh Pirates" team.

</doc>
<doc id="284260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284260" title="Reproductive isolation">
Reproductive isolation

Reproductive isolation refers to the situation where different species may live in the same area, but properties of individuals prevent them from interbreeding. 
The things which stop species or groups of organisms reproducing sexually are called isolating mechanisms.
Members of one species do not, in general, mate with members of another species, though there are many exceptions and variations to this. And, if such mating does take place, the offspring may not develop, or may not be fertile. 
If species arise by the splitting of ancestral species, it might be asked what stops the new species continuing to reproduce together. If they did, they would again become one species.
The answer given by Dobzhansky and Ernst Mayr was that species split mainly because they lived in different areas (geographical speciation). They developed features which, if they later lived together, would make crossing not work properly. 
The idea of the biological species concept was that a species was defined as a group of interbreeding individuals. They would be a natural population which is reproductively isolated from other such groups. 
A list was drawn up of isolating mechanisms: 
Factors which cause individuals to mate with their own species. 
Incompatibility of the two genomes stops normal development in the hybrid.
There is still much debate as to whether the Dobzhansky/Mayr account is satisfactory. Modern researchers tends to avoid the general term 'isolating mechanisms' in favour of the more specific terms 'mate choice', 'hybrid incompatibility' and other forms of 'reproductive isolation'.

</doc>
<doc id="284261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284261" title="Category:Seattle Mariners players">
Category:Seattle Mariners players

Below is the list of Wikipedia articles about baseball players who have played for the "Seattle Mariners" team.

</doc>
<doc id="284262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284262" title="Category:Colorado Rockies players">
Category:Colorado Rockies players

Below is the list of Wikipedia articles about baseball players who have played for the "Colordao Rockies" MLB team.

</doc>
<doc id="284263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284263" title="Category:San Diego Padres players">
Category:San Diego Padres players

Below is the list of Wikipedia articles about baseball players who have played for the "San Diego Padres" team.

</doc>
<doc id="284264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284264" title="Lancia Lybra">
Lancia Lybra

The Lancia Lybra is a automobile produced by Lancia. It replaced the Lancia Dedra in 1999 and was discontinued in 2005. It was replaced by the new Delta in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="284265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284265" title="Category:Florida Marlins players">
Category:Florida Marlins players

Below is the list of Wikipedia articles about baseball players who have played for the "Florida Marlins" team.

</doc>
<doc id="284268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284268" title="Alcides Escobar">
Alcides Escobar

Alicedes Escobar (born December 16, 1986 in La Sabana, Venezuela) is a Venezuelan baseball player. He currently plays as an infielder for the Kansas City Royals of Major League Baseball (MLB).
Escobar formerly played for the Milwaukee Brewers from 2008-2010 before being traded along with Lorenzo Cain, Jeremy Jeffress, Jake Odorizzi for Zack Greinke and Yuniesky Betancourt.

</doc>
<doc id="284275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284275" title="Kosuke Fukudome">
Kosuke Fukudome

In the US, Fukudome is currently part of the New York Yankees team. He has played for the Chicago Cubs, the Cleveland Indians and Chicago White Sox.
In Japan, Fukudome formerly played for the Chunichi Dragons of the Central League from 1998 to 2007.
Fukudome was a member of the Japanese national baseball team which won a silver medal in the 1996 Summer Olympics, a bronze medal in the 2004 Summer Olympics.

</doc>
<doc id="284283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284283" title="Wyandotte Constitution">
Wyandotte Constitution

The Wyandotte Constitution is the constitution of the U.S state of Kansas. The constitution said that Kansas would be a state without slavery. However, the constitution did not give blacks, females, or Native Americans the right to vote. The Wyandotte Constitution was passed by a vote of 10,421 to 5,530 on October 4, 1859.

</doc>
<doc id="284284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284284" title="Ann Jillian">
Ann Jillian

Ann Jillian (born 29 January 1950) is an American actress. She has been acting since the age of 10. She has starred in many situation comedies, television series and movies. She was born in 1950 but some sources wrongly say she was born in 1951.

</doc>
<doc id="284285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284285" title="Místico">
Místico

Sin Cara was born on December the 22nd 1982! Which means he is 32. his name means without force. He made his wrestling Debut at the 
age of fifteen, being trained as luchadore by his father and uncle! He has an older brother, and is the nephew of cmll booker tony Salazar 
and the cousin of wrestler magnus! 
He was tag team partners with rey mysterio jr. In 2012/ 2013. 
Sin Cara wears a lucha-style mask that completely covers his hole face.Sin cara is Mexican and lives in Mistico but speaks Spanish. 
Sin Cara returned on the 27th of January 2013 entering a twenty nine man royal rumble but was eliminated by Ryback! 
Luis Ignacio Urive Alvirde (born December 22, 1982) is a Mexican Luchador enmascarado. He currently works for Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA) and World Wrestling League (WWL). Urive is best known for his time working with Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) where he competed under the ring name Místico. During his time in CMLL, he was the biggest técnico (face) and was the biggest box office draw in all of Mexico.
Urive also worked for the WWE where he competed under the ring name Sin Cara (Spanish for "Without Face" or "Faceless"). During his time in the WWE, Urive had a hard time getting used to the WWE style of wrestling and would get injured a lot. He was released from his WWE contract on March 27, 2014. After his release, he continued to use the Sin Cara name in Mexican independent promotions before adopting the ring name Myzteziz after signing with AAA in February 2014.
In 2007, Pro fteenWrestling Illustrated ranked Místico #3 of the PWI 500.

</doc>
<doc id="284289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284289" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/List of states that produce oil">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/List of states that produce oil


</doc>
<doc id="284290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284290" title="Era (musical project)">
Era (musical project)

Era (stylized as eRa) is a French New Age music project. The project was started by French composer Eric Lévi and has 12 members including himself. The project has sold over 12 million albums. The lyrics for their songs are written in Pseudo-Latin and English. They play in the Ambient, Chillout and New Age genres. Their song "Enae Volare Mezzo" was the theme song of mixed martial artist, Fedor Emelianenko as well as his brother Aleksander Emelianenko. Their song "Ameno" was also used as the entrance theme song by the Mexican wrestler Mistico.

</doc>
<doc id="284292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284292" title="Sandwich Islands">
Sandwich Islands

The Sandwich Islands is Captain James Cook's name for the Hawaiian Islands in 1778. He chose the name of his patron, the 4th Earl of Sandwich.
The name Hawaii is the Polynesian name of the islands. The first known inhabitants of Hawaii were from Polynesia in the first 1,000 years AD.

</doc>
<doc id="284297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284297" title="Jessica Tandy">
Jessica Tandy

Jessica Tandy (June 7, 1909 – September 11, 1994) was an English-American actress. She was born in Hackney, London. She starred in many movies during her career, including "Cocoon" (1985), "Driving Miss Daisy" (1989), and "Fried Green Tomatoes" (1991). She won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her role in "Driving Miss Daisy".
Tandy died of ovarian cancer in Easton, Connecticut.

</doc>
<doc id="284298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284298" title="Thank Me Later">
Thank Me Later

Thank Me Later is the first studio album by Canadian musician, Drake. "Thank Me Later" was released on June 15, 2010. The album appeared at #1 on the US "Billboard" 200 chart. It sold 447,000 copies in the United States in its first week. It received mostly positive reviews from music critics.

</doc>
<doc id="284299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284299" title="Council of Ministers (Soviet Union)">
Council of Ministers (Soviet Union)

The Council of Ministers of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) (), (sometimes shortened to "Sovmin" or "Soviet of Ministers") was legally the Soviet government. It was the highest executive and administrative body of the Soviet Union. 
The council could issue declarations and instructions based the laws of the USSR, and all territories and republics within the Union had to follow them. However, the most important state issues were made by the joint declarations with the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Soviet Union (CPSU), which was "de facto" more powerful than the Council of Ministers.
It was replaced in 1991 by the Cabinet of Ministers of the USSR, which was dissolved only months later when the Soviet Union ceased to exist.

</doc>
<doc id="284303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284303" title="Stockard Channing">
Stockard Channing

Susan Antonia Williams Stockard, better known as Stockard Channing, is an American television, movie and stage actress. She played Abbey Bartlet in the show "The West Wing" on NBC. She has also starred in many movies during her acting career. Channing was born February 13, 1944.

</doc>
<doc id="284305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284305" title="Volans">
Volans

The constellation Volans is a group of stars in the southern sky. It is in the shape of a flying fish. The name Volans is a shortened from of its original, Piscis Volans. Volans was one of twelve constellations created by Petrus Plancius. He made these constellations from observations by Pieter Dirkszoon Keyser and Frederick de Houtman. Volans first appeared on a 35-cm diameter celestial globe published in 1597 (or 1598) in Amsterdam by Plancius with Jodocus Hondius. The first image of this constellation in a celestial atlas was in Johann Bayer's "Uranometria" of 1603. 
There are two double stars in the constellation which can be observed using a small telescope, Gamma Volantis and Epsilon Volantis. There are also two galaxies that may be more difficult to see clearly, NGC 2442 and NGC 2434. The magnitudes of the Gamma Volantis stars are fourth and sixth, and of Epsilon Volantis fourth and eighth.

</doc>
<doc id="284307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284307" title="Volans (disambiguation)">
Volans (disambiguation)

The word volans could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="284313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284313" title="Georgy Malenkov">
Georgy Malenkov

Georgy Maximilianovich Malenkov (, "Georgij Maksimilianovič Malenkov", 8 January 1902 – 14 January 1988) was a Macedonian-Russian politician in the Soviet Union and the Premier of the Soviet Union after the death of Joseph Stalin in March, 1953 until February, 1955. Malenkov served as the Premier (official head of government) of the country while Nikita Krushchev was the First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. Krushchev eventually won the battle for power against Malenkov, and in 1957 he was forced to leave his position in the Party Politburo, because he formed a team with Nikolai Bulganin, Vyacheslav Molotov, and Lazar Kaganovich, and together they tried to throw Khrushchev out of power. In 1961, Malenkov was kicked out of the Party and forced to move to Kazakhstan.
Along with Krushchev, Malenkov was one of a few important members of Stalin's group of partners (called the "inner circle") who died a natural death, and was not executed.
Together with Lavrentiy Beria & Krushchev, Malenkov began process of destalinization, completing the process in 1961. 

</doc>
<doc id="284315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284315" title="Lavrenty Beria">
Lavrenty Beria

Lavrenty Pavlovich Beria (or Lavrentiy Beria) (29 March 1899– 23 December 1953) was the leader of the secret police of the Soviet Union under Joseph Stalin's regime. In 1953, Nikita Krushchev ordered Beria to be executed as a traitor.
Beria was a Soviet politician, Marshal of the Soviet Union and state security administrator, chief of the Soviet security and secret police apparatus (NKVD) under Joseph Stalin during World War II, and First Deputy Premier in the postwar years (1946–53).
He administered vast sections of the Soviet state. He served as de facto Marshal of the Soviet Union in command of the NKVD field units responsible for anti-partisan operations on the Eastern Front during World War II. His troops also were a barrier against thousands of "turncoats, deserters, cowards and suspected malingerers". Beria administered the vast expansion of the Gulag labor camps and was responsible for overseeing the secret defense institutions known as "sharashkas", critical to the war effort. 
Beria also played the decisive role in coordinating the Soviet partisans, developing an impressive intelligence and sabotage network behind German lines. He attended the Yalta Conference with Stalin, who introduced him to U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt as "our Himmler". After the war, he organized the communist takeover of the countries of Central Europe and Eastern Europe. 
Beria's uncompromising ruthlessness in his duties and skill at producing results led to his overseeing the Soviet atomic bomb project. Stalin gave it absolute priority and the project was completed in under five years in no small part due to Soviet espionage against the West organized by Beria's NKVD.
Beria was promoted to First Deputy Premier, where he carried out a brief campaign of liberalization. He was briefly a part of the ruling "troika" with Georgy Malenkov and Vyacheslav Molotov. Beria's overconfidence in his position after Stalin's death led him to misjudge other Politburo members. During the coup d'état led by Nikita Khrushchev and assisted by the military forces of Marshal Georgy Zhukov, Beria was arrested on charges of treason during a meeting in which the full Politburo condemned him. The compliance of the NKVD was ensured by Zhukov's troops, and after interrogation Beria was taken to the basement of the Lubyanka and shot.

</doc>
<doc id="284316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284316" title="Secret police">
Secret police

A secret police force is an agency most often used in dictatorships to scare people living under a dictatorship into agreeing with the dictator's policies. Not all dictatorships, however, use a secret police force. Fidel Castro's Cuba and Mao Zedong's China were able to maintain a dictatorship without using secret police.

</doc>
<doc id="284319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284319" title="National Fascist Party">
National Fascist Party

National Fascist Party was the ruling party of the Kingdom of Italy from 1922–1943. Benito Mussolini founded the party in 1919 and served as it's Chairman (Italian:"Presidente del Partito Nazionale Fascista") from 1919–1943. The Party came to power after Mussolini led thousands of Blackshirts in a march on Rome and forced King Victor Emmanuel III to appoint him Prime Minister. As Prime Minister (the "real" head of government), Mussolini banned all other political parties and established a one-party police state, which lasted until Mussolini was thrown out of power by his own citizens- and ordered to be arrested- by the King in 1943. After Mussolini's arrest, the National Fascist Party was destroyed.
However, Mussolini was rescued from prison by German soldiers sent by Adolf Hitler in 1943, and was made the head of state (this time a member of the newly created Republican Fascist Party) of the Italian Social Republic, a puppet state whose real laws were made by the Nazis.
Mussolini was killed by Italian citizens in 1945 and the Republican Fascist Party was dissolved and banned.

</doc>
<doc id="284321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284321" title="Debbie Reynolds">
Debbie Reynolds

Mary Frances Reynolds, better known as Debbie Reynolds (April 1, 1932 – December 28, 2016), was an American actress and singer. Reynolds was born in El Paso, Texas. She starred in many television programs and movies. She also had many songs and albums during her career. 
On December 28, 2016, Reynolds died at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California from a cerebral hemorrhage with hypertension being a factor, aged 84. This was one day after her daughter Carrie Fisher died.

</doc>
<doc id="284322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284322" title="Gerald Wallace">
Gerald Wallace

Gerald Jermaine Wallace (born July 23, 1982) is an American professional basketball player for the Boston Celtics of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He plays the position of small forward. He has been nicknamed "Crash" for his aggressive style of play, and is known as one of the better defensive players in the league.
Wallace played high school basketball at Childersburg High School in Childersburg, Alabama. He then played college basketball for one year at the University of Alabama, then entered the 2001 NBA Draft.
The Sacramento Kings chose Wallace with the 25th pick of the 2001 NBA Draft. Wallace was on the Kings for three seasons, but did not play much. His chance came in 2004. The Charlotte Bobcats were a new NBA team, and had a chance to choose players from other teams in an "expansion draft". The Bobcats chose Wallace, who became an important part of the team over the next six years. In 2010, he was chosen to represent the Bobcats in the NBA All-Star Game, which made him the first Bobcats player to play in the All-Star Game. He also made the NBA All-Defensive First Team for that season.
On February 24, 2011, Wallace was traded to the Portland Trail Blazers.

</doc>
<doc id="284329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284329" title="Thelma &amp; Louise">
Thelma &amp; Louise

Thelma & Louise is a 1991 American adventure crime road movie starring Geena Davis as Thelma and Susan Sarandon as Louise. Also starring in the movie are Michael Madsen, Harvey Keitel and Brad Pitt. It was among the highest-grossing movies of 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="284331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284331" title="Faye Dunaway">
Faye Dunaway

Dorothy Faye Dunaway (born January 14, 1941 in Bascom, Florida, USA) is an American actress. She has starred in "Bonnie and Clyde", "Chinatown", and the 1968 and 1999 film versions of "The Thomas Crown Affair". She won an Academy Award for Best Actress for her role in "Network". Duanaway is a convert to Roman Catholicism.

</doc>
<doc id="284334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284334" title="Old Melbourne Gaol">
Old Melbourne Gaol

The Old Melbourne Gaol is a large, historic prison in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. The bluestone building was the first large prison built in Victoria. It was the location of many executions, including Ned Kelly who was hanged at the prison in 1880. It closed in 1929 and is now a museum.
Melbourne was first settled in 1835 and its first small gaol was built in 1839. A second gaol was built in 1841 next to the Supreme Court buildings. In 1852 work started on a new gaol based on the Pentonville Model Prison design. This had its own outside wall of solid bluestone. A second stage started in 1857, and the wall was extended in 1859. In 1860 the north wing, chapel, central hall and entrance was built. A western wing for female prisoners was started in 1862, and the outside wall was finished in 1864. There were also 17 jailer's houses, a chief warden's house and a hospital. It was built on a high point at the edge of the city. However a report in 1870 said the gaol should be closed and the prisoners moved to a more suitable location. The prison finally closed in 1929.
During World War II, the gaol was used as a military prison for Australian soldiers. After the war it became a storage building for the Victoria Police. Some of the buildings were pulled down to allow for the building of the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology, now Victoria University. In 1972 the buildings were taken over by the National Trust as a museum.

</doc>
<doc id="284336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284336" title="Leukodystrophy">
Leukodystrophy

Leukodystrophies are disorders which affect the white matter of the brain and the nervous system. Nerves are surrounded by fatty cover of a substance called myelin. In a leukodystrophy, there are problems with the growth or the development of this cover. This affects the function of the respective nerve. Myelin is made of at least ten different chemicals. Leukodystrophy is a gene defect. As a result of this defect, one of the molecules that make up myelin cannot be synthesized as it should. 

</doc>
<doc id="284338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284338" title="Category:User si">
Category:User si


</doc>
<doc id="284339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284339" title="Indian Rebellion of 1857">
Indian Rebellion of 1857

The Indian Rebellion of 1857 is also called the Indian Mutiny, the Sepoy Mutiny, or India's First War of Independence. It began on 10 May 1857, as a mutiny of sepoys of the British East India Company's army. Sepoys in the Presidency of Bengal revolted against their British officers.
The causes of the mutiny are hard to pin down, and have been much are Underlying discontengued about. Before the Rebellion , there were 50,000 British troops, and 3,00,000 sepoys.
The forces were divided into three presidency armies: Bombay, Madras, and Bengal. The make-up of these armies varied from region to region. 
The Bengal Armywere sleeping in such as Rajputs and Bhumihar. They cut back the enlistment of lower castes in 1855. In contrast, the Madras Army and Bombay Army were "more localized, caste-neutral armies" that "did not prefer high-caste women". The domination of higher castes in the Bengal Army has been blamed in part for initial mutinies that led to the death
There were some changes in the terms of their service which may have created resentment. As the East India Company expanded, soldiers were now expected to serve in less familiar regions, such as in Burma, and also to make do without the "foreign service" remuneration they had got previously. Another financial grievance stemmed from the general service act, which denied retired sepoys a pension. This applied only to new recruits, but older sepoys suspected that it might bied apply to those already in service. Also, the Bengal Army was paid less than the Madras and Bombay Armies, which increased their fears over pensions.
The immediate event which angered the sepoys was about the ammunition for the new rifles they had to use. The cartridges that were used in the rifles had to be bitten open. The Muslims were angry because they thought that the paper cartridges had pig fat in them. This was because Muslims believe that pigs are unclean. Hindu soldiers were angry because they believed the cartridges had cow fat in them. On January 27, Colonel Richard Birch ordered that no cartridges should have grease on them, and that sepoys could grease them with whatever they wanted. However, this only made the sepoys believe that the stories about the cartridge having pork and beef fat were true. 
During the 1850s the British rulers continued to forcibly take some regions ruled by Indians and made these regions (for example: the kingdom of Agra and Oudh, part of the present day Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, which was seized in 1856) part of the British kingdom. Lord Dalhousie was the Governor General who decided to do this which was against Hindu customs. They did not give any respect to old royal houses of India like the Mughals (nominally Emperors of India) and the Peshwas (the most powerful of the Maratha rulers, leaders of the Maratha Confederacy).
Rebellion broke out when a soldier called Mangal Pandey attacked a British sergeant and wounded an adjutant while his regiment was in Barrackpore. General Hearsey ordered another Indian soldier to arrest Mangal Pandey but he refused. Later the British arrested Mangal Pandey and the other Indian soldier. The British killed both by hanging them because what they had done was thought to be treachery. All other soldiers of that regiment lost their places in the army. On May 10th 1857, cavalry troops while doing parade at Meerut broke ranks. They freed the soldiers of the 3rd regiment, and they moved towards Delhi. Soon many Indians of north India joined these soldiers. They entered the Delhi Fort where Bahadur Shah II, the Mughal Emperor, lived, and asked him to become leader of the rebellion. He agreed unwillingly. Very soon the revolt spread throughout north India. Important Indian leaders of royal families joined the rebellion, and started fighting the British at several places. They included: Ahmed Ullah, an advisor of the ex-King of Oudh; Nana Saheb, his nephew Rao Saheb, and his retainers, Tantia Tope and Azimullah Khan; the Rani of Jhansi; Kunwar Singh; the Rajput chief of Jagadishpur in Bihar; and Firuz Saha, a relative of the Mughal Emperor, Bahadur Shah.
At the beginning the British were slow to respond. Then they took very quick action with heavy forces. They brought their regiments from the Crimean War to India. They also redirected many regiments that were going to China to India. The British forces reached Delhi, and they surrounded the city from 1st July 1857 until 31st August 1857. Eventually street-to-street fights broke out between the British troops and the Indians. Ultimately, they took control of Delhi. The massacre at Kanpur (July 1857) and the siege of Lucknow (June to November 1857) were also very important. The last important battle was at Gwalior (now in Madhya Pradesh) in June 1858 in which the Rani of Jhansi was killed; a few days later the British retook the fortress of Gwalior. With this, the British had practically suppressed the rebellion. However, some guerrilla fighting in many places continued until early in 1859 as Tantia Tope was captured and executed on April 1859.
The rebellion was an event of great importance in the front of history of modern India. The Parliament of the United Kingdom withdrew the right of the British East India Company to rule India in November 1858. The United Kingdom started ruling India directly through its representative called the Governor General. It made India a part of the British Empire. It promised "the Princes, Chiefs, and People of India," equal treatment under the British law. In 1877, Queen Victoria took the title of Empress of India and the Viceroy of India ruled India for her.
The British sent Bahadur Shah II, the last Mughal Emperor, out of India, and kept him in Yangon (then called Rangoon), Burma where he died in 1862. The Mughal dynasty, which had ruled India for about four hundred years, ended with his death.
The British also took many steps to employ members of Indian higher castes and rulers in the government. They started employing Indians in the civil services but at lower levels. They stopped taking that lands of the remaining princes and rulers of India. They stopped interference in religious matters. They increased the number of British soldiers, and allowed only British soldiers to handle artillery.
The Indian troops were shot from the mouth of cannons and were very mercilessly burst into pieces.
In England, newspapers focused on the violence of the mutiny. Some of the reports were not true. Charles Dickens wrote that they (the English) should take revenge. in his 1857 novella "The perils of certain English prisoners".

</doc>
<doc id="284342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284342" title="William Quantrill">
William Quantrill

William Clarke Quantrill (July 31, 1837 – June 6, 1865), was a Confederate leader during the American Civil War. Quantrill lead a Confederate unit along the Missouri-Kansas border in the early 1860s. Quantrill was a leader in the Lawrence Massacre in Lawrence, Kansas in 1863. Quantrill was killed in Kentucky in a Union ambush in 1865.

</doc>
<doc id="284351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284351" title="Jochen Hecht">
Jochen Hecht

Jochen Hecht (born June 21, 1977 in Mannheim, West Germany) is a retired ice hockey centre that played a combined 13 seasons in the NHL.
He was picked by the St. Louis Blues with the 49th overall pick in the 1995 NHL Entry Draft. Hecht played 2 seasons with the St. Louis Blues, 1 season with the Edmonton Oilers and 10 seasons with the Buffalo Sabres. He also played 5 seasons in the DEL with Adler Mannheim. 
On April 26, 2013, he announced that he was retiring from professional ice hockey to reporters in the locker room after the Sabres final regular season game against the New York Islanders.

</doc>
<doc id="284352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284352" title="Giffen good">
Giffen good

In economics, a Giffen good is one that people consume more of when its price increases. This violates the . This paradox is named after , who first described it. Giffen observed that households that only had a minimum wage to survive, bought more bread when the bread price increased. This can be explained as follows: These households have to split their income between the cheap (and inferior) good, e.g. "bread", and an expensive good, e.g. meat. When the price of this inferior good increases by a certain amount, they can no longer afford to buy the more expensive good. For this reason, they spend more of their income on bread in order to be able to survive. 
] wrote in ":" 

</doc>
<doc id="284354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284354" title="Lima, Ohio">
Lima, Ohio

Lima is a city in Allen County, Ohio, United States. The population of Lima was 40,081 in 2000. The mayor of Lima is David Berger. Lima was founded in 1931 as a county seat which was mandated by the Ohio legislature. It got it's name from Patrick G. Goode who was a judge. He insisted on the Spanish pronunciation "Lee-mah" after the capital city of Peru, but the pronunciation — "Lye-mah" — won.
Professional wrestler, Al Snow was born in Lima. Actor and movie critic Donald Richie was also born here.

</doc>
<doc id="284355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284355" title="Growing Pains">
Growing Pains

Growing Pains is an American situation comedy that aired beginning in 1985 and ended in 1992. The show focused on an upper middle class family who had three children together. Joanna Kerns played Maggie Seaver and Tracey Gold played Carol Seaver.

</doc>
<doc id="284359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284359" title="Degrassi: The Next Generation">
Degrassi: The Next Generation

Degrassi: The Next Generation is a Canadian teen drama created by Yan Moore and Linda Schuyler. It was shown on CTV, MuchMusic and MTV Canada. The series has had fourteen seasons and had made 385 episodes.
The TV series spawned two movies: "Degrassi Goes Hollywood" in 2009 and "Degrassi Takes Manhattan" in 2010.
TV.com rated the series a 8.8.
In June 2014, it was announced that Degrassi would end. The last episode will air on July 31, 2015. Degrassi will be replaced by Degrassi: Next Class. The show will air on Netflix instead of TeenNick. 

</doc>
<doc id="284368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284368" title="Second City Television">
Second City Television

Second City Television is a Canadian sketch comedy television series that first aired on September 21, 1976 and last aired on July 17, 1984. The series had 6 seasons and made 135 episodes. One of SCTV's most popular sketches was the Bob & Doug McKenzie sketches which featured Bob who was played by Rick Moranis and Doug is played by Dave Thomas. The sketch was so popular that it was given its own animated show in 2009 and was featured on the 2002 episode, "The Bart Wants What It Wants" of The Simpsons when they visit Toronto.
In Canada, reruns are shown on The Comedy Network. 

</doc>
<doc id="284372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284372" title="One-party state">
One-party state

A one-party state is a form of government where the country is ruled by a single political party, meaning only one political party exists and the forming of other political parties is forbidden. 
Some countries have many political parties that exist, but only one that can by law be in control, which is called a one-party dominant state. In this case opposition parties against the dominant ruling party are allowed, but have no real chance of gaining power. For example, in China all power is vested in the Communist Party of China. Other parties are allowed to exist only if they accept the leading role of the Communist Party. 
Most one-party states are dictatorships. The Soviet Union from 1922-1991, Nazi Germany from 1933-1945, and Italy (ruled by Benito Mussolini) from 1922-1943) are some the best known examples of one-party dictatorships in history. Some one-party dictatorships are called a police state or a military dictatorship, if a secret police force or the military is used to keep a dictator in power through force.
As of April 2015, there are seven states that are ruled by a single party:

</doc>
<doc id="284380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284380" title="Tracey Gold">
Tracey Gold

Tracey Claire Fisher, better known as Tracey Gold (B. 16 May, 1969) is an American actress. She is best known for playing Carol Seaver in the sitcom "Growing Pains" from 1985 until 1992. She also acted in other television programs. The actress was born in New York City.

</doc>
<doc id="284381" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284381" title="Skor">
Skor

Skor is a chocolate bar made by The Hershey Company. It is a bar covered with milk chocolate and has butter toffee in the center of it. Skor was first launched in 1981 in the United States and 1983 in Canada under the name, "Rutnam". One skor bar has 200 calories. 

</doc>
<doc id="284386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284386" title="Heterozygote advantage">
Heterozygote advantage

Heterozygote advantage is the situation where, at a gene locus, the heterozygote has greater fitness than either homozygote. It is a type of balancing selection.
Hb = gene for normal haemoglobin molecules; Hb = mutant gene. Three genotypes are possible in a population: HbHb producing a normal phenotype; HbHb the heterozygote; and HbHb homozygous for sickle cell anaemia.
The fitness of these three genotypes varies according to the environment. In the temperate zone, the normal homozygotes and the heterozygotes will leave most offspring. This is because the homozygote for sickle cell has less chance of surviving to leave children, and if they do survive, they will have many health problems.
In a tropical climate, such as equatorial Africa, malaria is a big killer. There, the heterozygote has the advantage in fitness. They do not get malaria so badly, and they do not suffer the earlier deaths of the homozygote sickle cell sufferers.
Not surprisingly, the Hb gene is present in about a quarter of Africans from the countries near the equator. In Europeans it is a rare gene. 
Heterozygote advantage is probably the main cause of polymorphism in biological species. Polymorphism, alternate genetic types in a population (for example different blood groups), is extremely common. The fitness of the heterozygotes keeps a wide range of alternate gene alleles in a population. This, in turn, gives the population a wide range of genetic 'resources' and this gives a better chance of survival.

</doc>
<doc id="284389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284389" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Katie Anderson">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2011/Katie Anderson


</doc>
<doc id="284400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284400" title="Circuito de Jerez">
Circuito de Jerez

Circuito de Jerez is a Spanish race track near Jerez de la Frontiera. It opened on December 8, 1985, and started holding motorcycling events and the Spanish Grand Prix in Formula One. The race was held in Jerez until 1990, since the circuit was in a remote (rural) area, and the Spanish Grand Prix was moved to Circuit de Catalunya in 1991.
However, in 1994, when the Autódromo Juan y Oscar Gálvez was not finished for it's grand prix, known as the Argentine Grand Prix, Jerez hosted the European Grand Prix that year. As well, a chicane was added in Turn 11 to slow down the cars and to avoid possibly fatal (deadly) accidents, such as the one suffered by Roland Ratzenberger at the 1994 San Marino Grand Prix. The European Grand Prix returned in 1997, this time being the final race of the season, and the championship was going to be decided between Michael Schumacher and Jacques Villeneuve. However, during the podium celebrations, Jerez's Mayor Pedro Pacheco disrupted the podium celebrations by presenting a trophy that was supposed to be presented by a dignitary from Daimler-Benz, which was related to Mercedes, an engine supplier who won the race. This incident resulted on the track being temporarily banned from hosting a Grand Prix. It has never hosted another Grand Prix, but still holds winter testing during the pre-season, and still remains very popular.
As of 2010, the circuit still holds the Spanish Motorcycle Grand Prix, and has done so since 1990.

</doc>
<doc id="284406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284406" title="Bhangra">
Bhangra

Bhangra is a type of folk dance. The dance started in the Punjab region, now divided between India and Pakistan, and began as a folk dance which was conducted by Punjabi farmers of all creeds, Sikhs, Muslims and Hindus, to celebrate the coming of the harvest season. 
Bhangra became popular in Britain in the 1980s and the artists of Bhangra were selling over 30,000 cassettes a week in the UK even though not one of the artists made their way into the Top 40 UK Chart. Bhangra is also popular in Canada where singer, Jazzy B sold over 55,000 copies of his third album, Folk and Funky and became one of the best-selling Punjabi folk artists in the world. 
The outfits for Bhangra are Turla or torla, "Pag", which is a turban that is a sign of pride/honor in Punjab and is tied differently than the traditional turbans that the Sikhs and other peasants wear on the street, "Kurta" which is a silk shirt, with about four buttons and is very loose with embroidered patterns, "Lungi" or chadar which is a loose loincloth tied around the dancer's waist, "Jugi" which is a waistcoat with no buttons, and "Rumāl" which are small scarves that are worn tied on to the fingers. 

</doc>
<doc id="284407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284407" title="Kia Sorento">
Kia Sorento

The Kia Sorento is a mid-size crossover SUV that is built by the Kia Motors company. The Sorento has had 2 generations during its time. The assembly for the Nissan Cube is in South Korea, United States and Kazakhstan. The current generation Sorento shares the same platform with the Hyundai Santa Fe. 

</doc>
