<doc id="371573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371573" title="Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities">
Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities

The Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities is the supreme institution for sciences and humanities in Israel. The headquarters are located in Jerusalem.

</doc>
<doc id="371575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371575" title="Electra Heart (album)">
Electra Heart (album)

Electra Heart is an album released by Marina and the Diamonds on 27 February 2012. It was met with average reviews, scoring 57/100 on Metacritic.
Marina has released a series of seven videos on YouTube surrounding the release of "Electra Heart". Part 2, 4, 6 and 7 are music videos to singles released from the album.
The album entered at number one in the United Kingdom (selling 21,358 copies) and Ireland. It also peaked at number 2 on the US Dance/Electronic Albums chart, whilst reaching the top twenty in three other countries. It also reached number 31 on the US Billboard 200.

</doc>
<doc id="371581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371581" title="Gentianaceae">
Gentianaceae

Gentianaceae are a family of flowering plants of 87 genera and over 1500 species.
Distribution is cosmopolitan. The family consists of trees, shrubs and herbs showing a wide range of colours and floral patterns.
Economically, some species are cultivated ornamental plants and many species yield bitter principles used medicinally and in flavorings.

</doc>
<doc id="371583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371583" title="Total Drama">
Total Drama

Total Drama is a television series. In Canada, it airs on Teletoon while in the U.S. it airs on Cartoon Network. There are currently four "Total Drama" seasons with a two part season already ordered by Cartoon Network. All-Stars has completed airing as of 2014 while Pahkitew Island will premiere in the fall of 2014. A spin-off called "" is currently in production.
There are currently five seasons in the "Total Drama" series that have aired worldwide, with new seasons currently in production, which all are listed below. The air dates listed in the table are from the original Canadian airings.
"Total Drama Island" is the first season of the series. It first premiered on Canada on July 8, 2007 and June 5, 2008 on the United States. This season takes place at Camp Wawanakwa, a fictional island located somewhere in Muskoka, Ontario where the season is based on a summer camp theme (although a contestant is eliminated at the end of every episode). Like the whole series, this season is a competition to see which of the twenty-two contestants will survive and last the longest. This is because the contestants are brutally tortured along the way through the intense challenges they are given. Challenges are sometimes based on other reality shows like "Fear Factor" and "Survivor". All of this is so that the winner of the season (the one to last the longest on the island and not get eliminated), will win a small fortune of C$100,000 and cheesy fame. Eliminated contestants are sent packing toward the Dock of Shame and must ride the Boat of Losers off the island.
"Total Drama Action" is the second season of the series. It premiered on Canada on January 11, 2009 and June 11 in the U.S. It is a sequel to the first season of the series, "Total Drama Island". In this season, fourteen characters from "Total Drama Island" returned: Beth, Bridgette, DJ, Duncan, Geoff, Gwen, Harold, Heather, Izzy, Justin, Leshawna, Lindsay, Owen, and Trent. Courtney returns later on in the season due to a lawsuit. In this season, the contestants are taken to a brand new location: an old film lot in the center of Toronto, Ontario. The challenges are now based on movie genres, and the grand prize is now C$1,000,000. Cody, Eva, Ezekiel, Noah, Katie, Sadie, and Tyler do not return to compete, but still appeared for the aftermath special, an extra show which was hosted by Bridgette and Geoff, the first two eliminated contestants. All losers must take the Walk of Shame on the red carpet and ride the Lame-o-sine.
"Total Drama World Tour" is the third season of the series. It premiered in 2010 internationally and continued onto 2011 in Canada. In this season, seventeen contestants are taken on a trip around the world as they compete in cultural themed challenges based on the countries or regions that they visit. An added twist in this season is that the contestants are required to break spontaneously into song, or else be immediately eliminated by Chris (although this rule was not strongly enforced, and no one was eliminated for not singing anyway). Fifteen of the original characters from "Total Drama Island" returned: Bridgette, Cody, Courtney, DJ, Duncan, Ezekiel, Gwen, Harold, Heather, Izzy, Leshawna, Noah, Lindsay, Owen, and Tyler. Two new characters, Alejandro and Sierra, also joined the cast at the beginning of this season. Additionally, a third new character, Blaineley, was brought on to compete past the halfway point of the season. Beth, Eva, Geoff, Justin, Katie, Sadie and Trent did not return to compete, but have instead appeared for the aftermath specials. The prize for this season is also C$1,000,000. People are eliminated by jumping off the Drop of Shame.
"" is the fourth season of the series. The series' extension was commissioned by Teletoon from the producers, Fresh TV Inc. It premiered in Canada on January 5, 2012 and in the United States on June 5, 2012. This season returns to Camp Wawanakwa (the original setting of the first season), but no contestants from previous seasons return. Instead, a new set of thirteen contestants compete, which are Anne Maria, B, Brick, Cameron, Dakota, Dawn, Jo, Lightning, Mike, Sam, Scott, Staci, and Zoey. However, some characters from the original cast still have cameo appearances throughout the season. Also, due to the island being abandoned for the past two seasons, Chris had lent the island to a biohazardous waste dump company, causing the island to turn radioactive. This means that causes of radiation and toxic waste is the main theme for this season. This season only contains 13 episodes (half the length of a regular season), and the cash prize is once again C$1,000,000. People are eliminated off the island by the Hurl of Shame.
"Total Drama All-Stars" and "Total Drama: Pahkitew Island" both make up the fifth season of the "Total Drama" series which were ordered by Cartoon Network in October 2012 as 26 episodes. Both parts of Season 5 feature different islands and casts, but share similar elements and are both under the same production code.
"Total Drama All-Stars" is the first part of the fifth season of the series. while the season premiered on January 9, 2014 in Canada and on September 10, 2013 in the United States. This segment is 13 episodes long, just like the previous season. "Total Drama All-Stars" features the fourteen most popular contestants from the previous two seasons, which are: Alejandro, Cameron, Courtney, Duncan, Gwen, Heather, Jo, Lightning, Lindsay, Evil Mike, Sam, Scott, Sierra, and Zoey. They all compete in several "Heroes vs. Villains" themed challenges, which means that the protagonists (heroes) team up and compete against the antagonists (villains). People will now be eliminated by taking the Flush of Shame and the winner once again takes home C$1,000,000.
"Total Drama: Pahkitew Island" is the second part of the fifth season and was announced on June 11, 2013. It will consist of 13 episodes and will take place at a new location, this time on an island called Camp Pahkitew located somewhere in Western Canada. A new set of fourteen contestants are going to compete in this season, which are: Amy, Beardo, Dave, Ella, Jasmine, Leonard, Max, Rodney, Samey, Scarlett, Shawn, Sky, Sugar, and Topher. The season is set to air in Canada on Fall 2014 and in the United States on Summer 2014. Eliminations will take place via the Cannon of Shame and will feature another one million dollar grand prize. Pahkitew Island features various similar elements to Camp Wawanakwa but the island is much bigger.
A new spin-off series called "" is already under production and will take place at the same time as the current show. Some of the contestants from previous seasons will return along with new contestants who have yet to be introduced. Alex Ganetakos is set to produce this new season while Terry McGurrin is set to write the screenplay. Chad Hicks will direct the new series. Kristin Fairlie, the voice actor for the character Bridgette, is set to voice one of the new contestants named Carrie for the new series.

</doc>
<doc id="371585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371585" title="List of Total Drama episodes">
List of Total Drama episodes

This article contains a list of all the episodes to the "Total Drama" series, a Canadian animated television show which airs on the American cable television channel, Cartoon Network. This series currently consists of five seasons: "Total Drama Island", "Total Drama Action", "Total Drama World Tour", ', and '. Every season each consists of 26 episodes (although a special episode is sometimes added as a transition from one season to another), except for the fourth season which only has 13 episodes. In the Teletoon release, in the beginning of each episode, Chris McLean narrates a voice introduction with a written disclaimer as follows: "This episode of Total Drama contains scenes of extreme stunts performed by animated teens. Do not try any of what you see here at home. Seriously, you could get really messed up." and laughs. In the U.S., Cartoon Network creates a disclaimer with a TV-PG-D rating before the previous show's recap. The episodes in the series are listed and ordered in their original Canadian titles and numbers.
Source for table:
Key:
This is a brief summary displaying all the airdates by month for the entire "Total Drama" series throughout the years.
The series is only designed to have one commercial break on every episode; this is seen by the episode fading in and fading out at the middle of each episode, while Chris (or Geoff in the Aftermath episodes) says a line (like "We'll be right back!", for example) right before the screen fades. Originally, Teletoon has a commercial break on this fade, but as for Cartoon Network, they have two or sometimes three commercial breaks on each episode, resulting in an edit-out and interrupting the main plot of that episode. One example is when a contestant, or a team, wins a certain challenge, and then all of a sudden, the screen fades and a commercial pops out. Usually, Chris is supposed to warn the viewers that a commercial break is coming, and says so before the fade-in. However, this scene is only shown on the middle of each episode, which is a perfect place for a commercial break for Teletoon, but not on Cartoon Network. On the other hand when the show airs in Australia on ABC3 there is no commercial break (as the ABC is funded by the Australian government and not by commercials) so when there would be a commercial break the screen similly fade out out and then after 2 second fade in again.
In almost every episode, there is an elimination. The tables below display all the ranks and eliminations of all the contestants throughout the entire series.

</doc>
<doc id="371591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371591" title="Gatka">
Gatka

Gatka is a South Asian martial art most commonly practised in the Punjab region. Though today generally identified with Punjabi Sikhs, it has also traditionally been practiced by other ethno-cultural groups in India and Pakistan, in various parts.
The word "gatka" properly refers to the wooden sticks which were originally used for sparring in this sport although now a range of other weapons are also employed. 
Gatka can be practiced either as a contact sport ("khel") or ritual/ceremonial demonstration ("rasmi"). 

</doc>
<doc id="371592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371592" title="Maliar">
Maliar

The Maliars are an ethnic group, or people, mostly inhabiting the Northern districts of Punjab (Pakistan) and the lower plains of the Hazara Division of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. 
The Maliars are by and large an agrarian people and most still work as farm tenants and small peasant farmers. The term or name 'Maliar' itself derived from the Punjabi language word that means 'gardener' and 'cultivator'. 
Almost all the Maliars are Muslims. 

</doc>
<doc id="371597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371597" title="Michael Eisner">
Michael Eisner

Michael Dammann Eisner (born March 7, 1942) is an American executive of The Walt Disney Company from 1984 through 2005.
Eisner was born on March 7, 1942 in Mount Kisco, New York. He was raised in Los Angeles, California. Eisner studied at The Lawrenceville School and at Denison University. He is married to Jane Breckenridge since 1967. They have three children. He now lives in Los Angeles, California.

</doc>
<doc id="371607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371607" title="Rita Ora">
Rita Ora

Rita Sahatçiu Ora (born 26 November 1990) is a British singer-songwriter and actress. Her first album "Ora" was released in August 2012 and entered the charts at number one in the UK and number two in Ireland. Four singles have been released which appear on the album; "Hot Right Now" featured Rita Ora's vocals and entered at number one in the UK in March 2012. Rita was the lead artist on "R.I.P" and "How We Do (Party)", which also entered the UK charts at number one. Her single "I Will Never Let You Down" also reached number one in 2014.
So far in the UK she became the first artist to appear on four top 10 singles in 2012.
Ora will play Mia Grey in the 2015 movie Fifty Shades of Grey.
Rita Ora was born in 1990 in Prishtina, Kosovo to Albanian parents and moved to London in the same year. In 2004, she appeared in the British movie "Spivs". She auditioned for "Eurovision: Your Country Needs You" on BBC One to be the British contestant for the 2009 Eurovision Song Contest. She later withdrew from the competition after a few episodes, as she did not feel ready. In 2009, Ora made a cameo on Jay-Z's video for "Young Forever" and "Over" by Drake. Ora caught the attention of Jay-Z and he signed her to Roc Nation, for which she was featured in a commercial for Roc Nation + Skullcandy Aviator Headphones. Ora dated Bruno Mars and Calvin Harris.
"As featured artist"
"As main artist"

</doc>
<doc id="371615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371615" title="Comilla Jagannath Temple">
Comilla Jagannath Temple

Comilla Jagannath Temple is a Hindu temple in Comilla, in southeastern Bangladesh. Its terracotta brick construction is in the typical Bengal style of temple architecture. The temple was originally built in the 16th century by Sree Sreejoktou Moharaja Rada Kishor Manikuo Bahadur, who was the king of Tripura. The statues of the deities of Jagannath, Balabhadra and Subhadra were originally installed in a temple in Tripura from where they were subsequently shifted to this temple.

</doc>
<doc id="371617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371617" title="Wingu Tingima">
Wingu Tingima

Wingu Tingima (died 8 March 2010) was an Aboriginal artist from central Australia. She was born in Great Victoria Desert, and grew up living a traditional way of life in the bush, without any contact with Western civilisation. A member of the Pitjantjatjara people, she painted spiritual stories from her Dreaming. Along with her friend and colleague Eileen Yaritja Stevens, Wingu became one of the most well-known artists to paint in the style of the Western Desert.
Although she only began painting less than 10 years before her death, Wingu's work is now held in many of Australia's major art collections, including the National Gallery of Australia and the state galleries of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, the Northern Territory and Western Australia.
Wingu was born in the late 1910s or early 1920s. She was born at Nyumun, a rock hole in the Great Victoria Desert in Western Australia. This is a sacred site for Pitjantjatjara men, and it is associated with the (Eagle Dreaming). She grew up living a semi-nomadic way of life with her family in the country around Kuru Ala, very close to her place of birth. This is a sacred place for the Kungkarungkara (Seven Sisters Dreaming), which Wingu would later feature in many of her most important paintings.
Wingu was involved in traditional desert craft from a young age. Her mother and her aunts taught her how to weave hair-string belts and ' (head rings) from hair, fur, feathers and spinifex. She also learned to spin hair-string on a traditional hand-held spindle, and carve wooden tools such as "wana" (digging sticks), "piti" (bowls), "wira" (digging scoops), and ' (basins for collecting seeds). At ceremonies with other Aṉangu families, she and the other girls would paint each other in ritual designs.
When she was older, Wingu and her parents travelled by foot to settle in the mission at Ernabella, with many other Pitjantjatjara families. Wingu worked there spinning sheep's wool to make rugs and other things for the mission. While living at Ernabella, Wingu became close friends with Eileen Yaritja Stevens; the two of them would later work together closely.
After the community of Irrunytju was established in the 1980s, Wingu moved there with her family to be closer to her home country. Stevens moved to Nyapaṟi with her own family, and Wingu spent most of her life between the two communities. Wingu's son, Winmati Roberts, became married to Eileen's daughter, Yaritji Stevens. As the two elder women's success in the art business increased, they became the main providers of income for their intermingled families. Several of their grandchildren are now also painters.
The community co-operative Irrunytju Arts was opened in 2001, and Wingu was one of its first artists. She achieved success soon after, and she had her first exhibition in Melbourne in 2002. In the same year, she was also featured in the annual "Desert Mob" exhibition in Alice Springs. Her work from this exhibition was chosen as a finalist for the National Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander Art Award (NATSIAA) in 2003. Even in her earliest work, Wingu's style was unique and stood out strongly against the styles of the other artists at Irrunytju. She used lighter shades of colour with curvier lines, while other artists at the centre were experimenting with bright colours and block shapes.
Wingu began to work in Nyapaṟi from 2006, when the community established Tjungu Palya. Wingu came to support the new centre as a working artist, while still continuing to paint for Irrunytju as well. One of Wingu's earliest works at Tjungu Palya was chosen as a finalist for that year's NATSIAA. Wingu came to work primarily in Nyapaṟi during the next few years.
Most of the time, Wingu would paint alongside her friend Eileen. The two women often shared creative ideas, and travelled to exhibitions together. Eileen died in 2008, and Wingu left Nyapaṟi; as is custom among Western Desert people, the grieving move away from the place where the dead had lived. Wingu moved back to Irrunytju and continued to work there. She continued to achieve success until her death. She died on 8 March 2010, estimated to be aged around 90.
Wingu's painting focused on her spirituality, depicting the Dreaming stories (') associated with her country. Most of her paintings are about the Kungkarungkara (', or Seven Sisters). This "Tjukurpa" is closely associated with the sacred women's place of Kuru Ala, where Wingu grew up. According to the story, the seven sisters stopped at Kuru Ala while they were travelling through the area in the Dreamtime. They were running away from a lustful man who was trying to catch them. He had supernatural powers and could transform himself into many things. There are many different versions of the story, but Kuru Ala is said to be the place where the man tricked the sisters by turning himself into a fruit tree. The story comes from a group of stars; the sisters are the Pleiades, and the man chasing them is Orion.
Although she used traditional images, patterns and icons to paint these stories, Wingu's artwork did not illustrate them explicitly or in a way that is recognisable. The images are always obscured and the meaning hidden. She combined many styles together, including ancient desert imagery that had been passed down to her through sand drawings, rock art and body painting, but by using modern tools and techniques. One critic notes that her style would change depending on where she was painting; her brush-strokes and choice of colour differing between Tjungu Palya and Irrunytju Arts.
Wingu's paintings of the Kungkarungkara story were chosen as finalists in the National Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander Art Awards in 2003, 2006, and 2008.
In 2009, Wingu's work was shown in New York City as part of the exhibition "I Have a Dream", an international tribute to Martin Luther King, Jr.. Her artwork has been exhibited in many other cities, including Sydney, Canberra, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Alice Springs, Broome, Darwin and Singapore. Her work is held in the Gallery of Western Australia, the Art Gallery of South Australia, the Museum and Art Gallery of the Northern Territory, Art Gallery of New South Wales, the National Gallery of Victoria, the National Gallery of Australia, and the Australian National University.

</doc>
<doc id="371620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371620" title="Andrew Ebbett">
Andrew Ebbett

Andrew Ebbett (born January 2, 1983 in Vernon, British Columbia) is a Canadian NHL ice hockey left winger who currently plays for the Pittsburgh Penguins. 
Ebbett has also played 3 seasons with the Anaheim Ducks, 1 season with the Chicago Blackhawks, 1 season with the Minnesota Wild and 1 season with the Phoenix Coyotes. He played college hockey with the University of Michigan for 4 seasons before entering the NHL. He signed a one-year contract worth $525,000 with the Vancouver Canucks on July 1, 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="371622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371622" title="Diane Downs">
Diane Downs

Elizabeth Diane Frederickson Downs (born August 7, 1955) is an American convicted murderer. She was born Elizabeth Diane Frederickson in Phoenix, Arizona. In Oregon on May 19, 1983, she shot her three children and then shot herself in the arm. On June 17, 1984, she was convicted of murder, attempted murder and assault and sentenced to life imprisonment. Downs has been diagnosed with three cluster B personality disorders: antisocial, histrionic and narcissistic. 
The movie Small Sacrifices is about her. 

</doc>
<doc id="371628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371628" title="Category:Latest preview software release templates">
Category:Latest preview software release templates


</doc>
<doc id="371633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371633" title="ICloud">
ICloud

iCloud is a cloud storage and cloud computing service from Apple Inc.. It was launched on October 12, 2011. As of July 2012, the service has more than 150 million users.

</doc>
<doc id="371640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371640" title="Hebrew University of Jerusalem">
Hebrew University of Jerusalem

The Hebrew University of Jerusalem (, ; abbreviated HUJI) is a university in Israel. It is the country's second-oldest university. It was established in 1918, 30 years before the State of Israel.
It was the first university to open in Israel with three campuses. Its campuses are in Mount Scopus, Givat Ram and Ein Karem.

</doc>
<doc id="371644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371644" title="Greg Jennings">
Greg Jennings

Gregory Jennings, Jr. (born September 21, 1983 in Kalamazoo, Michigan) is a wide receiver. He plays for the Green Bay Packers of the NFL. He played college football at Western Michigan University. He was drafted in the second round of the 2006 NFL Draft.
Jennings played three sports in high school, football, basketball, and track. He played many football positions, including wide receiver, running back, linebacker and defensive back.
Greg Jennings decided to go to Western Michigan University. He finished his career there with 238 receptions for 3539 yards and 39 touchdowns. In his second year, he broke an ankle bone, and had to miss eight games. He graduated from the college in 2010.
Jennings declared for the NFL Draft in 2006. He was chosen by the Packers with the 52nd pick in the 2006 NFL Draft. In his fourth game, Jennings caught Brett Favre's 400th touchdown pass. He was voted Rookie of the Week that week. Jennings finished the season with 45 catches for 632 yards and 3 touchdowns. His next season was better, with twelve touchdowns and 932 yards. After his first thousand yard season in 2009, Jennings got a 26.35 million dollar contract. In 2010 and 2011, Jennings made the Pro Bowl. He also played in the Super Bowl in 2010, where he had two touchdowns in a Packers victory. He had to miss most of the 2011 and 2012 seasons with injuries.

</doc>
<doc id="371645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371645" title="Don Messick">
Don Messick

Donald Earl "Don" Messick (September 7, 1926 – October 24, 1997) was an American voice, radio, movie, and television actor. He was the voice of Scooby-Doo in "Scooby-Doo", Bam Bam Rubble in "The Flintstones", Astro the Dog in "The Jetsons", Muttley the Dog in "Wacky Races", Papa Smurf in "The Smurfs", and as Dr. Quest in "Johnny Quest".
Messick was born on September 7, 1926 in Buffalo, New York. He was married to Helen Marie McHugh from 1949 until his death in 1997. Messick died on October 24, 1997 from a stroke in Salinas, California, aged 71.

</doc>
<doc id="371651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371651" title="Don Hewitt">
Don Hewitt

Donald Shepard "Don" Hewitt (December 14, 1922 – August 19, 2009) was an American television producer. He was known for creating "60 Minutes". He also produced the first televised presidential debate in 1960.
Hewitt was born on December 14, 1922 in New York City, New York. He was raised in New York, New York. He studied at Rochelle High School and New York University.
He was married to Mary Weaver from 1945 until they divorced in 1963. Then he was married to Frankie Hewitt from 1963 until they divorced in 1974. Then he was married to Mariyln Berger from 1979 until his death in 2009. They have three children and one is adopted.
Hewitt died on August 19, 2009 from pancreatic cancer in his home in Bridgehampton, New York, aged 86.

</doc>
<doc id="371653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371653" title="Robert Wuhl">
Robert Wuhl

Robert Wuhl (born October 9, 1951) is an American movie, television, stage, voice actor, comedian, and writer who is known for his roles in "Arliss", "Batman", "Mistress", and in "Police Squad!". He has won an Emmy Award in 1991.
Wuhl was born on October 9, 1951 in Union Township, New Jersey. He studied at Union High School and in the University of Houston. He married Barbara Koldys Capelli in 1983.

</doc>
<doc id="371655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371655" title="Ross Perot">
Ross Perot

Henry Ross Perot (born June 27, 1930) is an American businessman. He founded Electronic Data Systems in 1962. He is also known for running for president in 1992 and in 1996. Both times he lost to Bill Clinton. Perot has about 3.5 billion dollars. In 2012, he is ranked by "Forbes" as the 101st-richest person in the United States.
Perot was born on June 27, 1930 in Texarkana, Texas. He studied at Texas High School, at Texarkana Junior College and at the United States Naval Academy. Perot married Margot Birmingham in 1956. They have five children and 16 grandchildren. In 2012, Perot endorsed Mitt Romney for President.

</doc>
<doc id="371659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371659" title="Cover Drive">
Cover Drive

Cover Drive is a band with four members from Barbados, featuring Amanda Reifer, T-Ray Armstrong, Barry "Bar-Man" Hill and Jamar Harding.
The band began by performing covers of popular songs and posting them on Youtube. The band was signed by record label Global Talent, part of Polydor Records. They were an opening act for Rihanna on her Loud Tour.
Amanda met T-Ray when she became his babysitter. T-Ray was in the same year at school as Jamar although not in the same school. Amanda met Bar-Man at college because they were in the same year.
They were signed to Polydor Records in April 2011. Their album "Bajan Style" contained four singles. "Lick Ya Down", "Twilight" and "Sparks" all entered the top ten in the United Kingdom whilst "Explode" peaked at number 29. The album itself peaked at number 14 on release on 7 May 2012.
They also appeared on Far East Movement's single "Turn Up The Love" which peaked at number 13 in the UK and in the top twenty in six other countries.

</doc>
<doc id="371670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371670" title="2004 NFL Draft">
2004 NFL Draft

In 2004, the thirty two teams of the NFL got together and held the sixty eighth yearly NFL Draft, where each of them chose college players to play for their team. It was held at Madison Square Garden in New York on April 24 and 25. The draft was shown on ESPN. There were 255 choices in the draft.
The draft started with the San Diego Chargers picking Eli Manning. He was traded to the New York Giants a short time later. There were 32 picks given to 16 teams because they lost free agents that offseason. The teams with the most compensatory picks were the Philadelphia Eagles, St. Louis Rams, and New York Jets, each with four. There were several records during the draft: the most wide receivers selected in the first round (7), and the most trades in the first round (28). The University of Miami had six players chosen in the first round. Ohio State set an NFL draft record having 14 players picked in all rounds. As of 2012, this draft also has another records: it is the first draft which has had two quarterbacks who each won more tan one Super Bowl (with Ben Roethlisberger winning his second in 2008 and Eli Manning winning his second in 2011). The positions of the players in the draft were:

</doc>
<doc id="371683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371683" title="Category:Kit and uniform templates">
Category:Kit and uniform templates


</doc>
<doc id="371690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371690" title="Qazigund">
Qazigund

Qazigund () is a notified town of the Anantnag District, Jammu and Kashmir, India.

</doc>
<doc id="371691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371691" title="Abbaspur">
Abbaspur

Abbaspur () is a town of Azad Kashmir, Pakistan. It is about 5 km from Poonch city.

</doc>
<doc id="371693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371693" title="King Peak">
King Peak

King Peak (or Mount King) is the fourth highest mountain in Canada. It is also the ninth highest peak in North America. It is located just west of Mount Logan, and is considered a one of the outlying peaks of that massive mountain.
The first people to climb King Peak were some students from the University of Alaska, in 1952. They climbed from the foot of Quartz Ridge, where most of their supplies had been dropped in by a plane. They reached Camp 2, on the west ridge, on 3 June. They waited two days for a storm to pass, and then two of them set out for the summit, while a third had to stay in camp because of a knee injury. They reached the top on 6 June.

</doc>
<doc id="371699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371699" title="Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/The Illusive Man">
Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/The Illusive Man


</doc>
<doc id="371701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371701" title="Lovebird">
Lovebird

Lovebirda, genus Agapornis, are a type of parrot. There are nine species. They are a social and affectionate small parrot. Seven species are native to Africa, and the Grey-headed Lovebird is native to Madagascar. 
Their common name comes from the parrots' strong, monogamous pair bonding and the long time the pairs spend sitting together. Lovebirds live in small flocks and eat fruit, vegetables, grass and seeds. Black-winged Lovebirds also eat insects and figs, and the Black-collared Lovebirds have a special dietary requirement for native figs, making them more difficult to keep in captivity.

</doc>
<doc id="371704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371704" title="Patrick Leahy">
Patrick Leahy

Patrick Joseph "Pat" Leahy (born March 31, 1940) is an American politician and part-time actor. He became a United States Senator from Vermont in 1975. Leahy has appeared in three Batman movies "Batman & Robin", "The Dark Knight", and in "The Dark Knight Rises". He was also the voice of a Senator in "". He supports gay marriage.
On December 17, 2012 after the death of Daniel Inouye, Leahy became the new President pro tempore of the United States Senate. After Inouye's death, Leahy is now the most senior Democrat in the United States. Leahy is currently the longest serving senator in the United States. He took office at a younger age than any other current senator.
Leahy is the only elected Democratic Senator in Vermont's history. He is the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee.
On January 3, 2015, Orrin Hatch succeeded Leahy as President pro tempore of the United States Senate. He was honored with the title "President pro tempore emeritus" soon afterwards.
Leahy was born in Montpelier, Vermont, the son of Alba (née Zambon) and Howard Francis Leahy, a printer. His grandparents came to Vermont from Ireland and Italy during the 19th century to work at quarries.
Leahy graduated from Saint Michael's College in 1961 and received his J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center in 1964. He practiced as a lawyer until he was elected as State's Attorney of Chittenden County in 1966 and re-elected in 1970.
Leahy was elected to the United States Senate for the first time in 1974, succeeding retiring 34-year incumbent George Aiken. At 34 years old, he was the youngest Senator in Vermont history. Leahy was nearly defeated in 1980 by Republican Stewart Ledbetter, winning by only 2,700 votes amid Ronald Reagan's landslide victory. In 1986, he faced what was on paper an even stronger challenger in former governor Richard Snelling, but Leahy turned back this challenge, taking 63 percent of the vote. In 1992, he faced another opponent in Secretary of State of Vermont Jim Douglas, winning by 11 points.
Leahy was the first non-Republican Senator from Vermont since 1856. To this day, he is the only Democrat ever elected to the Senate from Vermont. He is technically one of only three Democrats to represent Vermont in either house of Congress since the end of the Civil War.
March 2004, Leahy and Orrin Hatch introduced the Pirate Act backed by the RIAA. In July 2004, Leahy and Hatch introduced the INDUCE Act. Both were aimed at combating copyright infringement.
On November 2, 2004, Leahy easily defeated his opponent, businessman Jack McMullen, with 70.6 percent of the vote. On January 5, 2005, Leahy was sworn in for his sixth term in the Senate by Cheney.
On September 21, 2005, Leahy announced his support for John Roberts to be Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court. On January 19, 2006, Leahy announced that he would vote against Judge Samuel Alito to be a justice on the Supreme Court.
On January 18, 2007, Leahy received widespread coverage for his cross-examination of Attorney General Alberto Gonzales about the Maher Arar affair and the extraordinary rendition of Arar to Syria.
Upon the death of Senate President pro tempore Daniel Inouye on December 17, 2012, Leahy became the most senior senator in the majority party, and was elected as the new President pro tempore by unanimous consent.
On January 3, 2015, Orrin Hatch succeeded Leahy as President pro tempore of the United States Senate. He was honored with the title "President pro tempore emeritus" soon afterwards.
Leahy married Marcelle Pomerleau in 1962. They live in a farmhouse in Middlesex, Vermont that they moved to from Burlington, and have three children. Leahy celebrated his fifty year anniversary with his wife, saying ‘‘We hate it when we’re apart from one another.’’ Leahy is legally blind in one eye. Leahy was targeted in an anthrax attack November 16, 2001.

</doc>
<doc id="371708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371708" title="Michael Bay">
Michael Bay

Michael Benjamin Bay (born February 17, 1965) is an American movie director, producer and actor. He is known for his high-budget action movies. These include "Transformers", ', ', "", "Nightmare on Elm Street", "Friday the 13th", "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre", "Bad Boys", "Pearl Harbor", and "Armageddon".
Bay was born on February 17, 1965 in Los Angeles, California. He studied at Wesleyan University. His cousin-in-law is actor Leonard Nimoy.
Bay got his start in the film industry interning with George Lucas when he was fifteen, filing the storyboards for "Raiders of the Lost Ark", which he thought was going to be terrible. His opinion changed after seeing it in the theater and he was so impressed by the experience that he decided to become a film director. He graduated from Wesleyan University in 1986, majoring in both English and Film. He was a member of the Psi Upsilon fraternity and a favorite student of film historian Jeanine Basinger. For his graduate work, he attended Art Center College of Design in Pasadena where he also studied film.
Michael Bay began working at Propaganda Films, directing commercials and music videos, two weeks after finishing his post-graduate degree. His 90-second World War II-inspired Coca-Cola advertisement was picked up by Capitol Records. His first national commercial for the Red Cross won a Clio Award in 1992.
Bay's success in music videos gained the attention of producers Jerry Bruckheimer and Don Simpson, who selected him to direct his first feature-length film, "Bad Boys". The film was shot in Miami in 1994 and starred Will Smith and Martin Lawrence. The action film proved to be a break-out role for Smith, who was segueing from television to films at that time. Shooting in Miami was a good experience for Bay who would later own a home in the city and spend a great deal of time there. The film was completed for $19 million and grossed a remarkable $141 million at the box office in the summer of 1995. Bay's success led to a strong partnership and friendship with Jerry Bruckheimer.
His follow-up film, "The Rock" (1996), was an action movie set on Alcatraz Island, and in the San Francisco Bay area. It starred Sean Connery, Nicolas Cage and Ed Harris. It was also produced by Jerry Bruckheimer and Don Simpson, the latter of whom died five months before the film's release. The film is dedicated to him. Connery and Cage won 'Best On-Screen Duo' at the MTV Movie Awards in 1997 and the film was nominated for an Academy Award in the Best Achievement in Sound category for the work of Greg P. Russell, Kevin O'Connell, and Keith A. Wester.
In 1998, Bay collaborated with Jerry Bruckheimer again, this time as a co-producer, as well as directing the action-adventure film "Armageddon". The film, about a group of tough oil drillers who are sent by NASA to deflect an asteroid away from a collision course with Earth, starred Bruce Willis, Billy Bob Thornton, Ben Affleck and Liv Tyler. It was nominated for 4 Oscars at the 71st Academy Awards including Best Sound, Best Visual Effects, Best Sound Editing, and Best Original Song. The film earned 9.6 million dollars on its opening day and a total of 36.5 million through the first weekend. The production budget, $140 million, was one of the highest of the summer of 1998. "Armageddon" went on to gross over $553 million worldwide.
In 2001, Bay directed "Pearl Harbor". It starred Ben Affleck, Josh Hartnett, Kate Beckinsale and Cuba Gooding, Jr. The film was released on Memorial Day weekend in 2001. Again, Bay produced the film with Jerry Bruckheimer. The film received four Academy Award nominations, including Best Sound, Best Visual Effects, Best Sound Editing and Best Song. Again, Kevin O'Connell received another nomination for Best Sound, but he did not win. "Pearl Harbor" won in the category for Sound Editing. Michael Bay also directed the music video for nominated track "There You'll Be" by vocal artist Faith Hill. Despite all the criticisms that Michael Bay had received through the film, "Pearl Harbor" remained to be stagnant in the major blockbuster list, as it featured a plot which the viewers, especially young audiences, can relate with, and special effects which made the movie very realistic.
Bay reteamed with Will Smith and Martin Lawrence for "Bad Boys II", an event which also marked Bay's fifth collaboration with Jerry Bruckheimer. The film grossed $138 million domestically, enough to cover the production budget, and $273 million worldwide, almost twice as much as the first movie.
In 2005, Bay directed "The Island", a science-fiction film starring Ewan McGregor and Scarlett Johansson. It was the first film Michael Bay made without Jerry Bruckheimer. "The Island" cost $126 million to produce. It earned $46 million domestically and $172 million worldwide. Bay stated that he was not comfortable with the domestic marketing campaign as it confused the audience as to the true subject of the film.
In 2007, he directed and teamed up with Steven Spielberg to produce "Transformers", a live action film based on the Transformers franchise. The film was released in the U.S. and Canada on July 3, 2007, with 8 p.m. preview screenings on July 2. The previews earned $8.8 million, and in its first day of general release it grossed $27.8 million, a record for Tuesday box office attendance. It broke the record held by Spider-Man 2 for the biggest July 4 gross, making $29 million. On its opening weekend, "Transformers" grossed $70.5 million, amounting to a $155.4 million opening week, giving it the record for the biggest opening week for a non-sequel. As of November 2007, the film has made over $319 million domestically and over $708 million worldwide.
Bay returned as director and executive producer for "", which was released on June 24, 2009 and went on to gross over $832 million worldwide. Although it received mostly negative reviews by critics, including aggressively critical reviews by American film critics such as Roger Ebert, Michael Phillips and David Denby (who referred to Bay as "stunningly, almost viciously, untalented"), the film was well received by its intended audience and was one of the highest-grossing films of 2009. In 2010, it earned seven Golden Raspberry Award nominations and winning three: Worst Picture, Worst Director and Worst Screenplay.
Bay directed "", released on June 28, 2011. He may direct a sequel to the "Bad Boys" franchise or a "small" film he's been developing for years, tentatively called "Pain & Gain". The true crime story, based on events described in a Miami Herald article written by Pete Collins, concerns a group of bumbling bodybuilders working together to commit a robbery.
Bay produced DreamWorks' "I Am Number Four", based on a series of novels by Pittacus Lore published by HarperCollins Children's Books. D. J. Caruso ("Eagle Eye", "Disturbia") directed.
Despite his box office success, he has found little critical praise, and has often been parodied and/or labeled as the worst working director. He has consistently topped or appeared in Worst Directors lists by users on Internet Movie Database (IMDB). In response to the criticism, Bay has said: "I make movies for teenage boys. Oh, dear, what a crime."

</doc>
<doc id="371716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371716" title="Persimmon">
Persimmon

The persimmon is the edible fruit of some trees in the genus "Diospyros". "Diospyros" is in the "Ebenaceae" family. 
The fruits are usually taken from culivated varieties (cultivars) of the tree. They can be eaten in all stages of life. They are edible from when they are hard like an apple, to melting the moment they are touched. They are also used in smoothies and juicers when hard. 
They come in all different shapes and sizes depending on variety. Some have even been known to leave your mouth feeling "furry" and dry. Other names the fruit go by are "Sharon fruit" and "Kaki". It has no stones, no pips and no seeds. It has pure flesh. The leafy top should not be consumed. The leaves of which will go brown well before the fruit has ripened. Best kept in a basement or garage out of the way, but still warm.

</doc>
<doc id="371721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371721" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Praise worlu">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Praise worlu


</doc>
<doc id="371723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371723" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Mt. King">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Mt. King


</doc>
<doc id="371728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371728" title="Category:Yukon">
Category:Yukon


</doc>
<doc id="371730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371730" title="Shimla">
Shimla

Mount Shimla or Shimla Hill (or "Shimla Pahari" in the local Hindko dialect) is a mountain or hill to the west of Abbottabad, Pakistan. It is not to be confused with Simla in Himachal Pradesh, India. 

</doc>
<doc id="371732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371732" title="Simla">
Simla

Simla, also known as "Shimla", is the capital city of the northern Indian state of Himachal Pradesh. The city is up in the mountains at around 2,200 metres (approximately 7,234 feet). Simla is a popular tourist destination in India.

</doc>
<doc id="371734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371734" title="Pakistan Military Academy">
Pakistan Military Academy

The Pakistan Military Academy (also known as PMA or PMA Kakul) is a military training academy. It is located at Kakul near Abbottabad, Pakistan . It is similar to Sandhurst (UK), Saint-Cyr (France), and West Point (USA) academies, and provides training to the officers of the Pakistan Army. 
The Pakistan Military Academy was established in the year 1948. Before Partition of British India and the Independence of Pakistan in 1947, the location had been used as the PT and Mountaineering School of the British Indian Army, on the site of an old POW Camp for prisoners from the Boer War. Later it became the premises of the Royal Indian Army Service Corps (RIASC).

</doc>
<doc id="371735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371735" title="Brush-tailed rock-wallaby">
Brush-tailed rock-wallaby

The brush-tailed rock-wallaby or small-eared rock-wallaby ("Petrogale penicillata") is a kind of wallaby. It is one of several rock-wallabies in the genus "Petrogale". It lives in the rocks and cliffs of the Australia's Great Dividing Range from about 100 km north-west of Brisbane to the Grampians in south west Victoria. Its habitats include rainforest and dry sclerophyl forests. Numbers of brush-tailed rock-wallabies have gone down in the south and west of its range. It remains locally common in northern New South Wales and southern Queensland. In Victoria the species is nearly extinct with only four in the Grampians National Park, and 20 in East Gippsland. In 1988 at Jenolan caves in New South Wales, about 80 wallabies were released into the forest, but by 1992 there were only seven left.
In the late 1800s, Governor Grey introduced this and four other species of wallabies (including the rare parma wallaby) to islands in Hauraki Gulf, near Auckland, New Zealand, where they became well-established. In modern times, the wallabies have come to be viewed as exotic pests. They have caused problems for the native plants and animals and are being removed from the islands. Between 1967 and 1975, 210 rock-wallabies were captured on Kawau Island and returned to Australia, along with thousands of other wallabies. Rock-wallabies were removed from Rangitoto and Motutapu Islands during the 1990s. Another 33 rock-wallabies were captured on Kawau during the 2000s, and returned to Australia. 
In 2003 some Kawau brush-tails were relocated to the Waterfall Springs Conservation Park north of Sydney, New South Wales, for captive breeding purposes.
Two wallabies escaped in 1916 on the island of Oahu in Hawaii. There is now a small breeding population.

</doc>
<doc id="371747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371747" title="Courtship in animals">
Courtship in animals

Courtship in animals is the behaviour by which different species select their partners for reproduction. Usually, the male starts the courtship, and the female chooses to either mate or reject the male based on his "performance". 
Many animals have mate-selection courtship rituals. Animal courtship may involve complicated dances or touching, vocalizations, or displays of beauty or fighting prowess. One animal whose courtship rituals are well studied is the bowerbird, whose male builds a "bower" of collected objects. Another is the Great Crested Grebe, whose courtship dances were first described by Julian Huxley.
In cases like the Great Crested Grebe, the pairs form life (or at least long-lasting) partnerships. In that case there are also pair-bonding dances throughout the mating season, and through the whole period of raising the young. If pairs get separated, there are exceptionally vigorous dances when they come together. There are a number of "dance routines", which occur in the different circumstances of life. All this behaviour is inherited, though the individual bird remembers the place and the partner permanently.
It might be thought that courtship only occurs in the kind of animals which have fairly complex brains, such as mammals and birds. This is not the case. Male "Drosophila" flies have to do a mating dance in front of the female before she will allow them to mate. If the dance is not "correct" for that species, she refuses the male. It was discovered over fifty years ago that if the male carries a mutation which disrupts the dance, he cannot achieve mating: the females reject him. This behaviour is clearly advantageous to the female, whose genes have a better chance of contributing to the next generation if her partner is biologically fit. "Drosophila" are by no means the only insects which have mating rituals.
Sexual conflict is when the interests of males and females in reproduction are not the same: they are often quite different: 
This has many consequences. Mating ritual evolved because it is advantageous for females to have choice of partners. If the female has sperm from more than one male, then sperm competition comes into play. This is competition between sperms to fertilise the egg (only a single sperm achieves the union). In some insects the male injects a cocktail of chemicals in the seminal fluid together with the sperm. The chemicals kill off older sperms (from any previous mating), up-regulates females' egg-laying rate and reduces her desire to re-mate with another male. The cocktail also shortens the female's lifespan, so reducing her likelihood of mating with other males. Also, some females can get rid of the previous male's sperm.
After mating has taken place, males do various things to stop the female mating again. What the male does depends on the species. In some species, the male plugs the female opening after insemination. In some hymenoptera the male provides a huge quantity of sperms, enough for the female's long life. In birds and mammals, the male may fight off other candidate males.
Thus courtship is the visible part of a complex series of events whereby the males and females come together for mating. The continuation of pair-bonding after mating is common in birds and mammals because the survival of their genes depends on the fertilised eggs reaching maturity. If that requires support from "both" parents, the rituals are the way the pair keep connected. Established pairs, even in the Great Crested Grebe, will live as singles (often in a large group) outside the mating season.

</doc>
<doc id="371753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371753" title="Roanoke Colony">
Roanoke Colony

The Roanoke Colony was a British colony in North America that disappeared mysteriously. It is called the "Lost Colony." It was on Roanoke Island in what is today Dare County, North Carolina, in the United States. It was started in 1585 by Sir Walter Raleigh. It disappeared sometime between 1587 and 1590. Today, nobody knows what happened to the people who were living there.
On 25 March 1584, Queen Elizabeth gave Sir Walter Raleigh a charter to start a colony in North America. A "charter" is a document which gives permission from a monarch to the holder. Raleigh's charter said he could start a colony in a part of North America called "Virginia". It also said that if he did not start the colony, Raleigh would not be able to start any other colonies ever again. 
Raleigh and Queen Elizabeth hoped that the colony would be rich. They wanted it to be a base for privateering. "Privateers" are pirates who work for the government to attack ships from other countries. The English privateers from the colony would attack the Spanish ships that were carrying treasure across the Atlantic Ocean to Spain.
Raleigh sent some ships to explore North America in 1584. On 27 April 1584, Phillip Amadas and Arthur Barlowe sailed to the Eastern coast of North America. They landed on Roanoke Island on 4 July 1584. On the island they met some of the Native American people living there. The tribes they met were the Secotans and the Croatans. Barlowe took two Croatans back to England with him. They were Manteo and the chief, Wanchese. Manteo and Wanchese told Raleigh about Roanoke Island and the politics of the local tribes. Raleigh decided to send more ships back to the Island to learn more. This new expedition (trip) was led by Sir Richard Grenville.
Grenville took five ships to Roanoke: the "Tiger", "Roebuck", "Red Lion", "Elizabeth", and "Dorothy". They left from Plymouth on 9 April 1585. There was a big storm that made the "Tiger" get separated from the other ships. The captains of the ships had a plan that if the ships got separated, they would all go to Puerto Rico to meet up again. The "Tiger" arrived at the "Baye of Muskito" (Guayanilla Bay) on 11 May 1585.
Grenville and the "Tiger" waited in Puerto Rico for the other ships. While they were waiting, Grenville built a fort called Fort Elizabeth. He also did some privateering from there against the Spanish. One of the other ships, the "Elizbeth", arrived in Puerto Rico right after Fort Elizabeth was built. Grenville soon got tired of waiting for the other ships. On 7 June 1585 he left Puerto Rico and abandoned the fort. Nobody knows what happened to the fort, or where exactly it was.
The "Tiger" arrived at the Outer Banks on 26 June 1585. (The Outer Banks are islands on the coast of the Carolinas in North America. Roanoke Island is part of the Outer Banks.) The "Tiger" hit a shoal in Ocracoke Inlet. This damaged the ship and most of their food was ruined. They fixed the ship and met up with the "Roebuck" and the "Dorothy". The other ships had arrived at the islands a few weeks before. The "Red Lion" also arrived at the Outer Banks, but it dropped off its passengers and went to Newfoundland for privateering. 
The English explored some of the coast and the Native American settlements there. One of the villages they visited was called Aquascogoc. The English blamed the natives of Aquascogoc for stealing a silver cup. They destroyed the village and burned it to the ground as punishment. Aquascogoc was a village of the Croatan tribe.
Genville decided to leave some men to start a colony at the north end of Roanoke Island. He did this even though they did not have a lot of food and the Croatans were angry about Aquascogoc. Ralph Lane and 107 men were left on Roanoke Island. Grenville promised to return in April 1586 with more men and supplies. Lane and his men left for Roanoke on 17 August 1585. Lane built a small fort on Roanoke Island and explored some of the area. There are no pictures of the Roanoke fort. It was probably a lot like Fort Elizabeth on Guayanilla Bay, Puerto Rico.
Grenville did not return in April 1586. The Croatans were angry because the English had destroyed Aquascogoc, so they attacked the fort. The colonists were able to repel the attackers. (This means that the Croatan warriors didn't win the fight.) Soon after this attack, Sir Francis Drake stopped by the fort on his way back to England. The colonists agreed to go back to England with Drake. They brought with them tobacco, maize, and potatoes to Europe for the first time.
A little while after Drake left with the colonists, Grenville's ships arrived at the fort. When they got there, the fort was abandoned. Grenville decided to take his men back to England. A small number of men stayed behind to run the fort.
Sir Walter Raleigh sent 150 people to start a colony in 1587. A man named John White was in charge of the colony. John White was an artist and a friend of Raleigh. He had gone to Roanoke with Barlowe and Grenville. Raleigh told them to start a colony on the Chesapeake Bay. On the way, they were going to stop at the Roanoke fort to pick up Grenville's men and take them to the new colony. 
White's ships landed at Roanoke on 22 July 1587. They did not find any of Grenville's men at the old fort. All they found was one skeleton that might have been the body of one of the Englishmen. The commander of the fleet (group of ships), Simon Fernandez, would not let the colonists get back on the ships. He said they had to start the new colony on Roanoke Island. Nobody knows exactly why he did this.
White tried to talk to the Croatans and make peace with them. The Croatans were the same tribes that Ralph Lane and his men had fought against the year before. The Croatans would not talk to White. They killed a colonist named George Howe. Howe was looking for crabs in the Albemarle Sound when he was killed.
The colonists were scared. They asked Governor White to go back to England and get help. White agreed to go. He left behind 115 colonists at Roanoke. 114 colonists had come from England with White. The last colonist was Virginia Dare. Virginia was the first English child ever born in the Americas. She was also John White's granddaughter.
Governor White left the colony in late 1587. The ship barely made it back to England. It was very dangerous to cross the Atlantic Ocean in the winter. There were bad storms and lots of heavy wind. White wanted to return to Roanoke fast with help. The captain said he would not go back during the winter because it was too dangerous. At the same time, the Spanish Armada was sailing to attack England. All English ships were sent to fight the Spanish, so there were no ships for White to sail back to Roanoke.
White found two small ships that were not being used to defend England against the Spanish Armada. He hired the ships to sail to Roanoke. They set sail in the spring of 1588. The captains of the ships were greedy. They tried to attack some Spanish ships to steal their cargo. ("Cargo" is things being carried by a ship. Cargo can be food, supplies, money, or treasure.) The Spanish ships fought White's ships and won. The Spanish took all of White's cargo. White's ships turned around and sailed back to England because they had nothing to take to the colony.
England was at war with Spain. White could not find any ships to take to Roanoke because of the fighting. After three years, White found a group of privateers who said they would take him to Roanoke. He landed on Roanoke Island on 15 August 1590. The colony was empty. All 90 men, 17 women, and 11 children were gone. There were no signs of fighting. The people had just disappeared.
The only thing White found was the word "CROATOAN" carved on a tree. The word "CRO" was carved on another tree. All of the houses and buildings had been taken apart. This means that the colonists did not leave in a hurry. 
White had told the colonists what to do if something bad happened to them. He told them to carve a Maltese Cross on a tree if someone made them leave the colony. The colonists didn't carve the cross on any of the trees. White thought that the colonists had gone to an island called Croatoan Island. (Today, Croatoan Island is called Hatteras Island.)
The men who brought White to Roanoke did not let him search Croatoan Island. They wanted to leave because there was a big storm coming. They left on 16 August 1590 and went back to England.
In 1602, Raleigh decided to find out what happened to his colony. He sent several ships to the colony. A man named Samuel Mace was in charge. Raleigh bought all of the ships and promised that the sailors would be paid. He did this so they would not go privateering on the way to Roanoke.
The ships stopped at the Outer Banks to pick up some sassafras and other aromatic woods. These plants were used to make perfume in Europe. They could be sold in England for a lot of money. By the time they finished getting the sassafras, the weather had gotten bad. The ships turned around and went back to England. They never got to Roanoke Island. Raleigh could not send any more ships to Roanoke because King James I arrested him for treason.
The Spanish also tried to go to Roanoke. They knew that Raleigh wanted to use the colony for privateering. They wanted to destroy the colony so he could not do that. The Spanish thought that the colony was a lot more successful than it really was. In 1590, the Spanish found the remains of Roanoke by accident. They didn't think it was the Roanoke Colony. They thought it was a small settlement outside of the main colony. They thought that Roanoke Colony was by the Chesapeake Bay. (That was where John White was supposed to set up the colony.) The Spanish could not get enough ships and people to look for the Roanoke colony because of the Anglo-Spanish War.
The colony was called the "Lost Colony" because no one knows what happened after 1587. There are many ideas about what might have happened. There is no proof that any of these ideas is right. It is still a mystery today. 
One idea is that the colonists went to live with the Native American tribes. They may have joined the Chowanoke tribe. The Choanoke were attacked by another tribe. The Jamestown Colony's records say that a tribe called "Mandoag" attacked the Choanoke. (Jamestown was a colony in Virginia started 20 years after Roanoke.) The word "Mandoag" is from the Algonquian language. It means 'enemy nation.' The "Mandoag" might have been the Tuscarora people or the Eno people. The historian Lee Miller wrote about this idea in the book "Roanoke: solving the mystery of the lost colony" (2000).
There is some proof for this idea. A 1607 map from Jamestown called the "Zuniga Map" had some writing on it.) The writing said "four men clothed that came from roonock" were living in an Iroquois village on the Neuse River. (The Tuscarora tribe spoke the Iroquois language.) Also, a secretary from Jamestown wrote about strange Native American villages. William Strachey wrote that there were two-story houses with stone walls in the villages of Peccarecanick and Ochanahoen. He thought that the Roanoke colonists taught the Native Americans build these kinds of buildings. 
In the late 1880s, there were Native Americans in Robeson County, North Carolina who said they were related to the Roanoke settlers. A politician from North Carolina named Hamilton McMillan learned about this claim. He found that a lot of the words in this Native American tribe's language were a lot like some old English words that are no longer used. Also a lot of the people in the tribe had family names that were the same as the names of the colonists'. McMillan thought that these Native Americans were the descendents of the Roanoke settlers. Because of this, he helped pass a bill called the "Croatan Bill" on February 10, 1885. This bill said that the Native American people in Robeson county were officially called "Croatan."
Two days after the bill, there was an article written about the tribe. It was printed in the "Fayetteville Observer" on 12 February 1885. It said that "Croatoa" was just a village and the tribe called themselves the Tuscaroras. The article also said that the tribe was always friendly to the white people of Roanoke. When they saw that there was no help coming from England, the tribe let the colonists live in their villages. Over time, the tribe left their old villages and moved to live in the center of Robeson County.
Historians are not sure that this is really what happened. There are many different Native American tribes that have legends and stories about the Roanoke Colony. There is a legend that is a lot like the Robeson County tribe about the Saponi people of Person County, North Carolina. The Saponi are now extinct (today there are no living Saponi people). The legend says that the Saponi were descended from the English colonists. When settlers met the Saponi, they were surprised to find that they already spoke English and knew about Christianity. The Saponi also had European features. (Their faces were shaped like Europeans' faces.) 
Some of the other tribes that say they are descended from the Roanoke colonists are:
The Lost Colony DNA Project was set up to test if this is true.
A historian named David Beers Quinn thinks that the Roanoke colony moved to a new place and then was destroyed. In 1607, Captain John Smith started the Jamestown Colony in Virginia. One of his jobs was to find out what happened to the Roanoke Colony. Chief Powhatan told Smith that he had killed all of the Roanoke colonists. He said that they were living with the Chesepian tribe. The Chesepians would not join Chief Powhatan's Powhatan Confederacy. Also there was a prophecy that said the Chespians would destroy Powhatan's empire.
Because of this, the Powhatan Confederacy killed all the Chesepians. Chief Powhatan showed Captain Smith proof of this. He showed Smith some iron tools made in England. The bodies of the colonists were never found. Archaeologists do not have any evidence either. 
In 1998, there was a team of scientists studying the climate (weather) of the Roanoke area. The team took cores of some 800-year-old trees on Roanoke Island. They wanted to look at the tree rings to see the history of rain and temperature over the years.
They found that the colonists had started Roanoke Colony in the middle of the worst drought in 800 years. (A "drought" is a period of time when there is very little rain.) "This drought persisted for 3 years, from 1587 to 1589, and is the driest 3-year episode in the entire 800-year reconstruction," the team wrote in the journal "Science". The drought happened in all of the southeastern United States. It was worst in the area near Roanoke Island.
The people in charge of the team were David W. Stahle and Dennis B. Blaton. Stahle was a climatologist from the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville, Arkansas. Blaton was an archaeologist from The College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia.
When Governor White went to England in 1587, he left some ships at the colony. They had a full rigged pinnace and some small ships. One idea is that the colonists tried to sail back to England in these ships. It could be that the ships sank and the colonists died.
Another idea is that the Spanish destroyed the colony. Earlier in the 1500s, the Spanish destroyed a French colony in South Carolina called Fort Charles. They also killed all of the people in a French colony in Florida. This is probably not what happened in Roanoke, because the Spanish were still looking for the colony in 1600.

</doc>
<doc id="371756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371756" title="Category:Provinces and territories of Canada">
Category:Provinces and territories of Canada


</doc>
<doc id="371774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371774" title="Provisional government">
Provisional government

A provisional government is a government set up in an emergency when a political void has been created by the collapse of a government. They are usually unelected and tend to arise after civil or foreign wars. Charles-Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord used the term in the early 19th century. The first known establishment of a provisional government was in 1869 by the Métis leader Louis Riel at the Red River Colony.

</doc>
<doc id="371782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371782" title="Battle of Little Round Top">
Battle of Little Round Top

The Battle of Little Round Top was part of the Battle of Gettysburg. It occurred on July 2, 1863. The troops under Joshua Chamberlain, the 20th Maine, formed the left flank for the Confederate troops. They repelled several charges by the Confederates. However, eventually Chamberlain's troops ran low on ammunition. Chamberlain ordered that the soldiers mount bayonets to their rifles and he ordered a charge down the hill against the Confederates. This charge surprised the Confederates and was successful.
The success in the Battle of Little Round Top is considered a turning-point in the Battle of Gettysburg and in the Civil War.

</doc>
<doc id="371784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371784" title="Jean-Charles Darmon">
Jean-Charles Darmon

Jean-Charles Darmon is a French literary critic born in 1961.
Graduate in 1982 from the "École Normale Supérieure", he first teaches at Amherst College (USA).
Teacher of French literature at the "Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines", Honorary Member of the "Institut Universitaire de France" (2001-2006), he was head of the "École Normale Supérieure" from 2005 to 2009.
Specialized in connections between literature, philosophy and ethics in the classical age, he is the author of books on libertarianism scholar and Epicureanism, the forms of the fable or satire, from an interdisciplinary perspective.

</doc>
<doc id="371787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371787" title="Azerbaijan State Philharmonic Hall">
Azerbaijan State Philharmonic Hall

The Magomayev Azerbaijan State Philharmonic Hall (Azeri: "Maqomayev adına Azərbaycan Dövlət Filarmoniyası") is the main concert hall for classical music and folk music in the capital of Azerbaijan, Baku.
The Azerbaijan State Philharmonic Hall was built between the years 1910–1912 at the request of the city elite and is designed in the Italian Renaissance (outside) and German Rococo (inside) architectural styles. Its design was influenced by the architectural style of the buildings of the Monte-Carlo Casino, particularly the Opéra de Monte-Carlo. The building was originally organized as a club for the wealthy of Baku, who attended it for banquets and entertainment. During the Russian Civil War it was a place for public rallies. In 1936, the club was officially reorganized into a residence for the philharmonic society aimed at promoting Azerbaijani classical and folk music. On 11 August 1937 after the building was renovated, it was named after the Azerbaijani composer Muslim Magomayev. In 1995, the hall was closed down for more than 8 years for another renovation. It was not until November 2002 that the restoration works finally started due to President Heydar Aliyev's special decree. The opening of the fully renovated building happened on 27 January 2004.
The main building has two halls: The Summer Hall with 1100 seats and the Winter Hall with 610 seats, which are joined by a single stage. The Azerbaijan State Philharmonic Hall is home to 7 performing groups:

</doc>
<doc id="371799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371799" title="Alexander Parkes">
Alexander Parkes

Alexander Parkes (1813 - 1890) was an English inventor. He created the earliest form of plastic which was called parkesine.

</doc>
<doc id="371807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371807" title="Barnston">
Barnston

Barnston is a village and civil parish in Uttlesford, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 850 people living in Barnston. It has a church called St Andrew.

</doc>
<doc id="371808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371808" title="Berden">
Berden

Berden is a village and civil parish in Uttlesford, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 427 people living in Barnston. It has a church called St Nicholas.

</doc>
<doc id="371809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371809" title="Birchanger">
Birchanger

Birchanger is a village and civil parish in Uttlesford, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 987 people living in Birchanger.

</doc>
<doc id="371813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371813" title="Great Canfield">
Great Canfield

Great Canfield is a village and civil parish in Uttlesford, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 364 people living in Great Canfield. It has a church called St Mary. It includes the hamlets of Hope End Green, Canfield Hart, Bacon End and Green Street.

</doc>
<doc id="371827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371827" title="Accipitridae">
Accipitridae

The Accipitridae are one of the two major families in the order Accipitriformes (the diurnal birds of prey). 
They are a family of small to large birds with strongly hooked bills (beaks). They vary accordig to their diet. They feed on prey items from insects to medium-sized mammals. Some feed on carrion and a few feed on fruit. The Accipitridae have a cosmopolitan distribution, being found on all the world's continents (except Antarctica) and a number of oceanic island groups. Some species are migratory.
Many well-known birds, such as hawks, eagles, kites, harriers and Old World vultures are included in this group. The osprey is usually placed in a separate family (Pandionidae), as is the secretary bird. The New World vultures are now usually a separate family or order. 

</doc>
<doc id="371878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371878" title="Import">
Import

An import is a raw material or a finished product that is brought into a country from abroad. For example America imports maple syrup from Canada and exports manufactured products to the Caribbean. Some Caribbean countries import nearly all their goods, paying for them with money earned through tourism, banking, and other service industries.

</doc>
<doc id="371880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371880" title="Semites">
Semites

The Semites are a group of people that live in the Middle East, North Africa, and the Horn of Africa. They include Jews, Arabs, and other ethnic groups. 
We only know about their origin from the history of the semitic languages. The earliest proved history of any Semitic people is from 30th century BC Mesopotamia. The East Semitic Akkadian-speaking peoples of the Kish civilization, entered the region which had been dominated by the non-Semitic Sumerians.

</doc>
<doc id="371882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371882" title="Fazlur Khan">
Fazlur Khan

Fazlur Rahman Khan (April 3, 1929 – March 27, 1982) was a Bangladeshi-American structural engineer and architect. He and his business partner Bruce Graham are known for designing the Willis Tower and the John Hancock Center both in Chicago, Illinois. He was one of the most well-known architects in the 20th century.
Khan was born on April 3, 1929 in Dhaka, Bangladesh. He was raised in Dhaka and in Chicago, Illinois. He studied at Bengal Engineering and Science University, at the Shibpur, Bangladesh University of Engineering and at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He was married to Liselotte Khan until his death in 1982. They had a daughter, Yasmin. Khan died during a road trip on March 27, 1982 in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, aged 52. His body is buried in Chicago, Illinois.

</doc>
<doc id="371883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371883" title="Bruce Graham">
Bruce Graham

Bruce John Graham (December 1, 1925 – March 6, 2010) was a Colombian-American architect. Graham and his business partner Fazlur Khan are well known for designing the Willis Tower and the John Hancock Center, both in Chicago, Illinois.
Graham was born to a Canadian father and to a Peruvian mother in La Cumbre, Valle del Cauca, Columbia. He was raised in Bogotá, Columbia and in Chicago, Illinois. He studied at Colegio San Jose de Rio Piedras, at the University of Pennsylvania, Case School of Applied Sciences, and at University of Dayton. Graham died on March 6, 2010 from natural causes in Hobe Sound, Florida, aged 84.

</doc>
<doc id="371901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371901" title="Oghi Tehsil">
Oghi Tehsil

Oghi Tehsil is a "tehsil" or subdivision of the Mansehra District, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, Pakistan. It is situated in a mountainous area close to the Kala Dhaka tribal zone. The main or capital town of this tehsil is Oghi.
The large part of the population of Oghi tehsil is made up of indigenous Swatis, Gurjars, Awans and a mixture of other smaller groups. Hindko is spoken as the main language by around 62% of the people, Pashto language by some 30% and Gojri by some 8 %.
Part of this tehsil is made up of the Agror valley which also used to be the estate of the former Khan of Agror, a famous tribal chieftain.

</doc>
<doc id="371903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371903" title="Oghi">
Oghi

Oghi is a town in Mansehra District, of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is also the capital or headquarters of the Oghi Tehsil. 

</doc>
<doc id="371907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371907" title="Category:Departments of Benin">
Category:Departments of Benin


</doc>
<doc id="371908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371908" title="Category:Municipalities in Belize">
Category:Municipalities in Belize


</doc>
<doc id="371911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371911" title="Hubble Extreme Deep Field">
Hubble Extreme Deep Field

The Hubble eXtreme Deep Field (XDF) is an image of a small part of space in the center of the Hubble Ultra Deep Field in the constellation Fornax. It shows the deepest optical view into space.
The "XDF" image was released on September 25, 2012. The image combined 10 years of images. It shows galaxies that are over 13.2 billion years old. The exposure time was two million seconds, or about 23 days. The least bright galaxies are one ten-billionth the brightness of what the human eye can see. Many of the smaller galaxies are very young galaxies. Some of there became the major galaxies, like the Milky Way and other galaxies in our galactic neighborhood. 
The Hubble eXtreme Deep Field adds another 5,500 galaxies to Hubble's 2003 and 2004 view into a very small part of the farthest universe.

</doc>
<doc id="371913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371913" title="Category:Beninese people">
Category:Beninese people


</doc>
<doc id="371918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371918" title="Category:Municipalities in Benin">
Category:Municipalities in Benin


</doc>
<doc id="371919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371919" title="Hypnotic">
Hypnotic

A hypnotic is a drug designed to help you sleep. It is a type of psychoactive drug which acts as a soporific, and is also used for surgical anaesthesia. Many hypnotics are addictive, and have side-effects. Because of this, most are prescribed as a last resort, and only for a short time. Rohypnol is a particularly powerful example of a hypnotic.

</doc>
<doc id="371920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371920" title="Category:Geography of Benin">
Category:Geography of Benin


</doc>
<doc id="371921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371921" title="Category:Districts of Belize">
Category:Districts of Belize


</doc>
<doc id="371922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371922" title="Category:Districts by country">
Category:Districts by country


</doc>
<doc id="371924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371924" title="Category:Rivers of Belize">
Category:Rivers of Belize


</doc>
<doc id="371925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371925" title="Category:Geography of Belize">
Category:Geography of Belize


</doc>
<doc id="371926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371926" title="Category:Reefs">
Category:Reefs


</doc>
<doc id="371927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371927" title="Category:Belizean people">
Category:Belizean people


</doc>
<doc id="371928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371928" title="Category:Sports in Belize">
Category:Sports in Belize


</doc>
<doc id="371929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371929" title="Anxiolytic">
Anxiolytic

Anxiolytics are drugs that are used for the treatment of anxiety, and anxiety-related disorders. The common drugs can be classified:
In addition to these drug classes, there are also certain plants that have such properties. Many of the drugs listed above have side-effects. For this reason, they are only available on prescription. Certain forms of therapy have also been used to treat anxiety disorders.

</doc>
<doc id="371936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371936" title="Eileen Yaritja Stevens">
Eileen Yaritja Stevens

Eileen Yaritja Stevens (died 19 February 2008) was an Aboriginal artist from central Australia. Although she had brief career of less than four years, she quickly became one of the most successful artists of her generation to paint in the style of the Western Desert. Her work is now held in several major public art collections across Australia.
Stevens was born some time in the 1910s. She was born at Makiri, in the north-west corner of South Australia, between what are now the communities of Kaltjiti and Watarru. Her father was a Yankunytjatjara man, and her mother was Ngaanyatjarra, but Stevens described herself as belonging to the Pitjantjatjara.
Stevens grew up in the bush, living a traditional, nomadic way of life. When she was a young woman, her family settled at Ernabella, which was a Presbyterian mission at the time. She worked there milking goats. Her husband, who she met whilst living at Ernabella, also worked there chopping trees for use in building projects. The couple later moved to Nyapaṟi after it was established in the mid-1970s. This area was her husband's Dreaming country (homeland), and although she often made visits to her own birthplace, Stevens would live at Nyapaṟi for the rest of her life.
Stevens did not begin painting professionally until 2004, very late in her life. Her husband had died by then, and Stevens had become close friends with Wingu Tingima. Tingima had already established herself as an artist in Irrunytju. The two women began to paint for Nyapaṟi's local community art centre, Tjungu Palya, after it was opened in 2006. They often painted alongside one another, sharing creative ideas and travelling to their exhibitions together. Eileen's daughter, Yaritja Stevens, was married to Tingima's son; and the two shared grandchildren. As the success of their art increased, they became the main providers of income for their combined families.
Stevens had a short career of less than four years. However, her art had immediate success. Her early works – those before Tjungu Palya – were shown in group exhibitions in Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney and Alice Springs. Her first (and only) solo exhibition was held in October 2007, less than a year before her death. The exhibition, called ": One Woman", was held at the Vivien Anderson Gallery in Melbourne.
Stevens died on 19 February 2008, at Ernabella. Her funeral was held in Kaltjiti. Her paintings continued to be featured in many other exhibitions alongside other Tjungu Palya artists, even after her death. Stevens' work is held in the National Gallery of Victoria, the Art Gallery of South Australia, the Art Gallery of Western Australia, and the National Gallery of Australia.
Stevens' art focused on her family's Dreaming (a kind of spirituality). Makiri, where she was born, is a sacred place for Aṉangu women. In her paintings, Stevens depicted the Dreaming associated with this place, the '. She also painted stories about Piltati, near her husband's birthplace, which is closely related to the Two Snake Men Dreaming ('). The paintings featured in her solo show in Melbourne were all related to this particular Dreaming.
Stevens' style was described as bold and dominating. She was said to paint quickly, with a rich mixture of colours, and her paintings were done on large canvases.

</doc>
<doc id="371947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371947" title="Category:Wetlands">
Category:Wetlands


</doc>
<doc id="371954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371954" title="Fen">
Fen

A fen is one of the four main types of wetland, and is usually fed by mineral-rich surface water or groundwater. Fens have neutral or alkaline water, with relatively high dissolved mineral levels but few other plant nutrients. They are usually dominated by grasses and sedges, and typically have brown mosses in general including "Scorpidium" or "Drepanocladus". Fens often have a high diversity of other plant species including carnivorous plants such as "Pinguicula". They may also occur along large lakes and rivers where seasonal changes in water level maintain wet soils with few woody plants. The distribution of individual species of fen plants is often closely connected to water regimes and nutrient concentrations.
Fens have a characteristic set of plant species, which sometimes provide the best indicators of environmental conditions. They are called "fen indicator species".
Fens are distinguished from bogs, which are acidic, low in minerals, and usually dominated by sedges and shrubs, with abundant "Sphagnum" mosses.
Fens have been damaged in the past by land drainage, and also by peat cutting. Some are now being carefully restored with modern management methods. The principal challenges are to restore natural water flow regimes, to maintain the quality of water, and to prevent invasion by woody plants.

</doc>
<doc id="371957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371957" title="Armin van Buuren">
Armin van Buuren

Armin van Buuren (born 25 December 1976) is a disc jockey from the Netherlands. He is the number one ranked DJ. He has won DJ Magazine's Top 100 DJs fan poll a record of 5 times. He won it 4 years in a row (2007-2010) and again in 2012. Since 2001, Van Buuren has hosted a weekly radio show called "A State of Trance". The program says about 25 million people in 26 countries listen to it each week. This fact would make it one of the most listened-to radio programs in the world. 

</doc>
<doc id="371958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371958" title="The Mindy Project">
The Mindy Project

The Mindy Project is an American comedy television show on FOX. It stars Mindy Kaling as Mindy Lahiri, a obstetrician-gynecologist in New York City.

</doc>
<doc id="371959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371959" title="Wishbone">
Wishbone

Wishbone was an American children's television show on PBS.

</doc>
<doc id="371960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371960" title="Bog">
Bog

A bog is a wetland where peat builds up. Peat is layers of dead plant material—often mosses, in most cases, "Sphagnum" moss. It is one of the four main types of wetlands. Other names for bogs include mire, quagmire and muskeg.
Frequently, as the illustration on the right shows, they are covered in Ericaceous shrubs rooted in the Sphagnum moss and peat. The gradual buildup of decayed plant material in a bog forms a carbon sink.
Bogs occur where the water at the ground surface is acidic and low in nutrients. In some cases, the water is got entirely from precipitation, in which case they are (rain-fed). Water flowing out of bogs has a characteristic brown colour, which comes from dissolved peat tannins.
In general the low fertility and cool climate results in relatively slow plant growth, but decay is even slower because of the saturated soil. So, the amount of peat increases. Large areas of landscape can be covered many meters deep in peat. Bogs have a distinctive group of plant and animal species, and are of high importance for biodiversity, particularly in landscapes that are otherwise settled and farmed.
The world's largest peat bog is in the Congo (Brazzaville). It is as big as England. The bog covers between 100,000 and 200,000 square kilometres (40,000 to 80,000 sq miles), with the peat layer reaching up to 7m (23) beneath the ground. It holds billions of tonnes of partially decayed vegetation.

</doc>
<doc id="371985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371985" title="Reflexive relation">
Reflexive relation

A relation is said to be reflexive when for all members of the relations R, x=x.
For example, for the set A, which only includes the ordered pair (1,1). The relation is reflexive as 1=1.

</doc>
<doc id="371986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371986" title="List of Wikipedias">
List of Wikipedias

This is a list of many of the different language editions of Wikipedia; as of August 2012, there are 285 Wikipedias. For their number of articles, see the .
Each Wikipedia has a code, which is used as a subdomain below wikipedia.org. Interlanguage links are sorted by that code.
The codes represent the language codes defined by ISO 639-1 and ISO 639-3, and the decision of which language code to use is usually determined by the IETF language tag policy.
One code is not a language code ('be-x-old') but refers to a specific orthography.
Some deviations include:
Size is given in decadic logarithm of number of articles. '6' means more than 1 000 000, '5' more than 100 000, '4' more than 10 000.

</doc>
<doc id="371998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371998" title="Jagannath Temple, Pabna">
Jagannath Temple, Pabna

Jagannath Temple is a Hindu temple in the Pabna district of the Rajshahi Division of Bangladesh. It is dedicated to the god Jagannath. It is also known locally known as the Handial Mandir.
The temple was built between 1300 to 1400 CE. The temple is famous for its terracotta sculptures, and has been described as one of the most beautiful Hindu temples in Northern Bangladesh. The temple is incurring damage by high salinity from the soil it is built on.

</doc>
<doc id="372000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372000" title="Category:British soap operas">
Category:British soap operas


</doc>
<doc id="372007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372007" title="Kal Bhairab Temple, Brahmanbaria">
Kal Bhairab Temple, Brahmanbaria

Kal Bhairab Temple is a Hindu temple, dedicated to the god Shiva, in the Chittagong division of Bangladesh. The temple is famous for the large linga. It is supposed to be the largest in the world. The goddess Kali is also worshipped there.
The temple dates back to the 19th century. It was damaged by Pakistani soldiers during the Bangladesh Liberation War.

</doc>
<doc id="372012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372012" title="Category:People from Portsmouth">
Category:People from Portsmouth


</doc>
<doc id="372014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372014" title="Category:People from Southampton">
Category:People from Southampton


</doc>
<doc id="372042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372042" title="Androgen">
Androgen

Androgen, is a group of male sex hormones made by the testes. They control and stimulate development of male characteristics in vertebrates. The main hormone is testosterone.

</doc>
<doc id="372043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372043" title="Category:People from Basingstoke">
Category:People from Basingstoke


</doc>
<doc id="372046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372046" title="Category:People from Northampton">
Category:People from Northampton


</doc>
<doc id="372047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372047" title="Category:Northampton">
Category:Northampton


</doc>
<doc id="372048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372048" title="Category:People from Coventry">
Category:People from Coventry


</doc>
<doc id="372049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372049" title="Category:Coventry">
Category:Coventry


</doc>
<doc id="372057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372057" title="BeOS">
BeOS

BeOS was an operating system made by Be Inc. and designed for multimedia and personal desktop use. It made good use of multiprocessor technology. Palm, Inc. bought Be Inc. in 2001 and new versions of BeOS were not made.

</doc>
<doc id="372058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372058" title="Coccus">
Coccus

A coccus (plural of cocci) is a bacterium that is shaped like a sphere or circle. Cocci are one of the three types of bacteria shapes. The word coccus comes from the Greek word "kokkos", or "berry".
Some examples of cocci are Abiotrophia, Enterococcus, Neisseria, Staphylococcus, and Streptococcus.

</doc>
<doc id="372060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372060" title="Spirillum">
Spirillum

Spirillum (plural Spirilla) is any bacterium that is shaped like a spiral. It is one of the three shapes of bacteria. The other two are Coccus and Bacillus.
Spirillum is also the name of a genus of Gram-negative bacteria in the family Spirillaceae. The two species in the "Spirillum" genus are "Spirillum minus" and "Spirillum pulli".

</doc>
<doc id="372064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372064" title="Great Chicago Fire">
Great Chicago Fire

The Great Chicago Fire was a large fire that started on Sunday October 8, 1871 in Chicago, Illinois, United States. The fire started out as nine separated fires. It burned until Tuesday October 10, 1871 when rain started to fall. 
The fire destroyed and $192,000,000 in property. About 100,000 people were left homeless. Three hundred people died. Because of a large fire the night before, firefighters were too tired to quickly put out these fires.
No one is sure what caused the fire. A legend says that it started when a cow knocked over a lantern in Catherine O'Leary's barn on De Koven Street. 
The oldest structure left standing in the area where the fire burned is the Couch family tomb. This stone tomb was built in 1858. 
Not all of the city was destroyed. Important places like the Stock Yards, where animals were slaughtered, were not damaged. Neither was the railroad system.
The second red star of the Chicago flag represents the fire.

</doc>
<doc id="372066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372066" title="Chicago Loop">
Chicago Loop

The Loop or Chicago Loop is one of 77 officially designated community areas in the City of Chicago, Illinois, United States. It is the historic commercial center of downtown Chicago. It is the seat of government for Chicago and Cook County, as well as the historic theater and shopping district.
As established in social research done by the University of Chicago in the 1920s, the Loop is a defined community area of Chicago. Chicago's central business district community area is bounded on the west and north by the Chicago River, on the east by Lake Michigan, and on the south by Roosevelt Road. But the commercial core has grown into adjacent community areas.
The community area includes Grant Park and one of the largest art museums in the United States, the Art Institute of Chicago. Other major cultural institutions here include the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, the Lyric Opera of Chicago, the Goodman Theatre, the Joffrey Ballet, the Cloud Gate, the Willis Tower, the Chicago Board of Trade Building, the central public Harold Washington Library, and the Chicago Cultural Center.
In what is now the Loop Community Area, on the southern banks of the Chicago River, near today's Michigan Avenue Bridge, the U.S. Army erected Fort Dearborn in 1803. It was the first settlement in the area sponsored by the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="372068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372068" title="Category:History of Chicago">
Category:History of Chicago

The History of Chicago, Illinois.

</doc>
<doc id="372069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372069" title="Vermin Supreme">
Vermin Supreme

Vermin Love Supreme (born June 1961) is an American politician, artist, anarchist, and activist who ran for president in 2004, 2008, and in 2012. He made promises that to give a pony to all Americans, to have a Zombie-Apocalypse, and to have time travel research. He said the he will pass a law to order everyone to brush their teeth.
Supreme was born on June 1961 in Rockport, Massachusetts. He was raised in Baltimore, Maryland and in Boston, Massachusetts. Supreme studied at Gloucester High School.

</doc>
<doc id="372073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372073" title="Ngupulya Pumani">
Ngupulya Pumani

Ngupulya Pumani (born 1948 in Mimili) is an Australian Aboriginal artist from Mimili, in the north-west of South Australia. She is part of a well-known family of artists, who belong to the Yankunytjatjara community. Her mother, Milatjari, and her sister, Betty Kuntiwa, are both successful painters. Ngupulya has paintings held in the National Gallery of Victoria, and the Art Gallery of New South Wales.
Ngupulya began painting in 2009, for Mimili's community art co-operative, Mimili Maku. She had been inspired to paint by her mother. Her first major exhibition was later that year in Alice Springs, at the annual "Desert Mob" show. Since then, her paintings have been exhibited in several cities around Australia, including twice at the Gallery Gabriella Pizzi in Melbourne.
Ngupulya's paintings depict scenes and concepts from her family's Dreaming. Her mother's "ngura" (homeland) is Antara, and her father's is near Watarru. Antara is a sacred place associated with the (Witchetty Grub Dreaming), and Ngupulya most often paints stories from this Dreaming.
She uses pale, earthy colours in her backgrounds to depict the desert landscape, and this is contrasted with patterns of intense, bright dots and lines to represent symbols, figures and their journeys. Many of her techniques were taken from her mother, but used more consistently with her own refinements. The results have been compared to the early works of Emily Kngwarreye.

</doc>
<doc id="372074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372074" title="Meat ant">
Meat ant

The meat ant ("Iridomyrmex purpureus"), also called the meat-eater ant, is a species of ant found all around Australia. The ants are often used by farmers to clean the remaining meat off dead animals.

</doc>
<doc id="372083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372083" title="Smoked fish">
Smoked fish

Smoked fish are fish that have been cured by smoking.
Foods have been smoked by humans throughout history. At first this was done as a preservative. Now the smoking of fish is generally done for the unique taste and flavour that comes from the smoking process.
The most common types of smoked fish in the US are salmon, mackerel, whitefish and trout. A common name for cold-smoked salmon is lox.
In the Netherlands, commonly available varieties include both hot- and cold-smoked mackerel, herring and Baltic sprats. Hot-smoked eel is a specialty in the Northern provinces. 
Smoked fish is an important item in Russian cuisine, Jewish cuisine, and Scandinavian cuisine, as well as several Eastern and Central European cuisines.
English, Scottish and Canadian cuisine have a strongly brined, smoked herring that used to be known as "red herring". Now it is called kippers.

</doc>
<doc id="372087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372087" title="Thandiani">
Thandiani

Thandiani (meaning 'Very Cold') is a hill station, or resort in the Galyat hill area of Abbottabad District, Hazara, Pakistan. 
Thandiani was originally granted as a leasehold to some members of the famous Battye family in British India. They were Christian missionaries and soldiers who fought in many famous military campiagns of the British Indian Army. They gifted the location to the church authorities, where a Sanatorium and various other facilities were set up, mostly for the convenience of missionaries, Anglican church personnel and officers stationed at the neighbouring cantonment of Abbottabad. It also contained some private European houses, a camping ground, a small bazaar, and the small seasonal church of St Xavier in the Wilderness (under the jurisdiction of St Luke's Church, Abbottabad) which were occupied only during the summers.
Thandiani is located in the south of Abbottabad District at 34°13'60N 73°22'0E and is about 31 kilometres from Abbottabad city in the foothills of the Himalayas. To the east beyond the Kunhar River lies the fabulous snow covered Pir Panjal Range of mountains of Kashmir.The hills of Thandiani are about 9,000 feet above sea level. Most of the people of residing here belong to the Qureshi, Gujar, and Karlal tribes.
Thandiani has excellent weather and lush greenery in the summer months, and snow-covered views and hills in the winter. Many tourists from all over Pakistan visit here, especially in the summer season. 
The mountains around Thandiani are still quite thickly forested, compared to most other hill stations in the locality, which have suffered deforestation. The local wildlife includes leopards, deer, monkeys, several kinds of pheasants, the Marbled polecat and the increasingly rare Flying squirrel and a species of Pine Marten.

</doc>
<doc id="372088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372088" title="Yuri Maltsev">
Yuri Maltsev

Yuri Nicholas Maltsev () is an Austrian school economist and economic historian from Tartarstan. Of Tartar origin, he is Professor of Economics at the Carthage College in Wisconsin and is a Senior Fellow of the Ludwig von Mises Institute in Auburn, Alabama. He has been a consultant for Chase Manhattan Bank and other companies on political and economic changes in Central and Eastern Europe. He also edited "Requiem for Marx".

</doc>
<doc id="372090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372090" title="Abdul Qayyum Khan">
Abdul Qayyum Khan

Sahibzada Sir Abdul Qayyum Khan (1863 – December 1937) was a distinguished Pashtun educationist and politician of British India. He is best known for establishing the famous Islamia College, Peshawar, along the lines of Sir Syed Ahmed Khan's policy of educating Muslims. He also briefly remained Chief Minister of the NWFP province during 1936-1937. 

</doc>
<doc id="372092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372092" title="Marbled polecat">
Marbled polecat

The marbled polecat (Vormela peregusna) is a small mammal in the Mustelinae subfamily.
The marbled polecat is found in grasslands from southeast Europe to Asia. It is found in Russia, China, Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan, north-western Pakistan, northern India, Mongolia and Kazakhstan. Like other mustelines, if threatened it puts out a disgusting strong-smelling secretion from anal sacs under its tail.

</doc>
<doc id="372108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372108" title="Hasan Abdal">
Hasan Abdal

Hasan Abdal is an historic town in Northern Punjab, Pakistan. It is famous for the old Gurdwara "Sri Panja Sahib" shrine there, one of the most sacred places of Sikhism. 

</doc>
<doc id="372122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372122" title="Infrared spectroscopy">
Infrared spectroscopy

Infrared spectroscopy (sometimes called Infrared spectrometry) is a physical analysis method that uses infrared light. Typically, infrared spectroscopy uses a wavelength between 800nm and 1mm. The method can be used for quantitative analyses of unknown substances, or of the structural properties of known substances. Raman spectroscopy is another method that produces similar results. The main method used in infrared spectroscopy today is Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, which uses Fourier transforms.
Infrared vibrational spectroscopy]] can be used to identify molecules by listing their chemical bonds. An IR spectrometer is a machine that shines infrared light from a set range of frequencies on a sample. It measures which exact light frequencies are absorbed by the sample. 
Each chemical bond in a molecule vibrates at a frequency which is characteristic of that bond. A group of atoms in a molecule may have multiple modes of oscillation caused by the stretching and bending motions of the group as a whole. If an oscillation leads to a change in dipole in the molecule, then it will absorb a photon which has the same frequency. The vibrational frequencies of most molecules correspond to the frequencies of infrared light. Typically, the technique is used to study organic compounds using light radiation from 4000–400 cm, the mid-infrared. The spectrometer records all the frequencies of absorption in a sample. This can be used to gain information about the sample composition in terms of chemical groups present and also its purity (for example a wet sample will show a broad O-H absorption around 3200 cm).

</doc>
<doc id="372131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372131" title="Iwa jinja">
Iwa jinja

"Iwa jinja" was the chief Shinto shrine ("ichinomiya") of the old Harima Province. It serves today as one of the "ichinomiya" of Hyōgo Prefecture. 

</doc>
<doc id="372179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372179" title="Judah Maccabee">
Judah Maccabee

Judah Maccabee was a Jewish patriot who led a Jewish rebellion (the Maccabees) against the Seleucid Empire. Judah opposed the Seleucid Emperor's attempts to suppress traditional Jewish culture and make the Jewish people more Greek-like. He liberated Jerusalem, removed Greek idols from the Temple, and rededicated the Temple to the Jewish God. Judah died in combat, but the rebellion that he had led did not stop. The rebellion's success led to the reestablishment of the kingdom of Judah.

</doc>
<doc id="372189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372189" title="Category:Orders, decorations, and medals of the United States">
Category:Orders, decorations, and medals of the United States


</doc>
<doc id="372200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372200" title="Milatjari Pumani">
Milatjari Pumani

Milatjari Pumani (born 1928) is an Aboriginal Australian artist from Mimili in South Australia. She is perhaps the most well-known artist from this community, and the first to gain a significant level of success for the community's centre, Mimili Maku. Her eldest daughter, Ngupulya, is also a successful painter.
Milatjari was born in 1928, in the bush in north-western South Australia. She was born at Amuroona, on a cattle station between what are now the communities of Indulkana and Mimili. When she was a young girl, her family encountered stockmen at a waterhole called Victory Well. The family then moved to settle and work at the station, then called Everard Park. Milatjari's father was Nyapi "King" Everard and her mother was Mantjangka Everard (Everard was the surname given to them). Milatjari met her husband Sam Pumani in Mimili, and they had five children together: Ngupulya, Betty, Ken, Michael and Lewey.
Before artists began to paint at Mimili, Milatjari produced traditional pokerwork designs on wooden blocks. She would teach her methods to younger workers. She did not begin painting until 2008, when she was about 80 years old. She painted for the community's art centre, Mimili Maku. Her works from 2008 were featured in Alice Springs later that year, at the annual "Desert Mob" exhibition. She was featured in the same exhibition again in 2009 and 2010, and on both occasions she was considered the most successful Mimili artist. She had a solo exhibition in 2009, which was held in Adelaide. In 2010 and 2011, she was chosen as a finalist for the National Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander Art Award. One of her paintings was bought by the Art Gallery of South Australia, and several others are held in the National Gallery of Victoria.
Milatjari paints the "Maku Tjukurpa", which is the Dreaming (spirituality) associated with the land around Mimili. Antara, close to Mimili, is a place represented in almost all her paintings. It is her uncle's traditional country, and Milatjari's family would often go hunting and gathering food here when she was young. She and her mother and sister would dig for witchetty grubs ("maku") while her father and brothers went hunting. "Antara" and "Ngura Walytja" (family's country) are common titles for her paintings.
Milatjari uses earthy colours on a dark background to depict the landscape of Antara. She paints figures and stories from the "Maku Tjukurpa" using fields of dots. Her style and technique has influenced those of many of Mimili Maku's younger artists, including her daughter Ngupulya and Tuppy Ngintja Goodwin.

</doc>
<doc id="372201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372201" title="Gulgee">
Gulgee

Ismail Gulgee (commonly known as just Gulgee) (October 25, 1926 – December 16, 2007), was a famous Pakistani artist born in Peshawar. 
He was a qualified engineer from the USA and a self-taught abstract artist and portrait painter. Exhibitions of his work were held in many countries around the world, including the UK, USA, Iran, UAE, France and others.

</doc>
<doc id="372204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372204" title="Jahangir">
Jahangir

Nuruddin Muhammad Jahangir (birth name was "Shahzada" /Prince Salim or Selim) (20 September 1569 – 8 November 1627) was the fourth Mughal Emperor from 1605 to 1627.
Jahangir was the eldest son of Emperor Akbar the Great. He was married to Queen Nur Jahan ('Light of the World') and was much under her influence. He is especially well-known because of his memoirs, the "Tuzk-i-Jahangiri" (also called the "Jahangir-nameh" by some).
He died on his way back from kashmir. After his death Nur Jahan isolated herself and never talked to anyone.
He is buried at Shah Dara outside Lahore city, now in Pakistan. He was succeeded by his son Shah Jahan
military campaigns started by akbar continued.

</doc>
<doc id="372205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372205" title="Shah Jahan">
Shah Jahan

Shahabuddin Muhammad Shah Jahan (also spelled Shah Jahan, Shahjahan, , , real birth name Prince 'Khurram'; January 5, 1592 – January 22, 1666) was Mughal emperor in India from 1628 until 1658. He was the fifth ruler of the Mughal dynasty. 
The period of his reign is considered as the golden age of Mughal art and architecture. Shah Jahan is best known for erecting many splendid monuments, the most famous of which in all the world, is the Taj Mahal at Agra, built in 1632–1648 as a tomb for his beloved wife, Mumtaz Mahal. 

</doc>
<doc id="372222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372222" title="Shah Dara">
Shah Dara

Shah Dara or Shahdara or Shahdara Bagh (Urdu: شاہدره), is a suburb of Lahore, Pakistan. It is near the Ravi River. 
The area is famous for two historic Mughal architectural sites. These are the Mughal gardens and the Tomb of Jahangir, the Mughal Emperor and his wife Nur Jahan. Shah Dara also has other tombs and gardens from medieval times. 
Present day Shahdara is a busy area with a market and factories nearby. 

</doc>
<doc id="372228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372228" title="Shakir Ali">
Shakir Ali

Shakir Ali (1914–1975) was a famous modern Pakistani artist and art teacher. 
He was the principal of the National College of Arts in Lahore, Pakistan, from 1962 onwards for a long time and did much to develop and modernise this institution. He had a huge following of students, many of whom also later became well-known artists in Pakistan. 
Before he died, Shakir Ali donated many of his own paintings and artworks to a private, non-profit trust for a museum to be established. The Shakir Ali Museum was established by the Pakistan National Council of the Arts (PNCA) after Shakir Ali died in 1975. The PNCA decided on a plan of buying the house of teacher and painter Shakir Ali, and of converting into a museum.
The museum is in Lahore. It is a fine museum with a good art collection and is a very useful learning site for art students and teachers. PNCA is in charge of the museums exhibitions and programs and the day-to-day management.
Some of his other paintings can also be seen at the Lahore Museum.

</doc>
<doc id="372236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372236" title="Sher Shah Suri">
Sher Shah Suri

Sher Shah Suri (1486 – 1545) (birth name Farid Khan, but also known as Sher Khan), was the founder of the short-lived Pashtun Suri, or Sur, kingdom in the Indian subcontinent, with its capital at Delhi. 
Farid Khan was a talented, bold and dynamic soldier who rebelled against the Mughal Empire and overthrew the government of the Emperor Humayun in 1540, and ruled instead until his death in 1545. On taking the throne he took the title 'Sher Shah'. His son and followers could not keep long control of the kingdom and in 1555 the Mughal Humayun was reinstated. 
Sher Shah Suri defeated the Mughal ruler Humayun twice and captured Delhi. Soon after becoming king Sher Shah Suri raised a large army and captured Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. 
Sher Shah was a good general and administrator. He introduced a new currency, a silver coin known as 'Rupia'. He reduced custom duties and built an excellent connection of roads, including Grand Trunk Road in Bihar. Sher Shah was a secular ruler who practised tolerance and welfare.
Sher Shah Suri was succeeded by Islam Shah. Humayun defeated Islam Shah in 1555, and ended the Sur dynasty.

</doc>
<doc id="372244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372244" title="Category:United States Army Medal of Honor recipients">
Category:United States Army Medal of Honor recipients


</doc>
<doc id="372245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372245" title="Category:United States Navy Medal of Honor recipients">
Category:United States Navy Medal of Honor recipients


</doc>
<doc id="372246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372246" title="Khattak">
Khattak

The Khattak (not to be confused with the Punjabi Khattars) are a tribe of Pashtuns of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, Pakistan. They are a large tribe, and spread out over various places from Akora Khattak, on the banks of the Indus River, to Malakand District and Karak District of the above province. 
A colony of the Khattaks are also settled at Saghri village, Jand Tehsil, Attock District of Punjab (Pakistan). 
The famous Pashto language poet of the 17th century AD, Khushal Khan Khattak, also belonged to this tribe.

</doc>
<doc id="372248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372248" title="Khushal Khan Khattak">
Khushal Khan Khattak

Khushal Khan Khattak (1613–1689), was a famous Pashtun poet, warrior and tribal chieftain of the Khattak tribe of Pashtuns.He lived at Akora Khattak, a village on the Indus River, in India under the Mughal Empire. 
He wrote many Pashto language poems during the 17th century. Some of his poetry is of a Romantic type but most is nationalistic, advising the various Pashtun tribes to unite as one nation against the Mughals.

</doc>
<doc id="372249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372249" title="Category:1613 births">
Category:1613 births


</doc>
<doc id="372253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372253" title="Kulgam">
Kulgam

Kulgam () is unit part of Anantnag District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

</doc>
<doc id="372265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372265" title="Category:People from Oxford">
Category:People from Oxford


</doc>
<doc id="372268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372268" title="Category:Oxford">
Category:Oxford


</doc>
<doc id="372269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372269" title="Category:People from Bedford">
Category:People from Bedford


</doc>
<doc id="372271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372271" title="Bethesda Softworks">
Bethesda Softworks

Bethesda Softworks is an American video-games company. It was founded in the city of Bethesda, Maryland, but the headquarters are in Rockville, Maryland.
Bethesda Softworks created its first video game in 1989, named "Gridiron". From this game, they got a contract to make more popular games such as "Terminator" and the "Wayne Gretzki" series. A few games made by Bethesda won the Game of the Year Award, such as Fallout and "The Elder Scrolls" series. This second series consisted of 6 games: "Arena", "Daggerfall", "Redguard", "Morrowind", "Oblivion" and "Skyrim".
Bethesda Game Studios (BGS) is the award-winning, in-house development team at Bethesda Softworks led by game director and executive producer Todd Howard.
In the past, not all BGS titles were published by the Softworks division. However, beginning with "" for the PlayStation 3, Bethesda Softworks began publishing all Bethesda Game Studios games.

</doc>
<doc id="372273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372273" title="2012 NATO Summit in Chicago">
2012 NATO Summit in Chicago

The 2012 Chicago Summit was a meeting of leaders of countries that are members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. It was held at McCormick Place in Chicago, Illinois from May 20-21, 2012.
This was the first NATO summit in the United States that was not in Washington, D.C. Chicago was chosen because it was President Barack Obama's home town. It was going to happen after the 2012 G8 summit in Chicago. The G8 summit was held at Camp David instead.
People at the summit talked about the Arab Spring, the 2011 Libyan civil war, the global financial crisis, transition for NATO forces in Afghanistan, and a missile shield system for Europe.
The summit cost the city of Chicago almost $15.6 million.
At least 38 countries around the world came to the summit. After the summit, Chicago's security system was improved.

</doc>
<doc id="372274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372274" title="1968 Democratic National Convention">
1968 Democratic National Convention

The 1968 Democratic National Convention of the U.S. Democratic Party was held at the International Amphitheatre in Chicago, Illinois, from August 26 to August 29, 1968. Because President Lyndon B. Johnson had announced he would not seek reelection, the reason of the convention was to select a new presidential nominee to run as the Democratic Party’s candidate for the office. The keynote speaker was Senator Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii). 
Vice President Hubert Humphrey and Senator Edmund S. Muskie of Maine, were nominated for President and Vice President.
The convention was held during a year of violence, political turbulence, and civil unrest, particularly riots in more than 100 cities following the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. on April 4. The convention also followed the assassination of Democratic presidential hopeful Senator Robert F. Kennedy of New York, who had been murdered on June 5. Both Kennedy and Senator Eugene McCarthy of Minnesota had been running against the eventual Democratic presidential nominee, Vice President Hubert Humphrey. Another candidate was Senator of South Dakota George McGovern.
Chicago's mayor, Richard J. Daley, intended to showcase his and the city's achievements to national Democrats and the news media. Instead, the proceedings became notorious for the large number of demonstrators and the use of force by the Chicago police during what was supposed to be, in the words of the Yippie activist organizers, “A Festival of Life.” Rioting and protesting took place between demonstrators and the Chicago Police Department, who were assisted by the Illinois National Guard. The disturbances were well publicized by the mass media, with some journalists and reporters being caught up in the violence. Network newsmen Mike Wallace and Dan Rather were both roughed up by the Chicago police while inside the halls of the Democratic Convention.

</doc>
<doc id="372291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372291" title="Sereno Peck Fenn">
Sereno Peck Fenn

Sereno Peck Fenn (April 25, 1844 – January 3, 1927) was an American businessman. He was one of three main people who started the Sherwin-Williams Company. Fenn College was named after him in 1930. A gift of $100,000 was left to Fenn College. It is now called Cleveland State University. He is buried in Lake View Cemetery. Fenn was also president of the Cleveland YMCA for 25 years. He founded the YMCA building in Cracow, 8th Street Krowoderska, Poland.

</doc>
<doc id="372296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372296" title="John Andrews">
John Andrews

John Andrews (born 1821) was a United States Navy sailor. He received the Medal of Honor because of his actions in the Korean Expedition.
Andrews' Medal of Honor recognized his conduct in action against Korean forts in June 1871. At the front of his a small boat, he measured the depth of shallow waters while under a heavy fire.
The words of Andrews' citation explain:
On board the "USS Benicia" in action against Korean forts on 9 and 10 June 1871. Stationed at the lead in passing the forts, Andrews stood on the on the "Benicia"'s launch, lashed to the ridgerope. He remained unflinchingly in this dangerous position and gave his s with coolness and accuracy under a heavy fire.

</doc>
<doc id="372304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372304" title="Category:Nationalism">
Category:Nationalism


</doc>
<doc id="372305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372305" title="Category:Origin hypotheses of ethnic groups">
Category:Origin hypotheses of ethnic groups


</doc>
<doc id="372306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372306" title="Category:Ethnicity">
Category:Ethnicity


</doc>
<doc id="372307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372307" title="Category:Ethnocentrism">
Category:Ethnocentrism


</doc>
<doc id="372308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372308" title="Government College University">
Government College University

Government College University, Lahore (formerly Government College, abbreviated GCU) is a co-ed public university located in Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan. 
The original College was opened during the British Raj on 1 January 1864, and is thus one of the oldest higher educational institutes in the country. Its first principal was Professor Dr Gottlieb Wilhelm Leitner. 
It was later affiliated to the University of the Punjab but in 2002 was given a separate charter as a university, itself. 

</doc>
<doc id="372309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372309" title="Category:Wars of independence">
Category:Wars of independence


</doc>
<doc id="372310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372310" title="Kinnaird College for Women">
Kinnaird College for Women

Kinnaird College for Women is a women's-only college in Lahore, Punjab (Pakistan). It was founded in 1913 by Christian missionaries during the British Raj.
The college is the oldest full-fledged women's college in Pakistan and is now a semi-government institute recognized by the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan. The early students were mostly Christian. Now most of the students are Muslims.

</doc>
<doc id="372311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372311" title="Category:National symbols">
Category:National symbols


</doc>
<doc id="372312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372312" title="Gawalmandi Food Street">
Gawalmandi Food Street

Food Street in Gawalmandi, Lahore, is a centre of traditional Pakistani food. It is located near the old walled part of the city and is surrounded by centuries-old buildings.
The food street is open to traffic in the morning but is closed to motorized vehicles at sunset. Visitors come and stay till very late at night, enjoying some of the best local food available in the country. 
It is one of the unique tourist attractions in Lahore. It is open 24/7, except during the holy Muslim month of Ramadan when food is not served during the day. 

</doc>
<doc id="372313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372313" title="Category:National personifications">
Category:National personifications


</doc>
<doc id="372315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372315" title="Category:Nationalist organizations">
Category:Nationalist organizations


</doc>
<doc id="372316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372316" title="Fakir Khana">
Fakir Khana

The Fakir Khana is a private museum owned and run by the Fakir Family of Lahore, Punjab (Pakistan). It is in Bhaati Gate, a section of the old Walled city of Lahore. It contains many valuable art treasures such as old manuscripts, paintings, carpets, Mughal valuables, Chinese porcelain, arms and weapons, furniture and much more. 

</doc>
<doc id="372317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372317" title="Nur Jahan">
Nur Jahan

Begum Nur Jahan (also Noor Jahan, Nur Jehan, Nor Jahan, etc.) (1577–1645), also known as Mehr-un-Nisaa Khanam, was a Mughal Empress and wife of the Emperor Jahangir. She was also an aunt of the later Empress Mumtaz Mahal. 
She is buried in Shah Dara, near Lahore, Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="372319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372319" title="Category:Immigration">
Category:Immigration


</doc>
<doc id="372324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372324" title="Category:Territorial disputes">
Category:Territorial disputes


</doc>
<doc id="372325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372325" title="Gottlieb Wilhelm Leitner">
Gottlieb Wilhelm Leitner

Professor Dr. Gottlieb Wilhelm Leitner or Gottlieb William Leitner (14 October 1840 – 22 March 1899) was a British orientalist of Hungarian roots.
From a very early age, he was a brilliant linguist. He is said to have learnt some fifty languages by the age of eighteen, many of which he spoke fluently. At nineteen, he became lecturer in Arabic, Turkish and Modern Greek. At twenty-three, he was appointed Professor in Arabic and Muslim studies, at the King's College London. 
In 1864, he was asked to become Principal of the new Government College Lahore in British India (now in Pakistan) and he accepted and went there. In 1882 he succeeded in helping establish the University of the Punjab. He dedicated himself fully to the study of the cultures of the Indian subcontinent. During this period he also helped establish many schools, libraries and literary associations in the Punjab region. He also travelled to a number of remote places such as Dardistan and Baltistan, and wrote several books.
He retired from educational service in India in 1886.

</doc>
<doc id="372351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372351" title="List of civil parishes in Essex">
List of civil parishes in Essex

This is a list of civil parishes in Essex, England.
Billericay, Great Burstead and South Green, Little Burstead, Noak Bridge, Ramsden Bellhouse, Ramsden Crays.
Alphamstone, Ashen, Bardfield Saling, Belchamp Otten, Belchamp St. Paul, Belchamp Walter, Birdbrook, Black Notley, Borley, Bradwell, Bulmer, Bures Hamlet, Castle Hedingham, Coggeshall, Colne Engaine, Cressing, Earls Colne, Fairstead, Faulkbourne, Feering, Finchingfield, Foxearth, Gestingthorpe, Gosfield, Great Bardfield, Great Henny, Great Maplestead, Great Notley, Great Saling, Great Yeldham, Greenstead Green and Halstead Rural, Halstead, Hatfield Peverel, Helions Bumpstead, Kelvedon, Lamarsh, Liston, Little Henny, Little Maplestead, Little Yeldham, Middleton, Ovington, Panfield, Pebmarsh, Pentlow, Rayne, Ridgewell, Rivenhall, Shalford, Sible Hedingham, Silver End, Stambourne, Steeple Bumpstead, Stisted, Sturmer, Terling, Tilbury Juxta Clare, Toppesfield, Twinstead, Wethersfield, White Colne, White Notley, Wickham St. Paul, Witham.
Blackmore, Hook End and Wyatts Green, Doddinghurst, Herongate and Ingrave, Ingatestone and Fryerning, Kelvedon Hatch, Mountnessing, Navestock, Stondon Massey, West Horndon.
Boreham, Broomfield, Chignall, Danbury, East Hanningfield, Galleywood, Good Easter, Great and Little Leighs, Great Baddow, Great Waltham, Highwood, Little Baddow, Little Waltham, Margaretting, Mashbury, Pleshey, Rettendon, Roxwell, Runwell, Sandon, South Hanningfield, South Woodham Ferrers, Springfield, Stock, West Hanningfield, Woodham Ferrers and Bicknacre, Writtle.
Abberton, Aldham, Birch, Boxted, Chappel, Copford, Dedham, East Donyland, East Mersea, Eight Ash Green, Fingringhoe, Fordham, Great and Little Wigborough, Great Horkesley, Great Tey, Langenhoe, Langham, Layer Breton, Layer Marney, Layer-de-la-Haye, Little Horkesley, Marks Tey, Messing-cum-Inworth, Mount Bures, Myland, Peldon, Salcott, Stanway, Tiptree, Virley, Wakes Colne, West Bergholt, West Mersea, Wivenhoe, Wormingford.
Abbess Beauchamp and Berners Roding, Bobbingworth, Buckhurst Hill, Chigwell, Epping, Epping Upland, Fyfield, High Laver, High Ongar, Lambourne, Little Laver, Loughton, Magdalen Laver, Matching, Moreton, Nazeing, North Weald Bassett, Ongar, Roydon, Sheering, Stanford Rivers, Stapleford Abbotts, Stapleford Tawney, Theydon Bois, Theydon Garnon, Theydon Mount, Waltham Abbey, Willingale.
Althorne, Asheldham, Bradwell-on-Sea, Burnham-on-Crouch, Cold Norton, Dengie, Goldhanger, Great Braxted, Great Totham, Hazeleigh, Heybridge, Langford, Latchingdon, Little Braxted, Little Totham, Maldon, Mayland, Mundon, North Fambridge, Purleigh, Southminster, St. Lawrence, Steeple, Stow Maries, Tillingham, Tollesbury, Tolleshunt D'arcy, Tolleshunt Knights, Tolleshunt Major, Ulting, Wickham Bishops, Woodham Mortimer, Woodham Walter.
Ashingdon, Barling Magna, Canewdon, Foulness, Great Wakering, Hawkwell, Hockley, Hullbridge, Paglesham, Rawreth, Rayleigh, Rochford, Stambridge, Sutton.
Alresford, Ardleigh, Beaumont-cum-Moze, Bradfield, Brightlingsea, Elmstead, Frating, Frinton and Walton, Great Bentley, Great Bromley, Great Oakley, Harwich, Lawford, Little Bentley, Little Bromley, Little Clacton, Little Oakley, Manningtree, Mistley, Ramsey and Parkeston, St. Osyth, Tendring, Thorpe-le-Soken, Thorrington, Weeley, Wix, Wrabness.
Arkesden, Ashdon, Aythorpe Roding, Barnston, Berden, Birchanger, Broxted, Chickney, Chrishall, Clavering, Debden, Elmdon, Elsenham, Farnham, Felsted, Great Canfield, Great Chesterford, Great Dunmow, Great Easton, Great Hallingbury, Great Sampford, Hadstock, Hatfield Broad Oak, Hatfield Heath, Hempstead, Henham, High Easter, High Roothing, Langley, Leaden Roding, Lindsell, Little Bardfield, Little Canfield, Little Chesterford, Little Dunmow, Little Easton, Little Hallingbury, Little Sampford, Littlebury, Manuden, Margaret Roding, Newport, Quendon and Rickling, Radwinter, Saffron Walden, Stansted Mountfitchet, Stebbing, Strethall, Takeley, Thaxted, Tilty, Ugley, Wenden Lofts, Wendens Ambo, White Roothing, Wicken Bonhunt, Widdington, Wimbish.

</doc>
<doc id="372352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372352" title="Stansted Mountfitchet">
Stansted Mountfitchet

Stansted Mountfitchet is a village and civil parish in Uttlesford, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 5533 people living in Stansted Mountfitchet.

</doc>
<doc id="372353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372353" title="Chrishall">
Chrishall

Chrishall is a village and civil parish in Uttlesford, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 507 people living in Chrishall. It has a church called Holy Trinity. Other names for Chrishall include Chrisshall, Cresshall, and Cryotissale.

</doc>
<doc id="372354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372354" title="Little Bardfield">
Little Bardfield

Little Bardfield is a village and civil parish in Uttlesford, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 237 people living in Little Bardfield. It has a church called St Katharine. It includes the hamlets of Hawkspur Green and Oxen End.

</doc>
<doc id="372355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372355" title="Great Hallingbury">
Great Hallingbury

Great Hallingbury is a village and civil parish in Uttlesford, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 679 people living in Great Hallingbury. It has a church called St Giles.

</doc>
<doc id="372356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372356" title="Stebbing">
Stebbing

Stebbing is a village and civil parish in Uttlesford, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 1290 people living in Stebbing.

</doc>
<doc id="372358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372358" title="Tilty">
Tilty

Tilty is a village and civil parish in Uttlesford, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 98 people living in Tilty. It has a church called St Mary the Virgin.

</doc>
<doc id="372359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372359" title="Lindsell">
Lindsell

Lindsell is a village and civil parish in Uttlesford, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 220 people living in Lindsell. It has a church called St Mary the Virgin. It includes the hamlets of Holder Green and Bustard Green.

</doc>
<doc id="372365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372365" title="Nemmersdorf massacre">
Nemmersdorf massacre

The Nemmersdorf massacre was an event during World War II in which soldiers of the Red Army killed many civilians. During the war, Nemmersdorf was a village in East Prussia (it is now called Mayakovskoye, in Kaliningrad Oblast). The people living there were ethnic Germans. It was captured by the Red Army in October 1944. On 21 October, the Russian soldiers shot and killed women and children. The total number killed is not known: reports talk of between 50 to 100 people. The event has been labelled a war crime.

</doc>
<doc id="372366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372366" title="Alaska Peninsula">
Alaska Peninsula

The Alaska Peninsula is a peninsula of southwestern Alaska. It is between the Pacific Ocean and the Bering Sea.

</doc>
<doc id="372367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372367" title="King Island, Alaska">
King Island, Alaska

King Island is an island in the Bering Sea, west of Alaska.
In 2005 and 2006 the National Science Foundation (NSF) paid for a research project. They brought a few King Island people back to the Island. Some of the people had not been back in 50 years.
James Cook was the first European to see the island in 1778. He named the island after a person in his group called James King. It is part of the Bering Sea piece of the Alaska Maritime National Wildlife Refuge.

</doc>
<doc id="372372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372372" title="National Institutions House">
National Institutions House

National Institutions House () is the house of the national Zionist institutions of Israel. It was built in 1930, and is located in Jerusalem. Next to it is a memorial to victims of Antisemitism around the world, that was built in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="372376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372376" title="Bible Lands Museum">
Bible Lands Museum

The Bible Lands Museum ( - ) is a museum dedicated to the ancient countries and cultures in the Jewish Bible. The museum is located in Jerusalem, next to the Israel Museum and The National Campus for the Archaeology of Israel in Givat Ram.

</doc>
<doc id="372378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372378" title="Jack Williams">
Jack Williams

Jack Williams (October 18, 1924 – March 3, 1945) was a United States Navy sailor. He received the Medal of Honor because of his actions in World War II.
Williams' Medal of Honor recognized his conduct at the Battle of Iwo Jima. He was killed while giving first aid to a marine who was wounded in a grenade battle. Williams dragged the man to a shallow hole in the ground; and he remained in the area to care for another marine who was also wounded.
The words of Williams' citation explain:
For conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty while serving with the 3d Battalion 28th Marines, 5th Marine Division, during the occupation of Iwo Jima, Volcano Islands, March 3, 1945. Gallantly going forward on the frontlines under intense enemy small-arms fire to assist a marine wounded in a fierce grenade battle, Williams dragged the man to a shallow depression and was kneeling, using his own body as a screen from the sustained fire as he administered first aid, when struck in the abdomen and groin 3 times by hostile rifle fire. Momentarily stunned, he quickly recovered and completed his ministration before applying battle dressings to his own multiple wounds. Unmindful of his own urgent need for medical attention, he remained in the perilous fire-swept area to care for another marine casualty. Heroically completing his task despite pain and profuse bleeding, he then endeavored to make his way to the rear in search of adequate aid for himself when struck down by a Japanese sniper bullet which caused his collapse. Succumbing later as a result of his self-sacrificing service to others, Williams, by his courageous determination, unwavering fortitude and valiant performance of duty, served as an inspiring example of heroism, in keeping with the highest traditions of the U.S. Naval Service. He gallantly gave his life for his country.
Jack Williams is the namesake of the "USS Jack Williams" (FFG-24) which was named in his honor. The ship was in service from 1981 to 1996.

</doc>
<doc id="372387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372387" title="John Willis">
John Willis

John Harlan Willis (June 10, 1921 – February 28, 1945) was a United States Navy sailor. He received the Medal of Honor because of his actions in World War II.
Willis' Medal of Honor recognized his conduct at the Battle of Iwo Jima. He was killed while giving first aid to the many marines wounded in fighting.
The words of Willis' citation explain:
For conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty as Platoon Corpsman serving with the 3d Battalion, 27th Marines, 5th Marine Division, during operations against enemy Japanese forces on Iwo Jima, Volcano Islands, 28 February 1945. Constantly imperiled by artillery and mortar fire from strong and mutually supporting pillboxes and caves studding Hill 362 in the enemy's cross-island defenses, Willis resolutely administered first aid to the many marines wounded during the furious close-in fighting until he himself was struck by shrapnel and was ordered back to the battle-aid station. Without waiting for official medical release, he quickly returned to his company and, during a savage hand-to-hand enemy counterattack, daringly advanced to the extreme frontlines under mortar and sniper fire to aid a marine lying wounded in a shellhole. Completely unmindful of his own danger as the Japanese intensified their attack, Willis calmly continued to administer blood plasma to his patient, promptly returning the first hostile grenade which landed in the shell-hole while he was working and hurling back 7 more in quick succession before the ninth exploded in his hand and instantly killed him. By his great personal valor in saving others at the sacrifice of his own life, he inspired his companions, although terrifically outnumbered, to launch a fiercely determined attack and repulse the enemy force. His exceptional fortitude and courage in the performance of duty reflect the highest credit upon Willis and the U.S. Naval Service. He gallantly gave his life for his country.
John Willis is the namesake of the destroyer escort ship "USS John Willis" (DE-1027) which was named in his honor.

</doc>
<doc id="372397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372397" title="Prophylaxis (chess)">
Prophylaxis (chess)

Prophylaxis is a term in chess, as well as being a general idea. It was introduced by the grandmaster Aaron Nimzovich in his book "My system" in the 1920s. The term refers to actions taken by a player to anticipate and thwart the opponent's plans, and moves of these type are often called "prophylactic moves".
One simple example of a prophylactic move is when a player moves a rook's pawn forward h3 or h6 to prevent a back rank mate, and at the same time prevent an enemy bishop or knight from occupying g4 or g5. In the example, mate was not an issue, but h3 was still played by world champion Karpov.
Other examples are so subtle that club players would probably never think about them as possible moves. In the second example Nimzovich himself was playing black. In general, he wanted to turn his KP into a passed pawn by advancing it. However, the direct ...e5 does not work well, because the black king gets pushed back:
Nimzovich found another way to go:
To avoid this, White himself neeeds to play a prophylactic move, namely:

</doc>
<doc id="372398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372398" title="Atlantic mackerel">
Atlantic mackerel

The Atlantic mackerel ("Scomber scombrus"), is a pelagic schooling species of mackerel found on both sides of the North Atlantic Ocean. The species is also called Boston mackerel, or just mackerel.
The Atlantic Mackerel is by far the most common of the ten species of the family that are caught in British waters. It is extremely common in huge shoals migrating towards the coast to feed on small fish and prawns during the summer.
Abundant in cold and temperate shelf areas, it forms large schools near the surface. They overwinter in deeper waters but move closer to shore in spring when water temperatures range between 11° and 14°C.
In north-east Atlantic: North Sea (east) and British Isles (west). The North Sea stock decreased dramatically in the 1960s because of direct overfishing.
Male and female Atlantic mackerel grow at about the same rate, reaching a maximum age of about 20 years and a maximum fork length of about 47 centimetres (19 in). Most Atlantic mackerel are sexually mature by the age of three years.

</doc>
<doc id="372402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372402" title="Lester Archer">
Lester Archer

Lester Archer (1838 - October 27, 1864) was an American soldier. He received the Medal of Honor for valor during the American Civil War.
Archer was born in Fort Ann, New York sometime in 1838. He served in the American Civil War in the 96th New York Infantry for the Union Army. He received the Medal of Honor on April 6, 1865 for his actions at the Battle of Chaffin's Farm. He died before the Medal could be presented to him so it was received posthumously.
Citation:
Gallantry in placing the colors of his regiment on the fort. 

</doc>
<doc id="372404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372404" title="George L. Banks">
George L. Banks

George Lovell Banks (October 13, 1839 - August 20, 1924) was an American soldier. He received the Medal of Honor for valor during the American Civil War.
Banks was born in Lake County, Ohio October 13, 1839. He served in the American Civil War in the 15th Indiana Infantry for the Union Army. He received the Medal of Honor on February 18, 1891 because of his actions at the Battle of Missionary Ridge.
Citation:
As color bearer, led his regiment in the assault, and, though wounded, carried the nag forward to the enemy's works, where he was again wounded. In a brigade of 8 regiments this flag was the first planted on the parapet. 

</doc>
<doc id="372408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372408" title="Bullet (typography)">
Bullet (typography)

Bullet ( • ) is a kind of typography. It is a symbol or glyph used to introduce the parts of a list. Bullets are used to draw attention to specific information. 
There are no fixed rules about how to use bullets. Bullet points may be short phrases or single sentences or paragraphs. 
Bullets are most often used in technical writing, reference works, notes and presentations. For example, see bullet points in the box at the right.
When bullets are overused, the emphasis given to each point is less. 
A numbered list is a kind of bullet format.

</doc>
<doc id="372409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372409" title="Richard Dennis">
Richard Dennis

Richard Dennis (born 1826, date of death unknown) was a Union Navy sailor in the American Civil War. He received the U.S. military's highest decoration, the Medal of Honor, because of his actions at the Battle of Mobile Bay.
Born in 1826 in Charlestown, Massachusetts, Dennis was living in Boston when he joined the Navy. He served during the Civil War as a boatswain's mate on the "USS Brooklyn". At the Battle of Mobile Bay on August 5, 1864, he operated the ship's torpedo catcher (an early naval minesweeping device). He helped fire the bow chase gun during heavy fire. Because of this action, he was given the Medal of Honor four months later, on December 31, 1864.
Dennis's official Medal of Honor citation reads:
On board the U.S.S. "Brooklyn" during successful attacks against Fort Morgan, rebel gunboats and the ram "Tennessee" in Mobile Bay, on 5 August 1864. Despite severe damage to his ship and the loss of several men on board as enemy fire raked her decks from stem to stern, Dennis displayed outstanding skill and courage in operating the torpedo catcher and in assisting in working the bow chasers throughout the furious battle which resulted in the surrender of the prize rebel ram "Tennessee" and in the damaging and destruction of batteries at Fort Morgan.

</doc>
<doc id="372420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372420" title="Keigo Higashino">
Keigo Higashino

In an overview of writings by and about Higashino, OCLC/WorldCat lists roughly 274 works in 530+ publications in 12 languages and 4,700+ library holdings. 

</doc>
<doc id="372425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372425" title="Takahiko Kozuka">
Takahiko Kozuka

Kozuka was born in Nagoya. His grandfather, father, mother and aunt were figure skater so he was called "thoroughbred". He studied sports education at Chukyo University. His coach is Nobuo Sato and Kumiko Sato. He has very good skating skills. He is in good terms with Mao Asada, Miki Ando, Daisuke Takahashi and so on. He likes karaoke and goes to karaoke with Mao Asada frequently. His favorite food is grilled meet.
In 2006, he won the gold medal at the Junior World Figure Skating Championships. He competed at the 2010 Winter Olympics and placed 8th. In 2011, he was the Japanese national champion. He won the silver medal (in 2008) and the bronze medal (in 2010) at Grand Prix Final. He won a silver medal at the 2011 World Figure Skating Championships.

</doc>
<doc id="372431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372431" title="Thomas Ryan">
Thomas Ryan

Thomas John Ryan, Jr. (August 5, 1901 – January 28, 1970) was a career American naval officer who rose to the rank of Rear Admiral. He received the Medal of Honor during peacetime.
Ryan's Medal of Honor recognized his conduct in Japan during the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake.
The words of Williams' citation explain:
For heroism in effecting the rescue of a woman from the burning Grand Hotel, Yokohama, Japan, on 1 September 1923. Following the earthquake and fire which occurred in Yokohama on 1 September, Ens. Ryan, with complete disregard for his own life, extricated a woman from the Grand Hotel, thus saving her life. His heroic conduct upon this occasion reflects the greatest credit on himself and on the U.S. Navy, of which he is a part.

</doc>
<doc id="372433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372433" title="Abraham Cohn">
Abraham Cohn

Abraham Cohn (June 17, 1832 in Guttentag, Prussia, June 2, 1897 in New York City) was an American Civil War Union Army soldier. He received the United States military's highest decoration, the Medal of Honor. Cohn earned the award for his actions in combat at the Battle of the Wilderness, Virginia on May 6, 1864, and the Battle of the Crater, Petersburg, Virginia on July 30, 1864.
Citation:
During Battle of the Wilderness rallied and formed, under heavy fire, disorganized and fleeing troops of different regiments. At Petersburg, Va., July 30, 1864, bravely and coolly carried orders to the advanced line under severe fire.

</doc>
<doc id="372435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372435" title="1100 New York Avenue">
1100 New York Avenue

1100 New York Avenue is a high-rise office building in Northwest, Washington, D.C. in the United States. The 12-floor building was designed by Keyes Condon Florance Eichbaum Esocoff King and completed in 1991. It is high. The art deco appearance at the north entrance of the building is a former Greyhound Lines bus station originally constructed in 1940. The office structure was built on top of the bus station. A small display on antique buses is located in the north lobby.

</doc>
<doc id="372437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372437" title="Dick Adkins">
Dick Adkins

Richard Earl Adkins (March 3, 1920 – September 12, 1955) was a professional baseball player. He was a shortstop for one season (1942) with the Philadelphia Athletics. For his career, he had a .143 batting average in 7 at-bats.
He was born and later died in Electra, Texas at the age of 35.

</doc>
<doc id="372439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372439" title="Richard Barrett">
Richard Barrett

First Sergeant Richard Barrett (1838 – March 20, 1898) was an Irish-born American officer in the U.S. Army. He served with the 1st U.S. Cavalry Regiment during the Indian Wars. He received the Medal of Honor during the Apache Wars. He voluntarily led a group of troops against a group of hostile Tonto Apaches at Sycamore Canyon on May 23, 1872.
Richard Barrett was born in County Mayo, Ireland in 1838. He eventually moved to the United States and settled in Buffalo, New York. It was there that Barrett enlisted in the United States Army and was assigned to Company A of the 1st U.S. Cavalry Regiment. By 1872, he had risen to the rank of first sergeant. On May 23 of that year, while posted to the Arizona Territory, Barrett volunteered to lead a group of soldiers against a group of renegade Tonto Apaches at Sycamore Canyon. He was cited for "conspicuous gallantry" and recommended for the Medal of Honor for his actions which he received on April 12, 1875. Barrett moved to Washington, D.C. after his retirement from military service. He died there on March 20, 1898, at the age of 60. He was interred at the United States Soldiers' and Airmen's Home National Cemetery.
Rank and organization: First Sergeant, Company A, 1st U.S. Cavalry. Place and date: At Sycamore Canyon, Ariz., 23 May 1872. Entered service at: --. Birth: Ireland. Date of issue: 12 April 1875. 
Citation:
Consplcuous gallantry in a charge upon the Tonto Apaches.

</doc>
<doc id="372441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372441" title="Alkali Ridge">
Alkali Ridge

Alkali Ridge, also known as Alkali Point, is a set of widely scattered archaeological remains of the earliest forms of Puebloan architecture. They represent a period of change from scattered, pit-style dwellings to a settled agricultural lifestyle. These multi-story buildings and kivas have yielded high-quality ceramics. They form the type location for the Pueblo II period ("ca." 900 CE - "ca." 1100 CE).
It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1964.

</doc>
<doc id="372453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372453" title="Ren Höek">
Ren Höek

Ren Höek is a fictional character from the Nickelodeon series "The Ren & Stimpy Show", and Spike series "Ren & Stimpy "Adult Party Cartoon". He is one of the main characters. Ren is the main protagonist/antagonist of the series. He first appeared in the pilot episode "Big House Blues"".
Ren is a 17 year old "Asthma-Hound" Chihuahua. He has a long, rat-like, pink tail. His tail disappears often to the point of it not being seen in the later series.

</doc>
<doc id="372459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372459" title="Angelica Pickles">
Angelica Pickles


</doc>
<doc id="372473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372473" title="Lav">
Lav

Lav or Lava, in Hindu mythology, was the son of the deity and hero Rama (see the classical Indian epic poem Ramayana) and his wife, Sita. According to legend, Lav founded the ancient South Asian city of Lahore, now in Pakistan; while his brother Kash, or Kashava, founded the nearby city of Kasur.

</doc>
<doc id="372480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372480" title="List of notable Lahoris">
List of notable Lahoris

The old and historical city of Lahore, now in Punjab (Pakistan), has been home to many famous personalities in Indian history, and later Pakistani history after 1947. A list of famous 'Lahoris', or people who lived in Lahore and added positively to its social, cultural and intellectual life, is given below. This is not complete and you may add to it.
This list is given in chronological order.

</doc>
<doc id="372483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372483" title="Category:Metalcore bands">
Category:Metalcore bands

The following category is for bands that are classed as playing metalcore or are associated with the genre.

</doc>
<doc id="372486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372486" title="John J. Clausey">
John J. Clausey

John Joseph Clausey (May 16, 1875- September 9, 1951) was a chief gunner's mate serving in the United States Navy. He received the Medal of Honor for bravery.
Clausey was born May 16, 1875 in San Francisco, California. He joined the navy where he was stationed aboard the "USS Bennington" as a chief gunner's mate. On July 21, 1905 one of the "USS Bennington"’s boilers exploded while it was in San Diego, California. Because of his actions he received the Medal January 5, 1906.
He died September 9, 1951. He is buried in Golden Gate National Cemetery San Bruno, California. His grave is in section C, grave 121-B.
Rank and organization: Chief Gunner's Mate, U.S. Navy. Born: 16 May 1875, San Francisco, Calif. Accredited to: California. G.O. No.: 13, 5 January 1906.
Citation:
On board the U.S.S. Bennington for extraordinary heroism displayed at the time of the explosion of a boiler of 
that vessel at San Diego, Calif., 21 July 1905.

</doc>
<doc id="372488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372488" title="Larry Hagman">
Larry Hagman

Larry Martin Hagman (September 21, 1931 – November 23, 2012) was an American movie, television, stage, and voice actor who is known for his role as J.R. Ewing in "Dallas" and as Major Anthony "Tony" Nelson in "I Dream of Jeannie". His mother was actress Mary Martin. His father was of Swedish descent.
Hagman was born on September 21, 1931 in Fort Worth, Texas. Hagman was raised in Dallas, Texas. He studied at Black-Foxe Military Institute, at Weatherford High School, and at Bard University. Hagman was diagnosed with cirrhosis in 1992. 
He received a liver transplant in 1995. Hagman was married to Maj Axelsson from 1954 until his death in 2012. They had two children. Hagman died on the morning of November 23, 2012 in hospital in Dallas, Texas from acute myeloid leukemia, aged 81.

</doc>
<doc id="372490" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372490" title="J. K. Simmons">
J. K. Simmons

Jonathan Kimble "J. K." Simmons (born January 9, 1955) is an American movie, television, stage, and voice actor. He is known for his roles as Emil Skoda in "Law & Order", J. Jonah Jameson in "Spider-Man", "Spider-Man 2", and in "Spider-Man 3", as Mac MacGruff in "Juno", and as Terence Fletcher in "Whiplash". He will play Commissioner Gordon in the upcoming 2017 Superhero movie "Justice League".
In 2015, he won a Golden Globe Award and an Academy Award for his role in "Whiplash".
Simmons was born on January 9, 1955 in Detroit, Michigan. He was raised in Columbus, Ohio and in Missoula, Montana. Simmons studied at the University of Montana originally to be a composer. In 1996, he married Michelle Schumacher. They have three children.

</doc>
<doc id="372509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372509" title="Ganga Ram">
Ganga Ram

Sir Ganga Ram, KCSI (1851 – 1927) was a famous civil engineer and philanthropist of the Punjab, in British India. He was born in Mangtanwala, a small village of Punjab province in British India (now in Punjab (Pakistan)). 
He was especially well known for designing many of the fine buildings in colonial Lahore, which city he settled in and called home. These included the Lahore General Post Office, the Lahore Museum, Aitchison College, Mayo School of Arts (now the National College of Arts), Ganga Ram Hospital, Lady Mclagan Girls High School, the chemistry department of the Government College University, the Albert Victor wing of Mayo Hospital, Sir Ganga Ram High School (now Lahore College for Women), the Hailey College of Commerce (now Hailey College of Banking & Finance), Ravi Road House for the Disabled, the Ganga Ram Trust Building on the Mall and others.
He built Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Lahore (1921), the Lady Mclagan School and some other structures and public facilities with his own money.

</doc>
<doc id="372534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372534" title="Kim Il-yeop">
Kim Il-yeop

Kim Il-yeop (April 28, 1896 - May 28, 1971) was a South Korean writer, journalist and feminism activist. He was also a Buddhist monk. Il-yeop was his Buddhist name (; ; ). His real name was Kim Wom-ju (, ).

</doc>
<doc id="372542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372542" title="Amrita Sher-Gil">
Amrita Sher-Gil

Amrita Sher-Gil (30 January 1913 – 5 December 1941) was a famous Indian artist and painter. She was born to a Punjabi Sikh father and a Hungarian mother. Because of her life and work, she is sometimes known as 'India's Frida Kahlo'. She is considered an important woman painter of 20th century India. 
She died in 1941 in Lahore city, now in Pakistan, at the age of 28.

</doc>
<doc id="372543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372543" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Why is knowledge important">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Why is knowledge important


</doc>
<doc id="372545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372545" title="Alhamra Arts Council">
Alhamra Arts Council

The Alhamra Theatre Complex or the Alhamra Arts Council Cultural Complex or Alhamra Art Galleries and Hall etc., is a multi-purpose cultural theatre and performing arts venue in Lahore, Pakistan. It was completed in 1992. It is situated on The Mall, a big old avenue from British Indian times. 
The Council also has a new venue of the same type, named the Alhamra Gadaffi Stadium Complex, which is located near Lahore's main sports stadium and which was made more recently.

</doc>
<doc id="372548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372548" title="Bryce Courtenay">
Bryce Courtenay

Arthur Bryce Courtenay AM (14 August 1933 – 22 November 2012) was a South African-Australian novelist and one of Australia's most commercially successful authors.

</doc>
<doc id="372555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372555" title="The Power of One">
The Power of One

The Power of One is a novel by Australian author Bryce Courtenay. It was first published in 1989. The story takes places in South Africa during the 1930s and 1940s. It tells the story of an Anglo-African boy. Through the course of the story he gets the nickname of Peekay. (In the movie version the main person in the story is Peter Phillip Kenneth Keith. It is different than the book. The author identifies "Peekay" as a reference to his earlier nickname "Pisskop": Afrikaans for "Pisshead.")
It is written from the first person perspective. With Peekay telling the story (as an adult, looking back) and trusting the reader with his thoughts and feelings. He does this instead of a detailed description of places and account of actions. 
A film adaptation was released in 1992.

</doc>
<doc id="372566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372566" title="Frankie Yankovic">
Frankie Yankovic

Frankie Yankovic (July 28, 1915 – October 14, 1998) was a polka musician from the United States. He played the accordion. He was called "America's Polka King." He played Slovenian-style polka.
Yankovic was a Slovene. He was raised in South Euclid, Ohio. Yankovic's parents were immigrants. Yankovic received an accordion at age 9, but never took lessons. By his early teenage years, he was a working musician. He played for local events.
He began making appearances on the radio in the 1930s. He wanted to make recordings, but the major labels turned him down. Therefore, his first records were made for Yankee and Joliet, labels operated by Fred Wolf.
Yankovic joined the U.S. Armed Forces in 1943. He made records while on leave, before going to Europe to fight in World War II. He fought in the Battle of the Bulge. He was awarded a Purple Heart.
Yankovic earned two platinum singles for "Just Because" (1947) and "Blue Skirt Waltz" (1949).
Yankovic also was on the television series "Polka Time" on Buffalo, New York-based WKBW-TV in 1962. He traveled from Cleveland to host each episode. He hosted a similar show in Chicago at about the same time. He won a Grammy Award in 1986 for his album "70 Years of Hits". He was the first winner in the Best Polka Recording category. The NARAS (Grammy) organization dropped the category in 2008.
Yankovic made over 200 recordings in his career. He has recorded with country guitarist Chet Atkins and pop singer Don Everly. He has also recorded a version of the “Too Fat Polka” with comedian Drew Carey. At one point, Yankovic was performing on the road in 325 shows a year.
He was not related to musical comedian and accordionist "Weird Al" Yankovic, who also performs polka music. However, Weird Al has jokingly said that he was given accordion lessons as a child because his parents thought that "there should be at least one more accordion-playing Yankovic in the world."
Yankovic died on October 14, 1998, in New Port Richey, Florida, from heart failure, at the age of 83. He was buried in Cleveland's Calvary Cemetery. Hundreds of friends, family, fans, and fellow musicians were at his funeral.

</doc>
<doc id="372567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372567" title="CatDog">
CatDog

CatDog is an American animated television series. The first show was on April 4, 1998. The series is about a character with one half being a cat and the other a dog. Nickelodeon produced the series from Burbank, California, United States.
At the Kids' Choice Awards, USA, the show was nominated for a Blimp Award for Favorite Cartoon in 1999 and 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="372572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372572" title="Bowerbird">
Bowerbird

Bowerbirds are the bird family Ptilonorhynchidae. The family has 20 species in eight genera. Bowerbirds are most known for their unique courtship behaviour, where males build a structure and decorate it with sticks and brightly coloured objects. The function of this courtship ritual is to attract a mate. The bowerbirds have a "female choice" mating system.
The bowerbirds have an Austro-Papuan distribution, with ten species endemic to New Guinea, eight endemic to Australia and two found in both. Their distribution is mainly in the tropical parts of New Guinea and northern Australia, though some species extend into central, western and southeastern Australia. They occupy a range of different habitats, including rainforest, eucalyptus and acacia forest, and shrublands.
The birds are medium to large-sized passerines, ranging from the Golden Bowerbird at and to the Great Bowerbird at and . Their diet consists mainly of fruit but may also include insects (especially for nestlings), flowers, nectar and leaves in some species. The Satin and Spotted Bowerbirds are sometimes regarded as pests because they feed on introduced fruit and vegetable crops. They have occasionally been killed by affected farmers.

</doc>
<doc id="372579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372579" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Harry Potter in depth">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Harry Potter in depth


</doc>
<doc id="372591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372591" title="Muggsy Bogues">
Muggsy Bogues

Tyrone Curtis "Muggsy" Bogues (born January 9, 1965) is a retired American professional basketball player. He is the current head coach of the United Faith Christian Academy boys' basketball team. Bogues is the shortest player ever to play in the NBA at . He played point guard for four teams during his 14-season career in the National Basketball Association. Bogues is best known for his time with the Charlotte Hornets. He also played for the Washington Bullets, the Golden State Warriors, and the Toronto Raptors. Bogues was also the head coach of the WNBA team Charlotte Sting.

</doc>
<doc id="372592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372592" title="One-time pad">
One-time pad

A One-time pad is a method of encryption. It is a 'symmetrical encryption', which means the same key is needed for encryption and decryption. A one time pad uses a key that is either as long or longer than the message it encrypts. If this method is used correctly, it is impossible to decrypt or break the encryption without the key.
One-time pads were created all the way in 1882 by Frank Miller. After the invention in 1917, Gilbert Vernam invented and patented an electronic version based on teleprinter technologies. 

</doc>
<doc id="372593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372593" title="Danny Ferry">
Danny Ferry

Danny Ferry (b. October 17, 1966) is a retired NBA basketball player. He is the current general manager of the Atlanta Hawks. Ferry was born in Hyattsville, Maryland. He went to Duke University. Ferry played for the Cleveland Cavaliers and the San Antonio Spurs.

</doc>
<doc id="372594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372594" title="Shawn Kemp">
Shawn Kemp

Shawn T. Kemp (born November 26, 1969) is a American retired professional basketball player. Kemp played a total of 14 seasons in the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played for the Seattle SuperSonics, Cleveland Cavaliers, Portland Trail Blazers and Orlando Magic. 

</doc>
<doc id="372602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372602" title="Category:4th century BC disestablishments">
Category:4th century BC disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="372603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372603" title="Category:String quartets">
Category:String quartets


</doc>
<doc id="372608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372608" title="Sayyid">
Sayyid

Syed or Sayyid or Sayed is a title of honour and respect. It is originally a word from the Arabic language which means 'Sir' or 'Mister' or 'Honourable Person'. 
However, the word is now also used in different parts of the world by Muslims to refer specially to a descendant of the Prophet Muhammad. For example, if someone is called a 'Syed/Sayyid' in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Iran, Afghanistan, Indonesia, Malaysia etc., then that person is descended from the prophet of Islam.

</doc>
<doc id="372611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372611" title="Ashiq Mohamed Warsi">
Ashiq Mohamed Warsi

Ashiq Mohamed Warsi (died August 1940) was a political figure of British India and a leader of the All India Muslim League. He was one of the members of the Working Committee of the League, which drafted the famous Lahore Resolution in March 1940.
Warsi's sudden death in August 1940 was deeply mourned by his colleagues. He had no connection to Sayeeda Warsi, Baroness Warsi, a Tory politician and life peer in England.

</doc>
<doc id="372612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372612" title="S.M. Sharif">
S.M. Sharif

Syed Muhammad Sharif or more commonly S.M. Sharif was a Muslim Barrister from Patna, Bihar, British India. He was an active leader of the All India Muslim League party in his area and also one of the members of the League's Working Committee of March 1940 which drafted the Lahore Resolution. 

</doc>
<doc id="372613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372613" title="Charles Umpherston Aitchison">
Charles Umpherston Aitchison

Sir Charles Umpherston Aitchison (1832 – 1896), was a British Indian administrator who served as Lieutenant-Governor of the Punjab. His tenure was from 1882 to 1887. He was of Scottish origins.
He is specially remembered today for founding the Aitchison College, Lahore (now in Pakistan) in 1886. He also played an important role in supporting the earlier establishment of the University of the Punjab in 1882, on the recommendation of Dr Gottlieb Wilhelm Leitner.
Aitchison later also served as Chief Commissioner of the British Crown Colony of Burma from 1878 to 1880.

</doc>
<doc id="372615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372615" title="Akali Dal">
Akali Dal

The Shiromani Akali Dal or simply Akali Dal () is a Sikh political party in India. It is mostly active in the province of Punjab. 
It is not to be confused with the Apna Dal ('Our Own Party'). 

</doc>
<doc id="372616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372616" title="Category:Irish stage actors">
Category:Irish stage actors


</doc>
<doc id="372617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372617" title="Category:Irish radio actors">
Category:Irish radio actors


</doc>
<doc id="372629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372629" title="Edgar Rice Burroughs">
Edgar Rice Burroughs

Edgar Rice Burroughs (1875-1950) was an American novelist. He created the famous character Tarzan of the Apes in his novels. He wrote 25 novels on Tarzan's adventures starting from 1914 onwards.
He also wrote other novels and stories that became quite famous. Tarzan and John Carter were some of his characters that became famous. 

</doc>
<doc id="372634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372634" title="Planetarium">
Planetarium

A planetarium is a theater built to show educational and entertaining presentations about astronomy and the night sky. They are also used for training in celestial navigation. A main part of most planetariums is the large dome-shaped screen onto which images of stars, planets and other celestial objects can be shown and made to move to show the 'motions of the heavens'. The celestial scenes can be created using many different technologies. These include 'star balls' that combine optical and electro-mechanical technology, slide projector, video, full dome projector systems, and lasers. These technologies are used together to give an accurate image of the motion of the sky. Common systems can be set to show the sky at any point in time, past or present. They often show the night sky as it would appear from any point of latitude on Earth. 
There are many different sizes of planetariums. They can be as large as the Hayden Planetarium's 21-meter dome. It seats 423 people. They can also be as small as a three-meter portable domes where children sit on the floor. These portable planetariums are used for education presentations outside of the permanent planetariums at museums and science centers.
The term "planetarium" is sometimes used to mean other things which show the solar system. These include computer simulations or an orrery. Planetarium software refers to software that creates a three dimensional image of the sky on a two dimensional computer screen. The term "planetarian" is used for someone who works at a planetarium. The plural of planetarium is either planetariums or planetaria.

</doc>
<doc id="372676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372676" title="Highways in Greece">
Highways in Greece

Highways in Greece are the most significant roads of the country. There are 10 most significant highways. They are:

</doc>
<doc id="372682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372682" title="El Dorado, Houston">
El Dorado, Houston

El Dorado is a neighborhood in northeast Houston, Texas, United States. The site of a halfway house, El Dorado had the highest amount of convicted felons per resident of all of the Houston neighborhoods in 2007.
Super Neighborhood #53 El Dorado/Oates Prairie includes El Dorado.

</doc>
<doc id="372684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372684" title="Abilene Eagles">
Abilene Eagles

The Abilene Eagles were a West Texas League minor league baseball team. They were based in Abilene, Texas, USA from 1920 to 1922. They won the league championship in both 1920 and 1921. The team managers for those years were Bugs Young and Ed Kizziar (1920) and Grady White and Hub Northen (1921). They finished in sixth place in 1922. The league folded following the 1922 season, and the Eagles followed suit.
Future major league baseball player Fred Johnson played for the Eagles.

</doc>
<doc id="372687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372687" title="Jairus C. Fairchild">
Jairus C. Fairchild

Jairus Cassius Fairchild (December 27, 1801-October 24, 1862) was an American politician and businessman.
Fairchild was born in Granville, New York. He moved to Hudson, Ohio and became a merchant. Later he would move to Franklin Mills, Ohio for a short time. While there he operated a tannery before moving to Cleveland around 1834. He then moved to Milwaukee, Wisconsin in 1845 and then to Madison, Wisconsin. Fairchild had a business working with cranberries and the lumber industry. He was also president of a railroad. From 1848 to 1852, Fairchild was the first State Treasurer of the State of Wisconsin. In 1856 he was elected the first Mayor of the city of Madison, Wisconsin. Two of his sons Cassius, and Lucius were also active in Wisconsin politics.

</doc>
<doc id="372697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372697" title="Irène Joliot-Curie">
Irène Joliot-Curie

Irène Joliet-Curie (12 September 1897 17 March 1956) was a French scientist. She won the Nobel Prize for Chemistry in 1935 with her husband, Frédéric Joliot. Curie was the daughter of Pierre and Marie Curie
Curie started her studies at the Faculty of Science in Paris. During World War I, she served as a radiographer. Curie became Doctor of Science in 1925. She did her thesis on the alpha rays of polonium. 
Curie did important work on radioactivity, transmutation of elements, and nuclear physics. Curie and her husband won the 1935 Nobel Prize for Chemistry for their creation of new radioactive elements. This work was written about in their paper "Production artificielle d'éléments radioactifs. Preuve chimique de la transmutation des éléments" (1934).
In 1938, she researched the action of neutrons on the heavy elements. This was an important part of the discovery of the nuclear fission of uranium. Curie became Professor in the Faculty of Science in Paris in 1937. She became Director of the Radium Institute in 1946. After six years as a Commissioner for Atomic Energy, Curie took part in the construction of the first French atomic pile in 1948. Its construction was continued after her death by her husband.
Curie was born in Paris. She married Joliot in 1926. They had a son and a daughter. Curie was very interested in social and intellectual advancement of women. In 1936, she became Undersecretary of State for Scientific Research.
Curie died in Paris in 1956.

</doc>
<doc id="372707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372707" title="Ringleader">
Ringleader

A ringleader is a leader of a group of people.
Ringleader may also refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="372713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372713" title="Lucius Fox">
Lucius Fox

Lucius Fox is a fictional Batman character who helps Batman with equipment and is the manager of Wayne Enterprises. He gives Batman all of the equipment or his financing operations that he needs. He is one of the few people to known Batman's secret identity. 
He is played by Morgan Freeman in "Batman Begins", "The Dark Knight", and in "The Dark Knight Rises". Brock Peters was his voice actor in "". Kevin Michael Richardson also makes his voice in some animated movies.

</doc>
<doc id="372715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372715" title="James Gordon (comics)">
James Gordon (comics)

Commissioner James Gordon is a fictional Batman character who is the police commissioner of Gotham City and is a fellow ally of Batman who gives him all of his missions and criminals to capture or question. In some cases, Gordon doesn't know Batman's identity, in other cases he does. He is the father of Barbara Gordon, who is secretly Batgirl.
He was played by Lyle Talbot in Batman shows, Neil Hamilton in "Batman", Bob Hastings made his voice in "", he was played by Pat Hingle in four Batman movies; "Batman", "Batman Returns", "Batman Forever", and in "Batman & Robin", and he was recently played by Gary Oldman in "The Dark Knight Trilogy"; "Batman Begins", "The Dark Knight", and in "The Dark Knight Rises". He will be played by J. K. Simmons in the upcoming 2017 movie "Justice League Part One".

</doc>
<doc id="372726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372726" title="Alfred Pennyworth">
Alfred Pennyworth

Alfred Pennyworth is a fictional character. He is Batman's loyal butler and assistant who helps him complete his missions. He took care of Bruce Wayne when he was a child after his parents were killed. Pennyworth gives Batman all the information he needs and the location where villains are held at. He has a British accent.
He was played by Alan Napier and by Ian Abercrombie in television shows. He was voiced by Clive Revill and by Efrem Zimbalist, Jr. in "" and will be voiced by Ralph Fiennes in "The Lego Batman Movie". He was played by Michael Gough, Sir Michael Caine, and by Jeremy Irons in movies.

</doc>
<doc id="372727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372727" title="Bane (comics)">
Bane (comics)

Bane is a fictional Batman character. Bane is a supervillain who appears in the Batman comics. He is physically strong and wears a Mexican wrestlers mask. He has a tube that connects from his body to a chemical tank that is strapped to his suit that keeps him strong. He is one of Batman's most physical and smarter villains.
He is played by Jeep Swanson in "Batman & Robin" and by Tom Hardy in "The Dark Knight Rises". In "Batman & Robin", Bane appears like in the comics with a Mexican wrestling mask, but doesn't talk. In "The Dark Knight Rises", Bane has a mask that only covers the front of his mouth and nose, his eyes can be seen and he had a muffled voice with a Caribbean accent.

</doc>
<doc id="372728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372728" title="Catwoman">
Catwoman

Catwoman or Selina Kyle is a fictional Batman character who is sometimes a villain or Batman's assistant in fighting crime. She is sometimes called "Batman's girlfriend" because of her love-hate with Batman. Catwoman wears leather clothing and has a whip. 
She is played by Lee Meriwether, Julie Newmar, Eartha Kitt, Michelle Pfeiffer, Halle Berry, and by Anne Hathaway in "The Dark Knight Rises".

</doc>
<doc id="372730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372730" title="Ra's al Ghul">
Ra's al Ghul

Ra's al Ghul is a fictional character in the Batman franchise. He is a supervillain, and he was Bruce Wayne's trainer. He is the leader of the League of Shadows, which is an organization based on correcting the corruption in the world by ways of fear and hostility. Bruce destroyed their temple after he is made aware of their true intention of destroying Gotham City.
Ghul is one of the smartest and most physically skilled villains in the Batman universe. He also trained Bane. Ghul is the father of one of Batman's love interests: Talia al Ghul. He was played by Liam Neeson and by Ken Watanabe (decoy) in "Batman Begins". Neeson later had a small role as Ra's in "The Dark Knight Rises" in which his daughter, Talia appears in. David Warner is his voice actor in "".

</doc>
<doc id="372731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372731" title="Yawar Hayat Khan">
Yawar Hayat Khan

Yawar Hayat Khan (born 18th October 1943- died 3rd November 2016), was a senior former producer and director of the Pakistan Television Corporation (PTV) and one of the early founders and creative entities of this channel from 1964-65 onwards, when its serialized dramas were immensely popular in Pakistan.
Khan was born in Lahore, in October 1943 and educated at the Aitchison College and the Forman Christian College, there.
In November 1964, the Pakistan Television Corporation made its first test-transmission from Lahore, and in that same year Khan was selected as a trainee with the fledgling state TV channel. In 1967, he was transferred back to Lahore, and it is at the Lahore TV studios that he produced his best work. Khan's first major dramatic success came when he directed the immensely popular rural folk drama "Jhok Siyaal" (1973). This was followed by "Waris" (1978–79) and then a host of hit serials such as "Bandaar Jaati aur Mamta", "Samandar", "Nasheman", "Dehleez", "Sahil", "Lazawaal" and others, between the 1980s and 1990s.
Khan retired from active television service in 2004. He died in Lahore, on 3rd November 2016, after a prolonged illness.

</doc>
<doc id="372733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372733" title="Grant Park">
Grant Park

Grant Park is a large city park that is in Chicago, Illinois in the Chicago Loop. The Park has some special tourist attractions such as Buckingham Fountain, Millenium Park, Cloude Gate, and the Museum Campus that holds many of Chicago's museums. The Park was originally named Lake Park until it was renamed after the 18th President of the United States and Civil War hero Ulysses S. Grant on October 9, 1901. Lollapalooza Music Festival is held in the Park.

</doc>
<doc id="372736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372736" title="Buckingham Fountain">
Buckingham Fountain

Buckingham Fountain is a landmark that is in the center of Grant Park in Chicago, Illinois. The fountain was finished in 1927 and was one of the largest fountains in the world. The fountain was also one of the first large fountains during that time. The fountain is in the eastern part from Route 66.

</doc>
<doc id="372747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372747" title="10239 Hermann">
10239 Hermann

10239 Hermann (1998 TY30) is a main-belt asteroid.

</doc>
<doc id="372750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372750" title="Category:Spanish language">
Category:Spanish language


</doc>
<doc id="372759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372759" title="Category:French language">
Category:French language


</doc>
<doc id="372762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372762" title="Biblical inerrancy">
Biblical inerrancy

Biblical inerrancy is the doctrine that the Bible in its original manuscripts, is accurate and totally free from error. "Scripture in the original manuscripts does not affirm anything that is contrary to fact". Some equate "inerrancy" with "infallibility"; others do not.
In 1978 300 scholars and Protestant leaders met in Chicago and produced an agreed statement. It states the Bible is ' of infallible divine authority in all matters upon which it touches...'. Most Evangelical Christians agree with this view, but Liberal Christians do not.
Jesus himself quotes the Old Testament often without question (see Gospel of Matthew 5:17-20), but Judaism has never believed in the literal word of the Hebrew Bible.
There are over 5,600 Greek manuscripts containing all or part of the New Testament, as well as over 10,000 Latin manuscripts, and perhaps 500 other manuscripts in various other languages. Additionally, there are the Patristic writings which contain copious quotes, across the early centuries, of the scriptures. Inerrancy is only applied to the original autographs (the manuscripts written by the original authors) rather than the copies. For instance, the Chicago Statement on Biblical Inerrancy says, "We affirm that inspiration, strictly speaking, applies only to the autographic text of Scripture."

</doc>
<doc id="372763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372763" title="Independent Catholic churches">
Independent Catholic churches

Independent Catholic Churches is the name for a few Christian churches which say that they have the traditions of the Catholic Church, but who are not recognised by the Holy See. Almost all of them say that their bishops have apostolic succession, that is that their legitimacy comes from an apostle. The first of these churches was the Old Catholic Church, who did not agree that the pope was infallible, in religious matters. This was agreed at the First Vatican Council in 1870. Most of the independent Catholic churches split from the Old Catholic church. A notable exception is the Society of St. Pius X, a grouping of traditionalist priests, founded in the 1970s.
Communities such as the Eastern Orthodox, the Oriental Orthodox Church, or the Coptic Orthodox Church do not have the problem of recognition, as they are at least partially recognised by the Roman Catholic Church. Most Independent Catholic Churches were created after 1870.

</doc>
<doc id="372773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372773" title="Battle of Cambrai">
Battle of Cambrai

The Battle of Cambrai was an important battle in the First World War. It took place near Cambrai, and lasted from 20th November to 7th December 1917. This battle was the first in the war, where tanks were used on a large scale. Cambrai was important because it was a railroad hub. In total, about 95.000 people where killed or captured. The battle did not result in a gain of territory of either side. Cambrai lay on the Hindenburg Line. That part of the Hindenburg line between Arras and Soissons was known as "Siegfried Line"

</doc>
<doc id="372789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372789" title="Indian Mujahideen">
Indian Mujahideen

Indian Mujahideen is a terrorist group, which has carried out several attacks in India. The group may be related to Students Islamic Movement of India. The Student Islamic Movement of India may be involved in several terrorist organisations, and is therefore banned. Indian Mujahideen said they carried out the Jaipur bombings of 2008. The leader is Abdul Subhan Qureshi.

</doc>
<doc id="372793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372793" title="Bhopal State">
Bhopal State

Bhopal State (pronounced ) was an independent state of 18th century India. It was founded in 1723. It was a princely state of the British Raj from 1818 to 1947. It was an independent country from 1947 to 1949. At first, the capital was Islamnagar. Later the capital moved to the city of Bhopal.
Bhopal was the second largest Muslim state in pre-independence India, after Hyderabad. Between 1819 and 1926, it was ruled by four women – Begums – unique in the royalty of those days. Qudsia Begum was the first woman ruler, who was succeeded by her only daughter Sikandar Begum, who in turn was succeeded by her only daughter, Shahjehan Begum. Jahan Begum was the last woman ruler, who after 25 years of rule, abdicated in favour of her son, Nawab Sir Hamidullah Khan. The rule of Begums gave the city its waterworks, railways, a postal system and a municipality constituted in 1907. The peaceful rule of Begums led to the rise of a unique mixed culture in Bhopal. The Hindus were given important administrative positions in the state. This led to communal peace and a cosmopolitan culture took its roots.

</doc>
<doc id="372813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372813" title="Cassius Fairchild">
Cassius Fairchild

Cassius Fairchild (December 16, 1829-October 24, 1868) was a Wisconsin businessman, politician, and military officer. he was born in Franklin Mills, Ohio (now Kent, Ohio). Fairchild was educated mostly in Ohio. His father was Jairus C. Fairchild, who was the first Treasurer of Wisconsin and the first Mayor of Madison, Wisconsin. His brother was Lucius Fairchild, Governor of Wisconsin. He moved to Wisconsin and managed his family's cranberry and lumber businesses. He also managed their rental properties. Fairchild was elected to the Madison, Wisconsin Common Council where he served as president. He also served in the Wisconsin State Assembly. At the time of the American Civil War, Fairchild enlisted in the Union Army becoming a colonel in the 16th Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry Regiment. Fairchild was badly wounded in the Battle of Shiloh, and eventually died of his wounds.

</doc>
<doc id="372814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372814" title="Whiskey Tjukangku">
Whiskey Tjukangku

Whiskey Tjukangku is an Australian Aboriginal artist from South Australia. He paints for Iwantja Arts, the community co-operative at Indulkana on the Aṉangu Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara Lands. He is an elder of the Yankunytjatjara people, and a "" (traditional healer). One of his works was chosen as a finalist for the National Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander Art Award in 2012. His brother, Barney Wangin, is also an artist.
Tjukangku was born around 1939, in the bush near Umuwa in north-western South Australia. The name "Whiskey" was given to him by one of his friends when he was a young boy. It is said that Tjukangku took this name because he could not pronounce his own Aboriginal name.
Tjukangku grew up at the mission in Ernabella and at De Rose Hill, a cattle station located along the Stuart Highway. He never went to school. As a child, he was taught about working with horses and cattle at De Rose Hill. By the time he was a teenager, Tjukangku began working for the station as a jackaroo, mustering cattle. He worked as a stockman for many years, on several stations throughout central Australia. He worked for a long time on the land of the Arrernte people (in the Northern Territory), which he depicts in many of his works. When he was older, he moved back south, closer to his homeland (where he and his family were born). He settled at Indulkana, and has lived there ever since.
Tjukangku was one of the first men to begin painting at Indulkana, and was one of the original members of Iwantja Arts. In addition to painting, he also does printmaking using the intaglio method (cutting designs into wooden objects). Beginning in his early 70s, Tjukangku is reported to suffer from dementia. He still works as a full-time artist, however, and makes an average of one or two artworks per week.
His artworks depict personal reflections on his travels and experiences in the central Australian desert. It is often just memories, about where he used to work or a place he fondly remembers. This is different to most traditional Yankunytjatjara artists, who usually paint about their "" (Dreaming). A common motif featured in Tjukangku's artworks is "puṉu" (wood that is used for making traditional tools and objects). This is often both his subject and his medium. Objects in his artworks are often more figurative (realistic) than in most Western Desert art, but still contain elements and shapes that are very clearly abstract. Tjukangku paints in natural earthy tones, using rich shades of red, browns, ochres and black. He uses fields and lines of white dots to highlight shapes and movement.
Tjukangku's work has been featured in group shows at major galleries since 2010. He held his first solo exhibition in April–May 2011, in Alice Springs. He held a second solo show at the same venue the next year, in July–August 2012. One of the works exhibited at his first solo show was bought by the National Gallery of Victoria in Melbourne. Other works by Tjukangku are held in several of Australia's major private galleries. Some of his earliest prints are displayed in the South Australian Museum.

</doc>
<doc id="372820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372820" title="Issei">
Issei

The character and uniqueness of the "Issei" is recognized in its social history.
The earliest organized group of Japanese emigrants settled in Mexico in 1897.
Imigration to Brazil began in 1908. Today, the community established by the "Issei" has become the largest Japanese emigrant population outside of Japan, including approximately 1.5 million Brazilians. Other "Issei" established themselves in the United States, Canada, and Peru. 
In the 1930s, the term "Issei" came into common use. The word replaced the term "immigrant" ("ijusha"). This change in usage mirrored an evolution in the way the "Issei" looked at themselves. The label "Issei" also included the idea of belonging to the new country. Other terns like "Nisei" were modeled after this "Issei" pattern or template.
The term "Nikkei" (日系) was created by sociologists in the late 20th century. The "Nikkei" include all of the world's Japanese immigrants and their descendants.
The "Issei" were born in Japan, and their cultural perspective was primarily Japanese; but they were in America by choice. Their children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren and great-great-grandchildren grew up with a national and cultural point-of-view that was different from their parents.
Although the "Issei" kept an emotional connection with Japan, they created homes in a country far from Japan.
The "Issei," "Nisei" and "Sansei" generations reflect distinctly different attitudes to authority, gender, non-Japanese involvement, and religious practice, and other matters.

</doc>
<doc id="372823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372823" title="Clavering">
Clavering

Clavering is a village and civil parish in Uttlesford, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 1156 people living in Clavering. It has a church called St Mary & St Clement.

</doc>
<doc id="372824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372824" title="Elmdon">
Elmdon

Elmdon is a village and civil parish in Uttlesford, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 522 people living in Elmdon. It has a church called St Nicholas.

</doc>
<doc id="372825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372825" title="Great Easton">
Great Easton

Great Easton is a village and civil parish in Uttlesford, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 797 people living in Great Easton. It has a church called St John & St Giles.

</doc>
<doc id="372829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372829" title="Nisei">
Nisei

The character and uniqueness of the "Nisei" is recognized in its social history.
The earliest organized group of Japanese emigrants settled in Mexico in 1897.
Imigration to Brazil began in 1908. Today, the community which grew from the "Nisei" children has become the largest Japanese emigrant population outside of Japan, including approximately 1.5 million Brazilians. Other communities of "Nisei" grew up in the United States, Canada, and Peru. 
The use of the term "Nisei" was modeled after an "Issei" pattern or template. In the 1930s, the term "Issei" came into common use. The word replaced the term "immigrant" ("ijusha"). This change in usage mirrored an evolution in the way the "Issei" looked at themselves. The label "Issei" also included the idea of belonging to the new country.
The term "Nikkei" (日系) was created by sociologists in the late 20th century. The "Nikkei" include all of the world's Japanese immigrants and their descendants.
The "Issei" were born in Japan, and their cultural perspective was primarily Japanese; but they were in America by choice. Their "Nisei" sons and daughters grew up with a national and cultural point-of-view that was different from their parents.
Although the "Issei" kept an emotional connection with Japan, they created homes in a country far from Japan. The "Nisei" had never known a country other than the one into which they were born.
The "Issei," "Nisei" and "Sansei" generations reflect distinctly different attitudes to authority, gender, non-Japanese involvement, and religious practice, and other matters.

</doc>
<doc id="372830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372830" title="Littlebury">
Littlebury

Littlebury is a village and civil parish in Uttlesford, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 802 people living in Littlebury. It has a church called Holy Trinity.

</doc>
<doc id="372833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372833" title="Aluminium iodide">
Aluminium iodide

Aluminium iodide is any chemical compound made up of only aluminium and iodine. It is formed by the reaction of aluminium and iodine, or the action of hydrogen iodide on aluminium metal.

</doc>
<doc id="372837" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372837" title="Galveston, Texas">
Galveston, Texas

Galveston is a city on Galveston Island in the U.S. state of Texas. , the city had 47,743 people. The city is the county seat of Galveston County. It is well known for a hurricane in 1900.
The city is about 45  miles (72 km) southeast of downtown Houston.

</doc>
<doc id="372857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372857" title="Xerochrysum bracteatum">
Xerochrysum bracteatum

Xerochrysum bracteatum is a flowering plant in the daisy family Asteraceae and comes from Australia. In English, the plant is usually called golden everlasting or strawflower. It grows as a woody or leafy perennial or annual shrub. Depending on the type it can get up to a meter (3 ft) tall. 
The golden everlasting serves as food for different kinds of larvae (caterpillars) of butterflies, moths and skippers. Adult butterflies, hoverflies, native bees, small beetles and grasshoppers visit the flower heads.
The golden everlasting is easy to grow. Annual varieties in a host of color forms are available.
The Golden everlasting occurs in all Australian mainland states and territories as well as Tasmania. It is quite common and can be found from North Queensland across to Western Australia. 
It occurs in all habitats except those that are in dense shade. It grows as an annual in patches of red sand in Central Australia, responding rapidly to bouts of rainfall to complete its life cycle. It is common among granite outcrops in southwest Western Australia, and is found on heavier and more fertile soils in the Sydney region, such as basalt-, shale- or limestone-based soils, generally in areas with a high water table. It has been reported growing in disturbed soil, along roadsides and in fields in the New England region in the United States.
The brightly colored bracts act as petals to attract insects such as hoverflies, native bees and small beetles that pollinate the florets. Grasshoppers also visit the flower heads. The caterpillars of "Tebenna micalis" have been recorded on this species, as have those of the Australian painted lady ("Vanessa kershawi"). The tiny fruits are dispersed by wind, and germinate and grow after fire or on disturbed ground.
The water mould (oomycete) "Bremia lactucae" has infected commercial crops in Italy and California. In 2002 on the Ligurian coast, widespread infection of several varieties, most severely 'Florabella Pink' and to a lesser extent 'Florabella Gold' and 'Florabella White', resulted in leaf blistering and the development of lesions on the leaves, and white patches on the undersides, particularly in areas of poor ventilation. There was an outbreak of downy mildew in a crop of the "Golden everlasting" in San Mateo County, California in 2006, in which the leaves developed large chlorotic lesions. A "Phytoplasma" infection damaged "X. bracteatum" crops in the Czech Republic between 1994 and 2001, causing poor growth, bronzing of the leaves and malformation of flower heads. Genetically, the pathogen was indistinguishable from the agent of aster yellows. The root-knot nematode ("Meloidogyne incognita") attacks and forms galls on the roots, which leads to the death of the plant.
The "Golden everlasting" had been introduced to farming in England by 1791. German horticulturist Herren Ebritsch obtained material and developed it at his nursery in Arnstadt near Erfurt in Germany. He bred and sold varieties of many colors from bronze to white to purple, which spread across Europe in the 1850s. The bracts of these early forms tended to remain cupped around the flower head rather than flatten out like the native Australian forms. These were also annual rather than perennial forms. Many were given names such as 'atrococcineum' (dark scarlet flower heads), 'atrosanguineum' (dark blood-red flower heads), 'aureum' (golden yellow flower heads), 'bicolor' (red-tipped yellow flower heads), 'compositum' (large multicolored flower heads), 'macranthum' (large rose-edged white flower heads), and 'monstrosum' (flower heads with many bracts), although today they are generally sold in mixed seed for growing as annuals. Some colored forms of South African "Helichrysum" are thought to have been introduced to the breeding program, which resulted in the huge array of colors. The "Golden everlasting" was one of several species that became popular with European royalty and nobility from the early 19th century, yet were little noticed in Australia until the 1860s, when they became more prominent in Australian gardens.
Most varieties started in Australia in the latter part of the 20th century are perennials. 'Dargan Hill Monarch' was the first of these, and many more have followed. Profusely flowering, these come in many colors including white, yellow, orange, bronze, pink and red. Their commercial lifespan is generally around three years. Queensland-based company Aussie Winners has a range of compact plants ranging from orange to white known as Sundaze. Plants of this series usually have larger leaves. This range won the "Gran premio d'oro" at the Euroflora exposition in Geneva in 2001, for the best new plant series in the previous three years. 'Florabella Gold', a member of the Florabella series, won the award for best new pot plant (vegetative) in the Society of American Florists' competition of 1999. The Wallaby variety of the flower range of taller forms with narrow leaves and white, yellow or pink flowers. Other commercial ranges include the Nullarbor series, and Queensland Federation daisies, including 'Wanetta Sunshine' and 'Golden Nuggets'.
The "Golden everlasting" are easy to grow both from seeds and from cuttings, although named varieties will only grow true from cuttings. Fresh seed germinates in 3 to 20 days and requires no special care. Plants grow best in acidic, well-aerated, soils of pH 5.5 to 6.3, with low levels of phosphorus. They are sensitive to iron deficiency, which shows on the plant as yellowing (chlorosis) of the youngest leaves while the leaf veins remain green.
The "Golden everlasting" can be grown in large pots or window boxes. It also makes a good starting plant in the garden before other plants become more established. Lower growing varieties are suitable for hanging baskets and border plantings. The flowers attract butterflies to the garden. Dried flowers are long lasting—up to some years—and are used in floral arrangements and the cut flower industry. More robust longer stemmed forms are used for commercial cut flowers. The main factor limiting lifespan of dried flowers is the wilting of stems, so flowers are sometimes wired into arrangements. Immersing flowers in glycerol or polyethylene glycol also lengthens lifespan.

</doc>
<doc id="372864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372864" title="Lockdown (TV series)">
Lockdown (TV series)

Lockdown is a television series. It is on the National Geographic Channel. The series is about prisons and jails in the United States. It is shown in a documentary format. "Lockdown" is known in some regions as America's Hardest Prisons.

</doc>
<doc id="372882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372882" title="Eiichiro Oda">
Eiichiro Oda

Oda was born in Kumamoto in Kumamoto Prefecture. At age 4, he wanted to be a manga artist.
In 1997, "One Piece" was published in "Weekly Shōnen Jump".

</doc>
<doc id="372886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372886" title="Japan Gold Disc Award">
Japan Gold Disc Award

The Japan Gold Disc Awards (日本ゴールドディスク大賞) are honors which are promoted by the Recording Industry Association of Japan (RIAJ). The awards recognize CD music sales in Japan.
It was established 1987.
It is made much of the number of the downloading and sales.
There are many prizes such as "Single of the Year"' and "Album of the Year" or "Artists of the Year".

</doc>
<doc id="372889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372889" title="Étienne Pierre Ventenat">
Étienne Pierre Ventenat

Étienne Pierre Ventenat (1 March 1757 – 13 August 1808) was a French botanist born in Limoges. He was the brother of naturalist Louis Ventenat (1765–1794). 
Ventenat took a trip to England while he was employed as director of the ecclesiastic library Sainte-Geneviève in Paris. While in England, he visited the country's botanical gardens. This inspired him to pursue a career in science. Later he studied under and worked with a botanist named Charles Louis L'Héritier de Brutelle (1746–1800). In 1795, he was elected a member of the "Institut national des sciences et des arts". They later changed their name to be the "Académie des sciences". 
In 1794 he wrote a treatise on the principles of botany. It was called "Principes de botanique, expliqués au Lycée républicain par Ventenat". It did not receive much interest when it was released, and Ventenat became so disappointed that he reportedly made efforts to buy all copies of the book and have them destroyed. In 1798 he published a French translation of Antoine-Laurent de Jussieu's "Genera plantarum" as "Tableau du règne végétal selon la méthode de Jussieu". In his translation of the work, Ventenat added information about the properties and uses of plants.
In 1799 he published "Description des plantes nouvelles et peu connues, cultivées dans le jardin de J.-M. Cels". This book described plants in the botanical garden of Jacques Philippe Martin Cels (1740–1806). In 1803 he published "Le Jardin de la Malmaison" because Joséphine de Beauharnais (1763–1814) asked him to write it. He wanted to make sure the rare species of plants found in the gardens and greenhouses of Château de Malmaison were remembered forever. The pictures and drawings in the two aforementioned works were performed by famed botanical artist Pierre-Joseph Redouté (1759–1840). Ventenat is also credited with continuing the work on Jean Baptiste François Pierre Bulliard's "Histoire des champignons de la France". This was a landmark (very important) work on mushrooms native to France.

</doc>
<doc id="372891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372891" title="Bract">
Bract

In botany, a bract is a modified leaf, especially one associated with a flower or inflorescence. Bracts are usually different from normal leaves. They may be smaller, larger, or of a different color, shape, or texture. Usually, they also look different from the parts of the flower, such as the petals and/or sepals.
Some bracts are brightly colored like petals, and attract pollinators like bees. Examples of this type of bract include "Euphorbia pulcherrima" (poinsettia) and "Bougainvillea": both of these have large colorful bracts surrounding much smaller, less colorful flowers. 
In grasses, each floret (flower) is enclosed in a pair of papery bracts, while each spikelet (group of florets) has a further pair of bracts at its base called glumes. These bracts are the chaff removed from cereal grain during threshing and winnowing. 
A prophyll is a leaf-like structure, such as a bracteole, subtending a single flower or pedicel. The term can also mean the lower bract on a peduncle.
The frequently showy pair of bracts of "Euphorbia" species in subgenus "Lacanthis" are the cyathophylls.
Bracts subtend the cone scales in the seed cones of many conifers, and in some cases, such as "Pseudotsuga", they extend beyond the cone scales.
Bracts that appear in a whorl under an inflorescence are called an involucre. An involucre is a common feature beneath the inflorescences of many Apiaceae, Asteraceae, Dipsacaceae and Polygonaceae. Each flower in an inflorescence may have its own whorl of bracts. Many asteraceous plants have bracts at the base of each inflorescence.
The term involucre is also used for a highly conspicuous bract or bract pair at the base of an inflorescence. 
An epicalyx, an additional whorl around the calyx of a single flower, is a modification of bracteoles. In other words, the epicalyx is a "group of bracts resembling a calyx" or "bracteoles forming a whorl outer to the calyx". It is a calyx-like extra whorl of floral appendages. They are present in family "Malvaceae", the "Hibiscus" family. "Fragaria" (strawberries) may or may not have an epicalyx.
A "spathe" is a large bract that forms a sheath to enclose the flower cluster of certain plants such as palms, arums, and dayflowers. In many arums (Araceae family), the spathe is petal-like, attracting pollinators to the flowers arranged on a type of spike called a spadix. 

</doc>
<doc id="372893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372893" title="Kyūdō">
Kyūdō

"Kyūdō" is based on ancient archery ("kyū-jutsu"). Archery in Japanese began in the Jōmon period; and it developed in the samurai or military class. At the beginning of the Meiji era (1868-1912), the samurai lost their position because the Emperor Meiji replaced the Tokugawa family, the samurai, as a ruler of the nation. Therefore, all martial arts, including kyudo, declined. Before the Meiji Restoration, only the military class was allowed to do "Kyūdō". But after it, ordinally people could also do archery, so it spread outside the military class and it became an amusement. Now, All Japan Kyudo Federation plays a role in the promotion of kyudo as a sport.
There are many styles, but most of kyudo players are learning the technique ruled by All Japan Kyudo Federation ("Shaho-Hassetsu"). In most cases, style means the kind of movement (called "Taihai").
This is a major style and is known as the style of mannar. Most of the kyudo players play based on it.
This style places importance on hitting and power. 
This style is derived from Heki style and Ogasawara style.
This style is derived from Heki style. 
There are the Eight Stages of Shooting (Shaho-Hassetsu); which is a fundamental movement.
The equipment of "kyūdō" has evolved from ancient times.
 is the Japanese term for the bows used in "kyūdō".
"Yumi" is traditionally made of bamboo, wood and leather. But, recently, many "yumi" are made from fiberglass and carbon fiber. They are cheaper than those made of bamboo. Generally, there are two sizes. One is "nami" and the other is "nobi". "Nobi" is longer than "Nami".
 is the Japanese term for the arrows of "kyūdō". The arrow's shaft is traditionally made of bamboo. Recently, many shafts are made of aluminum or carbon fibers. The traditional is made with three fins or of eagle or hawk feathers. The modern "ya" may be made with turkey or swan feathers. 
People wear special clothes called "Kyūdōgi" when they practice kyudo or play a game.
In a formal place, people wear "Wahuku".

</doc>
<doc id="372894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372894" title="Château de Malmaison">
Château de Malmaison

The Château de Malmaison () is a country house (or château) in the city of Rueil-Malmaison about 12 km (7 mi) from Paris.
It was formerly the residence of Joséphine de Beauharnais. With the Tuileries it was the headquarters of the French government from 1800 to 1802.
Joséphine de Beauharnais bought the manor house in April 1797 for herself and her husband, General Napoléon Bonaparte. The future Napoléon I of France was at that time away fighting the Egyptian Campaign. Malmaison was a run-down estate, seven miles (12 km) west of central Paris that encompassed nearly of woods and meadows.
When he came back from Egypt, Bonaparte was angry at Joséphine for buying such an expensive house. She had expected him to bring back a lot of money from the Egyptian campaign. She had paid well over 300,000 francs for the house and it needed extensive renovations. She spent a lot of money fixing it. Malmaison would bring great happiness to the Bonapartes. Joséphine's daughter, Hortense would call it "a delicious spot".
Joséphine worked hard to transform the large estate into "the most beautiful and curious garden in Europe. She wanted it to be a model of good cultivation". She located rare and exotic plants and animals to enhance the gardens. Joséphine wrote: "I wish that Malmaison may soon become the source of riches for all [of France]"... 
In 1800, Joséphine built a heated orangery large enough for 300 pineapple plants. Five years later she ordered the building of a greenhouse. It was heated by a dozen coal-burning stoves. From 1803 until her death in 1814 she cultivated nearly 200 new plants in France for the first time.
The property became famous for its rose garden. Empress Joséphine had the Belgian artist Pierre-Joseph Redouté (1759–1840) record her roses (and lilies). Prints of these works sell quite well, even today. She created an extensive collection of rose. She gathered plants from her native Martinique and from other places around the world. She grew some 250 varieties of roses. From the foreword to "Jardin de la Malmaison" (1803):
Birds and animals of all sorts began to fill her garden. They were allowed to roam free among the grounds. At the height of her days at Malmaison, Joséphine had the company of kangaroos, emus, black swans, zebras, sheep, gazelles, ostriches, chamois, a seal, antelopes and llamas to name a few. Some were from the Baudin expedition.
After her divorce from Napoléon, Joséphine received Malmaison in her own right, along with a pension of 5 million francs a year, and remained there until her death in 1814. After his defeat at the Battle of Waterloo in 1815 Napoléon returned to the house before his exile to the island of Saint Helena.
In 1842 Malmaison was purchased by Maria Christina, widow of King Ferdinand VII of Spain; she lived there with her second husband Agustín Fernando Muñoz, 1st Duke of Riánsares. In 1861 Maria Christina sold the property to Napoleon III.
Malmaison has been restored by the French famous architect Pierre Humbert in the early 20th century.
The public can visit the manor house as a Napoleonic "musée national". The museum lies on RN 13 ("route nationale" 13) from Paris and bus 258 from RER A "Grande Arche" station.

</doc>
<doc id="372898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372898" title="Xerochrysum">
Xerochrysum

Xerochrysum (or "Bracteantha") is a type or genus of flowering plants native to Australia. It was defined by Russian botanist Nikolai Tzvelev in 1990. It was identified before (and taking precedence over) "Bracteantha" which was described the following year. A 2002 molecular study of the tribe Gnaphalieae found the genus is likely polyphyletic, with "X. bracteatum" and "X. viscosum" removed from each other.
There are currently 7 recognized species:
The genus was formerly included in "Helichrysum".

</doc>
<doc id="372903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372903" title="Henry Charles Andrews">
Henry Charles Andrews

Henry Charles Andrews (fl. 1794 - 1830), was an English botanist, and an artist who illustrated plants.
He lived in Knightsbridge. He was married to the daughter of John Kennedy of Hammersmith, a nurseryman who helped Andrews to write descriptions of the plants he illustrated.
Andrews was a good and unusual botanical artist. He was not only an artist, but also engraver, colorist, and publisher in a time when most artists were only employed to make small drawings. The "Botanist's Repository" was his first publication. It was issued in London in a series of ten volumes between 1797 and 1812. It provided affordable images of plants to the growing population of amateur gardeners in Britain. The Kew publication, "Curtis's Botanical Magazine", wrote that Andrews' work was very accurate. Andrews' images have a more artistic appeal compared to the publications of his rival, which were focused more on scientific descriptions.

</doc>
<doc id="372917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372917" title="Category:Deaths from surgical complications">
Category:Deaths from surgical complications


</doc>
<doc id="372918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372918" title="Talia al Ghul">
Talia al Ghul

Talia al Ghul is a fictional Batman character who is the daughter of Ra's al Ghul. Ghul might be a villain that might want to either finish his father's work or to avenge his death. She may sometimes help Batman to stop his father's work. She is the mother of Bruce Wayne's son, Damian Wayne.
Marion Cotillard played Talia in "The Dark Knight Rises", but she had a fake name "Miranda Tate" and was the chairman of Wayne Enterprises. 

</doc>
<doc id="372927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372927" title="Guckkasten">
Guckkasten

Guckkasten (Hangul: 국카스텐) is a South Korean Indie rock group that is known for psychedelic music. The members are Ha Hyun-woo (Hangul: 하현우, vocal), Jeon Kyu-ho (Hangul: 전규호), Lee Jung-gil (Hangul: 이정길) and Kim Ki-bum (Hangul: 김기범). The group formed in 2003 and their band was called "The C.O.M" at the time. <br> In 2007, they renamed their band "Guckkasten," a German word that means "Chinese-style kaleidoscope". The renaming of the band as "Guckkasten" was to reflect how their psychedelic music is like looking through a Chinese-style kaleidoscope with its beautiful and constantly changing pictures. <br>This band tries to express their experimental mindset by playing music like psychedelic videos hidden under an analogous style.
Lee Jung-gil and Ha Hyun-woo started a school band together. After quitting school, they moved to Seoul. Then they scouted Jeon Kyu-ho through the Internet and started a band "New Unbalance". 
In 2003, they realigned their members and created a band named "The C.O.M". However, "The C.O.M" broke up that year after the "Ssamji sound festival". 
Then in 2007, they formed the band again, but changed the name to "Guckkasten," a German word for Chinese-style kaleidoscope. A year later, in 2008, Kim Ki-bum joined the band.
Since then, they have performed as the band "Guckkasten" and never looked back.
The music of Guckkasten can be classified as psychedelic. They try to express their music as psychedelic videos which is hidden under analogue.It is because their music is inspired by Hague's piece called Art and Fire. Although their music can be classified as psychedelic music in some points, their genre can't be defined clearly. Their music is expressed in various ways and the songs are very changeable.They are skilled guitar players, and their sound is guitar focused. But they have said that this will change on their 2nd album.

</doc>
<doc id="372931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372931" title="Tjungkara Ken">
Tjungkara Ken

Tjungkara Ken (born 1 October 1969) is an Australian Aboriginal artist from Amaṯa, South Australia. She began painting in 1997, when Minymaku Arts was opened by the women of Amaṯa. She started doing it professionally (as a job) in 2008. By that time, the artists' co-operative had been renamed to Tjala Arts.
Ken's paintings depict stories and figures from her personal ' (Dreaming), the spirituality that is associated with her ancestor's homeland. Her father is from the country around Amaṯa and Walitjara, and Ken most often depicts this country and its ' in her paintings. She also illustrates her mother's country, which is further west, near Irrunytju.
Ken's paintings have been featured in group exhibitions in many of Australia's major cities. Some of her work was also part of an exhibition in Graz, Austria in 2002. One of her paintings, titled " – My Country", was chosen as a finalist for the National Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander Art Award in 2010. It was bought by a private collector. Another of Ken's works, a painting depicting the "" (Seven Sisters Dreaming), was chosen by the Art Gallery of South Australia as the winner of its "Desert Country" competition in 2011. The exhibition featured works by several artists from across the Aṉangu Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara Lands, including Maringka Baker, Nura Rupert and Jimmy Baker.
Examples of Ken's work are shown in the National Gallery of Victoria, the Art Gallery of South Australia, the Queensland Gallery of Modern Art, and the National Gallery of Australia. It is also held in several major private galleries in Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="372935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372935" title="Neo-impressionism">
Neo-impressionism

Neo-impressionism is a term coined by a French art critic in 1886 to describe an art movement founded by Georges Seurat. Seurat’s greatest masterpiece, "A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte", marked the beginning of this movement when it appeared at an exhibition of the "Société des Artistes Indépendants" in Paris. 
Around this time, many painters were in search of new methods. Followers of neo-impressionism were drawn to modern urban scenes as well as landscapes and seashores. Science-based interpretation of lines and colours influenced neo-impressionists’ characterization of their own contemporary art. 
Pointillism is often mentioned, because it was the dominant technique in the beginning of the movement. 
The art critic Félix Fénéon first used the term neo-impressionism in an article he wrote for the Belgian journal "L’art Moderne" in 1886. With the term he wanted to show that the way Seurat painted was different from the ways painting was done in Impressionism. In total, the movement lasted about five years. 

</doc>
<doc id="372948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372948" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Green Party of Pakistan">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Green Party of Pakistan


</doc>
<doc id="372953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372953" title="Crowns of Silla">
Crowns of Silla

The crowns of Silla are golden crowns made in the Korean kingdom of Silla. They were made roughly during the 5th and 6th centuries. These crowns were excavated in Gyeongju, the ancient capital of Silla. They are part of the national treasures of South Korea.

</doc>
<doc id="372955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372955" title="Christiaan Hendrik Persoon">
Christiaan Hendrik Persoon

Christiaan Hendrik Persoon (1 February 1761 – 16 November 1836) studied fungus who made additions to Linnaeus' mushroom taxonomy.
Persoon was born in South Africa at the Cape of Good Hope. He was the third child of an immigrant Pomeranian father and Dutch mother. His mother died soon after he was born; at the age of thirteen his father (who died a year later) sent him to Europe for his education.
He started his education studying theology at Halle. In 1784 at the age 22 Persoon switched to medicine at Leiden and Göttingen. He received a doctorate from the "Kaiserlich-Leopoldinisch-Carolinische Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher" in 1799.
He moved to Paris in 1802 where he spent the rest of his life. He rented an upper floor of a house in a poor part of town. In his later life he was unemployed, unmarried, poor and kept to himself. He did correspond with botanists throughout Europe however. Because of his financial difficulties, Persoon agreed to donate his herbarium to the House of Orange, in return for an adequate pension for life.
The origin of Persoon's botanical interest is unknown. The earliest of his writings was "Abbildungen der Schwämme" (Illustrations of the fungi). It was published in three parts. The first was published in 1790. The second in 1791. The third was published and 1793. Between 1805 and 1807, he published two volumes of his "Synopsis plantarum". This was a popular work describing 20,000 species of all types of plants. But his pioneering work was in fungi. He wrote several things related to mushrooms and other forms of fungi. Beginning with the "Synopsis methodica fungorum" (1801); it is the starting point for nomenclature of the Uredinales, Ustilaginales, and the Gasteromycetes. In 1815, he was elected a corresponding member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.
The genus "Persoonia" is a variety of small Australian trees and shrubs and was named after him.

</doc>
<doc id="372978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372978" title="Nura Rupert">
Nura Rupert

Nura Rupert is an Australian Aboriginal artist from north-west South Australia. She produces her works using intaglio methods of printmaking. The designs are drawn by etching and linocutting, and the prints are done on paper.
Nura was born about 1933, in north-western South Australia. The place of her birth is a rock hole called Tjitapiti, which is northeast of Nyapaṟi, and close to what is now the outstation of Angatja. Nura was a "bush baby" (she was born in the bush), and her family lived a traditional, nomadic way of life in the desert around Angatja. Nura was a baby when her parents and elder brother settled at Ernabella, which was a Presbyterian mission at the time.
Nura worked in crafts from a young age. Growing up at the mission, she learned weaving and knitting to make rugs and clothes. She also learned to make artistic objects from wood carving and poker work. She began painting around 2000, producing acrylic paintings on canvases. She started using printmaking techniques a few years later.
Most of Nura's designs depict stories from her childhood. They are usually images of children or animals, such as dingos and goats, but she is best known for her depictions of "" (spirits). These are from traditional Pitjantjatjara stories told to children to make sure they stay away from trouble. Her style is often described as "child-like", because the shapes are very simple and look like a child's drawings.
Works by Nura have been featured in exhibitions since 2000, in many of Australia's major cities and also in cities in the United Kingdom. Her work is held in several major collections, including Flinders University, the Art Gallery of South Australia, the National Gallery of Australia, the National Museum of Australia, and Parliament House in Canberra. Prints by Nura were chosen as finalists for the National Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander Art Awards in 2006 and 2007, and the Western Australian Indigenous Art Awards in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="372990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372990" title="Australian Plant Name Index">
Australian Plant Name Index

The Australian Plant Name Index (APNI) is an online database of all published names of Australian vascular plants. It covers all names, whether current names, synonyms or invalid names. It includes bibliographic and typification details, links to other resources, and data from the Census of Australian Vascular Plants divided by state. Users can also make notes and comments on other details.
The APNI is recognised by Australian herbaria as the official source for Australian plant descriptions. It is the core component of Australia's Virtual Herbarium, which is a collaborative project with A$10-million funding. The project is aimed at providing integrated online access to the data and specimen collections of Australia's major herbaria.
Two search interfaces are offered:
Originally the idea of Nancy Tyson Burbidge, it began as a four-volume printed work of 3,055 pages. It contains over 60,000 plant names. It was compiled by Arthur Chapman, and was part of the Australian Biological Resources Study (ABRS). In 1991 it was made available as an online database, and handed over to the Australian National Botanic Gardens. Two years later, responsibility for its maintenance has given to the newly formed Centre for Plant Biodiversity Research.

</doc>
<doc id="372998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372998" title="Cabinet making">
Cabinet making

Cabinet making, also spelled cabinetmaking or "cabinet-making" with a hyphen, is the use of fine woodworking skills to make cabinets and furniture.
Cabinetmakers learn to use the tools of the cabinet making trade.
There were few full-time furniture makers in England or America until the last half of the 17th century.
In the 18th century, some European cabinetmakers became well known. Cabinet making was an essential trade in early British North America. It was a huge money maker. They made furniture like cabinets, chairs, doors, drawers, cupboards, bed frames, tables, and many more. They used gimlets, gouges, bow saws, chisels, braces, and hack saws to make their furniture. The wood they used was oak, maple, cypress, chestnut, and yellow pine.

</doc>
<doc id="373003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373003" title="Category:Hanukkah">
Category:Hanukkah


</doc>
<doc id="373005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373005" title="Mantidfly">
Mantidfly

Mantidflies are insects in the family Mantispidae. They are small to moderate-sized insects in the order Neuroptera. There are many genera with around 400 species worldwide, especially in the tropics and subtropics. Only 5 species of "Mantispa" occur in Europe.
Some mantidflies are wasp mimics, but most are brownish with green, yellow and sometimes red hues. 
They get their name from their mantis-like appearance, as their spiny "raptorial" (raptor-like) front legs are modified to catch small insect prey and are very similar to the front legs of mantids. The adults are predatory insects that are often nocturnal, and are sometimes attracted by porch lights. They have four membranous wings which may sometimes be patterned (especially in wasp mimicking species) but are usually clear. Adult mantidflies are predators of suitably sized insects, which they catch as mantids do. Mantidflies are active hunters, but as with other Neuroptera, they are cumbersome fliers.
Their larvae are either parasitoids or predators. Subfamily Symphrasinae larvae are parasitoids on bee, wasp or scarab beetle larvae. Larvae of the subfamily Calomantispinae are predators of small arthropods. 
Larvae of the subfamily Mantispinae seek out female spiders or their egg sacs which they then enter; the scarab-like larvae then feed on the spider eggs, draining egg contents through a piercing/sucking tube. Then they pupate in the egg sac.

</doc>
<doc id="373015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373015" title="Tav">
Tav

Tav, or Taw, is the twenty-second and last letter in many Semitic abjads, including Phoenician, Aramaic, Hebrew and Arabic alphabet. Its sounds like a .

</doc>
<doc id="373016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373016" title="Barney Hajiro">
Barney Hajiro

Barney Fushimi Hajiro (September 16, 1916–January 21, 2011) was a United States Army soldier. He received the Medal of Honor because of his actions in World War II.
Hajiro was born in Hawaii to Japanese immigrant parents He is a "Nisei", which means that he is a second generation Japanese-American. He grew up in a rural area. According to a friend who spoke at his funeral,
Two months after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, he joined the US Army.
Hajiro volunteered to be part of the all-"Nisei" 442nd Regimental Combat Team. This army unit was mostly made up of Japanese Americans from Hawaii and the mainland.
For his actions in October 1944, Hajiro was awarded the Army's second-highest decoration, the Distinguished Service Cross (DSC). In the 1990s, there was a review of service records of Asian Americans who received the DSC during World War II. Hajiro's award was upgraded to the Medal of Honor. In a ceremony at the White House on June 21, 2000, he was presented with his medal by President Bill Clinton. Twenty-one other Asian Americans also received the medal during the ceremony, but only seven of them were still alive.
Hajiro was recommended for the Victoria Cross. He received the British Military Medal in 1948.
In 2004, France made him a member of the Légion d'honneur.
Hajiro's Medal of Honor recognized his conduct in frontline fighting in eastern France in 1944. He assisted an attack on a house, captured a numerically superior force; and without help from others, he silenced two machine gun nests.
The words of Hajiro's citation explain:
Private Barney F. Hajiro distinguished himself by extraordinary heroism in action on 19, 22, and October 29, 1944, in the vicinity of Bruyeres and Biffontaine, eastern France. Private Hajiro, while acting as a sentry on top of an embankment on October 19, 1944, in the vicinity of Bruyeres, France, rendered assistance to allied troops attacking a house 200 yards away by exposing himself to enemy fire and directing fire at an enemy strong point. He assisted the unit on his right by firing his automatic rifle and killing or wounding two enemy snipers. On October 22, 1944, he and one comrade took up an outpost security position about 50 yards to the right front of their platoon, concealed themselves, and ambushed an 18-man, heavily armed, enemy patrol, killing two, wounding one, and taking the remainder as prisoners. On October 29, 1944, in a wooded area in the vicinity of Biffontaine, France, Private Hajiro initiated an attack up the slope of a hill referred to as "Suicide Hill" by running forward approximately 100 yards under fire. He then advanced ahead of his comrades about 10 yards, drawing fire and spotting camouflaged machine gun nests. He fearlessly met fire with fire and single-handedly destroyed two machine gun nests and killed two enemy snipers. As a result of Private Hajiro's heroic actions, the attack was successful. Private Hajiro's extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit upon him, his unit, and the United States Army.

</doc>
<doc id="373033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373033" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Marika Deku">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Marika Deku


</doc>
<doc id="373034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373034" title="Category:Venezuelan entertainers">
Category:Venezuelan entertainers


</doc>
<doc id="373038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373038" title="Category:Movie actors by nationality">
Category:Movie actors by nationality


</doc>
<doc id="373045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373045" title="Conference of European Schools for Advanced Engineering Education and Research">
Conference of European Schools for Advanced Engineering Education and Research

The Conference of European Schools for Advanced Engineering Education and Research (CESAER) is an association of engineering universities in Europe. CESAER started on the 10th of May 1990, based in Leuven, Belgium.

</doc>
<doc id="373058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373058" title="Ginger Wikilyiri">
Ginger Wikilyiri

Ginger Nobby Wikilyiri is an Australian Aboriginal artist from Nyapaṟi, South Australia.
Wikilyiri was born around 1932, in the desert of north-western South Australia. The place where he was born is Kunamata, a rock hole south of what is now the community of Nyapaṟi. His father had three wives, and Wikilyiri is the son of the second wife. He has an elder sister, Wingu, who was borne to his father's first wife. Wikilyiri and his family, who are Pitjantjatjara, were all born and lived in the bush, living a traditional way of life. After settling at Ernabella, Wikilyiri worked in land management and horticulture. He worked for many years as a ranger for Uluṟu-Kata Tjuṯa National Park, living at Muṯitjulu.
Wikilyiri paints stories from his Dreaming, the spirituality that defines his kinship with the land. The Dreaming associated with his birth place, Kunumata, carries the "" (a kind of python) as its totem. Wikilyiri's paintings depict sacred legends about his ancestors and how they created the land around Kunumata. He also paints similar stories about Piltati, another rock hole nearby and a sacred site for Pitjantjatjara men. Pink dominates many of Wikilyiri's major paintings, which is an unusual choice of colour for the Western Desert style of art.
His work has been shown in major exhibitions in many cities around Australia and other countries. Examples are held in the National Gallery of Victoria, the Art Gallery of South Australia, the Australian National University, and the National Gallery of Australia. Paintings by Wikilyiri were chosen as finalists for the National Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander Art Awards in 2009, 2010 and 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="373063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373063" title="North Queensland">
North Queensland

North Queensland or the Northern Region is the northern part of the state of Queensland in Australia. It is just south of Far North Queensland. Queensland is a massive state and is larger than many countries. The tropical northern part of it has been historically remote and undeveloped. This has resulted in a regional character and identity that is quite different to the rest of the state.
Townsville is the largest community in North Queensland. It is regarded as an unofficial capital. The region has a population of 231,628 and covers 80,041.5 km².
There is no official boundary that separates North Queensland from the rest of the state. Unofficially, its southern border is usually considered to begin south of the Mackay Region. To the north is the Far North Queensland region. The centre of the region is around Cairns. To the west west is the Gulf Country.
North Queensland is a coastal region. Its largest settlement is the city of Townsville, where there is a major seaport. 
There have been many groups saying that North Queensland should become its own state.

</doc>
<doc id="373065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373065" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Plague mask">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Plague mask


</doc>
<doc id="373114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373114" title="Payari">
Payari

Payari is a village in Bangladesh. It is situated in the Magura district of the Khulna Division. It is almost 14 km away from Magura Sadar Upazila. The Nabaganga river flows nearby the village.

</doc>
<doc id="373116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373116" title="Category:Pashtun people">
Category:Pashtun people


</doc>
<doc id="373117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373117" title="Category:Afghan people">
Category:Afghan people


</doc>
<doc id="373118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373118" title="Category:Monarchs of Afghanistan">
Category:Monarchs of Afghanistan


</doc>
<doc id="373120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373120" title="Category:Odonata">
Category:Odonata


</doc>
<doc id="373122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373122" title="Category:Orthoptera">
Category:Orthoptera


</doc>
<doc id="373123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373123" title="Category:Tajik people">
Category:Tajik people


</doc>
<doc id="373124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373124" title="Category:Afghan leaders">
Category:Afghan leaders


</doc>
<doc id="373135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373135" title="Phidippus audax">
Phidippus audax

Phidippus audax is a jumping spider that comes from North America. The spider is often called the daring jumping spider or bold jumping spider in English. A spider of this species will usually be black with white patterns on its abdomen. In younger spiders, the spots on the abdomen will be a orange, red or yellow colour, which will become white as the spider becomes older. The average size of an adult is between 13 and 20 millimetres and the male is slightly smaller than the female.

</doc>
<doc id="373137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373137" title="Category:Apterygota">
Category:Apterygota


</doc>
<doc id="373140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373140" title="Mikio Hasemoto">
Mikio Hasemoto

Mikio Hasemoto (July 13, 1916-November 29, 1943) was a United States Army soldier. He received the Medal of Honor because of his actions in World War II.
Hasemoto was born at Honolulu, Hawaii. He is the son of immigrants who were born in Japan. He is a "Nisei", which means that he is a second generation Japanese-American.
Six months before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Hasemoto joined the US Army in June 1941.
Hasemoto volunteered to be part of the all-"Nisei" 100th Infantry Battalion. This army unit was mostly made up of Japanese Americans from Hawaii and the mainland.
For his actions in November 1943, Hasemoto was awarded the Army's second-highest decoration, the Distinguished Service Cross (DSC). In the 1990s, there was a review of service records of Asian Americans who received the DSC during World War II. Hasemoto's award was upgraded to the Medal of Honor. In a ceremony at the White House on June 21, 2000, his family was presented with his medal by President Bill Clinton. Twenty-one other Asian Americans also received the medal during the ceremony, but only seven of them were still alive.
Hasemoto's Medal of Honor recognized his conduct in fighting in central Italy in 1943. With his squad leader, he destroyed an enemy force despite having to run through heavy fire twice to retrieve new weapons
The words of Hasemoto's citation explain:
Private Mikio Hasemoto distinguished himself by extraordinary heroism in action on 29 November 1943, in the vicinity of Cerasuolo, Italy. A force of approximately 40 enemy soldiers, armed with machine guns, machine pistols, rifles, and grenades, attacked the left flank of his platoon. Two enemy soldiers with machine guns advanced forward, firing their weapons. Private Hasemoto, an automatic rifleman, challenged these two machine gunners. After firing four magazines at the approaching enemy, his weapon was shot and damaged. Unhesitatingly, he ran 10 yards to the rear, secured another automatic rifle and continued to fire until his weapon jammed. At this point, Private Hasemoto and his squad leader had killed approximately 20 enemy soldiers. Again, Private Hasemoto ran through a barrage of enemy machine gun fire to pick up an M-1 rifle. Continuing their fire, Private Hasemoto and his squad leader killed 10 more enemy soldiers. With only three enemy soldiers left, he and his squad leader charged courageously forward, killing one, wounding one, and capturing another. The following day, Private Hasemoto continued to repel enemy attacks until he was killed by enemy fire. Private Hasemoto’s extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit on him, his unit, and the United States Army.

</doc>
<doc id="373148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373148" title="Category:Faisalabad Division">
Category:Faisalabad Division


</doc>
<doc id="373159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373159" title="Nicholas Marcellus Hentz">
Nicholas Marcellus Hentz

Nicholas Marcellus Hentz (born July 25, 1797) was a French-American educator and arachnologist. He died November 4, 1856 in Marianna, Florida.
Hentz was born in Versailles, France. He learned the art of miniature painting and studied medicine in Paris. In 1816, he immigrated to the United States. In the United States, he taught the French language and miniature painting in Boston, Philadelphia and many other places.
Hentz is best known for his work in describing 124 spider species. These include the black-footed yellow sac spider and the Southern house spider.

</doc>
<doc id="373165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373165" title="Italian cuisine">
Italian cuisine

Italian cuisine is traditional Italian food. It is not any one thing, because it is strongly regionalised. This means that the cooking is different in different parts of Italy. 
Naturally there are some basic foods which can be found all over Italy, and now in many other countries. These are pasta, pizza, cannoli pastry desserts, ice cream and red or white wine. Calamari dishes of fried squid (fried calamari) are often on the menu. 
Olives have been grown in Italy for thousands of years. They are eaten, and also are the basis of olive oil. Olive oil and vinaigrette or balsamic vinegar are always on the table or nearby. Italians also make many kinds of breads in a different style from French bread. Their styles of coffee have also become internationally famous. Some of their liqueurs, like limoncello, are very distinctive.
Italian cuisine is one of the most refined and varied in Europe, from the piquant flavours of Naples and Calabria to the pesto dishes of Liguria and the cheese and risotto dishes of the Italian Alps.

</doc>
<doc id="373169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373169" title="Kashima-jingū">
Kashima-jingū

, also known as Kashima-jinja, is a Japanese Shinto shrine in Kashima, Ibaraki on the island of Honshu.
"Kashima" was the chief Shinto shrine ("ichinomiya") of the old Hitachi Province. It serves today as one of the "ichinomiya" of Ibaraki Prefecture. 
In the modern system of ranked Shinto Shrines, Kashima was listed in the middle range of ranked Imperial shrines or which included 23 sanctuaries.

</doc>
<doc id="373176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373176" title="Friedrich von Wurmb">
Friedrich von Wurmb

Christoph Carl Friedrich von Wurmb (2nd July 1742-March 1781) was a German botanist. His official shorthand is „Wurmb“. He was a descendant of the noble family von Wurmb. At some point in time, his elder brother Ludwig and he himself fell in love with the same woman. After a long decision process, he decided to emigrate, and leave the woman to his brother. He joined the Dutch East India Company, and emigrated to Amsterdam, and later to Batavia, the modern-day Jakarta. His brother later married this woman, Christiane von Werthern. His sister's brother in law, Friedrich Schiller, wrote a short story about it, "A magnanimous act" ("Eine Grossmütige Handlung").
In biology, he is known for his taxonomy of palm trees. and for his writing about a Bornean Oranggutan.
The species Wurmbea in the Colchicaceae is named after him.

</doc>
<doc id="373177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373177" title="Core cities of Japan">
Core cities of Japan

The core cities were created because of the Local Autonomy Law of Japan. Each city does many of the things normally done by prefectures. 
Core cities were recognized starting in 1996. There are 40+ of these cities, including

</doc>
<doc id="373184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373184" title="Oligopsony">
Oligopsony

In microeconomics an oligopsony is a market form where there are few buyers. There may be many sellers, but because there are few buyers, the decision each buyer makes influences the whole market. Therefore this is an example of imperfect competition.
One example of this is the market for cocoa: Three companies (Cargill, Archer Daniels Midland and Callebaut) buy most of the world production, usually from small farmers. Other examples are that of tobacco or that of bananas. By extension the "market for work" also has this characteristic: there are few companies (employers, "buying work") and many people "offering to work".

</doc>
<doc id="373185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373185" title="Natural monopoly">
Natural monopoly

A natural monopoly is a type of monopoly in which it is the only seller and producer of a good or service. It is impossible for a new firm to enter the market as there are very high barriers to entry and very high startup costs, similar to that of a normal monopoly. The natural monopoly term is usually used to describe markets that have very high fixed costs compared to the marginal costs of selling the good or service, creating economies of scale that are large compared to the size of the market and hence resulting in very high barriers to entry. Examples of natural monopolies include public utilities such as water services and electricity.
A natural monopoly often keeps getting economies of scale as more of a good or service is produced.

</doc>
<doc id="373186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373186" title="Monopsony">
Monopsony

A Monopsony is a market form where there is only one buyer, but many sellers. Much like with the monopoly this single buyer has a complete influence on the price. In practice, this market form does not occur often. One example may be a healthcare system where there is only one "buyer" of healthcare services; which is usually the state, or a state-run institution. Another example is defense industry, where the state is the often only buyer. Still another is that of public transport: Either the whole public transport is run by one (usually state-owned) company, or the state awards contracts to run a given line for a certain time period. 

</doc>
<doc id="373208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373208" title="Koreapas">
Koreapas

Koreapas is an online homepage for Korea University students in South Korea. It provides information which is useful in school life. It is called (). It was started in 2007 by person who named Park Jong Chan. There is news about school and lecture information. Students talk freely and share information. So, it is useful to register before the semester starts. You can find information about restaurants and flea markets too. 
Park Jong Chan who made this online community was elected the student president in 2011. His well-known name because of making Ko-pas helped him to be elected. Many students are so familiar in this homepage and it makes students remember his name easily.
Ko-pas has been criticized because of its exclusivity. There is a anonymous board in Ko-pas page and some students use swear words and say unproper words as a student. The other problem is exclusive culture in Ko-pas. They only along with those members in that site and show disrespect to other groups especially less famous university in Korea. But, it could be a one of side effects and internet cultures as well

</doc>
<doc id="373243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373243" title="The Mall, Lahore">
The Mall, Lahore

The Mall, Lahore is a major avenue or road in the city of Lahore, in Pakistan. It was made during the colonial times of the British Raj, in the 1850s-60s. 
The Mall is still Lahore's main avenue or road, with many important sites and buildings on both sides of it. It is usually divided into two sections, the 'Lower Mall' near the Punjab Government Secretariat, the University of the Punjab, the Government College University, the Lahore Museum and other locations; and the 'Upper Mall' near the Lawrence Gardens (now renamed the "Bagh i Jinnah"), the Lahore Zoo, Aitchison College, the Government House and the Lahore Gymkhana Club. 
Smaller roads link up to the Mall on many sides, leading to various other parts of the city.

</doc>
<doc id="373244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373244" title="William Lockhart">
William Lockhart

General Sir William Stephen Alexander Lockhart, commonly known as William Lockhart (1841-1900) was a well-known British Indian Army officer. He was born in Inchinnan, Renfrewshire, Scotland.
He served in the 1857-1858 Indian Mutiny (or Rebellion of 1857) and then in the Second Anglo-Afghan War, winning medals for his brave achievements. From 1880 to 1885 he remained Deputy Quartermaster-General of the Intelligence Branch of British India. In 1897 he commanded the famous Tirah expedition against the Afridi tribe of Pashtuns. He was appointed Commander-in-Chief of the British Army in India and died of malaria in Calcutta while still serving in this position. 

</doc>
<doc id="373245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373245" title="Xeranthemum">
Xeranthemum

Xeranthemum is a flower. It is found in Southern Europe. It has silvery flower heads with purple tube-like flowers.

</doc>
<doc id="373246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373246" title="Afridi">
Afridi

The Afridi are a large Pashtun tribe mostly resident in Tirah, Jamrud and the Khyber Pass areas of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. 

</doc>
<doc id="373248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373248" title="Joséphine de Beauharnais">
Joséphine de Beauharnais

Joséphine de Beauharnais (23 June 1763 – 29 May 1814) was the first wife of Napoléon Bonaparte. This made her the first Empress of the French. Her first husband Alexandre de Beauharnais was guillotined during the Reign of Terror. 
She did not have any children with Napoleon, as a result, he divorced her in 1810. Then he married Marie Louise of Austria.

</doc>
<doc id="373250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373250" title="Helichrysum">
Helichrysum

Helichrysum is a type of flower. It has about 600 species in the sunflower family (Asteraceae). The name Helichrysum comes from two Greek words: "helisso" means to turn around and "chrysos" means gold.
It grows in Africa, Madagascar, Australasia and Eurasia. There are many species in South Africa.

</doc>
<doc id="373252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373252" title="Xerochrysum bicolor">
Xerochrysum bicolor

Xerochrysum bicolor is a flowering plant in the family Asteraceae. It grows in Tasmania, mainly near the coast.
It grows to about 40 cm in height and 50 cm wide. The flowerheads are on stalks. They have a diameter of 3 to 4 cm.

</doc>
<doc id="373255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373255" title="Abbotsford House">
Abbotsford House

Abbotsford House in Scotland is the house of the writer Sir Walter Scott, where he lived from 1812 to 1832. Today this is a museum dedicated to Scott's life and works. It is a category A listed building.

</doc>
<doc id="373257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373257" title="Walter Savage Landor">
Walter Savage Landor

Walter Savage Landor (1775-1864) also known as WS Landor, was an English poet and essayist. 
He was the son of a doctor. He was sent to the famous Rugby School in 1784, but was removed in 1791, to avoid expulsion. He then went up to study at Trinity College, Oxford University but was also rusticated from there in 1794. After this, he developed some problems with his father, who was very angry at him, so Landor left his home. 
In 1794-95, he prepared his first book of poems, published in 1795 as "The Poems of Walter Savage Landor". This was followed by "Gebir" (1798), "Poetry" (1802), "Imaginary Conversations" (series, 1824-1829) and other works. 
He was also for some time married to Julia Thuillier and settled in France for a short time, then moved to Italy. After fighting with his wife, he left her and returned to England in 1835. In 1853 he published his last book, "Last Fruit off an Old Tree" and then, in 1858, left England again and went and settled in Europe. He died in 1864.

</doc>
<doc id="373263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373263" title="Mihailo Živanović">
Mihailo Živanović

Mihailo Živanović (Belgrade 17 February 1928 — Belgrade 18 July 1989), known as Mika-Žuti (Yellow), was a prominent and one of the most inventive and best Serbian and Yugoslav clarinetist, saxophonist, a very prolific composer, conductor of RTB Light Music Orchestras and arranger.
Mihailo Mika Živanović - Žuti (Yellow) was born in Prota Mateja street in Belgrade in 1928.
His first contact with music, dating back to the 1936, was when the father of an eight-year old Mika enrolled him in primary music school "Stanković" where he was first taught to play the piano. The year 1942 was crucial in his life because, upon hearing the sound of the clarinet through Radio London, he realized that this was what he wanted. And since then, fascinated by the beauty of jazz, he had regularly visited Concert Hall in Belgrade and listened to jazz concerts of then our masters (Elija Genić, Mladen Guteša, Vojin Popović and others), as well as of the foreign performers (Kari Burnett, German singer).
Mihailo attended the Third Male Grammar School and Secondary Music School "Stankovic", the piano department. He then enrolled at the Faculty of Sciences in Belgrade, department of chemistry, and left it for the music before graduation.
After the war, in 1945, Mihailo continued to learn the piano in Secondary Music School „Stanković“.
The biggest turning point in his life happened in 1946 when he saw and bought his first clarinet in a consignment shop. Since he had possessed a good knowledge of music, he began to practice day and night, this time – clarinet.
At the age of eighteen, inspired by the music of Glenn Miller and Woody Herman Orchestra, he made a firm decision to devote his life to the clarinet and music and graduated the clarinet from Secondary Music School “Slavenski” in the class of professor Franjo Partlić.
Jazz was very appealing to Mihailo Živanović. Accomplishing himself in this field, in 1946 he formed a jazz orchestra "Fis-dur" which he named after his clarinet Fis-dur. The orchestra was led by Michael himself. Due to the quality, the orchestra had very soon become one of the most famous in Belgrade. The first members of the orchestra were: Milo Dimitrijević (guitar), Duško Radić (piano), Stanislav Sodermajer (drums) and Mihailo Živanović (clarinet).
Anxious to learn and progress further in music in 1946. he continued to study clarinet at the "Allmusic Academy" where he met Eduard Sađil, also a student of clarinet.
Orchestra "Fis-dur" achieved success after success: performances, tours, great delight and standing ovations of the satisfied audience. In the year 1947, there was a large change in the orchestra with the new top musicians: Predrag Ivanović (trumpet), dr Aleksandar Pejić (accordion), Milovan Vukajlović-Genije (piano and accordion), Predrag Stefanović-Grof (-Count)(trombone) and Branko Pejaković (bass). Only Sodermajer and Živanović remained of the old members.
Significant, almost crucial meeting with Boro Roković (a trumpeter, composer, arranger, pianist and accordionist) occurred while playing at a dance party in 1949. Bora heard him and was impressed by his talent. He wanted to help Mihajlo, introduce him more and better into the world of jazz and direct him to the true value. He offered him to join his orchestra. Živanović played there until the end of 1953. Soon he was invited by Aleksandar Nećak and played in all three orchestras at the same time.
Orchestra "Fis-dur" existed until 1950.
Well-known trombonist Mladen Guteša founded Radio Belgrade Light Revue Orchestra on 18 January 1948. By the end of 1949. he invited Mihailo Živanović to become its member. Mihajlo was then a student of the "Music Academy" in the class of renowned professor Bruno Brun. For such a work and permanent employment, he had to get permission from his professor. Professor Bruno gave him consent.
In the Revue Orchestra Mihailo first played the baritone saxophone, and then the instrument which he had been studying - the clarinet. Radio Belgrade Revue Orchestra had many successful tours and concerts. One in Zagreb in 1953, which proved that Belgrade was the center of Yugoslav jazz.
Before the end of the study in 1954, persuaded by professors from the Academy, he left Radio Belgrade Revue Orchestra and got a job in the National Theatre Orchestra (Belgrade Opera) where he worked four years (until 1958).
As a student at the Academy he achieved a remarkable success in the "Yugoslav competition of young artists", clarinetist of classical music, in Skopje in 1954. There he won the second prize (the first was not awarded to anyone).
In 1955 he graduated clarinet successfully.
In 1955 Zivanovic founded "Mihailo Zivanovic’s Octet" in which he played the baritone saxophone. Alongside him, Predrag Ivanović played the trumpet, Nikola Dajzinger the alt saxophone, Eduard Sađil the tenor saxophone, Predrag Stefanović the trombone, Vojkan Đonovićić the guitar, Robert Hauber the piano and Rade Milivojević the drums.
Octet had been performing for 10 years with great success on radio stations in the country and abroad. It soon became one of the leading Yugoslav ensembles for contemporary and experimental jazz music.
Since 1958 almost to the last days of his life, he had been employed by the "Music Production branch of Radio Television of Serbia". That same year he became a permanent member of the Light String Orchestra led by Ilija Genić and later a conductor of the Jazz Orchestra i Revue Orchestra of Radio Television Belgrade.
In 1960 he became a member of "Serbian Composers Association".
In 1975 he was appointed head of the "Light Ensemble of RTB", and since 1978 permanent conductor of the "Light Orchestra of RTB" until his death.
Mihailo Živanović was a very prolific composer. He wrote children’s and stage music, popular songs, pop songs, and concert music, as well as numerous compositions and arrangements for the Yugoslav radio and TV stations.
He continuously followed the developments in the world of jazz and light music and was always in the contemporary musical trends of his time. Over forty years, he extensively composed different genres of music with a great success. He wrote over 300 instrumental, light, and vocal-instrumental compositions.
Until then, only foreign jazz music was played by Belgrade jazz orchestras. Živanović was one of the first jazz musicians who began to compose modern domestic jazz, and which he engaged in with a great enthusiasm. Živanović enriched Yugoslav light and jazz music with his great knowledge and activity, working up to the last day. Živanović’s many achievements have been permanently recorded in the history of Yugoslav jazz creativity.
He wrote the music and scene songs for the then popular singers such as: Arsen Dedić, Nada Knežević, Lola Novaković, Bisera and Senka Veletanlić, Anica Zubović, Dragan Stojnić, Tihomir Petrović, “Lutajuća srca”, Đorđe Marjanović, Zafir Hadžimanov, Krunoslav Slabinac, Dragan Mijalkovski and many others.
He was one of the most prolific creators of music for children.
At a time when intensively engaged in the instrument, he was known as one of the most inventive and best soloist on the clarinet and baritone saxophone. He performed in concerts at home and abroad with a great success (Germany, Austria, Romania, USA). As a soloist, he represented his country at the Berlin concert in the series “Music knows no boundaries”.
At the Light Music Festivals Mihailo appeared as a conductor. He was the conductor of the RTB Light Music Orchestra and the first clarinetist of Belgrade RTV Symphonic Orchestra. Mihailo was proficient in making arrangements and in this field left his great contribution and indelible mark.
Mihailo Mika Živanović began composing in 1950. His creative work is enormous:
These works include:
These works include:
These works include:
These works include:
These works include:
Mihajlo Živanović was a composer who had written the most songs for children on the theme of friendship and camaraderie. 
These, and other songs were sang by RTB Children’s Choir, Branko Milićević, Predrag Panić and Dragan Laković.
The last 10 years of life, he was a regular collaborator of the Children’s Television. He had composed music for children’s TV series like:
("Cricket’s Album" and "Guess" are children’s compositions too, were recorded on gramophone records by PGP and on a dozen different records there are compositions interpreted by the popular singers of the time.)
For the Belgrade television show 
Mihailo Živanović won numerous awards in the field of art. Some of them were:

</doc>
<doc id="373266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373266" title="Nyakul Dawson">
Nyakul Dawson

Nyakul Dawson was an Australian Aboriginal artist from Irrunytju. He was one of the earliest Ngaanyatjarra artists to achieve success using Western-style painting techniques. Examples of his work are held in the National Gallery of Victoria, and the Art Gallery of New South Wales.
Dawson was born near Mount Davies in the north-west corner of South Australia, around 1935. The exact year is not known, because he was born in the bush and grew up without any contact with Western society. He and his family, who belonged to the Ngaanyatjarra nation, lived a traditional, nomadic way of life in the desert. When he was a boy, Dawson began training as a "" (traditional healer) under his grandfather. He was taught about the country, the spiritual knowledge and law associated with it, and how to use traditional tools and methods to heal people.
In the 1950s, government patrols removed Dawson and his family from their homeland in order to escape the fallout from the nuclear tests at Maralinga. They were settled at Warburton, to the north-west, with many other Ngaanyatjarra families. It was at Warburton that he was given the surname "Dawson". His nomadic childhood in the desert made him an expert on how to survive in the wilderness. He was often used as a guide in prospecting expeditions.
While living at Warburton, Dawson married a woman named Alkawari. They moved to Irrunytju, closer to Dawson's home country, and had three children during the 1970s. Dawson married again much later, to Anmanari Brown. Anmanari had also been married before, and her several children became part of his family. Dawson remained highly respected as a community elder and traditional healer until his death.
Dawson began painting in 2002, aged in his 60s. The year before, the women of Irrunytju had opened an art centre in the community, called Irrunytju Arts. His wife, Anmanari, had already been painting at the centre for several months, and Dawson joined her along with several of the community's other senior men. Dawson's first wife, Alkawari, also became a successful artist at Irrunytju.
Dawson's paintings depict creation stories from the Dreamtime and concepts from his spirituality. They illustrate his family's Dreaming and how their ancestors created the land. His birthplace is on the Dreaming track (or "songline") of the (Goanna Man), the path travelled by one of his ancestors from the Dreamtime whose totem is the perentie lizard. The scenes in his paintings are from the places he travelled as a boy with his family in the central Australian desert.
Dawson was a member of the Executive Committee of Desart for several years until November 2006. In June 2006, he travelled to Paris for the opening of the Musée du quai Branly. He was there with the Australia Council for the Arts as a representative for Aboriginal Australian art.
Dawson died some time at the start of January 2007, while driving with his nephew (Jarman Woods) across the Great Victoria Desert. They had spent Christmas with relatives in Kalgoorlie and were returning home by a long, isolated track in the desert. The track between Kalgoorlie and Irrunytju is over , a journey that they had made many times before.
Their car got a flat tyre some time after leaving Coonana. They were reported missing on 8 January at Tjuntjuntjara, the next community on their route. The two men died of dehydration. Dawson was also a diabetic, which made him much more vulnerable in the extreme heat. His body was found on 12 January, a little over two weeks after they left Kalgoorlie. It was found close to the car, about east of Kalgoorlie. Woods' body was found a few kilometres further away.

</doc>
<doc id="373273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373273" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Nicholas Marcellus Hentz">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Nicholas Marcellus Hentz


</doc>
<doc id="373280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373280" title="List of football clubs in Azerbaijan">
List of football clubs in Azerbaijan

This is a list of football clubs in Azerbaijan, sub-divided into leagues where known.

</doc>
<doc id="373294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373294" title="Thomson-East Coast MRT Line">
Thomson-East Coast MRT Line

The Thomson-East Coast Line (TEL) will be the sixth MRT line in Singapore. It will be the fourth fully automated and driverless system line in Singapore. The line will be 43 km (27 mi) long and with 31 stations.
The Thomson Line section was announced on 29 August 2012. The Eastern Region Line section was announced on 15 August 2014. Both were merged into Thomson-East Coast Line.
The line will open in five stages from 2019 onwards. It interchanges with all existing lines. When the first three stages are opened, it is expected to serve about 500,000 commuters daily. 

</doc>
<doc id="373307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373307" title="The Bridges of Madison County">
The Bridges of Madison County

The Bridges of Madison County is a 1992 book written by American author Robert James Waller. The book was published by Warner Books, Inc. Kincaid has same first name as author and is a photographer and an artist just like Robert James Waller. In the first chapter, “the Beginning,” the author misleads the readers by saying that this book is a true story. It is actually a work of fiction. The book is a love story about an Italian woman, Francesca Johnson. She is a farmer’s wife who falls in love with Robert Kincaid, a photographer living in Bellingham, Washington. The novel sets in Madison County, Iowa. It is a very small town according to the book.
The novel is a bestselling book. It sold 50 million copies worldwide and has been translated in 25 languages. The Bridges of Madison County was on the New York Times best seller list for 164 weeks from 1992 until 1995. The story is made into a movie in 1995. The movie was directed by Clint Eastwood. In the movie, Meryl Streep plays Francesca Johnson and Clint Eastwood plays Robert Kincaid. 
Francesca Johnson is an Italian woman who is very conservative. She loves Robert but cannot run away with him because she has to protect her family. She is very careful when she meets Robert because she is living in such a small town. She worries people will talk about her. She is not very satisfied with her life. Her family does not really care about her and her husband does not fulfill her need for romance. She loves how Robert pays much attention to her. When she meets him, she emphasizes how she feels feminine again. She is compared to the bridge which is not appreciated by the people in the town because it is always there and it is all worn out. Robert can see the true beauty of the bridge. Just like the bridge, Francesca is not valued by her family and she is just getting older and older but Robert knows the true beauty of her.
Robert Kincaid is a photographer. He seems to be living in another world. He is poetic and sensitive. He is very considerate of Francesca. He likes the old ways and hates how modern civilization, computers and robots are taking over men’s lives. He is not handsome but he is attractive. Women he dates say he has something powerful in him. He is often compared to an animal such as leopard or peregrine. 
Francesca Johnson is from Naples, Italy. She marries Richard Johnson and comes to Iowa with him. She becomes a farmer’s wife. For Francesca, who studied literature, rural life is monotonous. One summer day in 1965, Robert Kincaid visits Madison County. He is there to take picture of the covered bridges for National Geographic. He cannot find Roseman Bridge so he stops at Francesca’s house to ask for directions. They are attracted to each other at first sight. Because her husband and children are in Illinois for about a week, Francesca is alone in the house. She takes him to the bridge. After going to the bridge, they have great time eating. 
After Robert is gone, Francesca leaves a note on Roseman Bridge. The note is an invitation for another supper. He sees the note and joins her for the dinner the next day. That night, they make love. Since they have little time, they whisper love to each other all the time. When the dream-like week is almost over, Robert asks her to leave the town and stay with him. She tells him she cannot leave because of her responsibility for the family. Robert respects her decision. 
They never keep in touch with each other after that week. After the death of her husband, she tries to contact Robert but she fails. Later, she receives the package from an attorney. The package is filled with Robert’s things- his cameras and a letter. She learns that Robert is dead. When she dies, her children find out about her affair because she has written a letter to them. They respect the love she had and agree to publish the love story.

</doc>
<doc id="373314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373314" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 01">
Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 01

Asian country surpassed all country in the world on developing new technology. Then a question comes in my mind about all these new technologies: If technology surpassed human, are we going to become idiot? The next 2 paragraphs explain different point of view and we’re going to talk about if using our brain will become an option for us. We’re going to talk about the influence of technology on interaction between each other and the addiction of technology
The technology had made a lot of consequences already on us. Our brains are less developed because we don’t think by ourselves we always use technology for that. People will have less interaction between them because they will always talk with their phone or like the google glasses they will be abble to see the person in the classes so no need to meet the person somewhere. Do we really need all this technology like iPad, Facebook and more? I think we need technology more for medicine and scientific research but not for our fun.
It might be very exciting to own the newest technological device on the market. It makes us feel cool, but are we really? Skype, Facetime, Facebook are all synonyms to discuss with friends screen-to-screen. Unfortunately, when we talk about a discussion with the term «screen-to-screen», it might be very exciting, however it’s putting down a traditional way of discussion: «face-to-face». At this point, technology can be very devastating on a subject about his relationships and his abilities to express himself in public. Can we be as close with people on the screen as physical people? Can we express them the same feelings in real life like on the computer? Is it a machine the new way to express all our psychological problems? It’s so easy to discuss on the Internet that it makes the message impersonal, like if a robot had written it. There's also the fact that people can ignore the discussion anytime. In a physical way, people might not left without answering hard questions. It’s so easy to click on the «X» and finally end the discussion. It’s so easy to escape when it gets uncomfortable. These situations are slowly making something really problematic for the next generation. It’s made them really shy and not able to express their true thoughts to a real person and they are only able to tap it. We must fear the day where the planet will become totally silent and the only noise that we can hear is people taping on their phones and computers, no discussion at all. 
Another argument is that human become addict to technology. In fact, subjects of conversation are always about technology. We are always talking about the new blackberry or the new iPhone etc. We are talking more often about those things than many problems in the world like poverty, war or something like this. Also with the technology, accessibility to internet and social media is easier. So, it causes the fact that we always want to know everything about everyone. That’s a problem. Finally, next generation will count only on technology to distract them. Kids will not play outside anymore and they will always play on the new Xbox, PlayStation or on computer.

</doc>
<doc id="373315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373315" title="Massimo Firpo">
Massimo Firpo

Massimo Firpo (Turin, 1946) is an Italian historian.
Firpo teaches early modern history at the University of Turin and at the Scuola Normale Superiore of Pisa. He is a member of the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei.
He studied at the University of Turin (where he has been a pupil of Franco Venturi, and where he obtained his "laurea" in 1969 with a thesis about "Pietro Bizzarri esule Italiano del Cinquecento", published in 1971). Subsequently he has been Accademia dei Lincei fellow at the Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa. He has taught early modern history at the Facolty of Political Sciences of the University of Cagliari. Ha has been fellow or visiting professor at the Newberry Library, Chicago, at the Cornell University, Ithaca and at the University of Oxford (where in 2006 he has been "Isaiah Berlin" visiting professor).
He started his researches studying the heretical movements of 16th century and focusing on the Italian heretical diaspora in Eastern Europe, radical movements such as the Antitrinitarianism and Socinianism and the relations between this cultural tradition, the deism and the origins of Enlightenment thought.
Subsequently his studies have dealt with the Italian religious crisis of the 16th century, focusing especially on Juan de Valdés, Reginald Pole, Giovanni Morone and the Spirituali mouvements and on the role played by the Roman Inquisition in these decades.
He has published the critical edition of the most important inquisitorial trials of Italian XVIth century (Giovanni Morone, Pietro Carnesecchi, Vittore Soranzo).
He has also published many studies of art history (especially about Pontormo, Lorenzo Lotto and Battista Franco and the relations between their works and the new religious ideas).
His father, Luigi Firpo (1915-1989), was a prominent Italian historian, professor of history of political thought at the Faculties of Law and Political Sciences at the University of Turin, and a member of the Italian Republican Party.

</doc>
<doc id="373320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373320" title="Subprefectures of Japan">
Subprefectures of Japan

Each subprefecture is part of the greater administration of the prefecture and the national state. It is also as part of a self-government system. 
Subprefectures were given a definite form in 1878 ("Meiji 11). 
The Meiji government established the as an administrative unit. 
In 1888 ("Meiji 21"), the sub-prefecture as a form of self-government was officially recognized as more general than civic corporations like cities, towns and villages. 
Some prefectures of Japan include subprefectures. The subprefecture is the jurisdiction surrounding a "branch office" of the prefectural government. 

</doc>
<doc id="373322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373322" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 02">
Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 02

We live in a world where technology is developing faster and faster. It's increasingly present in our lives and we think that is a good thing. In fact, technology has more negative effect than poistive on our generation. Some of us are addicted to such a degree that their relationship are affected. It also limits our memory capacity.
We always have to check our memos to remind us important things and we don't take time to learn things, because of the accessibility and the speed of the information that technology give us. Also because of the technology, we have lost our sense of direction because we always look at our GPS on our cellphone when we do not know the path we must take to get there. We do not take the trouble to look at a map. All these habits prove that the technology reduces our memory, it doesn't invite us to acquire new skills and causes many negative effects on our memory capacity.
We think that technology is not such a good thing for our generation because it limits our memory capacity, makes us addicted and harms our daily relationship. Of course, these negatives effects only happen if you let technology controls you and takes too much place in your life. In the end, we should take the decision to keep our distance with technology and count more on ourselves than technology if we don’t want to give this bad habit to future generations.

</doc>
<doc id="373323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373323" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 03">
Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 03

Hi guys,
This is the page your team will use to write your essay practice. Make sure you log in under your name before starting typing.
It works exactly like any other Wiki page:
1) Click on the Change tab.
2) Paste your paragraph in the right order.
3) Save the page when you're done.
If you want to exchange with your teammates, do it through the Talk Page.
The last student who participates erase my message. ;)
MClaude
In our society, the technologies are more important since 1980, the apparence of computer in every household has changed habits. Now, we need more information and we need to have information in real time to make better choices rapidly. People buy more technology than before, and they use technology more and more. They use smart phones too. Some people are overusing smart phones and that could be harmful. Firstly, overusing smart phones affects human interactions, secondly, the overuse of smart phones can be dangerous.
When people are over using smartphones, they harm human interactions. When people have a conversation, and then one of them receive a message by his cellphone, the person begins to read it. When this is happening, the person who is texting is not concentrated anymore by what the other person say. So the person is not listening anymore. People also use their smartphones to hide themselves to avoid awkward situations. Sometimes, when someone need to tell a bad new to someone else, the person uses his smartphone because he doesn’t need to see the reaction of the other person. It also harms human interactions. Some people are also dependant of their smartphones. They use it everywhere and almost all the time. You can see it when they are at school, because dependant people are using it every single second they can. Like when the teacher can’t see them. These people also use their smartphone to tell something to someone who is already in front of them. If people use their smartphone to avoid awkward moments or if they spend almost all their time on it and are more concentrated on it then on people around them, we can say that smartphones harm human interactions.
Over using smart phone can be dangerous because this utilisation can provoque car accident and can provoque death of many people and not only the person who was texting. This can be really dangerous for our own body too. The waves of smarth phone develop cancer. The research for the material that compose the battery had cause a war in then Republic of Congo.
To conclude, overusing smartphones could be harmful because it can be dangerous for different important reasons. Also, it's harmful because it affects humans interactions. Overusing smartphones in our society could be more useful to know information right away, but it has lots of negatives consequences that we have to keep in mind because it has already changed society's life and habits. If we continue to use smartphones that way, it will be hard to keep good relation with others and it will increase the risk of becoming and individualistic society.

</doc>
<doc id="373326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373326" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 04">
Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 04

Hi guys,
This is the page your team will use to write your essay practice. Make sure you log in under your name before starting typing.
It works exactly like any other Wiki page:
1) Click on the Change tab.
2) Paste your paragraph in the right order.
3) Save the page when you're done.
If you want to exchange with your teammates, do it through the Talk Page.
The last student who participates erase my message. ;)
MClaude
Technology is a big part of human's life. Wherever they go, they need their technology with them. It's becoming a sort of dependence to have a cellphone, a GPS, a facebook account, and all other technologies. The problem is that it can be harmful for humans life when they abuse of it because technology can affect human relationships. It can also have consequences on their health and it can make users idiots.
First of all, technology can be harmful for humans because it affect their health. When they use technology their brain absorb all the radio waves and the ultrashort waves and it can cause cancerous tumor. Also there is people that develop dependance about technology so they use it even when they are driving but some research proved that using technology affect the vision, the mental activity and the coordination so driving at the same time that using technology is logically really dangerous. Finally, why devote us to an entertainment that could take us to death.
In conclusion, humans are addicted about technology and it's can be harmfull for them. It's used full for convenience but you have to be carefull when you use it. Technology could be unhealthy, could affect relationships and could make people idiots. Be aware and carefull when and where you use it.

</doc>
<doc id="373330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373330" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 05">
Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 05

Hi guys,
This is the page your team will use to write your essay practice. Make sure you log in under your name before starting typing.
It works exactly like any other Wiki page:
1) Click on the Change tab.
2) Paste your paragraph in the right order.
3) Save the page when you're done.
If you want to exchange with your teammates, do it through the Talk Page.
The last student who participates erase my message. ;)
MClaude
Technology is a way of communication that continues to progress and grow, this is a daily need. This technology is obviously not evolve alone, it's established by humans, his sole creator.
It is certainly a need but it is bad for us, this technology can also be harmful disadvantages for our brain.
First of all, technology can’t surpass human’s for the simple fact that it’s the human that created it. Technology as not been created to remplace the human, it’s only to make the human life easier. The second fact is that technology can’t devellop itself because it don’t have the human knowledge and imagination. The last thing is that technology can’t envolve there capaciy like the human brain can do, so it can be better than what it is without us. The human capacity to envolve makes him the most intelligent creature, alive or not, on the earth.
In conclusion, it's the human who created the technology,the technology can't create something by it self and in according with this ,the technology can't have a social network to envolve their creativity; it depend on human's social network. The technology can't surpass th ehumain because both of them need the other. The technology is a good thing but we have to be careful with it...

</doc>
<doc id="373331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373331" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 06">
Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 06

MClaude
Introduction:
The more time passes, the more developed technologies are accomplished in the world and the more the technology will continue to invade our abilities. That's why we have to stop for a moment and to take time to think that technology has a growing impact. The problem is that technology makes us idiots! It also impacts human relationships ,makes us develop lazy habits and encourages us to put too much trust in technology. The facts above has a negative impact on human capacities.
Firstly,the human to human relationships become more difficult. Like when we receives messages text during the same time that we have a conversation to a real person and because of the cellphones we are now talking to many peoples at the same time but forget the one that is right in front of us. Also,we lose sense of the reality, take for exemple:when the teacher talk and we receive message text or go on the internet we are losing on some notion that or she may give.
Actually, we don’t use our brain like in the past. Nowadays, if we have to do some research for homework we don’t go to the library because we found everything on internet and it’s faster than if we use to investigate and to read books. Also, like we watched on the YouTube video, it doesn’t matter if we know the answers to some questions and some address, etc., programs on cellphones does everything for us and we become increasingly useful and lazy. 
Finally, the facts that technology grow fast every year have an impacts on; relationships between friends and familly, trust in technology more than ourselves and makes us develop lazy habits.The technology makes us lose our intellectuel abilities and we can say that it makes us idiots in certain ways. In a near future the impact of the technology on human life will be more negative if we are considering that machines outsmart humans.

</doc>
<doc id="373350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373350" title="Joe Hayashi">
Joe Hayashi

Joe J. Hayashi (August 14, 1920-April 22, 1945) was a United States Army soldier. He received the Medal of Honor because of his actions in World War II.
Hayashi was born in Salinas, California. He was the son of immigrants who were born in Japan. He is a "Nisei", which means that he is a second generation Japanese-American.
Six months before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Hayashi joined the US Army in May 1941.
Hayashi volunteered to be part of the all-"Nisei" 442nd Regimental Combat Team. This army unit was mostly made up of Japanese Americans from Hawaii and the mainland.
For his actions in April 1945, Hayashi was awarded the Army's second-highest decoration, the Distinguished Service Cross (DSC). In the 1990s, there was a review of service records of Asian Americans who received the DSC during World War II. Hayashi's award was upgraded to the Medal of Honor. In a ceremony at the White House on June 21, 2000, his family was presented with his medal by President Bill Clinton. Twenty-one other Asian Americans also received the medal during the ceremony, but only seven of them were still alive.
Hayashi's Medal of Honor recognized his conduct in fighting in northern Italy in 1945. He led an attack on strongly defended positions; and without help from others, he silenced three machine guns.
The words of Hayashi's citation explain:
Private Joe Hayashi distinguished himself by extraordinary heroism in action on 20 and 22 April 1945, near Tendola, Italy. On 20 April 1945, ordered to attack a strongly defended hill that commanded all approaches to the village of Tendola, Private Hayashi skillfully led his men to a point within 75 yards of enemy positions before they were detected and fired upon. After dragging his wounded comrades to safety, he returned alone and exposed himself to small arms fire in order to direct and adjust mortar fire against hostile emplacements. Boldly attacking the hill with the remaining men of his squad, he attained his objective and discovered that the mortars had neutralized three machine guns, killed 27 men, and wounded many others. On 22 April 1945, attacking the village of Tendola, Private Hayashi maneuvered his squad up a steep, terraced hill to within 100 yards of the enemy. Crawling under intense fire to a hostile machine gun position, he threw a grenade, killing one enemy soldier and forcing the other members of the gun crew to surrender. Seeing four enemy machine guns delivering deadly fire upon other elements of his platoon, he threw another grenade, destroying a machine gun nest. He then crawled to the right flank of another machine gun position where he killed four enemy soldiers and forced the others to flee. Attempting to pursue the enemy, he was mortally wounded by a burst of machine pistol fire. The dauntless courage and exemplary leadership of Private Hayashi enabled his company to attain its objective. Private Hayashi's extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit on him, his unit, and the United States Army.

</doc>
<doc id="373360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373360" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 07">
Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 07

Hi guys,
This is the page your team will use to write your essay practice. Make sure you log in under your name before starting typing.
It works exactly like any other Wiki page:
1) Click on the Change tab.
2) Paste your paragraph in the right order.
3) Save the page when you're done.
If you want to exchange with your teammates, do it through the Talk Page.
The last student who participates erase my message. ;)
MClaude

</doc>
<doc id="373361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373361" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 08">
Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 08

In 1983, a technological invention revolutionized the world of ​​communication. Today, more than half canadian population has a cell phone. The most impressive fact is that 55 percent of them are teenagers. Does cell phone has a bad effect on teenagers? We get the conclusion that yes it has because the cell phone can influence their student job, they can have problem at school and they have a virtual communication.
Some teenagers are so addicted to their cell phones, they can't spend fifteen minutes without sending a text message. It becomes a problem when they bring their phone to their job because it can have a negative influence on their work. Indeed, the cell can influence how they do their work because it's a distraction. They can stop what they was doing to do to send a text and then later, they will forget to do what their boss has asked them. Teenagers can also make mistakes because they can't be concentrate on their jobs if they are texting at the same moment. In addition, the cell may also have an impact on co-workers' teenagers because if they don't do what they were suppose to do (because they're texting), it's their co-workers who will have to do all the work. Finally, the cellphone may have an influence on the quality of customer service. In fact, some teens are so focused on their cell phones that they don't realize a customer has arrived. 
Using the cell phone intensely in school’s can be a problem for teenagers. While they are texting, they are using codes and abbreviations. They don’t take time to write the whole word so they don’t learn how to spell it correctly. They can have grammar and spelling mistakes because those teenagers get used to write incorrectly. More, they also don’t have vocabulary. The way they are texting has an effect on how they write an essay. They don’t have the habit to search synonyms and to get a better level of vocabulary. Also, more and more teenagers are addicted to their cell phone and some of them until to use it in class. Consequently, they don’t focus on the teacher’s explanation and they miss information.
According to a UNAF study, 73% of France teenagers have their own cell phone in 2009 and 55% of cellphone user in canada are teenagers. By this time,the number of cellphone user have increase and will continue to augment. The problem is that if teenagers continue to text each other instead of talk, or seen each other, they will soon lose their ability to expresse themselves. Find the great word for the great situation is also a probleme that we usely see and the bad thing with a low voccabulary level in a text message is that emotions arn't well expressed and by this ways, misunderstanding is current in manny conversation. Teenangers might seak with this same type of energy that they are texting every days and then the problem could decreas their speaking skills in comutnity.
To finish, those facts show us that the cell phone have a negative effect on teenagers especially on the way they work at their job, on their performance at school and on their communication with someone in front of them. Is that a litle problem that time will soon fix or is this a major problem that everybody needs to take care? we surely need to keep an eye on this.

</doc>
<doc id="373362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373362" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 09">
Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 09

Hi guys,
This is the page your team will use to write the first essay. Make sure you log in under your name before starting typing.
The advantage of collaborative work is that it gives you an opportunity to practice for yourself and learn from the others at the same time. It works exactly like any other Wiki page; you click on Change in order to add or modify text, and save the page when you're done. If you want to exchange with your teammates, do it through the Talk Page.
People should stop to use their cell phone while driving
Last year, Canadians sent almost 2500 text messages per second. Many of those people are dependent on that and feel pressure to always be in contact, even when they are driving. We think that people should not send text messages or take their cell phone in their hands when they are driving because it is not legal. Also, when they do it, they put their and other lives in danger and it affects the cognitive and visual tasks which amplify the risk of accidents.
Since April 2008, texting while driving is illegal. Drivers who are holding a cell phone in their hands, will be judged as if they used it even if they didn’t. The fine for this type of offense is between 80$ and 100$ and 3 demerit points. In spite of this penalty, some drivers don’t care about that. Further, according to a study by the SAAQ, statistics show that 18 248 offenses were committed in 2008 and 56 598 in 2011. For sure, we don’t have enough police to cover the large area of Quebec, but they should be more vigilant and firm when it comes to giving tickets, to prevent possible further incidents.
To continue, people who take their cell phone when they are driving do not only put their life in danger, but also the one of others. For example, in October 25, Yves Vigeant, a 51-years-old man from Saint-Hyacinthe died on a head on accident involving a cellular. In fact, the impact arrived at the moment that the driver of the other car took his eyes off the road to answer to his cell phone. The two drivers died in the accident. It proves that this distraction put your life, but also the life of others, in danger.
Also, talking or texting on the phone while driving influence the driver’s performance, but it can particularly affect cognitive and visual tasks and magnify the risk of accident. In 2009, Hosking and colleagues took twenty young novice drivers and ask them to use a cell phone and send text messaging while they were driving in a simulator. The researchers found that when they are texting and driving, they spend up to approximately 400% less time looking at the road than normally. People who use cell phone while driving improve the risk to violate the road safety code like running a red light, driving above the speed limit or failing to obey a mandatory stop.
Texting while driving is illegal. Even just holding a cell phone in your hand when you're driving can cost you around 100$. Also, it puts your and others life in danger and influence your driver performance. If your phone rings while you’re driving, don’t answer it. It is safer to let your voice mail answer and take your cell phone once your car is turned off. Just a few seconds of distraction can kill many lives. Maybe the government should allocate more budgets for awareness.

</doc>
<doc id="373363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373363" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 10">
Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 10

Technologies are always evolving, especially cell phones’. A recent survey reveals that, in 2012, more than half of high school students have a cell phone. This statistic worries a lot of people in Quebec, because cell phones are becoming a major problem. There should be a lot more prevention about cell phone's use. Prevention should be done about cell phones while driving, about cell phones in school and about mobile phone’s radiations.
Cell phones are now a big problem on the street. Before the problem was that people drove and talk with their cell phones. Today, people are so addict to their phones, that they text while driving. This distraction causes lots of accidents and sometimes it can kill. In Quebec there is one person on five that admit texting and driving at the same time. In summary, cell phones become more dangerous and on the street and people have to stop use their phone while driving.
Cell phones represent a scourge in schools for many reasons. Firstly, those little devices are a problem because they alter students’ concentration in class. In fact, when students are writing text messages, they don’t listen to the teacher. Mobile phones are also disturbing the other students in the class because of their ringtones or vibrations. Those little gadgets are also a good tool for cheating in evaluations. Briefly, cell phones cause a lot of trouble in schools. 
Cell phones are dangerous on the road for you and the other drivers but it’s also dangerous for your own health. It uses electronic radiation and this is where it can be dangerous. Most of the radio waves emitted buy a mobile phone, are absorbed buy human’s head and these cell phones radiation can increase human cancer. Every day the number of cell phone’s user increase and someday everybody will one. That’s another problem because radiation will be everywhere. 
In conclusion, cell phones are dangerous while driving, they distract students in school and mobile phones' radiations can affect people’s health. You should shut down your phone, when you are driving and at school and you should reduce your call time. In the future, we hope to see cell phones enough intelligent to warn its user about dangers near him.

</doc>
<doc id="373364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373364" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 11">
Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 11

Facebook
Social network are getting more importance in people's life. In fact, Facebook users should pay more attention to the dangers of its use. Three of the major dangers of Facebook are the ads, what you post on your wall and the cyberbullying.
The ads are everywhere, but the special thing with Facebook, is that the ads can be just for you. All what you said, like or see on Facebook is send to a company and in return they send you many ads. When you talk to someone or just said something on Facebook not by a private message or in a private group, and you make a link between your subject and an thing like a game or an T.V. show per exemple, all these informations are register on this social network, and you can't do a way back, be causious. By what you said, the company who sees this will send you an ads with a link with something you said. Too, if you like a page, you will receive ads again. It is pointless to unlike the page after, you said you like it one time, you like it forever for them. And its go very far, just when you go see a page on Facebook, the informations is again send to companies and they will send you many ads in return. Well, pay attention to what you do on Facebook, all what you do is register and send to companies or can be see by companies, by this they can find personal information too, be on your gards every time you are on Facebook. 
When you go on Facebook, it’s really important to be careful with the information that you put on. In fact, that’s a good idea to learn well how to use Facebook; it can help you to don’t do mistake. First thing to know, don’t tell everything on your wall, because everybody can read this on Internet after. Also, just pay attention to don’t put on your wall something you want to say just to someone, send him a private message, that’s better. Second thing to know, never forgot to close your Facebook session! If you forget it, someone can use it to do something you will regret after. Your profile is personal, so don’t leave it alone open on a computer. Third thing to know, what you put on your Facebook profile will always be on Internet. Attention attractive pictures, like pictures that show you too much drunk, or without enough clothes, are not the better way to have the attention of other people. Just think about what you put on your Facebook wall, that will follow you all your life.
Cyberbullying is a phenomena that appeared recently. This new form of intimidation is easier for bullies because they don't see their victims. It's more accessible for attackers to write threats, insults or publish compromising pictures on Facebook. Moreover, we think that around 70% of young people have been cyberbullyied. These young people feel excluded, vulnerable, powerless because it's more difficult for them to defend themselves. Furthermore, cyberbullying can make victims more anxious; young people are absent or do not go to school. It can lead to depression and even suicide. So we need to talk about when it happens.
To conclude, advertisements are becoming even more overwhelming, people have to be careful about what they publish on their profiles, and others take advantage of facebook users to cyberbully. It's important to know that going on Facebook is not as easy as it seems. In this way, that's really important to think about how you can pass over ads, chek what you truly want to show to the rest of the world and to help to stop the cyberbullying. Think about that, Facebook is like your life on Internet, by result, everybody can see what you said if you don't pay attention.

</doc>
<doc id="373367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373367" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 14">
Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 14

Hi guys,
This is the page your team will use to write the first essay. Make sure you log in under your name before starting typing.
The advantage of collaborative work is that it gives you an opportunity to practice for yourself and learn from the others at the same time. It works exactly like any other Wiki page; you click on Change in order to add or modify text, and save the page when you're done. If you want to exchange with your teammates, do it through the Talk Page.
Essay #1
Introduction
It’s seem like the technology is helping us and giving opportunity to push our world forward, but in fact the most intelligent people of humanity fear that progress ."It has become appallingly clear that our technology has surpassed our humanity." (Albert Einstein). It’s seemed strange that the founding father of the modern science as that fear. In fact, the technology as created a mass of Social Network that ruins the interactive communication between two persons and as a result these peoples developed problem to communicate in real life. People have no more modesty and exposed all their informations on Internet, without thinking it could runes their life. By communicating less, people have difficulty to understand the feeling of other friends and attack them with bad word. That’s what we call cyber intimidation. Do you really think the technology provide much to the society than it kills it?
Paragraph 1
Nowadays, the teenagers and the children give a too much important utilization to the social networks. In the United States, a survey says that 51% of the teenagers connect their self to their favorite social network at least once a day..This overuse of the social networks occurs communication problems in the reality for the teenagers and the children. Why? Only because with the social networks, the young people learn to talk with letters on a screen, so they don't develop a good capacity to interact with people in real life. Also, by a overuse of communication by social networks, the teens cans be less able to recognize the gestures and the nonverbal language, that are essential in life to have good interactions with people. Finally, anybody can't have the certitude of what people really think with social networks. Through a screen, the users of the social networks don't have a real perception of the reaction from the recipient of the message. Then, they don't know if they hurt somebody and that can have really big impact. So, this is why people have to care about what they say on the internet.
Paragraph 2
The private life is simply flout for everybody who’s on Social Network. People don’t know what happen on the server and private information can be trade to anybody who’s willing to make a search. Your profile on Social Network can be funded by anybody and your information is share. More important fact, administrator said when you delete your account, there’s no more memory of you on the server, but you never know if it’s real because you can’t look at it. When you get a profile, the administrator gives you a contract, which you accepted, for no sharing information. If he respects is part of contract, that’s great, but no one is protect against informatics bug. It appends so many times and so many lives were ruined. This is why Albert Einstein was so upset with our progress in informatics
Paragraph 3
As bad as it affect your private life and real life communication, Social Network is a good way to intimidate people. Indimidation is more and more present for a lot of persons. Per example, in the 1990's, people played outside, they wasn't surfing on the internet. Now, it's a kind of competition between everybody about "Who's more beautiful... Who's having the best life... etc." Subtil status are created to affect someone we don't like and worst, on the chat. Futhermore, intimidation can be done directly or indirectly. Like adding picture with something written on: Which one would you choose ? (Between a really hot girl and a fatter one). Everybody shouldn't care about it and accept themselves as they are but it's not the case of all. The most current cyberintimidation form is 'receiving e-mails or threatening or aggressive messages'. 73 pourcents of Social Network users say having been victim of intimidation and 5% have thought about suicide according to Canadian Institutes of Health Research. It would be time to stop it justly. 
In conclusion, the impact on people's private lives, the communication problems and the intimidation virtual way brought by the internet and it's not good for anyone. However, it's there to be... it's part of our generation and that is not about to end. A couple years ago, anybody had access to those social networks and people lived great without them. So, why these days those kind of communication ways is so addictive? Nevertheless, hope this made you think about your utilization of the social networks.

</doc>
<doc id="373368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373368" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 15">
Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 15

Since a couple of years, there is new technology that appears. From the cellphone to the computer and the video game. We don't have the time to assimilate the information that they are new technologies' coming. We are against too much new information, because it creates addiction for certain people. Because of all the new technologies that appeared since a few years,people don't have time to learn how to use it correctly and they lose any social life they used to have before.
1- First, compagnies create new technologic product almost every six months. It's create for certain person an addiction. There's people who wait more than twelve hour to have the new ipad or ipod. The funniest part is that they don't need it, they just want to have it because it's new. One day, people will be in financial problem, they will spend their money for every thing. There is people I know that change their cellphone just to have the new one. They can't pass 15 minutes without texting, even in class. Technology can be good when it's to help doctor, but when it's for personnal use, there is greater chance of developing a certain addiction.
Secondly, it’s not only about money but also about people’s social life. When you walked on the street or anywhere more than half of the people you will see all are texting, checking out their cell phones. They literally put all their life on facebook or twitter without thinking about the consequences this can have on their life. We don’t call each other anymore, we send messages text. Quicker and easier they will say. Social Networks are the new easy way to let people know what you are doing. No need to go out and see each other now, twitter and facebook and are there.
At the end, the growing of our technologies are sometime good, other time's not. As you can see, even if it has good side, like for doctor or research for the cancer, there is also a lot of bad things coming with this fast growing. Some people became dependent, others forget how to use it correctly. They become so addicted that they don't have any social life anymore. Even worst, humans are slowly, but surely replaced by robots. Someday we will have to talk to robots when we're gonna go shopping, one day, we won't have any social life, it's not the life I want to let to my children.

</doc>
<doc id="373370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373370" title="Dobermann">
Dobermann

Dobermann or Doberman Pinscher is a medium to large dog breed. It originated in Germany about 1890. It was named after a tax collector, Friedrich Louis Dobermann (1834-1894), who wanted a dog as a companion and for protection. Doberman Pinschers are known as being very intelligent, loyal and fearless dogs. They are used by police forces, search and rescue dogs, guard dogs and as guide dogs for blind people.
The Doberman is a dog of medium large size. Although the breed standards vary among kennel and breed clubs, according to the FCI standard the dog typically stands between and The Kennel Club in the UK quote as being ideal. the female is typically somewhere between . A height of is considered ideal.
Dobermans have short smooth coats which are most commonly black. Less common are red (reddish-brown), blue, or fawn-colored coats. Blue and fawn colored Dobermans usually have rust-colored (reddish-brown) markings on their legs, chest and heads.
Normally a Doberman puppy has floppy ears and a long tail. While still a puppy, the tails are often shortened by surgery (called "docking") which heals quickly and causes the puppy very little pain. The ears are cut to a point and so they stand up (called "cropping"). This takes longer to heal. Cropping is considered by many to be unnecessary and is illegal in much of Europe. But it is still done in the United States and is part of the standard.
People who think they are like any other dogs or are often vicious and dangerous are for the most part wrong. It is true that any dog that is mistreated or not taken care of can become dangerous. Viciousness is a learned behavior and few dogs, including the Doberman, are naturally vicious. Dobermans can be protective and guarded or they can be sweet and eager to please. To get the desired temperament, training should start when the dog is about 8 months old.
The American Kennel Club describes the Doberman as"

</doc>
<doc id="373382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373382" title="George Steinbrenner">
George Steinbrenner

George Michael Steinbrenner III (July 4, 1930 – July 13, 2010) was an American businessman who was the owner of the New York Yankees from 1973 until his death in 2010. He was also part of the Great Lakes shipping industry.
Steinbrenner was born on July 4, 1930 in Rocky River, Ohio a suburb of Cleveland, Ohio. He studied at Williams College and at Ohio State University. He was married to Elizabeth Joan Zieg from 1956 until his death 2010. He had four children. Steinbrenner died on July 13, 2010 in Tampa, Florida from a heart attack, aged 80. He died 9 days after his 80th birthday.

</doc>
<doc id="373385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373385" title="Bob Sheppard">
Bob Sheppard

Robert Leo "Bob" Sheppard (October 20, 1910 – July 11, 2010) was an American journalist and announcer for the New York Yankees from 1951 until 2007 and for the New York Giants from 1956 until 2006. 
Sheppard was born on October 20, 1910 in Richmond Hill, Queens, New York. He studied at St. John's Preparatory School, at St. John's University, and at Columbia University. He was married to Margaret Sheppard until her death in 1959. They had four children. Then he was married to Mary Hoffman from 1961 until his death in 2010. Sheppard died on July 11, 2010 in Baldwin, New York from natural causes, aged 99.

</doc>
<doc id="373399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373399" title="Category:Wikipedia articles with authority control information">
Category:Wikipedia articles with authority control information


</doc>
<doc id="373407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373407" title="William Makepeace Thackeray">
William Makepeace Thackeray

William Makepeace Thackeray (1811-1863) was an English writer. He is most famous for his novel, Vanity Fair. The title is from a place in Pilgrim's Progress.
The novel is about the adventures of Becky Sharp, an ambitious girl who wishes to rise in English society.

</doc>
<doc id="373408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373408" title="Rebecca">
Rebecca

Rebecca is a female name. It is the name of Isaac's wife in the Book of Genesis. (Chapter 24). It is a popular name for girls in English speaking countries. Nicknames include Becky, Becca, and Bex.

</doc>
<doc id="373410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373410" title="Sardar">
Sardar

Sardar or Sirdar or Serdar, is a title of nobility in India, Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan. 
The word is from the old Sanskrit and Avesta languages. It means a prince, nobleman, tribal chief or leader or other aristocrat. In some tribes and ethnic groups in India and Pakistan, especially among the Baloch people and Punjabis, it is quite commonly used to denote even certain families of noble origins.

</doc>
<doc id="373415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373415" title="Cameroon (sheep)">
Cameroon (sheep)

The Cameroon is a domesticated breed of sheep from west Africa which has been exported to Europe. As of 2008, there were less than 650 but the population was increasing.
The Cameroon is a hair sheep which it sheds yearly in the spring. Ewes can raise two lamb crops per year. Their most common color is brown with a black belly, head, and legs.

</doc>
<doc id="373421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373421" title="Alpial">
Alpial

The Alpial are a Muslim Rajput tribe of Punjab (Pakistan). They are mostly found in Rawalpindi District, Attock District and Chakwal District of the northern Punjab.

</doc>
<doc id="373437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373437" title="Category:Accidental deaths by drowning">
Category:Accidental deaths by drowning


</doc>
<doc id="373444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373444" title="Shizuya Hayashi">
Shizuya Hayashi

Shizuya Hayashi (November 28, 1917-March 12, 2008) was a United States Army soldier. He received the Medal of Honor because of his actions in World War II.
Hayashi was born in Waiakea, Hawaii. He is the son of immigrants who were born in Japan. He is a "Nisei", which means that he is a second generation Japanese-American.
Nine months before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Hayashi joined the US Army in March 1941. He was given the nickname "Cesar" because his sergeant could not pronounce his name.
Hayashi volunteered to be part of the all-"Nisei" 100th Infantry Battalion. This army unit was mostly made up of Japanese Americans from Hawaii and the mainland.
For his actions in November 1943, Hayashi was awarded the Army's second-highest decoration, the Distinguished Service Cross (DSC). In the 1990s, there was a review of service records of Asian Americans who received the DSC during World War II. Hayashi's award was upgraded to the Medal of Honor. In a ceremony at the White House on June 21, 2000, he was presented with his medal by President Bill Clinton. Twenty-one other Asian Americans also received the medal during the ceremony, but only seven of them were still alive.
Hayashi's Medal of Honor recognized his conduct in fighting in central Italy in 1943. Without help from others, he silenced a machine gun nest and an anti-aircraft gun.
The words of Hayashi's citation explain:
Private Shizuya Hayashi distinguished himself by extraordinary heroism in action on 29 November 1943, near Cerasuolo, Italy. During a flank assault on high ground held by the enemy, Private Hayashi rose alone in the face of grenade, rifle, and machine gun fire. Firing his automatic rifle from the hip, he charged and overtook an enemy machine gun position, killing seven men in the nest and two more as they fled. After his platoon advanced 200 yards from this point, an enemy antiaircraft gun opened fire on the men. Private Hayashi returned fire at the hostile position, killing nine of the enemy, taking four prisoners, and forcing the remainder of the force to withdraw from the hill. Private Hayashi’s extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit on him, his unit, and the United States Army.

</doc>
<doc id="373453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373453" title="Four Freedoms Award">
Four Freedoms Award

The Four Freedoms Award is an annual award. It is presented to people and organisations who have "demonstrated" the principles of the "Four Freedoms" of US-president Franklin Delano Roosevelt.
President Roosevelt described his "Four Freedoms" during the State of the Union speech of 6 January 1941. In his speech he said that if democracy is to survive and flourish, people everywhere in the world are entitled to four human rights: freedom of speech and expression, freedom of worship, freedom from want and freedom from fear. 
The awards have been given since 1982, alternately in the United States and the Netherlands. In odd years the awards are given to Americans by the Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute in Hyde Park, New York. In some years special awards have been given.
In even years the award ceremony is held in Middelburg and honours non-Americans. The choice for Middelburg was motivated by the suspected descendance of the family Roosevelt from the village of Oud-Vossemeer in the province of Zeeland.
The speech delivered by President Roosevelt incorporated the following
In the future days, which we seek to make secure, we look forward to a world founded upon four essential human freedoms.
That is no vision of a distant millennium. It is a definite basis for a kind of world attainable in our own time and generation. That kind of world is the very antithesis of the so-called new order of tyranny which the dictators seek to create with the crash of a bomb.—Franklin D. Roosevelt, excerpted from the State of the Union Address to the Congress, January 6, 1941

</doc>
<doc id="373460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373460" title="Category:Football in Azerbaijan">
Category:Football in Azerbaijan


</doc>
<doc id="373464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373464" title="Flare star">
Flare star

A flare star is a variable star that becomes very much brighter unpredictably for a few minutes at a time.
Flares happen on flare stars in a similar way to solar flares. They are magnetic disturbances in the atmosphere of stars. The brightness increases across the spectrum, from X rays to radio waves. 
The first known flare stars were discovered in 1924, they were V1396 Cygni and AT Microscopii. Still the best-known flare star is UV Ceti, that star was discovered in 1948. Today similar flare stars are classified as UV Ceti type variable stars in variable star catalogs. Flares can happen once every few days or, as in the case of Barnard's Star, much less frequently. Proxima Centauri, the nearest star to the Solar System, is also a flare star.
Most flare stars are dim red dwarfs, although research done not too long ago suggests that less massive (lighter) brown dwarfs might also be able to flare. The more massive (heavier) RS Canum Venaticorum variables (RS CVn) are also known to flare, but scientists understand that a companion star in a binary system causes these flares. This companion star disturbs the magnetic field. Nine stars similar to the Sun have also been seen to flare. There is a suggestion that this happens for similar reasons to the flares of the RS CVn variables. A companion causes the flares, this companion is a massive planet like the planet Jupiter that orbits the flaring star closely.
Flare stars are give off relatively little light, but have been found as far away as 1,000 light years from Earth.
Proxima Centauri is closer to the sun than any other star and is a flare star. Proxima Centauri increases its brightness randomly and magnetic force causes this. Convection creates a magnetic field throughout the matter in Proxima Centauri, and this leads to flaring with a total X-ray output similar to that of the Sun though the sun is much more massive (heavier) than Proxima Centauri.
The flare star Wolf 359 is another star relatively near the Solar System in the constellation of Leo and has other names (designations) as well. It is a red dwarf of spectral class M6.5 and emits X-rays. It is a UV Ceti flare star, and flares relatively often.
The mean (average) magnetic field varies significantly during periods of time as short as six hours. By comparison, the magnetic field of the Sun averages (), although it can rise as high as () in active sunspot regions.
Barnard's Star is the second nearest star system to our sun and scientists suspect it is a flare star.
TVLM513-46546 is the name scientists give to a flare star with very low mass. This small star is only just heavy enough to count as a red dwarf.

</doc>
<doc id="373483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373483" title="Category:Pages with too many red links from December 2012">
Category:Pages with too many red links from December 2012


</doc>
<doc id="373485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373485" title="Category:Articles with unsourced statements from December 2012">
Category:Articles with unsourced statements from December 2012


</doc>
<doc id="373486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373486" title="Category:BLPs needing more sources from December 2012">
Category:BLPs needing more sources from December 2012


</doc>
<doc id="373489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373489" title="Category:Articles lacking sources from December 2012">
Category:Articles lacking sources from December 2012


</doc>
<doc id="373490" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373490" title="Category:Pages needing to be simplified from December 2012">
Category:Pages needing to be simplified from December 2012


</doc>
<doc id="373491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373491" title="Category:Clean up categories from December 2012">
Category:Clean up categories from December 2012


</doc>
<doc id="373492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373492" title="Ed Sheeran">
Ed Sheeran

Edward Christopher "Ed" Sheeran (born 17 February 1991) is an English singer-songwriter and guitarist. He also writes and produces songs on his own and created his label, Paw Print Records. Sheeran is recognized for doing pop music. He was born in Hebden Bridge, West Yorkshire. As a child he lived in Framlingham, Suffolk. He moved to London in 2008 to start a music career. He first played in various events and also made an EP. He then signed a contract with a record company, Atlantic Records. Married to Charlotte Holland. 
In 2011 he made his first album, called +. The album went to number one in the music rankings of many countries and had also been certified double platinum. Some of the songs on this album have been successful, such as "The A Team" and "Lego House", (leaked as the third single of the album in November 2011). Also, the song "You Need Me, I Don't Need You" has been released as the second single in August before the album came out. As the fourth single, ‘Drunk’ was out in January 2012. Finally, the song ‘Give me Love’ was released as the sixth and final single of his album +, on November 26th. From this album, his first single "The A Team" has been recently nominated as the ‘Song of the Year’ for the 2013 Grammy Awards. Sheeran was nominated in many categories at the 2013 BRIT Awards.
Don't, Sheeran's #3 song on his album "X" was released in 2014 and was nominated for several awards. The song was about how Ellie Goulding was cheating on him with One Direction's Niall Horan. In the song it says, "it's not like we were both on tour. We were staying on the same hotel floor." Goulding did, in fact, cheat on him while they were staying in the same hotel. Sheeran thought it was very easy to forgive Goulding after he found out about it.
Sheeran has won many prizes, for example the prize for the Best British Male Solo Artist at the 2012 BRIT Awards. He has worked with other singers and groups such as Taylor Swift and One Direction. He recently collaborated with Taylor Swift on her new album "Red", by doing a duet with her on the song Everything Has Changed. He has also written songs for One Direction. He wrote the song Moment and gave it to One Direction in 2011. He co-wrote two songs that were on their second album "Take Me Home". He first gave them the song Little Things that he had written with his friend Fiona Bevan when he was 17 years-old. He also co-wrote the song Over Again.
In 2005, Sheeran started publishing some EP albums. The first one has been named "Orange Room EP". He continued publishing EPs until 2010 when he released "Songs I wrote with Amy". It was the last EP released before publishing his album +.
Sheeran performed at the 2012 Olympic Games Closing Ceremony on August 12. He did a cover of the song Wish You Were Here by Pink Floyd.
Sheeran has been spotted smoking several times. In an interview with Ryan Seacrest, published on YouTube on 5 March 2014, he revealed that smoking is his worst habit. After ten years as a smoker, he now claims to be smoke-free. However, in an article published on the Daily Mail website, on 19 March 2015, he was spotted smoking a roll-up cigarette, outside a hotel in Brisbane. He has since quit smoking again.

</doc>
<doc id="373495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373495" title="Italian Libya">
Italian Libya

Italian Libya was a colony of the Kingdom of Italy, created in 1911 and officially finished in 1947.
Libya was conquered by Italy in 1911 from the Ottoman Empire. The Libyan Muslims resisted against the Christians Italians for some years, mainly during World War I. 
Fighting increased after the dictator Benito Mussolini took power in Italy. Idris (later King of Libya) fled to Egypt in 1922. From 1922 to 1928, Italian forces under General Badoglio waged a "punitive pacification" campaign. Badoglio's successor in the field, Marshal Rodolfo Graziani, accepted the commission from Mussolini on the condition that he was allowed to crush Libyan resistance without having to follow either Italian or international law. Mussolini reportedly agreed immediately and Graziani intensified the oppression. Some Libyans continued to defend themselves, with the strongest voices of dissent coming from Cyrenaica. Omar Mukhtar, a Senussi sheikh, became the leader of the uprising.
After a much-disputed truce on 3 January 1928, the Italian policy in Libya reached the level of full scale war, including deportation and concentration of the people of the Jebel Akhdar to deny the rebels the support of the local population.
After Omar Mukhtar's capture September 15, 1931 and his execution in Benghazi, the resistance petered out. Limited resistance to the Italian occupation crystallized round the person of Sheik Idris, the Emir of Cyrenaica.
By 1934, Libya was fully pacified and the new Italian governor Italo Balbo started a policy of integration between the Arabs and the Italians. Indeed in 1939, laws were passed that allowed Muslims to be permitted to join the National Fascist Party and in particular the "Muslim Association of the Lictor" ("Associazione Musulmana del Littorio"), and the 1939 reforms allowed the creation of Libyan military units within the Italian army.
During WWII this brought strong support for Italy among many Muslim Libyans, who enrolled in the Italian Army 
Governor Balbo did the creation of "Libya" in 1934, with the unification of Tripolitania, Cyrenaica and Fezzan in a single country. He then developed the "Italian Libya" from 1934 to 1940, creating a huge infrastructure (from 4,000 km of roads to 400 km of narrow gauge railways to new industries and to dozen of new agricultural villages).
The Libyan economy nearly "boomed", mainly in the agricultural sector. Even some manufacturing activities were developed, mostly related to the food industry. Building construction increased in a huge way. Furthermore, the Italians made modern medical care available for the first time in Libya and improved sanitary conditions in the towns.
Howard Christie wrote that "The Italians started numerous and diverse businesses in Tripolitania and Cirenaica. These included an explosives factory, railway workshops, Fiat Motor works, various food processing plants, electrical engineering workshops, ironworks, water plants, agricultural machinery factories, breweries, distilleries, biscuit factories, a tobacco factory, tanneries, bakeries, lime, brick and cement works, Esparto grass industry, mechanical saw mills, and the Petrolibya Society (Trye 1998). Italian investment in her colony was to take advantage of new colonists and to make it more self-sufficient. Total native Italian population for Libya was 110,575 out of a total population of 915,440 in 1940 (General Staff War Office 1939, 165/b)."
Governor Balbo promoted the construction of many new villages for many thousands of Italian colonists in the coastal areas of "Italian Libya". He promoted even the creation of new villages for the Arabs. 
Libya was an important theater of war in World War II. On 13 September 1940, the "Via Balbia" (Mussolini's highway in northern Libya) was used for the invasion of Egypt by Italian forces stationed in Libya.
Counterattacks of British Allied forces from Egypt, commanded by Wavell and their successful two-month campaign in (Tobruk, Bengasi, El Agheila), and the counteroffensives under Rommel in 1940-43, all took place here. In November 1942, the Allied forces retook Cyrenaica; by February 1943, the last German and Italian soldiers were driven from Libya.

</doc>
<doc id="373497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373497" title="National Democratic Front of Bodoland">
National Democratic Front of Bodoland

The National Democratic Front of Bodoland, also known as NDFB or the Bodo Security Force, is an militant group in Assam, India. They want to make an independent Bodoland for the indigenous Bodo people. The founder of the organization, Ransaigra Nabla Daimary (Ranjan Daimary) has been arrested and detained by Indian government.

</doc>
<doc id="373505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373505" title="Richard J. Daley">
Richard J. Daley

Richard Joseph Daley (May 15, 1902 – December 20, 1976) was an American politician who served for 21 years as the mayor of Chicago. He was one of the biggest bosses of the Democratic Party in the United States. At his time while being the mayor, he was one of the most well-known Irish-Americans. His son, Richard M. Daley was also the mayor of Chicago for 22 years. He is also the father of William M. Daley.
Daley was born in Bridgeport, Chicago, Illinois. He studied at DePaul University. He was married to Eleanor "Sis" Daley from 1936 until his death in 1976. They had 7 children. Daley died on December 20, 1976 in Chicago, Illinois from a heart attack, aged 74.

</doc>
<doc id="373507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373507" title="Harold Washington">
Harold Washington

Harold Lee Washington (April 15, 1922 – November 25, 1987) was an American lawyer and politician. He became the first African-American Mayor of Chicago, serving from 1983 until his death in 1987. The Harold Washington Library is named after him. 
Washington was born on April 15, 1922 in Chicago, Illinois. He studied at Roosevelt College and at Northwestern University School of Law. He was married to Nancy Dorothy Finch from 1942 until they divorced in 1950. Then he was engaged to Mary Ella Smith until his death in 1987. Washington died suddenly on November 25, 1987 in Chicago City Hall from a heart attack, aged 65. 

</doc>
<doc id="373510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373510" title="Chicago City Hall">
Chicago City Hall

Chicago City Hall is the official city hall of the City of Chicago in Illinois, United States. Adjacent to the Richard J. Daley Center and the James R. Thompson Center, the building that includes Chicago City Hall houses the offices of the mayor. The building's east side (called the County Building) is devoted to the various offices of Cook County. Situated on a city block bounded by Randolph, LaSalle, Washington, and Clark streets, the 11-story structure was designed by the architectural firm Holabird & Roche in the classical revival style. The building was officially dedicated on February 27, 1911.

</doc>
<doc id="373513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373513" title="Anton Cermak">
Anton Cermak

Anton "Tony" Joseph Cermak (May 9, 1873 – March 6, 1933) was an American politician of Czech origin. He was best known as the mayor of Chicago. He was mayor from 1931 until his assassination in 1933. 
Cermak was elected president of the Cook County Board of Commissioners in 1922, chairman of the Cook County Democratic Party in 1928, and mayor of Chicago in 1931. In 1928 he ran for the United States Senate and was defeated by Republican Otis F. Glenn, receiving 46% of the vote.
His mayoral victory came in the wake of the Great Depression and the deep resentment many Chicagoans had of Prohibition and the increasing violence resulting from organized crime's control of Chicago, typified by the St. Valentine's Day Massacre.
Cermak was born on May 9, 1873 in Kladno, Austria-Hungry. He was married to Mary Horejas until his death in 1933. 
Cermak was shot while being at a Democratic Party convention for Franklin D. Roosevelt on March 6, 1933. Later doctors said he would have lived if he had never had colitis, aged 59.Her daughter, Helena, would later marry future Governor of Illinois Otto Kerner, Jr.

</doc>
<doc id="373515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373515" title="Jane Byrne">
Jane Byrne

Jane Margaret Byrne (May 24, 1933 – November 14, 2014) was the first female mayor of Chicago. She served from April 16, 1979 to April 29, 1983. Chicago is the largest city in the United States to have had a female mayor as of 2012.
Byrne was born on May 24, 1933 in Chicago, Illinois. She studied at DePaul University. She was married to William Byrne from 1956 until his death in 1959. Then she was married to Jay McMullen from 1978 until his death in 1992. She had a daughter, Kathy by William Byrne. William Bryne died in an airplane accident. She was so far the only female mayor of Chicago.
Byrne died in Chicago, Illinois from complications of a stroke, aged 81.

</doc>
<doc id="373517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373517" title="Carter Harrison, Jr.">
Carter Harrison, Jr.

Carter Henry Harrison, Jr. (April 23, 1860 – December 25, 1953) served as Mayor of Chicago (1897–1905 and 1911–1915). The City's 30th mayor, he was the first mayor actually born in Chicago. His father was mayor of Chicago, Carter Harrison, Sr..
Carter was born on April 23, 1860 in Chicago, Illinois. His father, Carter Harrison, Sr. was already the mayor but was assassinated while in office. He was married to Edith Ogden. He had two children. Harrison died on December 25, 1953 in Chicago, Illinois from natural causes, aged 93.

</doc>
<doc id="373519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373519" title="Carter Harrison, Sr.">
Carter Harrison, Sr.

Carter Henry Harrison, Sr. (February 15, 1825 – October 28, 1893) was an American politician who served as mayor of Chicago from 1879 until 1887; he was elected to a fifth term in 1893 but was assassinated before completing his term.
He previously served two terms in the United States House of Representatives. Harrison was the first cousin twice removed of President William Henry Harrison. He is also related to President Benjamin Harrison. His son, Carter Harrison, Jr. would later become Mayor of Chicago.
Harrison was born on February 15, 1825 in Fayette County, Kentucky. He studied at Yale University. He was married two times and secretly engaged to another before his death. Harrison died on October 28, 1893 after being shot and killed in his home in Chicago, Illinois, aged 68.

</doc>
<doc id="373521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373521" title="Anmanari Brown">
Anmanari Brown

Anmanari Brown is an Australian Aboriginal artist. She was one of the pioneers of the art movement across the Ngaanyatjarra, Pitjantjatjara and Yankunytjatjara lands, which began in 2000. Since then, her paintings have gained much success. Her work is held in the National Gallery of Victoria, the Art Gallery of Western Australia, the Queensland Art Gallery, and the National Gallery of Australia.
Brown was born roughly some time during the 1930s. She was born at Purpurna, a waterhole that is sacred to the Pitjantjatjara. She grew up living a traditional, nomadic way of life in the bush with her family, before any contact with Euro-Australian society. In the 1950s, her family was moved out of the bush to live at Warburton, with many other Aboriginal families. Warburton was a Christian mission at the time, and Brown was taught at school here by missionaries. When she was older, Brown moved to Irrunytju and married Nyakul Dawson.
Brown began work as an artist in 2000. The women of Irrunytju had opened an art centre as an community-owned economic program. Anmanari and other senior women in the community began painting for Irrunytju Arts on linen canvases. Their first exhibition was held in 2001, in Perth. The art mixed modern painting techniques with ancient designs and cultural law.
From the beginning of her career, Brown often painted with her friend Tjayanka Woods. When Brown's husband died in 2007, she and Woods left Irrunytju and went to live at Papulankutja, on Ngaanyatjarra lands. Here, they paint for Papulankutja Artists. In April 2010, the two women held their first solo exhibition together at the Vivien Anderson Gallery in Melbourne.
Brown mostly paints the (Seven Sisters Dreaming). Her connection to this Dreaming comes from her mother, whose homeland is Kuru Ala, a sacred place for women. The paintings in her solo show depicted stories from this Dreaming. 
Brown's paintings are not figurative. She does not explicitly depict figures or features of the landscape, but she does use iconographic symbols to represent them. She uses patterned lines to represent tracks in a journey, or seven small shapes or lines to represent the sisters. She also sometimes uses colour symbolically. While Brown mainly paints directly on canvas, several of her works are made from screen-printing methods.

</doc>
<doc id="373522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373522" title="Levi Boone">
Levi Boone

Levi Day Boone (December 6, 1808 – January 24, 1882) served as mayor of Chicago, Illinois (1855–1856) for the American Party (Know-Nothings).
Boone was born near Lexington, Kentucky. He studied at Transylvania University. He became a doctor. Boone was married to Louise M. Smith. They had 11 children. In 1862, Boone was arrested and briefly held in Camp Douglas on suspicion that he had helped a Confederate prisoner to escape. 
Boone first ran for mayor of Chicago in 1855. He campaigned on a platform attacking Catholics and immigrants. After he was elected, he ordered the enforcement of a law against selling alcohol on Sundays -- but only in immigrant neighborhoods. On April 21, 1854, protesters, who did not like the bars being closed on Sudnays, fought with police, who supported Boone. "One protester was killed and dozens wounded in the brief clash, but the resulting backlash destroyed Boone's political career." Boone did not run for re-election in the mayoral election of 1856. Boone died on January 24, 1882 in Chicago, Illinois, aged 73.

</doc>
<doc id="373524" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373524" title="James Curtiss">
James Curtiss

James Curtiss (April 7, 1803 – November 2, 1859) was an American politician who was the Mayor of Chicago two times. He ran for the Democrat.
Curtiss was born on April 7, 1803 in Wethersfield, Connecticut. He was raised in both Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and in Chicago, Illinois. Curtiss died on November 2, 1859 in Joliet, Illinois from an illness, aged 53.

</doc>
<doc id="373526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373526" title="William Butler Ogden">
William Butler Ogden

William Butler Ogden (June 15, 1805 – August 3, 1877) was the first Mayor of Chicago.
Ogden was born on June 15, 1805 in Walton, New York. He was married to Mariana Arnot from 1875 until his death in 1877. They had no children. Butler lost almost everything he had in the Great Chicago Fire. Butler died on August 3, 1877 in Fordham Heights, New York, aged 72.

</doc>
<doc id="373528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373528" title="Eugene Sawyer">
Eugene Sawyer

Eugene Sawyer (September 3, 1934 – January 19, 2008) was an American businessman and politician. He was the Mayor of Chicago from 1987 to 1989. He was a member of the Democratic Party. He was the second African American to be mayor of Chicago.
Sawyer was born on September 3, 1934 in Greensboro, Alabama. He studied at Alabama State University. Sawyer never married and has no children. Sawyer died on January 19, 2008 in Chicago, Illinois from a stroke, aged 73.

</doc>
<doc id="373530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373530" title="Category:Mayors of Chicago">
Category:Mayors of Chicago

The Mayors of Chicago, Illinois.

</doc>
<doc id="373531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373531" title="Joseph Medill">
Joseph Medill

Joseph Medill (April 6, 1823 – March 16, 1899) was a Canadian-American newspaper editor and politician who was the Mayor of Chicago from 1871 through 1873. He left as mayor of Chicago because he was going on a tour to Europe. He left Lester L. Bond as the mayor for 3½ months.
Medill was born on April 6, 1823 in Saint John, New Brunswick. He was never married. He had 2 children. Medill died on March 16, 1899 in San Antonia, Texas, aged 75.

</doc>
<doc id="373533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373533" title="Alson Sherman">
Alson Sherman

Alson Sherman (April 21, 1811 – September 27, 1903) was an American politician from Chicago who was the Mayor of Chicago from 1844 through 1845.
Sherman was married to April 21, 1811 in Barre, Vermont. He was married to Aurora Abbott from 1833 until her death in 1883. They had 14 children. Sherman died on September 27, 1903 in Waukegan, Illinois, aged 92.

</doc>
<doc id="373536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373536" title="Roswell B. Mason">
Roswell B. Mason

Roswell B. Mason (September 19, 1805 – January 1, 1892) served as mayor of Chicago, Illinois (1869–1871) for the Citizens Party.
Roswell was born on September 19, 1805 in Hartford, New York. He was never married and had no children. 
Roswell held a high position with the Illinois Central Railroad until he decided to run to be Mayor of Chicago on a reform ticket. During Mason's administration, the Great Chicago Fire occurred. Mason responded by directing General Philip Sheridan to place the city under martial law.
Mason died on January 1, 1892 from natural causes in Chicago, Illinois, aged 86.

</doc>
<doc id="373538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373538" title="Emil Hamilton">
Emil Hamilton

Professor Emil Hamilton or Ruina is a fictional Superman character. He is mostly a mad scientist who is a threat to the world. He is smart and has a suit that learned all of Superman's weaknesses and abilities so that he could copy them. 
He will be played by actor Richard Schiff in the 2013 movie "Man of Steel". He was voiced by Victor Brandt in "".

</doc>
<doc id="373539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373539" title="Thomas Coryat">
Thomas Coryat

Thomas Coryat (c. 1577 – 1617) was an English traveller and writer of the late Elizabethan times. He is remembered today for two books he wrote about his travels through Europe and parts of Asia. He often travelled on foot to get to far off places. 
Coryat reached as far as India in his travels from England. At that time the Mughal Emperor Jahangir was ruling there and he rewarded Coryat and gave him money to reach back home. However, Coryat died in Surat, Gujarat, before he could return. 

</doc>
<doc id="373542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373542" title="Mian Family of Baghbanpura">
Mian Family of Baghbanpura

The Mian Arain family of Baghbanpura is an old family of Lahore, now in Pakistan. They used to live in the Baghbanpura neighborhood of Lahore. They were the official caretakers of the Shalimar Gardens Lahore during the time of the Mughal Empire and were later made into court nobles by the Mughals. 
The family has produced many famous people who played an important role in the social, cultural and political life of Lahore city.

</doc>
<doc id="373543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373543" title="Arain">
Arain

The Arain are a large tribe of India and Pakistan. They are Muslims. Originally, they were a peasant tribe which had agricultural roots but in later times some of them shifted to towns and cities and became famous in many areas. The most famous Arain family in the Indian subcontinent are the Mian Family of Baghbanpura, in Lahore.Some people say that the Arain people might have come to India in 713 AD with Muhammad bin Qasim al-Thaqafi from Arabia. Other people say that they are Aryans and that their name is also from this. 

</doc>
<doc id="373546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373546" title="Walter S. Gurnee">
Walter S. Gurnee

Walter S. Gurnee (March 9, 1813 – April 18, 1903) was an American politician. He was the Mayor of Chicago from 1851 through 1853. The town Gurnee, Illinois is named after him. He was a Democrat.
Gurnee was born on March 9, 1813 in Haverstraw, New York. He was raised in Michigan and in Chicago. He was never married and had no children. Gurnee died on April 18, 1903 in New York City, New York from natural causes, aged 90.

</doc>
<doc id="373576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373576" title="Basilar-type migraine">
Basilar-type migraine

Basilar-type migraine (BTM) is a type of migraine with aura that causes a headache which usually starts in the "occipital region" which is in the lower back part of the brain. The symptoms that are believed to start in the brainstem, occipital cortex, and cerebellum and the pain may affect both sides of the brain at the same time.
Most people who have basilar-type migraine also have migraines with aura without the basilar symptoms. This type of migraine is usually more common in young people between about 10–19 years of age.
The word "Basilar" comes from the Middle French word "basilaire": of or related to the base. In medicine it usually refers to the base or bottom of a body part especially the skull. 
BTM is called 'basilar-type' because it was first described in the areas of the brain which receive blood from the basilar artery, which includes most parts of the brain in the "posterior fossa" and also the brainstem, which are in the lower, back part of the brain (occipital region). But it was later seen that BTM may also affect areas of the brain outside of the areas which receive blood from the basilar artery, and also no proof that problems in the basilar artery are the cause.

</doc>
<doc id="373580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373580" title="Dare County, North Carolina">
Dare County, North Carolina

Dare County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina. In 2010, there were 33,920 people living there. Its county seat is Manteo, North Carolina. It is named after Virginia Dare. Virginia Dare was the first English child born in the Americas. She was born in the Roanoke Colony, in what is now Dare County. Buffalo City, in Dare County, was once the biggest community in the country. (Today, Buffalo City is abandoned.) Dare County is the largest county in North Carolina.

</doc>
<doc id="373582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373582" title="Lionel Barrymore">
Lionel Barrymore

Lionel Barrymore (Lionel Herbert Blythe, April 28, 1878 – November 15, 1954) was an American movie, television, stage, and radio actor who won an Academy Award in 1931. He is known for his roles in "A Free Soul", "The Little Colonel", "It's a Wonderful Life", "Young Dr. Kildare", and in "David Copperfield". His brother was actor John Barrymore and his grandniece is actress Drew Barrymore.
Barrymore was born on April 28, 1878 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He studied at the Episcopal Academy. Barrymore was married to Doris Rankin from 1904 until they divorced in 1923. Then he was married to Irene Fenwick from 1923 until they divorced in 1936. He had two daughters with Rankin, both died early. He had a fatherly love with Jean Harlow and treated her as if she was his own daughter. Barrymore died on November 15, 1954 in Van Nuys, California from a heart attack, aged 76.

</doc>
<doc id="373586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373586" title="John Barrymore">
John Barrymore

John Barrymore (John Sidney Blyth, February 15, 1882 – May 29, 1942) was an American movie, television, stage, and radio actor. He was known for his roles in "Dr Jekyll & Mr Hyde" (1920), "Grand Hotel" (1932), "Dinner at Eight" (1933), "Twentieth Century" (1934), and "Don Juan" (1926). His brother is Academy Award-winning actor Lionel Barrymore. His granddaughter is actress Drew Barrymore.
Barrymore was born on February 15, 1882 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He was married to Katherine Corri Harris from 1910 until they divorced in 1917. Then he was married to Blanche Oelrichs from 1920 until they divorced in 1925. Then he was married to Dolores Costello from 1928 until they divorced in 1934. Then he was last married to Elaine Barrie from 1936 until they divorced in 1940. Barrymore had three children. Barrymore died on May 29, 1942 in Los Angeles, California from cirrhosis, aged 60.

</doc>
<doc id="373589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373589" title="Two-Face">
Two-Face

Two-Face or Harvey Dent is a fictional Batman supervillain who was the distirct attorney of Gotham City before being burned for an explosion or being burned by acid. After his accident, he became a villain because of his anger against Batman and Gotham City. He always flips a coin when he is about to a type of crime or action. Half of his coin is burned. In other parts it shows, say that he had a girlfriend, but either died or left him after his accident. 
He was played by Billy Dee Williams in "Batman", by Tommy Lee Jones in "Batman Forever", and by Aaron Eckhart in "The Dark Knight". He was voiced by Richard Moll in "". 

</doc>
<doc id="373591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373591" title="Scarecrow (comics)">
Scarecrow (comics)

The Scarecrow or Dr. Jonathan Crane is a fictional Batman supervillain who uses fear gas to scare his victims and even Batman. He used to be a psychologist who used his patients as test for his fear gases or fear drugs. He wears a scarecrow mask and a scarecrow costume. 
He was played by Cillian Murphy in "Batman Begins", "The Dark Knight", and in "The Dark Knight Rises".

</doc>
<doc id="373602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373602" title="Yeiki Kobashigawa">
Yeiki Kobashigawa

Yeiki Kobashigawa (September 28, 1917-March 31, 2005) was a United States Army soldier. He received the Medal of Honor because of his actions in World War II.
Kobashigawa was born at Hilo, Hawaii. He is the son of immigrants who were born in Japan. He is a "Nisei", which means that he is a second generation Japanese-American.
One month before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Kobashigawa joined the US Army in November 1941.
Kobashigawa volunteered to be part of the all-"Nisei" 100th Infantry Battalion. This army unit was mostly made up of Japanese Americans from Hawaii and the mainland.
For his actions in June 1944, Kobashigawa was awarded the Army's second-highest decoration, the Distinguished Service Cross (DSC). In the 1990s, there was a review of service records of Asian Americans who received the DSC during World War II. Kobashigawa's award was upgraded to the Medal of Honor. In a ceremony at the White House on June 21, 2000, he was presented with his medal by President Bill Clinton. Twenty-one other Asian Americans also received the medal during the ceremony, but only seven of them were still alive.
Kobashigawa's Medal of Honor recognized his conduct in fighting in northern Italy in 1944. He led successful attacks on four machine gun positions.
The words of Kobashigawa's citation explain:
Technical Sergeant Yeiki Kobashigawa distinguished himself by extraordinary heroism in action on 2 June 1944, in the vicinity of Lanuvio, Italy. During an attack, Technical Sergeant Kobashigawa's platoon encountered strong enemy resistance from a series of machine guns providing supporting fire. Observing a machine gun nest 50 yards from his position, Technical Sergeant Kobashigawa crawled forward with one of his men, threw a grenade and then charged the enemy with his submachine gun while a fellow soldier provided covering fire. He killed one enemy soldier and captured two prisoners. Meanwhile, Technical Sergeant Kobashigawa and his comrade were fired upon by another machine gun 50 yards ahead. Directing a squad to advance to his first position, Technical Sergeant Kobashigawa again moved forward with a fellow soldier to subdue the second machine gun nest. After throwing grenades into the position, Technical Sergeant Kobashigawa provided close supporting fire while a fellow soldier charged, capturing four prisoners. On the alert for other machine gun nests, Technical Sergeant Kobashigawa discovered four more, and skillfully led a squad in neutralizing two of them. Technical Sergeant Kobashigawa's extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit on him, his unit, and the United States Army.

</doc>
<doc id="373603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373603" title="Electrocardiogram">
Electrocardiogram

An electrocardiogram (ECG or EKG) is a record of the electrical activity of the heart over a period of time. It is done by electrodes attached to the outer surface of the skin and recorded by a device outside the body.
An electrocardiogram is used to monitor your heart. Each beat of your heart is triggered by an electrical impulse normally generated from special cells in the upper right chamber of your heart. An electrocardiogram records these electrical signals as they travel through your heart. Doctors can use an electrocardiogram to look for patterns among these heartbeats and rhythms to diagnose various heart conditions.
ECG is used to measure the rate and regularity of heartbeats, the size and position of the chambers, the presence of any damage to the heart, and the effects of drugs or devices used to regulate the heart, such as an artificial pacemaker.
An electrocardiogram is a painless test. The results of your electrocardiogram will likely be reported the same day it is done.

</doc>
<doc id="373606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373606" title="Archaeozoology">
Archaeozoology

Archaeozoology is the study of animals in archaeological contexts. Mostly, it studies the remains left behind when an animal dies. These are mostly bones and teeth. Sometimes hair, skin or other body parts are found and can be studied. Archeaozoology also studies the animals' effect on the environment and their relationships with humans. The people who study archaeozoology are called archaeozoologists. Their training can be as biologists or archaeologists.

</doc>
<doc id="373634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373634" title="Abel Pêra">
Abel Pêra

Abel Pêra (November 16, 1891 - September 27, 1975) was a Brazilian actor, brother of Manuel Pêra, and uncle of Marília Pêra, a very famous Brazilian actress.
Abel Pêra discovered the art of performing in the end of his adolescence. Among his works are "A Pensão da Dona Estela" and "Feitiço", this last one produced by Oduvaldo Vianna.
Before becoming an actor, he was a carpenter. Even after becoming an actor, he continued producing wooden pieces. His friend Chico Anysio, a very popular Brazilian comedian, won a golf stick made by him.
In 1974, he participated in a soap opera called "Fogo Sobre Terra". His last work was the movie "O Casamento", lauched in 1976.

</doc>
<doc id="373637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373637" title="Barbary lion">
Barbary lion

The Barbary lion ("Panthera leo leo") is a kind of lion. It is either extinct or extinct in the wild. "Extinct in the wild" means that there may be some living in zoos.
The Barbary lion is also called the atlas lion and the nubian lion. It is a subspecies of the lion. It used to live in North Africa, from Morocco to Egypt.
The Barbary lion was large and heavy. Males weighed about , and females weighed about . Male lions were said to be about long and females were about long. Some scientists think that these sizes and weights are too large. These scientists think that the Barbary lion is probably the size of the lions found in East Africa. 
The places where the Barbary lion lived did not have a lot of prey. These lions did not live in "prides" because of this. The main animals they hunted in the Atlas Mountains were the Barbary stag and the gazelle. The lions also ate cows and sheep raised by people.
These lions lived alone, or in pairs. The female Barbary lion raised her cubs until they were mature. This took about two years. After that, the cubs left their mother.

</doc>
<doc id="373643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373643" title="Mount Scopus">
Mount Scopus

Mount Scopus ( ; , ) is a mountain in Jerusalem. It is north-east of the Old City. The mountain is above the sea. The land is considered an exclave of Israel, surrounded by the West Bank. It was captured from Jordan in the 1948 Arab–Israeli War.
The cemetery of the American Colony in Jerusalem is near the entrance to the Hebrew University.

</doc>
<doc id="373644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373644" title="Gordy">
Gordy

Gordy is an American family comedy-drama movie from 1995. The movie is about a piglet named Gordy who searches for his missing family (who are taken away to a slaughterhouse in Omaha, Nebraska). Gordy experiences the lives of other people who are part of the movie's side stories, including traveling country music singers Luke McAllister and his daughter Jinnie Sue; and lonely boy Hanky Royce whose mother is engaged to a sinister businessman, Gilbert Sipes. Gordy changes lives for the people he encounters due to their ability to understand him. The movie was released to theaters on May 12, 1995. It was distributed by Miramax Family Films.
The movie has the song "Pig Power" by Tag Team. A music video was produced for the song, featuring clips from the movie.

</doc>
<doc id="373645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373645" title="Mount of Olives">
Mount of Olives

The Mount of Olives (or Mount Olivet, , "Har HaZeitim"; , "Jebel az-Zeitun") is a mountain in East Jerusalem. It is located to next to the Old City, and is part of the West Bank. It is named for the olive groves that once grew on its slopes. The mountain is important to Jews, Muslims and Christians. There are many churches, and the largest Jewish cemetery in the world is located there. The mountain is above the sea level.

</doc>
<doc id="373646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373646" title="Mastic">
Mastic

Mastic ( "Mastika") is a resin that comes from the mastic tree, "Pistacia lentiscus". The tree grows in the Mediterranean region. In pharmacies and nature shops, it is called "Arabic gum" (not to be confused with gum arabic).
The resin is harvested in various places, especially the Greek island of Chios. 
It is a liquid when the tree first produces it. Then it dries in the sun into drops of hard resin. When chewed, the resin softens and becomes a white, opaque gum. The flavour is bitter at first. After some chewing, it has a refreshing, slightly pine or cedar-like flavour.
Mastic is used in food, medicine, and industry.

</doc>
<doc id="373649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373649" title="Sansei">
Sansei

The character and uniqueness of the "Sansei" is recognized in its social history.
The earliest organized group of Japanese emigrants settled in Mexico in 1897.
Imigration to Brazil began in 1908. Today, the community which grew from the immigrant children and grandchildren has become the largest Japanese emigrant population outside of Japan, including approximately 1.5 million Brazilians. Other communities of "Sansei" grew up in the United States, Canada, and Peru. 
The use of the term "Sansei" was modeled after an "Issei" pattern or template. In the 1930s, the term "Issei" came into common use. The word replaced the term "immigrant" ("ijusha"). This change in usage mirrored an evolution in the way the "Issei" looked at themselves. The label "Issei" also included the idea of belonging to the new country.
The term "Nikkei" (日系) was created by sociologists in the late 20th century. The "Nikkei" include all of the world's Japanese immigrants and their descendants.
The "Issei" were born in Japan, and their cultural perspective was primarily Japanese; but they were in America by choice. Their "Sansei" grandsons and granddaughters grew up with a national and cultural point-of-view that was different from their grandparents.
Although the "Issei" kept an emotional connection with Japan, they created homes in a country far from Japan. The "Sansei" had never known a country other than the one into which they were born.
The "Issei," "Nisei" and "Sansei" generations reflect distinctly different attitudes to authority, gender, non-Japanese involvement, and religious practice, and other matters.

</doc>
<doc id="373650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373650" title="Mastic ice cream">
Mastic ice cream

Mastic ice cream is an ice cream with stretched and sticky texture. It is named after the "mastic" spice
Mastic ice cream is common in Arab countries and Turkey. Originally, the only mastic ice cream was in Turkey. The recipe was secret. In the mid 19th century, a Syrian trader in Istanbul stole the secret recipe of the ice cream and took it to Damascus. There he developed a local version of the ice cream that gave it a light and airy texture. He exported the ice cream to the Arab countries. Because the mastic spice is expensive and difficult to get, ice cream sellers prefer to replace the mastic spice with glucose.

</doc>
<doc id="373654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373654" title="Category:Movies about animals">
Category:Movies about animals


</doc>
<doc id="373656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373656" title="Gurban Gurbanov">
Gurban Gurbanov

Gurban Gurbanov (; born 13 April 1972, Zaqatala) is a retired Azerbaijani international footballer, who is today a manager of the Azerbaijani football team FK Qarabağ. He played in the forward position. His football career started with the local Azerbaijani football club Dashgyn Zagatala in 1989. Gurbanov had a 17-year long professional football career. He retired in 2006. He scored 174 goals in 396 league matches.
He started his career in Dashgyn Zagatala, and then played for Mertskhali Ozurgeti, Turan Tovuz, Kur-Nur, Neftchi Baku, Dinamo Stavropol, Baltika Kaliningrad, Fakel Voronezh and Volgar Gazprom. The last club he played for was Inter Baku. In the 1996–97 season, Gurbanov was the leading scorer in the Azerbaijan Premier League for Neftchi with 25 goals. He was named Azerbaijan's Player of the Year once, in 2003.
He played for the national team in their very first match on 17 September 1992, and until his retirement on January 2006 he has scored 14 goals in 66 international matches, which is the national team goalscoring record.
After he had ended his football player's career, he became a sport director of the football club Inter. However, in summer 2006 he was made the head coach of Neftchi Baku. Since the beginning of the season 2008/08 he was made the head coach of FK Qarabağ.
In 2010, he became the most successful Azerbaijani manager in European competitions with 11 wins.

</doc>
<doc id="373658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373658" title="Category:Azerbaijani sportspeople">
Category:Azerbaijani sportspeople


</doc>
<doc id="373664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373664" title="Maccabean Revolt">
Maccabean Revolt

The Maccabean Revolt was an insurrection by Jewish patriots (the Maccabees) against the Seleucid Empire and parties who wished to adopt Greek culture. The Seleucid Empire, which controlled present-day Syria and Israel, sought to make the Jewish people more Greek-like. The Seleucid Emperor Antiochus IV Epiphanes installed a Greek idol Zeus in Jerusalem's Temple and forbade Jewish practices. Jewish individuals who wished to keep their identity and traditions did not like what Seleucids were doing and decided to fight against them. Judah Maccabee and his brothers led the rebellion, liberated Jerusalem, and restored the Temple. The Maccabees won the war and reestablished the kingdom of Judah.

</doc>
<doc id="373667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373667" title="Category:Afghan writers">
Category:Afghan writers


</doc>
<doc id="373671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373671" title="George Bell Swift">
George Bell Swift

George Bell Swift (December 14, 1845 – July 2, 1912) served as mayor of Chicago, Illinois (1893; 1895–1897) for the Republican Party. He was selected to replace the assassinated Carter Harrison, Sr. as Mayor pro tem in 1893 and lost his re-election bid. He was re-elected when he ran in 1895.
Swift was born in Cincinnati, Ohio to Samuel W. Swift and Elizabeth Swift (born Bell). His family moved to Galena, Illinois when he was young. By his teenage years, the family was living in Chicago. Prior to serving as mayor of Chicago, Swift served two terms as an alderman. From 1887 to 1889, he was the city's Commissioner of Public Works. Swift died on July 2, 1912 in Chicago, Illinois from a heart attack, aged 66.

</doc>
<doc id="373675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373675" title="Epidendroideae">
Epidendroideae

Epidendroideae is a subfamily of the orchid family. Epidendroideae is larger than all the other orchid subfamilies together, comprising more than 15,000 species in 576 genera. Most Epidendroid orchids are tropical epiphytes, typically with pseudobulbs. There are, however a some terrestrials such as "Epipactis" and even a few myco-heterotrophs, which are parasitic upon mycorrhizal fungi.

</doc>
<doc id="373679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373679" title="Edward Fitzsimmons Dunne">
Edward Fitzsimmons Dunne

Edward Fitzsimmons Dunne (October 12, 1853 – May 24, 1937) was an American politician. He was the 24th Governor of Illinois from 1913 to 1917. He was Mayor of Chicago from April 5, 1905 to 1907.
Dunne was born on October 12, 1853 in Watertown, Connecticut. He was raised in Peoria, Illinois and in Chicago, Illinois. Dunne was married to Elizabeth J. Kelly until her death in 1928. Dunne died on May 24, 1937 in Chicago, Illinois, aged 83.

</doc>
<doc id="373682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373682" title="William Emmett Dever">
William Emmett Dever

William Emmett Dever (March 13, 1862 – September 3, 1929) was an American politician who was the Mayor of Chicago from 1923 through 1928. During his term he helped clean and fix the entire city of Chicago.
Dever was born on March 13, 1862 in Wobrun, Massachusetts. He was raised in Boston, Massachusetts and in Chicago, Illinois.
Dever's term in office saw many improvements to the city, including the completion of Wacker Drive, the extension of Ogden Avenue, the straightening of the Chicago River and the building of the city's first airport, Municipal Airport. He also fought against the corrupting influence of bootlegging and gangsters. Despite considering himself a "wet", he enforced prohibition since it was the law of the land. The media labeled his war on bootleggers as the "Great Beer War" and it resulted in a decline of crime.
Dever died on September 3, 1929 in Chicago, Illinois from cancer, aged 67.

</doc>
<doc id="373684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373684" title="Francis Cornwall Sherman">
Francis Cornwall Sherman

Francis Cornwall Sherman (September 18, 1805 – November 7, 1870) served as Mayor of Chicago two terms (1841–1842, 1862–1865) for the Democratic Party.
Sherman was born on September 18, 1805 in Newton, Connecticut. He was a brick manufacturer and made the bricks for Archibald Clybourne's mansion. In July 1835, he was elected a village trustee. In 1837, he opened the City Hotel, later the Sherman House. He continued to work as a contractor and builder, eventually serving as mayor of Chicago three times.
His son, Francis Trowbridge Sherman, was a brigadier general in the Union Army during the Civil War.
Sherman died on November 7, 1870 in Chicago, Illinois, aged 65. 
He was married to Electa Trowbridge in Danbury, Connecticut before moving here in Chicago. They had seven children.

</doc>
<doc id="373686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373686" title="William Hale Thompson">
William Hale Thompson

William Hale Thompson (May 14, 1869 – March 19, 1944) was an American who was the Mayor of Chicago from 1915 to 1923 and again from 1927 to 1931. Known as "Big Bill", Thompson was the last Republican to serve as Mayor of Chicago, and is one of the worst mayors in American history.
Thompson was born on May 14, 1869 in Boston, Massachusetts. He was raised in Chicago, Illinois. Thompson died on March 19, 1944 in Chicago, Illinois, aged 74. 

</doc>
<doc id="373688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373688" title="Augustus Garrett">
Augustus Garrett

Augustus Garrett (1801 – November 30, 1848) was an American politician who served as the Mayor of Chicago, Illinois twice (1843–1844, 1845–1846) for the Democratic Party.
Garrett was born in 1801 in New York City, New York. He was married to Elize Clark. They had no children. Garrett died on November 30, 1848 in Chicago, Illinois from a heart attack, aged 47. 

</doc>
<doc id="373690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373690" title="John Charles Haines">
John Charles Haines

John Charles Haines (May 26, 1818 – July 4, 1896) served as mayor of Chicago, Illinois (1858–1860) for the Democratic Party.
Haines was born on May 26, 1818 in Deerfield, New York. Haines died on July 4, 1896 in Waukegan, Illinois, aged 78.

</doc>
<doc id="373692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373692" title="John Wentworth">
John Wentworth

John Wentworth (March 5, 1815 – October 16, 1888) was an American politician. He was the Mayor of Chicago two times.
Wentworth was born on March 5, 1815 in Sandwhich, New Hampshire. He studied at Dartmouth College. He was married to Roxanna Marie Loomis. Wentworth died on October 16, 1888 in Chicago, Illinois, aged 73.

</doc>
<doc id="373694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373694" title="Mike Honda">
Mike Honda

Michael Makoto Honda (born June 27, 1941), also known as Mike Honda, is an American politician. He is the U.S. Representative for the 17th District of California.
Honda was born in Walnut Grove, California in 1941. He is the son of Japanese American parents. He calls himself "Sansei", which means that he is the grandson of people born in Japan who immigrated to the US.

</doc>
<doc id="373696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373696" title="Fred A. Busse">
Fred A. Busse

Fred Busse (March 3, 1866 – July 9, 1914) was the mayor of Chicago, in the U.S. state of Illinois, from 1907 to 1911.
Busse was born on March 3, 1866 in Chicago, Illinois. He was secretly married to Josephine Lee from 1902 until his death in 1914. Busse died on July 9, 1914 in Chicago, Illinois from a heart disease, aged 48.

</doc>
<doc id="373698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373698" title="Julian Sidney Rumsey">
Julian Sidney Rumsey

Julian Sidney Rumsey (April 3, 1823 – April 20, 1886) served as mayor of Chicago, Illinois (1861–1862) for the Republican Party.
Rumsey was born on April 3, 1823 in Batavia, New York. Rumsey died on April 20, 1886 in Chicago, Illinois, aged 63.

</doc>
<doc id="373703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373703" title="Doris Matsui">
Doris Matsui

Doris Okada Matsui (born September 25, 1944) is an American politician. She is the U.S. Representative for the 5th District of California.
Doris Okada Matsui comes from a Japanese-American family. After the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor, the Okada family was interned in Arizona where Doris was born. 
She grew up on a farm in California. She is the daughter of Japanese American parents. She is "Sansei", which means that she is the granddaughter of people born in Japan who immigrated to the US. 
In 1966, she married Robert Matsui, who would become the first "Sansei" from the U.S. mainland elected to the US Congress.

</doc>
<doc id="373705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373705" title="Robert Matsui">
Robert Matsui

Robert Takeo Matsui (September 17, 1941–January 1, 2005) was an American politician. He was the U.S. Representative for the 5th District of California.
Matsui was born in Sacramento, California. He comes from a Japanese-American family. He is "Sansei", which means that he is the grandson of people born in Japan who immigrated to the US.
After the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor, the Matsui family was interned Tule Lake War Relocation Center in 1942. 
At the University of California, Berkeley, Matsui earned a BA in political science in 1963. He graduated from Hastings College of Law in 1966.
Matsui was the second Japanese American from the U.S. mainland elected to the US Congress. Also, he was the first "Sansei" congressman.

</doc>
<doc id="373714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373714" title="Francis Fukuyama">
Francis Fukuyama

Francis Fukuyama (born October 27, 1952) is an American political scientist and author, who is most known for his widely discussed book "The End of History and the Last Man" was published in 1992, in which thesis of a post-Cold War.
He was born in Chicago, Illinois, United States. He earned his Ph.D in political science from Harvard University. 

</doc>
<doc id="373720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373720" title="Yad Vashem">
Yad Vashem

Yad Vashem () is a memorial site in Jerusalem. It is the central memorial for the victims of the Holocaust. It includes a museum, school for teachers, archives, and library. The site is located in Jerusalem Forest on the western slope of Mount Herzl ("Mount of Remembrance"). It is 804 meters (2,638 ft) above sea level.

</doc>
<doc id="373721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373721" title="Har HaMenuchot">
Har HaMenuchot

Har HaMenuchot (), also known as Givat Shaul Cemetery is the second largest cemetery in Jerusalem. It is located on the western edge of Jerusalem. It opened in 1951 after the Mount of Olives cemetery was captured by Jordan in 1948. The mountain is 750 meters above the sea level and next to Jerusalem Forest.

</doc>
<doc id="373724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373724" title="National Headquarters of the Israel Police">
National Headquarters of the Israel Police

The National Headquarters of the Israel Police is the headquarters of the Israel Police. It was established during the British Mandate of Palestine in Tel Aviv and moved to Jerusalem shortly after the Israel declared independence in 1948. It was moved to the Russian Compound in Jerusalem. In 1951, a branch of the headquarters was opened in the Mandatory British Police building in Tel Aviv and in 1973 the headquarters was moved to a new building near Mount Scopus.

</doc>
<doc id="373727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373727" title="Supreme Court of Israel">
Supreme Court of Israel

The Supreme Court of Israel () is the highest court of Israel. It is located in Jerusalem, in the neighbourhood of Givet Ram. After Israel was established in 1948, the Supreme Court was sitting in the Russian Compound in Jerusalem. In 1986, the government held a contest to build a new building for the court and in 1992 the supreme court was moved to a new building next to the Knesset.

</doc>
<doc id="373729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373729" title="Mark Takano">
Mark Takano

Mark Allan Takano (born December 10, 1960) is an American teacher and politician. 
In November 2012, Takano was elected to the U.S. Representative for the 41st District of California.
Takano was born in Riverside, California. He is the son of Japanese American parents. He is "Sansei", which means that he is the grandson of people born in Japan who immigrated to the US.
After the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor, the Takano family was relocated and interned from California to "War Relocation Camps" during World War II. He graduated from Harvard University in 1983.
Takano taught in public school for 23 years. 

</doc>
<doc id="373734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373734" title="Mount Zion">
Mount Zion

Mount Zion (, "Har Tsiyyon"; , "Jabel Sahyoun") is a hill in the south-west corner of the Old City of Jerusalem. It is an extension of Temple Mount. There are a lot of churches and many little Christians and Jewish cemeteries in the area of Mount Zion. Half of the Mount Zion is in the Old City, in the Jewish and Armenian Quarters. The grave of King David is at the top of Mount Zion.
In the past there was a small cable car that connected the mountain to the valley below and the Old City. Today the cable car room is a museum inside an old hospital building.

</doc>
<doc id="373736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373736" title="Patsy Mink">
Patsy Mink

Patsy Matsu Takemoto Mink (; December 6, 1927–September 28, 2002) was an American politician. She was the U.S. Representative for the 1st and 2nd Districts of Hawaii. 
Mink was born in Paia on the island of Maui in Hawaii. She was the daughter of Japanese American parents. She was a "Sansei", which means that she was the granddaughter of people born in Japan who immigrated to the US. 
She graduated from the University of Hawaii and she earned a law degree from the University of Chicago.

</doc>
<doc id="373742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373742" title="Bev Oda">
Bev Oda

Beverley Joan "Bev" Oda, PC, MP (born July 27, 1944) is a Canadian teacher, television broadcaster and politician. She was the first Japanese-Canadian member of the House of Commons of Canada.
Oda was born in Thunder Bay, Ontario. She was the daughter of Japanese Canadian parents. She was a "Sansei", which means that she was the granddaughter of people born in Japan who immigrated to Canada. 
Oda earned a degree from the University of Toronto.
Oda was the first Japanese-Canadian to be appointed a Cabinet Minister. She was a member of the Queen's Privy Council for Canada.

</doc>
<doc id="373746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373746" title="Vakkom Majeed">
Vakkom Majeed

Vakkom Majeed (20 December 1909  – 10 July 2000) was an Indian freedom fighter, politician and a former member of the Travancore-Cochin State Assembly. He was born in Vakkom, Travancore, in the Madras Presidency of British India. He died in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala.

</doc>
<doc id="373747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373747" title="Melissa McBride">
Melissa McBride

Melissa McBride (born May 23, 1965 near Lexington, Kentucky) is an American movie and TV actress and casting director. She has performed in many television programs and movies. She plays Carol Peletier in "The Walking Dead".

</doc>
<doc id="373749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373749" title="David Tsubouchi">
David Tsubouchi

David Tsubouchi is a Canadian lawyer and politician. 
Tsubouchi was born in Toronto, Ontario. He is the son of Japanese Canadian parents. He is "Sansei", which means that he is the grandson of people born in Japan who immigrated to Canada.
At York University, he earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1972 and a law degree in 1975.
Tsubouchi was a member of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1995 to 2003. He is the first Japanese-Canadian to hold a cabinet position in a Canadian provincial government. 
He is a member of the Board of Governors of York University.

</doc>
<doc id="373752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373752" title="Tweeter">
Tweeter

A tweeter is a small loudspeaker. Tweeters are designed to reproduce high-pitched sounds (such as the sound of a whistle or a bird singing). It can mean sound's frequency going up to 20kHz. Humans can's hear frequencies bigger than 20 000 Hz. Small frequencies would break small speakers because it is not designed to have big movements.

</doc>
<doc id="373758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373758" title="Category:Database templates">
Category:Database templates


</doc>
<doc id="373760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373760" title="Category:United States Football League broadcasters">
Category:United States Football League broadcasters


</doc>
<doc id="373761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373761" title="RCA connector">
RCA connector

An RCA connector (sometimes called a phono connector or cinch connector), is a type of electrical connector commonly used to carry audio and video signals. 

</doc>
<doc id="373762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373762" title="Preamplifier">
Preamplifier

Preamplifier is a type of electronic amplifier. It doesn't have enough power to feed speakers. Rather a preamplifier amplifies weak signals, for example from a microphone, for electronic processing or distribution. 
Early preamplifiers used vacuum tubes. Since the 1960s, most electronic amplifiers have been built with transistors. Transistors are lighter, less expensive, and more reliable.

</doc>
<doc id="373764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373764" title="Mauno Koivisto">
Mauno Koivisto

Mauno Koivisto (born 25 November 1923 in Turku) is a retired Finnish politician. He was the ninth President of Finland.
Koivisto's family was not rich, his father was a carpenter building ships. His mother died when son was young. He finished school in young age, and took odd jobs. In Second world war Koivisto volunteered at the front. After the war he joined Social democratic party.
Koivisto studied in his adult age and became doctor of law in 1953.
In 1968 Koivisto become prime minister of Finland. People liked him very much. His popularity helped him to become president in 1982 when Urho Kekkonen was too sick to continue. Koivisto won a second term in election.
As a president, Koivisto continued line of Kekkonen and was careful to practice neutral policy. This meant hthat he was not too visibly anti-soviet or pro-soviet. During his time Finland changed constituttion so that the president had less power than before.

</doc>
<doc id="373767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373767" title="Kyösti Kallio">
Kyösti Kallio

Kyösti Kallio (10 April 1873 - 19 December 1940) was the fourth President of Finland. He was president from 1937 to 1940. He is the only Finnish president who did not have any higher education.
Kallio was born in Ylivieska. He died in Helsinki.

</doc>
<doc id="373770" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373770" title="O Foxo">
O Foxo

O Foxo is a town in north-western Spain. It is in the parish of Silleda, in Pontevedra, Galicia. In 2007, it had a population of 54 people, 26 of them were men and 28 were women. This represents a decrease in the number of people over the year 2000. He was also the former capital of the county.

</doc>
<doc id="373772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373772" title="Saimaa">
Saimaa

Saimaa is the largest lake in Finland. It covers . The Vuoksi River flows from Saimaa to Laatokka. The cities nearby to Saimaa's beaches are Lappeenranta, Joensuu, Mikkeli, Imatra, Savonlinna and Varkaus. 

</doc>
<doc id="373778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373778" title="Yonsei">
Yonsei

Yonsei may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="373787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373787" title="Yonsei (fourth-generation Nikkei)">
Yonsei (fourth-generation Nikkei)

The character and uniqueness of the "Yonsei" is recognized in its social history. The "Yonsei" are the subject of on-going academic research in the United States and Japan.
The earliest organized group of Japanese emigrants settled in Mexico in 1897.
Imigration to Brazil began in 1908. Today, the community which grew from the immigrant children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren has become the largest Japanese emigrant population outside of Japan, including approximately 1.5 million Brazilians. Other communities of "Yonsei" grew up in the United States, Canada, and Peru. 
The use of the term "Yonsei" was modeled after an "Issei" pattern or template. In the 1930s, the term "Issei" came into common use. The word replaced the term "immigrant" ("ijusha"). This change in usage mirrored an evolution in the way the "Issei" looked at themselves. The label "Issei" also included the idea of belonging to the new country.
The term "Nikkei" (日系) was created by sociologists in the late 20th century. The "Nikkei" include all of the world's Japanese immigrants and their descendants.
The "Issei" were born in Japan, and their cultural perspective was primarily Japanese; but they were in another country by choice. Their "Yonsei" great-grandsons and great-granddaughters grew up with a national and cultural point-of-view that was different from their great-grandparents.
Although the "Issei" kept an emotional connection with Japan, they created homes in a country far from Japan. The "Yonsei" had never known a country other than the one into which they were born.
The "Issei," "Nisei" and "Sansei" generations reflect distinctly different attitudes to authority, gender, religious practice, and other matters.

</doc>
<doc id="373788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373788" title="Colleen Hanabusa">
Colleen Hanabusa

Colleen Wakako Hanabusa (born May 4, 1951) is an American lawyer and politician. She is the U.S. Representative for the 1st District of Hawaii.
Honda was born in Honolulu, Hawaii in 1951. She is the son of Japanese American parents. She calls herself "Yonsei", which means that she is the great-granddaughter of people born in Japan who immigrated to the US.

</doc>
<doc id="373790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373790" title="International Convention Center (Jerusalem)">
International Convention Center (Jerusalem)

The International Convention Centre of Jerusalem (, ), also called: Binyenei HaUma ( - Buildings of the nation) is the main convention center in Jerusalem and the central auditorium of Israel.

</doc>
<doc id="373791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373791" title="Association of Football Federations of Azerbaijan">
Association of Football Federations of Azerbaijan

The Football Federation of Azerbaijan (AFFA) () is the governing body of football in Azerbaijan. It organizes the football league, Azerbaijani Premier League, and the Azerbaijani national football team. It is based in Baku.

</doc>
<doc id="373792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373792" title="Plantation of Ulster">
Plantation of Ulster

The Plantation of Ulster was the organised colonisation ("plantation") of Ulster. Ulster is a province of Ireland. People from Scotland and England were sent by the English government to live there. This started at the beginning of the 17th century, from 1606. It was colonised to stop the people living in the area fighting against the English rule. Ulster had been the region most resistant to English control during the previous century.
All land owned by Irish chieftains of the O'Neill dynasty ("Uí Néill" in Gaelic) and O'Donnell dynasty ("Uí Domhnaill" in Gaelic) was taken from them, and used for the colonists. This land added up to an estimated half a million acres (2,000 km²) in the counties County Donegal (called "Tyrconnell" at the time), Tyrone, Fermanagh, Cavan, Coleraine and Armagh. Most of counties Antrim and Down were privately colonised. 
The colonists were also called the "British tenants". They were mostly from Scotland and England. They had to be English-speaking and Protestant. The Scottish colonists were mostly Presbyterian and the English mostly members of the Church of England. The Plantation of Ulster was the biggest of the Plantations of Ireland. 
Hugh O’Donnell and Hugh O’Neill felt their position and the power of Ulster was under threat from the English intruders. There were many series of battles defeating small English groups, the rebellion known as the Nine Years' War. The following year they wrote to King Philip II of Spain for help. The Spanish aid came in but landed in Kinsale in October 1601 miles away from Ulster. O’Neill and O’Donnell gathered their army and met in Kinsale on Christmas Eve 1601. They were defeated by a strong English army of 20,000 men, led by Lord Deputy Mountjoy. The Spaniards surrendered. Within two years, O’Neill and other leaders surrendered at the Treaty of Mellifont. At Mellifont, the Ulster chieftains agreed to accept English rule in their lands (sheriffs and judges). They also agreed to abandon Brehon Law, the Irish language and any further thoughts of rebellion. With less support from their people and more English control over Ulster, O’Neill and almost one hundred leading members of Ulster’s Irish families fled Ireland in an event known as the Flight of the Earls. They went to Spain, Italy and Rome. 
King James I was easily persuaded by England’s officials in Ireland that the best way to ensure Ulster’s future loyalty was through a plantation. First Antrim and Down were given to two Scottish noblemen. This brought over thousands of Scottish settlers as tenants to work on the land. By 1609, these planters were securely established. The area to be planted covered six counties- Donegal, Derry, Armagh, Fermanagh, Cavan and Tyrone. Lessons had been learned from previous plantations. No one was to be given more than 2000 acres and laws were stricter. There were different groups involved in the Ulster plantation.

</doc>
<doc id="373795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373795" title="Argleton">
Argleton

Argleton is a place name of a village that does not really exist. It is a phantom settlement that was shown on Google Maps. It was located in the parish of Aughton, Lancashire. An employee of Edge Hill University noticed this in 2008, and could show that at the location, there are only empty fields. 

</doc>
<doc id="373797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373797" title="Sadao Munemori">
Sadao Munemori

Sadao Munemori (born August 17, 1922-April 5, 1945) was a United States Army soldier. He received the Medal of Honor because of his actions in World War II.
Munemori was born in Los Angeles, California to Japanese immigrant parents. He is a "Nisei", which means that he is a second generation Japanese-American.
During World War II, Munemori's parents and siblings were interned at the Manzanar concentration camp.
Two months after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, he joined the US Army.
Munemori volunteered to be part of the all-"Nisei" 100th Infantry Battalion. This army unit was mostly made up of Japanese Americans from Hawaii and the mainland.
For his actions in April 1945, he was the only Japanese American to be awarded the Medal of Honor during or immediately after World War II.
Munmori's Medal of Honor recognized his conduct in fighting in northern Italy in 1945. Without help from others, he attacked two machine guns before smothering a grenade blast with his body.
The words of Munemori's citation explain:
He fought with great gallantry and intrepidity near Seravezza, Italy. When his unit was pinned down by grazing fire from the enemy's strong mountain defense and command of the squad devolved on him with the wounding of its regular leader, he made frontal, one-man attacks through direct fire and knocked out two machine guns with grenades. Withdrawing under murderous fire and showers of grenades from other enemy emplacements, he had nearly reached a shell crater occupied by two of his men when an unexploded grenade bounced on his helmet and rolled toward his helpless comrades. He arose into the withering fire, dived for the missile and smothered its blast with his body. By his swift, supremely heroic action Pfc. Munemori saved two of his men at the cost of his own life and did much to clear the path for his company's victorious advance.
Sadao Munemori is the namesake of a part of the California highway system, a ship, a building and an American Legion post.

</doc>
<doc id="373804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373804" title="Vertical angles">
Vertical angles

In geometry, vertical angles relates to an linear slope on a graph. So if the equation is linear, you can tell because it won't have any exponents.

</doc>
<doc id="373805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373805" title="Kokeshi">
Kokeshi

The doll has a very simple shape;only the head of the globe and the body of the column. A joint of the head and the body was made thin so that a child was easy to grasp it.
"Kokeshi" came to be sold as a souvenir in the "Tohoku" district from "Edo" era.
When the "Taisho" era began, "kokeshi" turned into the role as the appreciation things of adult rather than the toy of the child.
An all-Japan "kokeshi" contest is held every year in May. Since 1954, the annual Prime Minister's prize has been awarded to the best work of creative "kokeshi" makers.
There are 250+ types of "kokeshi".
and so on

</doc>
<doc id="373807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373807" title="Azerbaijani Premier League">
Azerbaijani Premier League

The Azerbaijan Premier League (), is the top football competition in Azerbaijan.
The Azerbaijan Premier League was created in 2007 and replaced the Top Division () which existed between 1992 and 2007. The Azerbaijan Premier League is run by the Association of Football Federations of Azerbaijan. The Top Division was run by the Professional Football League of Azerbaijan. The creation of the Premier League gave the football clubs more independence.
Since 1992, a total of 8 football clubs have become champions of the top Azerbaijani football competition. Neftchi Baku are the current Azerbaijan Premier League champions.
Players in the Premier League compete for the trophy "Azerbaijan Premier League Golden Boot", awarded to the top goalscorer at the end of each football season. Nazim Aliyev is the league's all-time top scorer with 183 goals, including 39 in the 1992 season. During the 1995–96 season he became the first player to score 100 Premier League goals. Since then, 10 other players have reached the 100-goal mark.
The current Azerbaijan Premier League trophy was developed by the Professional Football League of Azerbaijan and the trophy has been awarded to the champion of Azerbaijan since the end of the 2009–10 season, replacing the previous Premier League trophy that had existed for only few years.

</doc>
<doc id="373812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373812" title="Menorah (Temple)">
Menorah (Temple)

The menorah was an ancient lamp that accompanied the Israelites during their wanderings through the desert and later sat in their Temple. It had seven branches (a center branch with three branches on each of its sides), and it was made of gold. Olive oil fed the menorah's flames. God commanded Moses to construct the menorah while Moses and the Israelites were wandering the desert (see Book of Numbers chapter 8). The menorah is associated with miracles, such as the miracle of Hanukkah. During First Jewish-Roman War, the Romans destroyed the Temple and took its treasures, including the menorah. They took the menorah to Rome and displayed it throughout the city during a celebration of their victory over the Jewish rebels.
Today, the menorah is featured in the present state of Israel's coat of arms, and some Jewish places of worship contain replicas of the menorah. An nine-branch menorah is used during Hanukkah.

</doc>
<doc id="373816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373816" title="Category:Pages in need of copyedit from December 2012">
Category:Pages in need of copyedit from December 2012


</doc>
<doc id="373818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373818" title="Bulguksa">
Bulguksa

Bulguksa is a temple of Korean Buddhism in Gyeongju in South Korea. It was designated as a historic site number 502 by Korean government. In 1995, Bulguksa was added to the UNESCO World Heritage List. It is known as one of the tourist attractions in Korea, where over 2 million people are visiting each year. It includes Dabotap(Korea's national treasure number 20) and Seokgatap(Korea's national treasure number 21), Cheongun-gyo(Blue Cloud Bridge, Korea's national treasure number 23) and Backun-gyo(White Cloud Bridge, Korea's national treasure number 23), and two gilt-bronze statues(Korea's national treasure number 26, 27) of Buddha.
The temple was made in the Silla kingdom, the golden age of Buddhist art. According to Samguk yusa (Three Kingdoms of Korea's history book), the temple had begun to be constructed under King Kyeongdeok in 751 and completed in 774. Kim Daeseong, the Prime Minister of Silla, decided to construct this temple in order to cherish the memory of his parents. The name of the temple 'Bulguk' means the country of Buddha. He wanted to his parents live happily in the Buddha's country after they died.
Bulguksa has been reconstructed thoroughout history. Especially in the Japanese colonial era, it was damaged a lot and lost its valuable treasures. After the independence of the Republic of Korea, Korean government started to reconstruct and reorganize the temple.
Dabotap and Seokgatap (Num 21, 22)
Dabotap is well known for its feminine and sophisticated beauty. Its height is 10.4m and it is representative of Korea's unique pagodas.
Seokgatap is relatively simple and masculine compared to Dabotap. Its height is also 10.4, which makes Dabotap and Seokgatap the twin pagodas in Bulguksa.
Chengun-gyo (Num 23)
At the entrance of Bulguksa is Chengun-gyo. It is said that the bridge links the human world to the world of Buddhist. It is decorated with stones very beautifully and its structure is so solid that it can withstand earthquakes.

</doc>
<doc id="373819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373819" title="Acarajé">
Acarajé

Acarajé is the most popular street food in the north eastern state of Brazil, Bahia. The recipe for acarajé was introduced to Bahia by slaves who came from Nigeria during the colonial period. In Nigeria acarajé is named Akara, and the women who sell it call out "Akara je", which means "Come and eat Akara" in Yoruba. So when freed Nigerian slaves started to sell acarajé on the streets, they used the same technique and Brazilians assumed that they were selling acarajé.
Acarajé is made with black-eyed peas, garlic, ginger and salt, then deep fried in dende - a reddish oil from the palm fruit. When done, they are split in half and filled with vatapá, caruru, fried shrimp, salad and pepper. Brazilians modified the recipe from Nigeria a little and started to fill the acarajé with other afro-Brazilian foods. In Nigeria, none of the Brazilian accompaniments are served; just the bean cake is eaten, fried with palm oil or vegetable oil.
Acarajé are served on the streets by women who call themselves baiana do acarajé. They wear traditional clothes, white flowing dresses, sometimes turbans and colorful necklaces related to the rituals of the Afro-Brazilian religion Candomblé. In Nigeria, however, there is no ceremony and the women who sell Akara wear whatever they like. Nowadays, these baianas sell acarajé as a way of life and it’s something that helps to sustain their families.
In 2004, acarajé was declared part of Brazil's heritage culture in the region of Bahia. It's one of the most important symbols of the culture of Bahia and it's enjoyed by all types of tourists. They are delighted by the taste, color and relaxing way of eating acarajé on the streets.

</doc>
<doc id="373820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373820" title="Buckner Stith Morris">
Buckner Stith Morris

Buckner Stith Morris (August 19, 1800 – December 16, 1879) was an American politician. He was the Mayor of Chicago, Illinois from 1838 to 1839. He was a member of the Whig Party. He was in jail for 9 months because of war conflicts.
Morris was born on August 19, 1800 in Augusta, Kentucky. Morris was married to Evlina Barker until her death. Then he was married to Elize Stephenson until her death. Then he was married to M. E. Parrish until his death. He had three children. Morris died on December 16, 1879 in Chicago, Illinois from an illness, aged 79.

</doc>
<doc id="373822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373822" title="Seoul Lantern Festival">
Seoul Lantern Festival

The Seoul Lantern Festival () is a festival that takes place in Seoul, South Korea. It shows various themes through lanterns. It is hosted by the Seoul Metropolitan Government and is organized by the Seoul Tourism Organization. It has been celebrated every year since 2009 and has officially become an annual event. It is usually held from early in November and lasts 2 weeks. In 2012, as 2.57 million people visited the festival, it gets to become the representative festival of Seoul.

</doc>
<doc id="373823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373823" title="Vibraslap">
Vibraslap

The vibraslap is a percussion instrument. It is a modern version of the jawbone. Due to the fragile nature of the jawbone, the vibra-slap was created to provide a stronger alternative with a similar sound. It has been used mainly in popular music. Several rock bands have used this sound for the last decades of the 20th century and into the 21st century. It is also popular in Latin music. 
The vibraslap is made of a cowbell-shaped hollow box (acting as a resonator) and a wooden ball connected by a steel rod. The steel rod is bent in an "L" shape that allows the performer to hold the rod in one hand and strike the ball with the palm of their other hand. The steel rod acts as a sort of spring that vibrates the box on the other end. The box acts as a resonating body for a metal mechanism placed inside with a number of loosely fastened pins or rivets that vibrate and rattle against the box, much like the teeth of the jawbone. The vibraslap is produced in a number of sizes using different materials such as wood, metal or composite materials.
The Vibra-Slap was the first patent granted to the instrument manufacturing company Latin Percussion.
The Vibra-Slap's inventor was Martin Cohen. It is sometimes sold as a "Donkey Call" or "Rattleslap".

</doc>
<doc id="373824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373824" title="Mercury poisoning">
Mercury poisoning

Mercury poisoning is a health disturbance caused by high levels of exposure to mercury. 
Symptoms of mercury poisoning include pink in the cheeks, fingertips, and toes, swelling, unexplainable sweating, lots of saliva, fast heartbeat, high blood pressure, and hair loss for some people. Mercury exposure happens most often when you eat certain types of fish or via other ways.

</doc>
<doc id="373826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373826" title="Students in Free Enterprise">
Students in Free Enterprise

Students in Free Enterprise (SIFE) is an international non-profit organization. It works with university students who want to change their communities positively and learn practical knowledge to become socially responsible business leaders. Students form teams in their campuses and use business model to make better the quality of life and standard of living for people in need.
SIFE, was established in 1975 in the United States by Robert T. Davis. SIFE was originally a regional leadership training program attended by university students who taught their communities what they had learned. Eventually, these university students competed on the outcomes of their efforts. 
More than 1,600 university campuses in 39 countries take part in SIFE's projects. SIFE gives these students the chance to develop leadership, teamwork and communication skills through learning, practicing and teaching the knowledge of free enterprise. SIFE Teams teach important concepts including market economics, entrepreneurship, personal and financial success, and business studies, their communities and their countries. 
Each year, SIFE competitions are held worldwide, so called World Cup, with thousands of students and business leaders. Teams present their projects to judges who evaluate those projects and determine which teams had the most impact improving the quality of life and standard of living for members of their community.
Every country organizes a national competition to pick up national champion and give him a opportunity to compete at the World Cup. 
The criterion is as follows:
``Considering the relevant economic, social and environmental factors, which SIFE team most effectively empowered people in need by applying business and economic concepts and an entrepreneurial approach to improve their quality of life and standard of living.``
SIFE partners include corporations, organizations and individuals' foundations such as HSBC, PepsiCo, Unilever, DELL, Microsoft. 

</doc>
<doc id="373838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373838" title="Category:Structure of the Earth">
Category:Structure of the Earth


</doc>
<doc id="373841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373841" title="Chesapeake–Leopard Affair">
Chesapeake–Leopard Affair

The Chesapeake–Leopard Affair was a naval battle that took place off the coast of Norfolk, Virginia on June 22, 1807. The English warship attacked and boarded the American . The British were looking for people who had deserted the Royal Navy. The commander of the American ship surrendered his vessel to the British. When he returned home, he was tried, and had to leave the military. 
The "Chesapeake–Leopard Affair" made many Americans angry. Some of them wanted to go to war with Great Britain, but most people did not. President Thomas Jefferson tried to use the anger to diplomatically threaten the British government into settling the matter. The United States Congress backed away from armed conflict when British diplomats showed that they felt they did nothing wrong in the matter. The diplomats also said that impressment would continue. Jefferson's political failure to solve the problem with Great Britain led him towards economic warfare: the Embargo of 1807.

</doc>
<doc id="373842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373842" title="Hector Burton">
Hector Burton

Hector Tjupuru Burton is an Australian Aboriginal artist. He is a leading artist from Amaṯa, in north-western South Australia. His work has been shown in exhibitions since 2003, in several cities in Australia and other countries. His first solo exhibition was held in 2004, in Melbourne. Examples of his paintings are held in the National Gallery of Victoria, the Art Gallery of South Australia, the Art Gallery of New South Wales, and Flinders University.
Burton had paintings chosen as finalists for the National Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander Art Awards in 2011 and 2012.
Burton was born some time in the late 1930s. He was born near what is now Pipalyatjara, in north-west South Australia. A member of the Pitjantjatjara people, his childhood was spent living a traditional lifestyle in the bush. When he was still a child, Burton and his parents came out of the desert and settled at Ernabella. As a young man, Burton worked as a ringer at the large cattle station called Curtin Springs. He later moved to Amaṯa where he worked building dams, fences and cattle yards outside the town. He also later worked on a building project in Ernabella.
Burton is a senior custodian of traditional Pitjantjatjara law ("" or Dreaming). His father's homeland, to the west of Irrunytju, is closely associated with the (Caterpillar Dreaming) and the (Red Kangaroo Dreaming). His mother is from Lake Wilson. These legends are the subjects of many of his paintings.
Burton started painting in 2002. He paints for Tjala Arts, Amaṯa's community-based art company. When he started, the company was called Minymaku Arts. Painting among Pitjantjatjara was originally done by women only ("minymaku" means "women's"). Men did not join the women until several years later, because they were afraid of revealing too much spiritual knowledge (which in Western Desert cultures is meant to be kept secret). Burton was one of the first men at Amaṯa to begin painting; the company changed its name to Tjala Arts in 2004, after several other men joined him.
The art community at Amaṯa is still strongly conservative. Only the basics of traditional beliefs are described in their works. To keep the meanings of his paintings hidden, Burton uses dotting and other techniques to disguise sacred figures and ancient symbols. He is a strong supporter of maintaing strict forms of secrecy when it comes to art produced in his community. He is now a board member of Tjala Arts, and often coordinates projects and exhibitions with the other artists.
Burton's early paintings represent legends from his family's Dreaming. They also show strong Christian influences. Burton was taught by Presbyterian missionaries when he was growing up at Ernabella, and he mixed these beliefs with his family's Dreaming. When he was older, he was ordained as a minister, and is now a senior member of the Church on the Aṉangu Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara Lands.
Since the later part of 2011, Burton and several other men from Amaṯa have led a project to change the subject of their artists' work. Instead of depicting sacred Dreaming knowledge, he and the other board members of Tjala Arts have encouraged their artists to paint about other things (such as the landscape or wildlife). Burton and the other leaders decided that the popularity of Western Desert art had resulted in people asking too many questions about their traditional designs and too much secret knowledge being revealed. The centre's first exhibition under this project was held in March 2012, in Alice Springs. The exhibition was called "Punu-Nguru" ("From the Trees") and its paintings depicted traditional designs of trees from the artists' home countries.

</doc>
<doc id="373853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373853" title="Molecular cloning">
Molecular cloning

Molecular cloning is a type of work in molecular biology. It is used to assemble recombinant DNA molecules, and to direct their replication within host organisms. The use of the word "cloning" means a DNA molecule from a single living cell is used to make a large population of cells containing identical DNA molecules. Molecular cloning methods are central to many areas of modern biology and medicine.
Molecular cloning generally uses DNA sequences from two different organisms: the species that is the source of the DNA to be cloned, and the species that will serve as the living host for multiplying (replicating) the recombinant DNA. 
In a molecular cloning experiment, the DNA to be cloned is got from an organism of interest, then treated with enzymes in the test tube to get smaller DNA fragments. These fragments are then joined with vector DNA to produce recombinant DNA molecules. The recombinant DNA is then introduced into a host organism (typically an easy-to-grow, benign, laboratory strain of "E. coli" bacteria). This produces a population of organisms in which recombinant DNA molecules are replicated along with the host DNA. Because they contain foreign DNA fragments, these are "transgenic" or genetically-modified microorganisms (GMO). 
This process takes advantage of the fact that a single bacterial cell can be induced to take up and replicate a single recombinant DNA molecule. This single cell can then be expanded exponentially to generate a large amount of bacteria, each of which contain copies of the original recombinant molecule. Thus, both the resulting bacterial population, and the recombinant DNA molecule, are commonly referred to as "clones". Strictly speaking, "recombinant DNA" refers to DNA molecules, while "molecular cloning" refers to the experimental methods used to assemble them.
The idea of using molecular cloning to produce recombinant DNA was invented by Paul Berg, who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for 1980, jointly with Walter Gilbert and Fred Sanger.

</doc>
<doc id="373881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373881" title="Genetically modified food">
Genetically modified food

Genetically modified food (GM food) is food which has been produced using organisms that have been engineered genetically (GM organisms). GM food either contains GM organisms, or GM organisms have been used to create the food. Common examples include maize, soybean, cotton and rapeseed. The first genetically modified food animal could be salmon. 
Commercial sale of genetically modified food began in 1994, when Calgene first marketed its delayed ripening tomato. Genetically modified foods include: soybean, corn, canola, rice, and cotton seed oil. The aims include faster growth, resistance to fungi, production of extra nutrients, or some other beneficial purpose. GM livestock have also been experimentally developed. 
Research is being done on bacteria which would speed up making cheese. Genetically modified yeast could be used to make beer that has fewer calories.
The approaches taken by governments to assess and manage the development and release of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) vary from country to country. Some of the most marked differences are between the USA and Europe. 
The US regulatory policy is the Coordinated Framework for Regulation of Biotechnology. The policy has three main principles: 
European Union have the strictest GMO rules in the world. All GMOs, and irradiated food, are considered "new food" and subject to extensive, case-by-case, science based food evaluation by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA). The criteria for authorization has four broad categories: "safety," "freedom of choice," "labelling," and "traceability".
One of the key issues is whether GM products should be labelled. A study into voluntary labelling in South Africa found that 31% of products labelled as GMO-free had a GM content above 1.0%. 
In Canada and the US labelling of GM food is voluntary. In Europe all food (including processed food) or cattle feed which contains greater than 0.9% of approved GMOs must be labelled. 
Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, and Australia require labelling so people can choose between foods that have genetically modified, ordinary or organic origins.
Most vegetable oil used in the US is produced from GM crops. Vegetable oil is sold directly to consumers as cooking oil, margarine, and shortening, and is used in prepared foods. 
As for soybeans, about 95% of the US crop is GM, and about 85% of the world's soybean crop is processed into soybean meal and vegetable oil. The bulk of the soybean crop is grown for oil production, with the high-protein defatted and "toasted" soy meal used as for farm animal food and dog food. 98% of the US soybean crop is used for feeding farm animals. A smaller percentage of soybeans are used directly for human food.
Researchers have made genetically modified potatoes which are resistant to potato blight. That disease caused the Irish potato famine in the 1840s. EU approval is needed before commercial growing of this GM crop can take place.

</doc>
<doc id="373885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373885" title="Tie clip">
Tie clip

A Tie clip is an accessory. It is to keep a necktie near a person's shirt.

</doc>
<doc id="373887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373887" title="Phone connector">
Phone connector

A phone connector (also called jack plug, stereoplug) is an electrical plug that is used in audio systems. For example, it is used in electric guitar cables to connect the guitar to an amplifier. There are typically three different sizes of phone connectors: 6.3 mm, 3.5 mm and 2.5 mm diameters.
Balanced and unbalanced circuits are possible with stereoplug connector when using monosignal per one stereoplug. Sound quality improves with a balanced circuit because noise signal reduces, especially with microphones where the signal is often weak.

</doc>
<doc id="373897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373897" title="Tokoname, Aichi">
Tokoname, Aichi

Tokoname has been known for making ceramics since the 12th century. The city is Japan's top producer of "Maneki Neko".
Tokoname is on the western coast of Chita Peninsula in southern . 

</doc>
<doc id="373909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373909" title="Avellino">
Avellino

Avellino is a city in southern Italy. It is capital of the province of Avellino.

</doc>
<doc id="373912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373912" title="Museo d'arte – MdAO">
Museo d'arte – MdAO

The Museo d'arte is a museum for modern and contemporary art. It is in Avellino, Italy.
The museum was opened on 2 January 1995. It was developed from the private gallery of O. Stefano into a museum open to the public. The design for the museum building was ready in September 1993. It was finished in December 1994.
The museum has a library and a documentary film library. It plays video documentaries and speeches by famous art critics.
Currently the museum exhibition presents to the public a few selected works of modern art and contemporary art. The original works include sculptures, drawings, oil paintings, and prints done by etching, lithograph and serigraph. 
Artists in the museum's permanent exhibition include:

</doc>
<doc id="373916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373916" title="Benjamin Wright Raymond">
Benjamin Wright Raymond

Benjamin Wright Raymond (June 15, 1801 – April 6, 1883) was an American politician who twice served as mayor of Chicago, Illinois (1839–1840, 1842–1843) for the Whig Party.
Raymond was born on June 15, 1801 in Rome, New York. He studied at St. Lawrence Academy. Raymond was married to Amelia Porter from 1835 until his death in 1883. They had a son, George Lansing. Raymond died on April 6, 1883 in Chicago, Illinois from an illness, aged 81.

</doc>
<doc id="373919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373919" title="MediaWiki:Pageinfo-footer">
MediaWiki:Pageinfo-footer


</doc>
<doc id="373921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373921" title="Alexander Loyd">
Alexander Loyd

Alexander Loyd (August 19, 1805 – May 7, 1872) was an American politician. He served one term as mayor of Chicago, Illinois from 1840 until 1841 for the Democratic Party.
Loyd was born on August 19, 1805 in Orange County, New York. He was raised in Chicago. He was married until her death. They had four children. Loyd died on May 7, 1872 in West Lyons, Illinois from heart failure, aged 66. 

</doc>
<doc id="373926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373926" title="Central Texas Council of Governments">
Central Texas Council of Governments

The Central Texas Council of Governments (CTCOG) is a voluntary association of cities, counties and special districts in central Texas.
It is based in Belton, Texas the Central Texas Council of Governments is a member of the Texas Association of Regional Councils.
Fort Hood is located in Bell and Coryell Counties and is the largest employer in the CTCOG region. The U.S. Census recognizes Fort Hood as a Census-Designated Place; in 2010 the Fort Hood CDP had 29,589 residents.

</doc>
<doc id="373928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373928" title="John Putnam Chapin">
John Putnam Chapin

John Putnam Chapin (April 21, 1810 – July 27, 1864) was an American politician. He was the Mayor of Chicago, Illinois (1846–1847). He was a member of the Whig Party.
Chapin was born on April 21, 1810 in Bradford, Vermont. He was raised in Chicago, Illinois. Chapin died on July 27, 1864 in Chicago from a heart attack, aged 54.

</doc>
<doc id="373931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373931" title="Signs and symptoms">
Signs and symptoms

Signs and symptoms are two words that doctors use to describe how a medical problem causes changes in a person's body.
A sign is a change in the body that can be heard, seen, felt, or smelled by a doctor. A sign may also be shown on medical tests like X-rays or blood tests. For example:
A symptom is a change in the body that cannot be seen, heard, felt, or smelled by a doctor. It also cannot be shown on medical tests. A symptom is something that only the person having the symptom can see, hear, feel, or smell. For example:
Often, medical problems cause both signs and symptoms. For example:

</doc>
<doc id="373932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373932" title="James Machon">
James Machon

James Machon (born 1848) was a Boy in the United States Navy and a Medal of Honor recipient for his role in the Union Navy during the American Civil War.
Citation:
On board the U.S.S. Brooklyn during successful attacks against Fort Morgan, rebel gunboats and the ram Tennessee in Mobile Bay, on 5 August 1864. Stationed in the immediate vicinity of the shell whips which were twice cleared of men by bursting shells, Machon remained steadfast at his post and performed his duties in the powder division throughout the furious action which resulted in the surrender of the prize rebel ram Tennessee and in the damaging and destruction of batteries at Fort Morgan.

</doc>
<doc id="373939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373939" title="Surabaya">
Surabaya

Surabaya, the second largest city in Indonesia, is the capital of East Java. The meaning of Surabaya is combination of "sura" meaning shark and "baya" meaning crocodile. There are about 3 million people living in Surabaya and they speak a dialect of Malay called Suroboyoan. Surabaya is the second largest city in Indonesia after Jakarta. Surabaya is located on the edge of the northern coast of Java Island and dealing with the Madura Strait and Java Sea.
There are many museums and monuments that represents and shows the history of Surabaya.
The House of Sampoerna is a museum that exhibits from the story of the founder of Sampoerna, Liem Seeng Tee to history of tobacco making. One part of the museum shows the history of how this place was found. It starts from Seeng Tee moving to Indonesia after the death of his wife until how he found the old building of Dutch-supported orphanage. There are displays of Seeng Tee’s old objects such as his bicycle, motorcycle, and equipment and objects related to tobacco. There is a tobacco plant within the building where 3,500 women are rolling Dji Sam Soe cigarettes.
Gereja Perawan Maria Tak Berdosa is a Catholic church. It is one of the old buildings left from during the Dutch invasion in the 18th century. It is the oldest church in East Java. It has been preserved by the Dutch government in Indonesia. Despite the fact that it is old, the brick stones are undamaged. Without air-conditioning in the hot weather of Indonesia, the temperature inside the church is low and cool. Services were held since 1800s and it still continues today every Sunday in Chinese. 
Surabaya is not only the second largest city in Indonesia but it is known as the “city of heroes” because of the role it played in the Battle of Surabaya in November 10, 1945. This monument Tugu Pahlawan, Heroes Monument, is the symbol of Surabaya and is built to respect the heroes who fought for independence. This rocket-like monument points towards the moon 41.15 meters high. Along with the monument, there is a museum where diorama of Surabaya in 1945 is displayed. History of Surabaya at that time could be seen through pictures, clips, and stories. There are other buildings surrounding the monument to depict the struggles Indonesians had to go through.
Health Museum of Dr. Adhyatma was built in 1990s in order to save and maintain nation's cultural heritage. This museum exhibits historical items related to health and items that are used today. In September 14, 2004, Minister of Health changed the name of the museum to "Health Museum of Dr. Adhyatma, MPH - MOH. There is a special library in the museum that displays materials such as books, magazines, tapes, and video recording that provides information about health studies. The museum also has different show rooms that displays different equipments used in the past and genealogy of royal families of Indonesia. 

</doc>
<doc id="373942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373942" title="Samul nori">
Samul nori

Samul nori is a Korean traditional musical performance, which is performed with four percussion instruments: Jing, Janggu, Buk (the drum in Korean), Kkwaenggwari. The performance includes dancing. Specifically, in "Samul", "sa" means "four", and "mul" means "object" in Korean, and "nori" means "to play". Considering the meaning of "Samul nori", this is one kind of playful and casual art performance done in public. In the past, Korean people usually play "Samul nori" when they work in agricultural area to relax after working.
Nowadays, some Korean people who play Korean traditional music try to boost Samul nori. Famous samul-nori performances are "Kim duk soo Samul nori" and "Namsadang nori". Namsadang Nori was chosen as a UNESCO Masterpiece of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity. In addition, some Koreans are trying to transform Samul nori to modern styles by mixing this with other modern performances. For example, there were TV shows where Samul nori performers were dancing with pop singers or DJs. 
Furthermore, other than mixing Samul nori with modern performances, some Korean people try to create new performance inspired by Samul nori. For example, "Nanta", a performance of sounds made by hitting everyday objects, is inspired by Samul nori. Also, there is "Nori dan", social enterprise in Korea, which play recycled garbage as musical instruments by hitting them.

</doc>
<doc id="373943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373943" title="63 Building">
63 Building

63 Building is a skyscraper on Yeouido (island) in Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul in South Korea. Despite its name, it actually has 66 floors – 63 floors above ground and 3 floors underground. Construction started in February 1980, and was completed in May 1985. At that time, the name of the building was “Daehanlife 63 Building”, but the name of this has changed to “63 City.” It was the highest building in Asia at the moment of being built. It is now the 5th highest building in even Korea – the highest building in Korea is Northeast Asia Trade Tower in Incheon. But from now on, 63 Building is known as the most famous landmark in Korea.
Before it was built, South Korea was in the period of development. Therefore, it was decided to build the highest building in Asia to beat Sunshine 60 in Tokyo, Japan. There were also no buildings which were higher that 31 floors in South Korea. The process of building was chosen very fast.
63 building is actually a building for Hanhwa Group but it also has some cultural areas for visitors. Except for the top 3 floors, visitors can enjoy all of the building. There is an aquarium named “63 Sea World”, IMAX theater, and observatory with museum named “63 Sky-art.” There are also many areas like food courts and restaurants.
63 Sea World was opened at July 27th, 1985, and has over 400 species and 20,000 marine lives in there. It also has a coelcanth and oarfish. The theater in 63 Building is the first IMAX theater in Korea. The “63 Buffet Pavilion” is known as one of the greatest restaurants in Seoul.
There are six elevators which were made by Mitsubishi in 63 Building, and their speed is about 540 meters per minute. It is the fastest elevator in Korea. For subway, there are two stations, Noryangjin station in Line 1 and Line 9.

</doc>
<doc id="373946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373946" title="Busker Busker">
Busker Busker

Busker Busker () is a Korean indie band which got their popularity in "Superstar K", one of the most famous audition programs in South Korea. The band is composed of three members now: Jang Bum-jun (guitarist and vocalist), Kim Hyung-tae (bassist), and Bradely Ray Moore (drummer). They won the second prize in "Superstar K" season 3, and then they officially released their own debut album on 29 March 2012.
The three members were in the same university; Jang and Kim were students of Animation Art and Brad was an English professor in Sang-myung University located in Cheonan. They named the band as Busker Busker because they performed on the street to the public in Cheonan. They went to Seoul in order to share their music talents with more people, especially in Hong-dae which is a favorite place for many indie musicians in Korea. As they got popular among people, they participated in "Superstar K" of M-net on April, 2011. Actually there were more members in the band but composition was somewhat unsettled. As the three of them could adjust their schedules and started to be aired on TV, Busker Busker has been fixed as trio band.
They could pass the preliminary stage as performing their own song "Ideal Type". In Super-week, they performed K-pop song "Coming-of-age ceremony" but they failed to pass the rival mission with 2-Month () singing "Juliet". However, one of the Top 10 band, Yeri-Band left the lodging without permission during training period. As there happened to be a vacancy in Top 10, Busker Busker was newly selected as one of the top 11, with Haze. As they sang several songs on the live stages including "Tokyo girl", "People in Seoul" and "Makgerlina", they got extremely popular and most of their songs were ranked highest in music charts. Although Ulala Session got the title of the competition, they kept their popularity after the Audition.
Busker Busker has released their first regular album, "Busker Busker 1st album", on March 29th, 2012. The songs in the album, which were all written by their own, hit all kinds of K-pop chart including "Cherry blossom Ending", "First Love", and "Yeosu Night Sea". The album sold over a million, and the next album "Busker Busker 1st Finale" has also been loved since it was released on June 21st. They ended their first promotional activities for the albums after finishing their first concert, "Youth Bus", on June 22nd and 23rd.

</doc>
<doc id="373949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373949" title="Menorah (Hanukkah)">
Menorah (Hanukkah)

The Hanukkah menorah, or hanukiah, is a nine-branch lamp used to celebrate, remember, and honor the miracle of Hanukkah. It consists of a center branch with four branches on each of its sides. Eight of its branches are to be lit on each day of Hanukkah, which lasts eight days, while the ninth branch is the shamash, or "helper" branch, which is used to light the other branches.

</doc>
<doc id="373951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373951" title="Menorah">
Menorah

Menorah may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="373952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373952" title="Category:History of Hanukkah">
Category:History of Hanukkah


</doc>
<doc id="373954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373954" title="Suspension of disbelief">
Suspension of disbelief

Suspension of disbelief is the willingness for a person to accept fantasy as it is presented to them in any form of media.
Reality is the world around us. Fantasy is a world that only is in our minds, or recorded in some way onto or into something that can be passed along from one form to another. Fantasy cannot exist as something real, something that we can touch or see as it is. 
An example of something from fantasy is the White Rabbit from Lewis Carroll's "Alice in Wonderland". Because of our experience, that is, how we have lived our lives, it has not been proven that it can possibly be real. The White Rabbit is an animal which stands on two legs (in some stories), wears human clothing, and acts and speaks like a human. For us as humans, a normal rabbit does not speak, nor does it act or speak like a human. Because of that, we think of the White Rabbit as fantasy, it only can be living in a not-real world.
Suspension of disbelief is a way to enjoy a story. If one were to completely disregard a story as false, the entertainment value, what makes us like a story, would be lost. On the other hand, if one accepts a story as real for as long as the story goes on, then a connection to living in reality can be made, however big or small. Returning to the subject of Alice in Wonderland, the story can be taken as pure nonsense, buematicst ideas involving math are hidden in the story.

</doc>
<doc id="373957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373957" title="James Hutchinson Woodworth">
James Hutchinson Woodworth

James Hutchinson Woodworth (December 4, 1804 – March 26, 1869) was an American politician. He was in the Illinois State Senate and in the Illinois State House of Representatives. He was a Chicago Alderman. He was elected to consecutive terms as Mayor of Chicago, Illinois (1848–1850) as an Independent Democrat. He was in the US House of Representatives for one term as a member of the Republican Party.
Woodworth was born on December 4, 1804 in Greenwhich, New York. He was married to Almrya Booth from 1842 until his death in 1869. They had two children. Woodoworth died on March 26, 1869 in Chicago, Illinois from an illness, aged 64.

</doc>
<doc id="373959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373959" title="Isaac Lawrence Milliken">
Isaac Lawrence Milliken

Isaac Lawrence Milliken (August 29, 1815 – December 2, 1885) was an American politician who served as mayor of Chicago, Illinois from 1854 to 1855. He was a member of the Democratic Party.
Milliken was born on August 29, 1815 in Saco, Maine. He was raised in Chicago, Illinois. Milliken died on December 2, 1885 in Chicago, Illinois from an illness, aged 70.

</doc>
<doc id="373961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373961" title="Charles McNeill Gray">
Charles McNeill Gray

Charles McNeill Gray (March 7, 1807 – October 17, 1885) was an American politician who served as Mayor of Chicago, Illinois (1853–1854) for the Democratic Party.
Gray was born on March 7, 1807 in Sherburne, New York. He came and lived in Chicago since July 1834. Gray died on October 17, 1885 in Chicago, Illinois from an illness, aged 78.

</doc>
<doc id="373963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373963" title="Thomas Dyer">
Thomas Dyer

Thomas Dyer (January 13, 1805 – June 6, 1862) was an American politician who served as mayor of Chicago, Illinois (1856–1857) for the Democratic Party.
Dyer was born on January 13, 1805 in Canton, Connecticut. He was raised in Chicago, Illinois. Dyer died on June 6, 1862 in Middletown, Connecticut from a heart attack, aged 57.

</doc>
<doc id="373966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373966" title="John Blake Rice">
John Blake Rice

John Blake Rice (May 28, 1809 – December 17, 1874) was an American actor, theatrical producer and politician. He was the mayor of Chicago, Illinois (1865–1869). He was a Republican.
Rice was born in Easton, Maryland on May 28, 1809. He was raised in Annapolis, Maryland and in Chicago, Illinois. Rice died on December 17, 1874 in Norfolk, Virginia from liver cancer, aged 65.

</doc>
<doc id="373968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373968" title="Harvey Doolittle Colvin">
Harvey Doolittle Colvin

Harvey Doolittle Colvin (December 18, 1815 – April 16, 1892) was an American politician. He was the mayor of Chicago, Illinois from 1873 to 1875. He was a member of the People's Party.
Colvin was born on December 18, 1815. He was never married and had no children. Colvin died on April 16, 1892 in Chicago, Illinois from an illness, aged 76.

</doc>
<doc id="373969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373969" title="Monroe Heath">
Monroe Heath

Monroe Heath (March 27, 1827 – October 21, 1894) was an American politician. He was the mayor of Chicago, Illinois from 1876 to 1879. He was a member of the Republican Party.
Heath was born on March 27, 1827 in Grafton, New Hampshire. Heath died on October 21, 1894 in Asheville, North Carolina from a stroke, aged 67.
 

</doc>
<doc id="373971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373971" title="Menelik II">
Menelik II

Menelik II (17 August 1844 – 12 December 1913) was Emperor of Ethiopia from 1889 until he died in 1913.

</doc>
<doc id="373975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373975" title="Category:Mayors of Seoul">
Category:Mayors of Seoul


</doc>
<doc id="373980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373980" title="Rogers Arena">
Rogers Arena

Rogers Arena is a sports arena in Vancouver, British Columbia. The arena opened on September 21, 1995, and is the current home to the Vancouver Canucks of the National Hockey League. 
The arena was first known as General Motors Place from 1995 to 2010. It was renamed Canada Hockey Place for a short time and held ice hockey events during the 2010 Winter Olympics. The arena used to be the home of the Vancouver Grizzlies from 1995 to 2001 before they moved to Memphis, Tennessee to become the Memphis Grizzlies.
Rogers Communications has naming rights for the arena right now. The arena has hosted the WWF's PPV in 1996, ice hockey events during the 2010 Winter Olympics and UFC's 115 and 131.

</doc>
<doc id="373981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373981" title="Besse Cooper">
Besse Cooper

Besse Berry Cooper (August 26, 1896 – December 4, 2012) was an American woman who was verified by the Guinness World Records as the oldest person in the world from the death of Brazilian woman Maria Gomes Valentim on June 21, 2011 until her death on December 4, 2012. She was previously thought to have held the title of the world's oldest living person from the death of Eunice Sanborn on January 31 until May 18, 2011, when Valentim was verified by the Guinness World Records. She is one of three people to have regained the status of world's oldest living person, with the other two being Jeanne Calment and Elizabeth Bolden. Cooper was also the last living person in the world to have been born in the year 1896, as well as the oldest person ever born in that year.
Besse Cooper was born as Besse Berry Brown in Sullivan County in Tennessee on August 26, 1896. She was the third of eight children of Richard Brown and Angeline Berry. She graduated from East Tennessee State Normal School (now East Tennessee State University) in 1916 and worked as a school teacher until the time of America's entrance to World War I in 1917, when she moved to Georgia. She taught in the Walton County town of Between until 1929. She was married to Luther Cooper from 1924 until his death in 1963 and had four children with him, whose names are Angeline, Luther Jr., Sidney and Nancy.
In her final years, Cooper lived in a nursing home in Monroe, Georgia. She had all four of her children, 11 grandchildren, 13 great-grandchildren and 2 great-great grandchildren. In August 2012, a bridge in Between was named the "Besse Brown Cooper Bridge" in her honour.

</doc>
<doc id="373989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373989" title="University of Bristol">
University of Bristol

The University of Bristol is a red brick university in Bristol, southwest England. Some studies rate it as one of the top 30 universities in the world. It has about 14 applicants for every undergraduate place.

</doc>
<doc id="374005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374005" title="James Lovelock">
James Lovelock

James Ephraim Lovelock CH CBE FRS (born 26 July 1919) is an independent scientist who lives in Devon. He became an environmentalist and futurologist. He is best known for proposing the Gaia theory. This suggests the biosphere is a self-regulating system which keeps our planet healthy by controlling the environment.
After the development of an instrument in the late 1960s, Lovelock was the first to detect the widespread presence of CFCs in the atmosphere. He found a concentration of 60 parts per trillion of CFC-11 over Ireland. He went on to measure the concentration of CFC-11 from the northern hemisphere to the Antarctic aboard the research ship RRS "Shackleton".
Lovelock developed his Gaia ideas after working for NASA on detecting life on Mars. 
The Gaia hypothesis proposes that living and non-living parts of the Earth form a complex interacting system that can be thought of as a single organism. Named after the Greek goddess Gaia at the suggestion of novelist William Golding, the idea is that the biosphere has a regulatory effect on the Earth's environment which acts to sustain life.
While the idea was readily accepted by many in the environmentalist community, it has not been widely accepted by other scientists. Among its more famous critics are the evolutionary biologists Richard Dawkins, Ford Doolittle, and Stephen Jay Gould. Lovelock has responded to these criticisms with models such as Daisyworld, which illustrate how individual-level effects can translate to planetary homeostasis, under the right circumstances.
In Lovelock's 2006 book, "The Revenge of Gaia", he argues that the destruction of rainforests weakens Gaia's capacity to control greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. If so, the planet's negative feedbacks would weaken, and global warming would continue to increase. 
The warming of the oceans is extending the oceanic thermocline layer of tropical oceans over the Arctic and Antarctic waters. This would prevent the rise of oceanic nutrients into the surface waters and eliminate the algal blooms of phytoplankton. As phytoplankton and forests are the main ways in which Gaia draws down carbon dioxide, taking it out of the atmosphere, the elimination of this environmental buffering will see, according to Lovelock, most of the earth becoming uninhabitable for humans and other life-forms by the middle of this century, with a massive extension of tropical deserts. This rather extreme view is held by only a few other scientists.
In his most recent book, "The Vanishing Face of Gaia", he suggests that we may already be beyond the tipping point of terrestrial climate into a permanently hot state. Given these conditions, Lovelock expects human civilization will be hard pressed to survive. He expects the change to be similar to the PaleoceneEocene Thermal Maximum when atmospheric concentration of CO was 450 ppm. At that point the Arctic Ocean was 23 °C and had crocodiles in it, with the rest of the world mostly scrub and desert.
In September 2007, Lovelock and Chris Rapley proposed the construction of ocean pumps to pump water up from below the thermocline to "fertilize algae in the surface waters and encourage them to bloom". The basic idea was to accelerate the transfer of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere to the ocean by increasing photosynthesis and increasing the export of organic carbon (as "marine snow") to the deep ocean. A scheme similar to that proposed by Lovelock and Rapley is being independently developed by a commercial company.
Lovelock subsequently said that his proposal was intended to stimulate interest, and research would be the next step.

</doc>
<doc id="374020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374020" title="DIN connector">
DIN connector

A DIN connector is a type of round electronic connector. It can be used in audio systems and MIDI connections. There is also the Mini-DIN connector that is smaller. Before USB connectors, keyboards and mice used mini-DIN connectors.

</doc>
<doc id="374022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374022" title="XLR connector">
XLR connector

XLR connector is a type of electronic connector that is mostly used with audio technology. Balanced and unbalanced circuits are possible with XLR when using monosignal per one XLR connection. Sound quality improves with a balanced circuit because noise signal reduces, especially with microphones where the signal is often weak.

</doc>
<doc id="374023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374023" title="Jayne Meadows">
Jayne Meadows

Jayne Meadows (who was born as Jane Cotter; September 27, 1919 – April 27, 2015) was an American movie and stage actress. She was the older sister for the deceased actress Audrey Meadows. She was married to Steve Allen. Meadows was nominated for three Emmy Awards. Meadows was born in Wu-ch'ang, Heilongjiang, China to an American family.
Meadows died of natural causes at her home in Encino, California, aged 95.

</doc>
<doc id="374024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374024" title="Line level">
Line level

Line level means audiosignals level what is example 2 Voltages peak to peak. It is common in CD-players and cassetteplayers. It is much more than microphone level which can be couple of milliVolts. Line level signal can be connect to amplifier which plays loudspeakers with much more power than linelevel uses because it's bigger currents.
Preamplifier is the device what can make linelevel signal example from microphone's weak signal.

</doc>
<doc id="374031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374031" title="Objectification">
Objectification

Objectification refers to the treating of an abstract concept as a real thing.

</doc>
<doc id="374038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374038" title="Kim Campbell">
Kim Campbell

Avril Phædra Douglas "Kim" Campbell PC CC OBC QC (known as Kim Campbell) (born March 10, 1947), is a Canadian politician, lawyer, diplomat, and writer who was the 19th Prime Minister of Canada from June 25, 1993 to November 4, 1993.
Kim Campbell was born on March 10, 1947, in Port Alberni, British Columbia. Her Parents were George Thomas Campbell and Phyllis "Lisa" Cook. 
She entered the PC Party leadership race after Prime Minister Brian Mulroney announced his retirement from politics. She defeated Jean Charest at the Progressive Conservative leadership convention and was appointed Prime Minister on June 25, 1993 by Governor General Ray Hnatyshyn. She served as Prime Minister from June 25, 1993 to November 4, 1993. She was the first and only to date female Prime Minister of Canada, the first Prime Minister to have been born in British Columbia and the first Prime Minister to be a baby boomer.

</doc>
<doc id="374048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374048" title="Joy Davidman">
Joy Davidman

Joy Davidman (born Helen Joy Davidman; 18 April 1915 – 13 July 1960) was an American poet and writer. She was Jewish and of Polish and Ukrainian descent. She won the Yale Series of Younger Poets Competition in 1938 and the Russell Loines Award for Poetry in 1939 for her book of poems, "Letter to a Comrade". She was the author of several books, including two novels. She was also the wife of C. S. Lewis. She died of bone cancer four years after the marriage.

</doc>
<doc id="374049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374049" title="Girma Wolde-Giorgis">
Girma Wolde-Giorgis

Girma Wolde-Giorgis (born December 8, 1924), is a Ethiopian politician and was the President of Ethiopia from 2001 to 2013.
Girma Wolde-Giorgis was born in December 8, 1924, in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. 
He went to school at the Ethiopian Orthodox Church school and he later joined the Teferi Mekonnen School in Addis Ababa until the Italian invasion of Ethiopia. He was elected the President of Ethiopia as a surprise choice on 8 October 2001 by a unanimous vote of the Ethiopian Parliament. On 9 October 2007, he was re-elected as president.
Mulatu Teshome was elected the President of Ethiopia by a unanimous parliamentary vote on 7 October 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="374055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374055" title="Category:American supercentenarians">
Category:American supercentenarians


</doc>
<doc id="374062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374062" title="Category:American centenarians">
Category:American centenarians


</doc>
<doc id="374066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374066" title="Category:British centenarians">
Category:British centenarians


</doc>
<doc id="374073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374073" title="Hydrometer">
Hydrometer

A hydrometer is an instrument used to measure the specific gravity (or relative density) of liquids; that is, the ratio of the density of the liquid to the density of water.
A hydrometer is usually made of glass and consists of a cylindrical stem and a bulb weighted with mercury or lead shot to make it float upright. The liquid to be tested is poured into a tall container, often a graduated cylinder, and the hydrometer is gently lowered into the liquid until it floats freely. The point at which the surface of the liquid touches the stem of the hydrometer is noted. Hydrometers usually contain a scale inside the stem, so that the specific gravity can be read directly. A variety of scales exist, and are used depending on the context.
Hydrometers may be calibrated for different uses, such as a lactometer for measuring the density (creaminess) of milk, a saccharometer for measuring the density of sugars in a liquid, or an alcoholometer for measuring higher levels of alcohol in spirits.

</doc>
<doc id="374074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374074" title="Hygrometer">
Hygrometer

A hygrometer, also known as a psychrometer, is an device that is used to measure the humidity in the air. A common way these devices work is by using a material that attracts moisture, and that changes depending on how moist it is. The probably simplest method of these is to use a human hair. The hair will change length, depending on the moisture.Hence,it calculates the relative humidity of a particular place.
A hygrometer has two bulbs: one wet and one dry. Both bulbs are traditional thermometers, though one is covered with a wet towel. After a period of time, the water on the wet bulb evaporates and at that time, the temperature is measured on each bulb. The difference between the temperatures is noted. Then each is used on a chart to find the relative humidity of that temperature and area. A small difference between the temperature of the bulbs shows a high relative humidity coming from a low evaporation rate. In dry air, evaporation happens faster showing a large difference in temperature thus giving you a low relative humidity.
Example: 30˚C Dry Bulb + 20˚C Wet Bulb = ~40% relative humidity
A sling psychrometer works when the scientist spins two thermometers through the air, one plain and one with a wet cloth around it. The dry thermometer measures the air temperature. The wet thermometer measures the dew point, because the wet cloth is cooled as the thermometer spins. Since the water on the cloth evaporates, due to latent heat, which is the loss of heat energy when matter goes through a phase change, the cloth cools. Then, the thermometer measures the temperature of the cloth. Eventually the cloth will match the amount of water absorbed in it with the amount of water absorbed in the air, or the humidity. When the matching happens, the temperature will stabilize. Then, the scientist looks on a table to find the dew point according to the air temperature and humidity measured by the wet bulb. 

</doc>
<doc id="374076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374076" title="Gondola lift">
Gondola lift

A gondola lift is a type of public transport. It consists of cabins fixed to a cable that travels between two stations. The cable is moved around by motors at the stations and is lifted from the ground by towers. A gondola lift is similar to a cable car, and sometimes it is called like that. However, unlike a cable car a gondola lift contains many cabins that go around at the same time. Usually the cabins slow down at the stations to allow passengers to get in or out.
Gondola lifts are mainly used in skiing resorts to transport tourists up and down the mountains.

</doc>
<doc id="374079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374079" title="John A. Roche">
John A. Roche

John A. Roche (August 12, 1844 – February 10, 1904) was an American politician. He was the mayor of Chicago, Illinois (1887–1889). He was a Republican.
Roche was born on August 12, 1844 in Utica, New York. Roche died on February 10, 1904 in Chicago from a type of poisoning, aged 59.

</doc>
<doc id="374081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374081" title="DeWitt Clinton Cregier">
DeWitt Clinton Cregier

DeWitt Clinton Cregier (June 1, 1829 – November 9, 1898) was an American politician. He was the mayor of Chicago, Illinois from 1889 to 1891. He was a Democrat.
Cregier was born on June 1, 1829 in New York City, New York. He was married to Mary Sophia Foggin. They had ten children. Cregier died on November 9, 1898 in Chicago, Illinois from pneumonia, aged 69.

</doc>
<doc id="374083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374083" title="Hempstead Washburne">
Hempstead Washburne

Hempstead Washburne (November 11, 1852 – April 13, 1919) was an American politician. He was the mayor of Chicago, Illinois from 1891 to 1893. He was a member of the Republican Party.
Washburne was born on November 11, 1852 in Galena, Illinois. Washburne died on April 13, 1919 in Chicago, Illinois, aged 66.

</doc>
<doc id="374087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374087" title="John Patrick Hopkins">
John Patrick Hopkins

John Patrick Hopkins (October 29, 1858 – October 13, 1918) was an American politician. He was the mayor of Chicago, Illinois (1893–1895). He was a Democrat. 
Hopkins was born on October 29, 1858 in Buffalo, New York. He was never married. Hopkins died on October 13, 1918 in Chicago, Illinois from a flu, aged 59.

</doc>
<doc id="374090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374090" title="Category:Electrical connectors">
Category:Electrical connectors


</doc>
<doc id="374092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374092" title="Jeonju">
Jeonju

The city of Jeonju was the political, economic and cultural center in the Honam Plain, Korea’s most fertile farmland that encompasses today’s South and North Jeolla Provinces. The first historic records about the city come from the Unified Silla Period. Back then, the city was called Wansanju. After the Unified Silla was divided, Jeonju served as the capital of the late Baekje, one of the kingdoms set up after the breakup of the Unified Silla. Coming to the Joseon period, Jeonju became even more important as the city was the birthplace of the first ancestor of Lee Sung-gae, the first king of the Joseon Dynasty. 
Known as a city with 1000-year history, Jeonju is also promoted as a gateway to traditional Korean culture and gastronomy. The Hanok Village in Jeonju is one of the most famous tourist attractions that many Koreans and foreigners visit every year. The Hanok Village, where traditional Korean houses from the Joseon Period are preserved, offers traditional Korean cuisine, hanji, or traditional Korean paper, and oriental medicine. Tourists can get a hands-on experience at various tourist facilities and historic sites in the city. 
UNESCO has officially designated Jeonju as a City of Gastronomy. The flavorful foods Jeonju offers are widely known among Koreans as well, and there are many restaurants in Korea that claim that they have originated from Jeonju. Two most famous foods from Jeonju are bibimbap and a bean sprout soup called kongnamulgukbap. Bibimbap is a dish that mixes rice with sautéed vegetables, meat, eggs, and hot red-pepper paste and offered in a bowl. Different ingredients blend in well to create a harmonious taste. Kongnamulgukbap is a bean sprout soup offered with rice in it. It seems a simple dish to make. But it has a very special taste that also comes from a mix of different ingredients put it to make the soup broth.

</doc>
<doc id="374095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374095" title="Frank J. Corr">
Frank J. Corr

Frank J. Corr (January 12, 1877 – June 3, 1934) was an American politician. He was the acting mayor of Chicago, Illinois in 1933 after the assassination of Anton Cermak. Corr was a Democrat.
Corr was born on January 12, 1877 in Brooklyn, New York. His family moved to Chicago in 1890. Corr was married to Mary Corr. They had no children. Corr died on June 3, 1934 in Chicago, Illinois from a heart attack, aged 57.

</doc>
<doc id="374097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374097" title="Edward Joseph Kelly">
Edward Joseph Kelly

Edward Joseph Kelly (May 1, 1876 – October 20, 1950) was an American politician who served as mayor of Chicago, Illinois (1933–1947) for the Demoratic Party.
Kelly was born on May 1, 1876 in Chicago, Illinois. He was married to Mary Edmond Roche from 1910 until her death in 1918. They had one child. Then he was married to Margaret Ellen Kirk from 1922 until his death in 1950. They had three children. Kelly died on October 20, 1950 in Chicago, Illinois from heart failure, aged 74.

</doc>
<doc id="374098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374098" title="Backpacking (travel)">
Backpacking (travel)

Backpacking is a form of low-cost and basically independent travel. Backpacker is the term for those who travel by carrying a light backpack for a relatively long period of time.
The cost of backpacking depends on the duration of traveling. No matter how long they are planning to travel, backpackers also need to spend money on eating, sleeping and moving. Backpacking travel type minimizes the cost by choosing cheap accommodation, such as youth hostels. One of the popular ones is Youth Hostels Association (YHA). Many hostels are registered with YHA and they have common standards. Depending on room types and season, the cost varies from $10 to $60 per night. Sometimes Backpackers while on a long journey, book accommodations at low rate and stay as a paying guest. Portals like airbnb.com, isearchrentals.com accumulates such kind of paying guest accommodations which helps backpacking travelers choose their stay at low costs.
Backpackers are highly connected to each other. They get information not only from the internet, but also from a bulletin board of their accommodation, Backpackers. They share their information how to get to the destination wisely and about shops or restaurants on the bulletin board. Some backpackers depends on couch surfing, not spending money on accommodation, visiting local people's house. There are Backpackers Group in reach region, who plan their trip on regular intervals year around.

</doc>
<doc id="374101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374101" title="Martin H. Kennelly">
Martin H. Kennelly

Martin H. Kennelly (August 11, 1887 – November 29, 1961) was an American politician. He was the mayor of Chicago, Illinois (1947–1955). He was a member of the Democratic Party.
Kennelly was born on August 11, 1887 in Chicago, Illinois. He was never married and had no children. Kennelly died on November 29, 1961 from heart failure, aged 74.

</doc>
<doc id="374103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374103" title="Starship Troopers">
Starship Troopers

Starship Troopers is a 1997 American science fiction action adventure thriller movie. It was released on November 7, 1997. The gross amount of money the movie made was $65,000,000 (worldwide). The companies that helped make the movie TriStar Pictures, Touchstone Pictures and Big Bug Pictures. "Starship Troopers" was directed by Paul Verhoeven.
Starship Troopers is about an interplanetary war between the Humans (Mobile Infantry) and large insect-like aliens in the 23rd century. It is about the experience of Johnny Rico, one of 3 close friends who join up to fight the bugs before his hometown of Buenos Aires is destroyed by the Arachnids. 

</doc>
<doc id="374104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374104" title="Trifles">
Trifles

Trifles is a one-act play by Susan Glaspell. She wrote a short story "A Jury of Her Peers". She adapted the story from the play a year after its debut. It was first shown to the public by the Provincetown Players at the Wharf Theatre in Provincetown, Massachusetts on August 8, 1916. In the original play, Glaspell played the role of one of the characters, Mrs. Hale. It frequently appears in American literature textbooks.
The play is about the murder of John Hossack. Glaspell reported on the murder while she was working as a news journalist for the Des Moines Daily News. People thought that Hossack's wife, Margaret, killed her husband. However, Margaret argued that someone had entered the house and killed John with an axe. She was found out to be guilty, but Susan Glaspell could not forget about the accident.
"Trifles" is an example of early feminist drama. There are two female characters: Mrs. Peters and Mrs. Hale. They had the ability to sympathize with the victim's wife, Minnie. Therefore, they could find the evidence against her while the men could not find the evidence because of their cold, emotionless search of material facts. The female characters find the body of a canary. Its neck was twisted and it was killed in the same way as John Wright, who was the dead husband. They can find out from the evidence that Minnie was the murderer, and they appear to empathize with her situation. Clearly, the wife is symbolized by the caged bird, a common symbol of women's roles in society. The plot ends with the two women hiding the evidence against Minnie.
The male characters have prejudice. They believed that they can discover nothing important in areas of the house where Minnie spent most time. Because of their prejudice, they overlook important clues that are "trifles" to them, while women concern about the clues. Male characters search the barn and the bedroom, places where men have power, rather than the kitchen, the only place where a woman would be powerful. One important line, spoken by the sheriff, says of the kitchen "Nothing here but kitchen things." The main reason of their failure of finding the evidence is that they ignored the importance of woman's life and did not want to enter the "woman's sphere". The most important evidence, the dead canary that the two women find, was hidden in Minnie's sewing basket.
After they find the evidence, the two women face the moral dilemma of telling the men about the motive or protecting Minnie because they see Minnie as a victim. Their choice raises questions about solidarity among women, the meaning of justice, and the role of women in society as a source of justice.
As the women note, Minnie used to sing before she married John Wright. Martha thinks that Minnie could not sing or do anything that makes her happy because of her husband. Martha also thinks that Minnie's spirit was dead when she got married. The writer symbolizes it in the strangling of her songbird companion.
Minnie is similar to her kitchen and sewing things. The cold weather freezes and breaks her preserve jars. That symbolizes the cold environment of her home breaking her spirit. In addition, the coldness cause the characters to fail to empathize each other.
The male characters are clear symbols of "law" and cold rationality, while the women are intuitive. They raise questions of the value of rational thought.
One thing unique in this play is that the main "players" in the murder, Minnie (the murderer) and John Wright (the murdered) never appear on stage. Other characters describe their lives and personalities.
• John Wright, the murdered Husband in the beginning of the Play
• Minnie Wright, main focus of the play and suspect of her husband's murder

</doc>
<doc id="374105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374105" title="SK Wyverns">
SK Wyverns

SK Wyverns is a professional baseball team in South Korea. It was established in 2000. The team is based in Incheon and plays home games at Munhak Baseball Stadium. The mascot of this team is a wyvern, a king of dragons.
In the 2000 season, the Ssangbangwool Raiders, a team that had previously represented the Jeonlabuk-do region since 1991, was dissolved because of the bankruptcy of the Ssangbangwool Group. Then the KBO appointed SK company as a supporter of the new team, and SK determined its team name as SK Wyverns. So the Raiders and the Wyverns has no historical links although the Wyverns consisted of many players from the Raiders.
The Unicorns, a team that had previously represented Incheon, went to Suwon, and the SK Wyverns became new Incheon team. It advanced the first Korean Series in 2003, where somewhat ironically, it was defeated by the Hyundai Unicorns in seven games.
In 2007, under the new director Kim Sung-keun, SK defeated the Doosan Bears in six games to win the 2007 Korean Series - the first time the franchise had won the Korean Series - after finishing the league in first place. They became the first team in Korean Series history to win after losing the first two games. Designated Hitter Kim Jae-hyun was the series MVP.
SK went to the Korean Series again in 2008, once again facing their main rivals, Doosan Bears. In a repeat of 2007, SK defeated Doosan and became the Korean Series Champions again. Choi Jeong, 21 year old 3rd baseman, was the series MVP.
In 2009, in spite of many injured players, SK advanced the Korean Series again, but they were defeated by the KIA Tigers in 7 games. However, in 2010, it regained the champion title by defeating Samsung Lions.

</doc>
<doc id="374106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374106" title="Michael Anthony Bilandic">
Michael Anthony Bilandic

Michael Anthony Bilandic (February 13, 1923 – January 15, 2002) was an American politician. He was the mayor of Chicago, Illinois (1976-1979). He was a member of the Democratic Party.
Bilandic was born on February 13, 1923 in Chicago, Illinois. He studied at DePaul University College of Law. He was married to Heather Morgan. Bilandic died on January 15, 2002 in Chicago, Illinois from heart failure, aged 78.

</doc>
<doc id="374113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374113" title="Jean Baptiste Point du Sable">
Jean Baptiste Point du Sable

Jean Baptiste Point du Sable (before 1750 – August 18, 1818) was the founder of the city of Chicago, Illinois in c. 1770s. Point du Sable was the first person to live in the city. He settled around where today the Chicago River is located at. He left Chicago in 1800.
Point du Sable was born around the 1750s. His birthplace is not known. Many people say that he was born in Haiti. Point du Sable died on August 18, 1818 in St. Charles, Missouri.

</doc>
<doc id="374114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374114" title="Lester L. Bond">
Lester L. Bond

Lester Legrant Bond (October 27, 1829 – April 15, 1903) was an American politician. He was the acting Mayor of Chicago, Illinois from August 18, 1873 through December 1, 1873 when Joseph Medill left for Europe.
Bond was born on October 27, 1829 in Ravenna, Ohio. He was married to Mary Aspenwell. They had a daughter, Laura Bond. Bond died on April 15, 1903 in Chicago, Illinois from a stroke, aged 73.

</doc>
<doc id="374116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374116" title="Thomas Hoyne">
Thomas Hoyne

Thomas Hoyne (February 11, 1817 – July 27, 1883) was an American politician who was elected as the Mayor of Chicago in 1875. Since Honye was an Independent, there was never a Democrat or Republican who wanted to run for mayor at the time. But after his victory, he did not wanted to be the mayor because of the conflict and might ruin his career.
Hoyne was born on February 11, 1817 in New York City, New York. He was married to Leonora Maria Temple. They had seven children. Hoyne was killed on July 27, 1883 in Carlton, New York in a train crash, aged 66.

</doc>
<doc id="374119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374119" title="David Duvall Orr">
David Duvall Orr

David Duvall Orr (born October 4, 1944) is an American Democratic politician from Chicago, Illinois. He was the mayor of Chicago from November 25, 1987 through December 2, 1987. He became the mayor after the death of Harold Washington.
Orr was born on October 4, 1944 in Chicago, Illinois. He was married to Loretta Lim. They had four children. Orr now lives in Chicago, Illinois.

</doc>
<doc id="374122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374122" title="Héctor Camacho">
Héctor Camacho

Hector Camacho (May 24, 1962 – November 24, 2012) was a Puerto Rican boxing performer known for his quickness in the ring. He held many championships in the super featherweight and for the lightweight. His boxing career lasted for almost 30 years. On November 20 2012 the boxer was shot while he sat inside a vehicle close to a bar in Puerto Rico; he died November 24, aged 50.

</doc>
<doc id="374124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374124" title="Category:Anxiety disorders">
Category:Anxiety disorders


</doc>
<doc id="374125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374125" title="Voiced consonant">
Voiced consonant

In phonetics, a voiced consonant is a consonant which is pronounced with the vibration of the vocal cords. For example, the sound [z] is a voiced consonant, while the sound [s] is not, and its called a voiceless consonant. You can feel when your vocal cords are vibrating by putting your finger at your larynx, or the Adam's Apple.

</doc>
<doc id="374126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374126" title="Dyke (geology)">
Dyke (geology)

A dyke (or dike) in geology is a type of later vertical rock between older layers of rock. Technically, it is any geologic body which cuts across:
Dikes can therefore be either pushed in between (intrusive) or laid down (sedimentary) in origin.
The most usual thing that happens is that later volcanic activity pushes lava through strata which were laid down earlier in a sedimentary fashion, or through earlier igneous rocks. On the Isle of Arran, for example, there are hundreds of igneous dykes giving rise to the term dyke swarm. 
Alternatively, sedimentary rocks can be laid down in vertical gaps between strata. Or, after underwater earthquakes, gaps caused by the earthquake can be filled in with breccia, that is, broken rocks.
Dykes are a common, almost universal, feature of the older Palaeozoic rocks.
Another type of intrusion is the sill, where later rock is formed between older layers, not through them.

</doc>
<doc id="374132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374132" title="Angie Dickinson">
Angie Dickinson

Angie Dickinson (b September 30 1931 near North Dakota) is an American movie actress. She starred in the features "Dressed to Kill" and "Pay it Forward". She was also the star of the television series "Police Woman". Her daughter Nikki (born in 1966) committed suicide in January 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="374147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374147" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Template:WPBannerMeta">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Template:WPBannerMeta


</doc>
<doc id="374153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374153" title="Sill (geology)">
Sill (geology)

In geology, a sill is a flat sheet-like intrusion. As molten magma, it pushed between older layers of rock. The older rock may be sedimentary rock, beds of volcanic lava or tuff, or metamorphic rock. 
The sill does not cut across preexisting rocks, unlike dykes. Sills are fed by dykes as they form from a lower magma source. The existing rocks must split to create the planes along which the magma moves in. These planes or weakened areas allow the intrusion of a thin sheet-like body of magma paralleling the existing strata. When it cools and crystallises, it is then a sill.
<noinclude>

</doc>
<doc id="374169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374169" title="Enantiomer">
Enantiomer

In chemistry, an enantiomer is a molecule that looks exactly like another one when viewed in a mirror. The subject of mirror-image chemicals is known as chirality.
If you try to put the two molecules on top of each other, they will not be the same (they will not superimpose). This is because they have one chiral centre. It is important that they only have one, otherwise the two molecules are called diastereoisomers.
Both enantiomers of a molecule have the same basic properties. For example, they have the same boiling point and NMR spectrum. Therefore they are difficult to separate. It is sometimes very important to separate them because in some drug molecules one enantiomer might have the right effect but the other might be dangerous. One famous example is thalidomide: one enantiomer of the molecule causes birth defects.

</doc>
<doc id="374178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374178" title="Aldol reaction">
Aldol reaction

The aldol reaction is a very important reaction in organic chemistry. It allows to form new carbon-carbon bonds. It was discovered in 1872.
The reagents are two carbonyl compounds together with a base. A proton is removed from one of them forming a negative charge on the α-carbon (the carbon just next to the C-O double bond). The negative charge can then attack the other carbonyl compound, forming the bond. The product is a β-hydroxy carbonyl compound, a molecule with a C-O double bond and an alcohol two carbon atoms down the chain. This reaction is very powerful because it can form a big molecule from two smaller ones.
Modern ways of doing the aldol reaction also allow to control the stereochemistry of the product. This is a very good way to create new chiral centres.

</doc>
<doc id="374183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374183" title="Robert Kuroda">
Robert Kuroda

Robert Toshio Kuroda (November 8, 1922-October 20, 1944) was a United States Army soldier. He received the Medal of Honor because of his actions in World War II.
Kuroda was born in Hawaii. He was the son of immigrants who were born in Japan. He is a "Nisei", which means that he is a second generation Japanese-American.
Kuroda joined the Army in March 1943.
Kuroda volunteered to be part of the all-"Nisei" 442nd Regimental Combat Team. This army unit was mostly made up of Japanese Americans from Hawaii and the mainland.
For his actions in October 1944, Kuroda was awarded the Army's second-highest decoration, the Distinguished Service Cross (DSC). In the 1990s, there was a review of service records of Asian Americans who received the DSC during World War II. Kuroda's award was upgraded to the Medal of Honor. In a ceremony at the White House on June 21, 2000, his family was presented with his medal by President Bill Clinton. Twenty-one other Asian Americans also received the medal during the ceremony, but only seven of them were still alive.
Kuroda's Medal of Honor recognized his conduct in fighting in France in 1944. Without help from others, he destroyed two machine gun nests.
Kuroda attacked two enemy machine gun positions. During the fighting, he was killed by a sniper.
The words of Kuroda's citation explain:
Staff Sergeant Robert T. Kuroda distinguished himself by extraordinary heroism in action, on 20 October 1944, near Bruyeres, France. Leading his men in an advance to destroy snipers and machine gun nests, Staff Sergeant Kuroda encountered heavy fire from enemy soldiers occupying a heavily wooded slope. Unable to pinpoint the hostile machine gun, he boldly made his way through heavy fire to the crest of the ridge. Once he located the machine gun, Staff Sergeant Kuroda advanced to a point within ten yards of the nest and killed three enemy gunners with grenades. He then fired clip after clip of rifle ammunition, killing or wounding at least three of the enemy. As he expended the last of his ammunition, he observed that an American officer had been struck by a burst of fire from a hostile machine gun located on an adjacent hill. Rushing to the officer's assistance, he found that the officer had been killed. Picking up the officer's submachine gun, Staff Sergeant Kuroda advanced through continuous fire toward a second machine gun emplacement and destroyed the position. As he turned to fire upon additional enemy soldiers, he was killed by a sniper. Staff Sergeant Kuroda's courageous actions and indomitable fighting spirit ensured the destruction of enemy resistance in the sector. Staff Sergeant Kuroda's extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit on him, his unit, and the United States Army.
Robert Kuroda is the namesake of the US Army logistics support vessel, the "USS Robert T. Kuroda" (LSV-7). A parade ground at Fort DeRussy in Honolulu is named after Kuroda.

</doc>
<doc id="374184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374184" title="Ryu Hyun-Jin">
Ryu Hyun-Jin

Ryu Hyun-Jin ( born March 25, 1987 in Incheon, Gyeonggi-do) is a South Korean professional baseball player. He is 6 ft 2 inches tall and weighs 215 lbs. He is a left-handed pitcher.
He is a player who belongs to the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Ryu Hyun-Jin went to Dongsan High School in Incheon, South Korea.
In 2003, Ryu pitched for his school in the Michoohall National High School Championship. He recorded an 0.00 ERA in 3 games.
In 2004, he went through the Tommy John surgery. So he did not show up in any official games.
In 2005, he led his team to the top place of the Blue Dragon Open National High School Championship. He pitched 1.54 ERA in 53 and 2/3 Innings, earning 6 wins and 1 loss.
Ryu Hyun-Jin played well in the Amateur League. So Ryu was selected by the Hanwha Eagles as the 1st pick in 2006. His professional league debut was on April 12, 2006 pitching against LG Twins. That day he earned his first league win. He allowed only 3 hits and no runs for 7 and 1/3 innings. He became a sensation in the league from his debut. And finished the season with 18-6, 2.23 ERA and 205 strikeouts in 201 and 2/3 innings. In his first year, he got the pitching Triple Crown, and was named both Rookie of the year and Player of the Year.
Since then, Ryu kept his place as a top pitcher in the league. And he won many personal titles.
In August 2008, Ryu played for the South Korea national baseball team in the 2008 Beijing Olympics. The South Korea national baseball team won the gold medal. For this, Ryu does not have to join the Military for 2 years like other men in South Korea.
In March 2009, he played for the South Korea national baseball team in the 2009 World Baseball Classic. His team finished in second place.
In 2010, Ryu played in the 2010 Asian Games. The South Korea national baseball team won the gold medal.
Ryu always showed his wish to play in the Major League Baseball. The Korea Baseball Organization allows their players to make a contract with a Major League team after playing 7 years in the Korean League. But the agreement of the player's original team is needed. After the 2012 season, Ryu used this rule to play in the Major League Baseball league. The Los Angeles Dodgers suggested $25,737,737.33 to get the agreement from his original team, the Hanwha Eagles. Hanwha Eagles accepted the suggestion, and the Los Angeles Dodgers and Ryu agreed on his salary and contract years on December 10, 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="374187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374187" title="Category:Fictional American people">
Category:Fictional American people


</doc>
<doc id="374214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374214" title="Skyfall">
Skyfall

Skyfall is a 2012 James Bond movie. Bond is played by Daniel Craig. "Skyfall" made over $870 million worldwide in theaters. It was released October-November 2012. The film centres around Bond investigating an attack on MI6; the attack is part of a plot by former MI6 operative Raoul Silva to humiliate, discredit and kill M as revenge against her for betraying him.

</doc>
<doc id="374216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374216" title="Category:Former confederations">
Category:Former confederations


</doc>
<doc id="374217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374217" title="Category:Former polities in the Netherlands">
Category:Former polities in the Netherlands


</doc>
<doc id="374222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374222" title="Tomb of Zechariah (Ben Jehoiada)">
Tomb of Zechariah (Ben Jehoiada)

The Tomb of Zechariah (Zechariah Ben Jehoiada) is a famous grave in the Mount of Olives Jewish Cemetery, Jerusalem.

</doc>
<doc id="374224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374224" title="Tomb of Avshalom">
Tomb of Avshalom

Tomb of Absalom () is a famous monument grave. According to the Jewish religion, it is the tomb of Absalom, son of King David. The monument is next to the Tomb of Zechariah monument grave in Mount of Olives Jewish Cemetery in Jerusalem.

</doc>
<doc id="374226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374226" title="Tomb of Nicanor">
Tomb of Nicanor

Tomb of Nicanor is a famous ancient cave. According to the Jewish tradition, this is the grave of Nicanor, who built the doors on the First Temple in Jerusalem. Two famous Zionist activists were buried there: Leon Pinsker and Menachem Ussishkin. 
They planned to turn it into a national pantheon (monument) for the Jewish people. After the establishment of the state of Israel the national pantheon was established on Mount Herzl in the west side of the city. The cave is located in the National Botanic Garden of Israel in the campus of Hebrew University of Jerusalem in Mount Scopus.

</doc>
<doc id="374231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374231" title="Bezalel Academy of Art and Design">
Bezalel Academy of Art and Design

Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design is the national academy of art and design of Israel. It is located in Mount Scopus, with some other small campuses in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv.

</doc>
<doc id="374236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374236" title="Bahá'í World Centre">
Bahá'í World Centre

The Bahá'í World Centre is the headquarters of the Bahá'í Faith. It is located in Haifa, Israel on Mount Carmel. The Bahá'í World Centre includes the World Bahá'í Archive, Universal House of Justice of the Baha'i Faith, International Center for advisors, and the Scripture Study Center. There are many Baha'i believers in Haifa and Acre.

</doc>
<doc id="374237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374237" title="Eddie Bracken">
Eddie Bracken

Edward Vincent "Eddie" Bracken (February 7, 1915 – November 14, 2002) was an American movie, television, stage, radio, voice actor, and comedian. He was known for his roles in "The Miracle of Morgan's Creek", "Fun on a Week-end", "Baby's Day Out", "", and in "We're Not Married!".
Bracken was born on February 7, 1915 in Astoria, Queens, New York. He was married to Connie Nickerson from 1939 until her death in 2002. They had five children. Bracken died on November 14, 2002 in Glen Ridge, New Jersey after going into surgery, aged 87.

</doc>
<doc id="374239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374239" title="David Newell">
David Newell

David Newell (born November 24, 1938) is an American television and voice actor who is known for his television role as Mr. McFeely in "Mister Rogers' Neighborhood". He also voiced the character in "Daniel Tiger's Neighborhood".
Newell was born on November 24, 1938 in O'Hara Township, Pennsylvania. He was raised in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Newell studied at Pittsburgh University.

</doc>
<doc id="374249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374249" title="The Crucible (2011 movie)">
The Crucible (2011 movie)

Kang In-ho started for his new post as a music teacher in Musin Jayae school (special school for the disabled) thanks to the professor's introduce. In-ho felt awkward for the first day by watching the scene of severe rape and strange sound from a restroom. He came to know a woman who worked for human rights at the garage. In-ho heard shocking stories from a student named Yeon-du. Yeon-du, Yoo-ri and Min-su were sexually assaulted by the teachers. There is a similarity that the students have no parents or parents who suffer mental disease. After listening to the disturbing stories, In-ho and Yoo-jin decided to fight against the school resulting in the local news press informing the general public about the incident and the attacker appearing before the judge.
Kang In-ho (real name:Gong Yoo) and Seo Yoo-jin (real name:Jung Yoo-mi) are the main characters of this movie. Kang In-ho is a teacher who started for his new post as a music teacher in Mujin Jayae school. At first, he ignored the situation occurred in school for his family. However, he changed his mind while he watched mistreatment toward the disabled students. Finally, he decided to help poor students and fight against powerful men in a school. Seo Yoo-jin is a human rights activist in Mujin. One day, she knew that the disabled students in Jayae school physically attacked by school officers. And then, she started aggressively resisting to school with Kang In-ho.
An actor Gong Yoo and an actress Jung Yoo-mi was highly acclaimed by reviewers and audience because of his calm performance without overaction. Also, the children who acted as the disabled put on splendid acting like real.
In 2005, “Gwangju Inhwa School affair” became known to the general public for the first time, but there was no obvious punishment. However, as a movie "The Crucible" was a box office hit, many people took an interest in this affair and it brought forth much change to the society. Woo-seok corporate body, one of the social welfare foundations, which operated Inhwa School received cancellation notice from the government. Also, the man who concerned with this affair suffered a punishment. He denied all charges pressed against him. However, a lie detector gave the lie to his speech. Moreover, the National Assembly prepared a revision about punishment of sexual violence crime. Therefore, in case of sexual violence crime about children under thirteen or the disabled women, statute of limitation was abolished.

</doc>
<doc id="374258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374258" title="Medical assistant">
Medical assistant

A medical assistant (sometimes called an MA) is a medical professional who works in medical settings along with doctors and nurses. They do things to help doctors and nurses with their jobs, and may perform many different tasks.
Some medical assistants are similar in some ways to a nurse. They take care of patients in hospitals and other medical facilities, and they perform other tasks to help run the office. They are different from a nurse mainly in that medical assistants cannot plan out what a patient's care will be like. They can only do what a nurse or a doctor instruct them to do.
Other types of medical assistants work in the reception area of a doctor's office, similar to a secretary. These medical assistants may file paperwork, update medical records, and greet patients.
Medical assistants usually go to school for between one and two years. They may hold an associate's degree, or in some cases a certificate if they already have an associate's degree in something else.
Medical assistants tend to earn between $20,000 and $40,000 a year in salary. Factors that influence a medical assistant's salary can be their location, the amount of training they have, the amount of time they've been working as a medical assistant, and the skills they've learned while working.

</doc>
<doc id="374262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374262" title="Scalping">
Scalping

Scalping is the act of removing the scalp, or a part of the scalp, from a dead body or another living person. The scalp would serve as a trophy from battle or proof of a warrior's skill. Scalping was also done for money, when the scalper was given a certain amount of money as a reward for each scalp of the enemy they acquired.
Scalping was often done during the colonisation of North America. It was practised by certain nations of Native Americans, but this was not the norm. It was also done by European colonists. Some United States and Mexican territories paid bounties for enemy Native American scalps.
In Australia, scalping of dingos was a widespread form of bounty hunting. It began in 1912, when the government of South Australia decided to pay people money for dingo scalps, to reduce attacks on livestock. This was also done in Western Australia and the Northern Territory.

</doc>
<doc id="374266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374266" title="Angkaliya Curtis">
Angkaliya Curtis

Angkaliya Curtis (born c. 1928) is an Australian Aboriginal artist. She paints animals from the central Australian desert.
Curtis was born around 1928, at a place called Miti, in north-western South Australia. Her family are Pitjantjatjara people. They lived a traditional nomadic way of life in the desert, often walking long distances from place to place in search of food and water. While living in the bush with her family, Curtis learned about the sacred law of the land from her mother and grandmother. They taught her about the Dreamtime and her family's spiritual ancestors, about bush food and traditional healing. She also learned about traditional crafts. She made ceremonial belts and "" (head rings) by spinning hair on a hand-made spindle.
When Curtis was still a child, she travelled with her mother to what is now Watarru, her mother's homeland. The family lived for a time on cattle stations, and traded dingo scalps and rabbit skins for flour, tea and sugar. They later settled on the mission at Ernabella. When she was older, Curtis married a man named Bill, and worked at Ernabella spinning wool and making rugs.
In the 1960s, she moved back west (closer to her homeland) when the outstation at Amaṯa was established. She now lives at Nyapaṟi.
Curtis is best known for her acrylic paintings, but she is also still involved in traditional handicraft work (making grass baskets and wooden carvings). The most visible motif in Curtis' paintings are her representations of animals. Her works stand out against other artists from her region because of her subtle use of colours.
Her work has been exhibited around Australia since 2007. It was first shown internationally in 2010, in San Sebastian, Spain. Examples of her paintings are displayed in the Queensland Gallery of Modern Art, the Museum and Art Gallery of the Northern Territory, the National Gallery of Victoria, the National Gallery of Australia, and the Australian National University.
Curtis was a finalist for the National Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander Art Award in 2010 and 2011. She was also one of 16 finalists for the Western Australian Indigenous Art Award in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="374267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374267" title="Dickie Minyintiri">
Dickie Minyintiri

Dickie Minyintiri (born c. 1915) is an Australian Aboriginal artist from Pukatja, South Australia. He began painting in 2005, when he was about 90 years old. After winning the National Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander Art Award in 2011, he is now a very successful artist. He is said to be the oldest artist at Pukatja, and also the community's most senior lawman (a keeper of "Tjukurpa" or sacred knowledge).
Minyintiri was born into a Pitjantjatjara family some time around 1915. He was born in the bush at Pilpirinyi, Western Australia, near the border with South Australia. His childhood was spent living nomadically in the desert with his family. Their homelands were spread over a large area along the border, but they often travelled far to the east for ceremonies. They camped for several years around the Musgrave Ranges near what would later become the settlement of Ernabella. This was before the arrival of White people in the area. The family had their first contact with Western civilisation in the 1920s, when Minyintiri was still a child. They encountered a group of men on camels trying to pull a truck out of a bog.
Minyintiri and his family were there for the establishment of the mission settlement of Ernabella in 1937. They settled on the mission with several other Aboriginal families. Minyintiri has lived at Ernabella since then. He worked for most of his life as a shepherd and shearer. In his later years, he became a widely respected "" (traditional healer), and is now one of the most important elders in his community. Before he became a painter, Minyintiri crafted traditional wooden tools (mostly spears).
Minyintiri began painting at Ernabella Arts in late 2005. He painted at the art centre for a few hours each day, while his wife (now deceased) would wait outside with their dogs to keep her company. Minyintiri originally painted on paper, but now paints on canvas. His works have been shown in many group exhibitions since 2006, in most major Australian cities. The South Australian Museum was one of the first public galleries to show his work, which it did in a 2007 exhibition.
Most of Minyintiri's paintings are done using synthetic polymer paint on canvases. His earliest paintings were done on paper. His paintings are almost always multi-layered (several layers painted over the top of each other), with strong motifs and symbols representing landmarks or figures. Each layer represents a different memory or story. Because of his old age, Minyintiri only paints six to eight artworks a year. Nearly all of them are large canvases.
His paintings depict sacred stories from his Dreaming (a kind of spirituality). He paints songlines, or the journeys taken by the ancestral beings of his Dreaming country – such as the "kanyaḻa" (euro), "malu" (red kangaroo), "wiilu" (stone-curlew), "waru" (wallaby) and "kaḻaya" (emu). His art is often also a reflection of his younger life in the desert, before settling permanently at Ernabella. The religious elements of his works are always obscured, for cultural reasons.
Examples of Minyintiri's work are held in the National Gallery of Victoria, the Art Gallery of South Australia, the Art Gallery of New South Wales, the Queensland Gallery of Modern Art, and the National Gallery of Australia.
In 2010, Minyintiri's painting ' ("Red Kangaroo Tracks") was chosen as a finalist for the 27th National Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander Art Award. The award was won by Jimmy Donegan, another Pitjantjatjara artist, from Kalka. Minyintiri won the 28th NATSIAA in August 2011, for his painting ' ("Euro Tracks"). His work was chosen from over 300 entries, which had been reduced to 61 finalists. Minyintiri was about 96 at the time. With Donegan winning the award the year before, it was the second year in a row that an artist from the Aṉangu Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara Lands had won.
"" is a multi-layered synthetic painting, done on a large canvas. The background is made up of pale yellows and oranges, and is covered with a complex network of thick, ivory-coloured lines. Flashes of blue, black and pink peep through the surface lines. The judges praised Minyintiri for his subtle use of colour. His work was compared to the early batik works of Emily Kngwarreye.
The painting depicts a sacred men's ceremonial site near Pilpirinyi. The network of lines traces the tracks of ancestral spirits (kangaroos, dogs and emu) to important waterholes, where men also went for their ceremonies. Each layer and line is a memory of a journey Minyintiri has made. The painting is therefore a reflection of the artist's years of travelling his country, and an expression of his ancestral relationship to the land.

</doc>
<doc id="374269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374269" title="Category:Chinese calendar templates">
Category:Chinese calendar templates


</doc>
<doc id="374558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374558" title="24">
24

24 is a year in the 1st century. It was a leap year starting on Saturday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Cethegus and Varro.

</doc>
<doc id="374569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374569" title="25">
25

25 is a year in the 1st century. was a common year starting on Monday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Lentulus and Agrippa

</doc>
<doc id="374579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374579" title="Ambrose">
Ambrose

Saint Ambrose (c. 330 – 4 April 397) was an Archbishop of Milan. He is an important figure in the Catholic church, and the patron saint of Milan.

</doc>
<doc id="374584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374584" title="Phu Quoc International Airport">
Phu Quoc International Airport

Phu Quoc International Airport is an airport on Phu Quoc Island, at the southern end of Vietnam. The construction began in November 2008 and finished in November 2012. It was opened on 2 December 2012, and replaced the old airport. The runway is long and wide. The current capacity is 2.6 million passengers per year and will be upraded to 4 million in 2020, 7 million in 2030.

</doc>
<doc id="374586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374586" title="Jerusalem Academy of Music and Dance">
Jerusalem Academy of Music and Dance

The Jerusalem Academy of Music and Dance (), is an Israeli academy for music and the performing arts. It is located in Jerusalem. Many famous Israeli artists studied there, such as the singer David D'or and the composer Nurit Hirsch.
The academy is a part of the Givat Ram campus of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.

</doc>
<doc id="374587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374587" title="Ben Gurion International Airport">
Ben Gurion International Airport

Ben Gurion International Airport (, "") is an international airport in Tel Aviv, Israel. This airport is the main international airport in Israel and the largest airport in Israel.

</doc>
<doc id="374591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374591" title="Korean Augmentation to the United States Army">
Korean Augmentation to the United States Army

Korean Augmentation to the United States Army (KATUSA) is a scheme of military duty in South Korea. Under this program, soldiers in the South Korean Army are given posts in U.S. Army bases that are located in several places in South Korea. KATUSA soldiers are under the command of both the South Korean Department of Defense and the U.S. Department of Defense. The purpose of the KATUSA program has been different depending on the historical situation in Korea.
The KATUSA system was established in July 1950 during the Korean War. It was started as a spoken agreement between President Seungman Lee and U.S. General Douglas MacArthur. At that time, the U.S. Army needed a military force that had the proper knowledge of the geography of Korea, and the abilities to distinguish ally troops (South Korea) from enemy troops (North Korea) and communicate better between U.S. soldiers and Korean soldiers. Therefore, some were drafted to KATUSA by force, and others voluntarily (by their own choice) applied . After training, they were divided into the U.S. military, such as 2nd, 7th, 24th, 25th divisions. During the Korean Wars, a total 43,660 KATUSA soldiers fought for South Korea with U.S. forces. Of these soldiers, 11,365 went missing or were killed in action.
After a ceasefire agreement between the United States and North Korea, the U.S. government decided to keep the KATUSA system. It was kept so that KATUSA soldiers could make up for the instant shortage of U.S. forces from the military evacuation. The KATSUA soldiers could also help the American soldiers who stayed behind in Korea to keep a good relation with the Korean military. Therefore, the KATUSA system still has been operating in Korea with some changes in its method of operations.
Every South Korean male aged between 18 and 35 must do at least 21 months of military service. As of 2012, the Department of Defense recruits KATUSA soldiers for the next year every September. So people who want to perform their military duty under the KATUSA program apply for it in September.
The people applying must have at least one valid score among the various English competency tests: TOEIC, TEPS, TOEFL (PBT or IBT), G-TELP Level 2, FLEX. The Department of Defense has set cut-off points for each of these tests, which have changed over time. After the department finishes recruiting applicants, it randomly picks KATUSA soldiers for the next year who meet all the standards required. It announces the names of applicants who got accepted to be KATUSA on November of the same year.
When the time has come for the applicants to enter the military, they gather at Republic of Korea Army (ROKA) training camp, which is located at Nonsan-si, Chungcheongnam-do. Trainees have to finish all the basic training courses like any other ROKA soldier. These go for five weeks. After they finish the training, the soldiers with Private rank go to the KATUSA Training Academy (KTA), which is located at Uijeongbu. They get specialized trainings that help them to adapt to life in the U.S. Army, and to become "ambassadors" working for the mutual cooperation between South Korea and the United States. This training goes for 3 weeks. After this, trainees are assigned as soldiers to U.S. Army posts in South Korea. The placements are made according to several scores they get during training.

</doc>
<doc id="374607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374607" title="Paloma Faith">
Paloma Faith

Paloma Faith (born Paloma Faith Blomfield on 21 July 1981) is a British singer and actress. She was born in Hackney and raised in Stoke Newington. Her latest album is called, "A Perfect Contradiction". In 2009 she won an award for European Top 100 Albums with her album, "Do You Want the Truth or Something Beautiful?".

</doc>
<doc id="374620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374620" title="Darlington transistor">
Darlington transistor

A Darlington transistor, sometimes called "Darlington pair" is a transistor circuit that is made from two transistors. Sidney Darlington invented it at Bell Labs. It is like a transistor but it has much higher ability to gain current. The circuit can be made from two discreet transistors or it can be inside an integrated circuit. The hfe parameter with a Darlington transistor is each transistors hfe multiplied together.
The circuit is useful in audio amplifiers or in a probe that measures very small current that goes through water.
It is so sensitive that it can pick up the current in skin. If you connect it to a piece of metal, you can make a touch-sensitive button.

</doc>
<doc id="374623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374623" title="Kaoru Moto">
Kaoru Moto

Kaoru Moto (April 25, 1917-August 26, 1992) was a United States Army soldier. He received the Medal of Honor because of his actions in World War II.
Moto was born in Hawaii to Japanese immigrant parents. He is a "Nisei", which means that he is a second generation Japanese-American.
Ten months before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, he joined the US Army in March 1941.
Moto volunteered to be part of the all-"Nisei" 100th Infantry Battalion. This army unit was mostly made up of Japanese Americans from Hawaii and the mainland.
For his actions in July 1944, Moto was awarded the Army's second-highest decoration, the Distinguished Service Cross (DSC). In the 1990s, there was a review of service records of Asian Americans who received the DSC during World War II. Moto's award was upgraded to the Medal of Honor. In a ceremony at the White House on June 21, 2000, his family was presented with his medal by President Bill Clinton. Twenty-one other Asian Americans also received the medal during the ceremony, but only seven of them were still alive.
Moto's Medal of Honor recognized his conduct in fighting in central Italy in 1944. Without help from others, he attacked two machine guns; and, although he was wounded, he captured a third machine gun nest.
Acting on his own, Moto silenced two enemy machine gun positions while acting as a scout. He also destroyed a third even though he was seriously wounded.
The words of Moto's citation explain:
Private First Class Kaoru Moto distinguished himself by extraordinary heroism in action on 7 July 1944, near Castellina, Italy. While serving as first scout, Private First Class Moto observed a machine gun nest that was hindering his platoon's progress. On his own initiative, he made his way to a point ten paces from the hostile position, and killed the enemy machine gunner. Immediately, the enemy assistant gunner opened fire in the direction of Private First Class Moto. Crawling to the rear of the position, Private First Class Moto surprised the enemy soldier, who quickly surrendered. Taking his prisoner with him, Private First Class Moto took a position a few yards from a house to prevent the enemy from using the building as an observation post. While guarding the house and his prisoner, he observed an enemy machine gun team moving into position. He engaged them, and with deadly fire forced the enemy to withdraw. An enemy sniper located in another house fired at Private First Class Moto, severely wounding him. Applying first aid to his wound, he changed position to elude the sniper fire and to advance. Finally relieved of his position, he made his way to the rear for treatment. Crossing a road, he spotted an enemy machine gun nest. Opening fire, he wounded two of the three soldiers occupying the position. Not satisfied with this accomplishment, he then crawled forward to a better position and ordered the enemy soldier to surrender. Receiving no answer, Private First Class Moto fired at the position, and the soldiers surrendered. Private First Class Moto's extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit on him, his unit, and the United States Army.

</doc>
<doc id="374625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374625" title="Schmitt trigger">
Schmitt trigger

A Schmitt trigger is an electronic device which can moderate analog signal values only to zero or one (0 / 1). It can be made of a couple transistors, or several triggers can be arranged in an integrated circuit. 

</doc>
<doc id="374628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374628" title="U.S. Army Nurse Corps">
U.S. Army Nurse Corps

The United States Army Nurse Corps (NC) is an American army branch. It was created by the United States Congress in the year of 1901. This Special Branch together with five other ones form together the Army Medical Department (AMEDD).
The Nurse Corps is the nursing service for the U.S. Army and provides qualified nursing staff in support of the plans of the United States Department of Defense.
All work must be in favor of the wellness of warriors and their families.

</doc>
<doc id="374634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374634" title="Ignaz Semmelweis">
Ignaz Semmelweis

Ignaz Semmelweis (born 1818 - died 1865) was a Hungarian doctor who discovered bacteria, disease and infection. He is the father of infection control. Semmelweis observed that if the doctors washed their hands, the number of infections of puerperal fever could be reduced. For this reason, Semmelweis ordered his medical students to wash their hands before and after medical rounds. He was mocked by fellow doctors, but he could not prove his findings, because bacteria had not been discovered yet. In 1870, Robert Koch proved that bacteria can cause disease. People such as Louis Pasteur proved what is known as the germ theory of disease only after Semmelweis' death. 
Semmelweis probably had Alzheimer’s disease and he was sent to a asylum for being insane. He died after 14 days in the asylum possibly being beaten by the staff and inmates.

</doc>
<doc id="374638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374638" title="Robert Eugene Bush">
Robert Eugene Bush

Robert Eugene Bush was an American military during World War II. He was serving as a hospital corpsman for the United States Navy. Het was honored with a Medal of Honor for his brave actions during the Battle of Okinawa.
Bush was born on October 4, 1926, in Tacoma, Washington. In 1944 he joined the navy as a young boy.
During the invasion of Okinawa he got wounded on May 2, 1945, during an attack on a rifle company that he was on patrol.
At 18 years of age he was awarded for his braveness by President Truman in a White House with the Medal of Honor.
After the war, he returned to finish high school. Then he went on with a study in business administration at the University of Washington.
After he finished study, he founded the Bayview Lumber Company at South Bend, Washington in 1951 and Bayview Redi-Mix at Elma, Washington.
Tom Brokaw, a television personality and journalist, wrote a chapter about Bush in his World War II book "The Greatest Generation" (1998).
Robert and Wanda Bush were the parents of three sons and a daughter. He died from cancer on November 8, 2005, in Olympia, Washington when he was 79 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="374642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374642" title="Televisión Nacional de Chile">
Televisión Nacional de Chile

TVN, whose letters stand for Televisión Nacional de Chile, is a Chilean television network.

</doc>
<doc id="374643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374643" title="Canal 13 (Chile)">
Canal 13 (Chile)

Canal 13, is a Chilean television network.

</doc>
<doc id="374646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374646" title="Category:Chilean television networks">
Category:Chilean television networks


</doc>
<doc id="374647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374647" title="Tonka Tomičić">
Tonka Tomičić

Tonka Tomicic Petric (; born 31 May 1976) is a Chilean model and television presenter of Croat origin.
She first came to public attention as the Chilean representative to the 1995 Miss World pageant. Soon after she was invited to the program "Pase lo que Pase" of TVN as a fashion commentator. She received her big break when she became one of the principal co-presenters of this program and went on to assume the co-presenter role of "Buenos dias a todos", a popular morning television show.
In February 2006, Tomičić was elected Queen of the Viña del Mar International Music Festival, and in 2007 she was presentor of the same festival with Sergio Lagos.

</doc>
<doc id="374655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374655" title="La Red">
La Red

La Red, whose letters stand for Red Chilena de Televisión, is a Chilean television network.

</doc>
<doc id="374657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374657" title="Category:Chilean television presenters">
Category:Chilean television presenters


</doc>
<doc id="374662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374662" title="Category:Antofagasta">
Category:Antofagasta


</doc>
<doc id="374663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374663" title="Pamela Díaz">
Pamela Díaz

Pamela Andrea Díaz Saldías (born 26 February 1981 in Puerto Varas) is a Chilean model and television presenter.

</doc>
<doc id="374669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374669" title="Buddy Guy">
Buddy Guy

George "Buddy" Guy (born July 30, 1936) is an American blues guitarist and singer. He worked with other musicians such as Muddy Waters, Eric Clapton, Jimi Hendrix, and Stevie Ray Vaughan. He is known for his music such as "Slipin' In" and "Feels Like Rain".
Guy was born on July 30, 1936 in Lettsworth, Louisiana. He was raised in Chicago, Illinois. He was married to Jennifer Guy from 1991 until they divorced in 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="374671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374671" title="Ed O'Neill">
Ed O'Neill

Edward Phillip "Ed" O'Neill, Jr. (born April 12, 1946) is an American movie, television, stage, and voice actor who is known for his roles as Al Bundy in "Married... with Children" and as Jay Pritchett in "Modern Family". He has won two Screen Actors Guild Awards for his role as Pritchett.
O'Neill was born on April 12, 1946 in Youngstown, Ohio. He studied at Youngstown State University. O'Neill has been married to Catherine Rusoff since 1986. They have two children.

</doc>
<doc id="374675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374675" title="Michael Dell">
Michael Dell

Michael Saul Dell (born February 23, 1965) is an American businessman. He created the computer technology company Dell. He was added as the 41st richest person in the world. Dell has about $19.9 billion dollars.
Dell was born on February 23, 1965 in Houston, Texas. He was born to a Jewish family. Dell dropped out from the University of Texas at Austin. Dell married Susan Lieberman in 1989. They have four children.

</doc>
<doc id="374680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374680" title="James Gosling">
James Gosling

Dr. James A. Gosling (born May 19, 1955) is a Canadian-American computer scientist who invented Java.
Gosling was born on May 19, 1955 in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. He studied at the University of Calgary and at Carnegie Mellon University. Gosling is married. They have two children.

</doc>
<doc id="374683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374683" title="Colt McCoy">
Colt McCoy

Daniel Colt McCoy (born September 5, 1986 in Hobbs, New Mexico) is an American football starting quarterback that currently plays for the Washington Redskins of the National Football League (NFL). McCoy was drafted out of the University of Texas at Austin by the Cleveland Browns with the 18th pick in the third round of the 2010 NFL Draft. 
In 2006, during his time with the Texas Longhorns, he was a candidate for the Heisman Trophy. He was again a candidate for the trophy in 2007 which was won by Tim Tebow. McCoy is a member of the Church of Christ.

</doc>
<doc id="374693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374693" title="Sense and Sensibility (movie)">
Sense and Sensibility (movie)

Sense and Sensibility is a 1995 movie that was directed by Ang Lee. It is an adaptation of "Sense and Sensibility", a novel published by English author Jane Austen in 1811. The movie starred Emma Thompson, Kate Winslet, Hugh Grant, and Alan Rickman.

</doc>
<doc id="374699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374699" title="Antofagasta">
Antofagasta

Antofagasta is a city in northern Chile. It is the capital of the province of Antofagasta and of the region of Antofagasta. In the 2002 census, the city had a population of 296,905.

</doc>
<doc id="374704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374704" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/If the United States goes over the Fiscal cliff">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/If the United States goes over the Fiscal cliff


</doc>
<doc id="374706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374706" title="Category:Engravers">
Category:Engravers


</doc>
<doc id="374713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374713" title="Karyn White">
Karyn White

Karyn White (born 14 October 1965 in Los Angeles) is an American R&B singer. She was very popular in the late 1980s. Her hit singles include "Secret Rendezvous" and "Superwoman".

</doc>
<doc id="374715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374715" title="Holland Taylor">
Holland Taylor

Holland Virginia Taylor (born January 14, 1943) is an American movie, television, stage, and voice actress. She played Ruth Dunbar in "Bosom Buddies". She played Margaret Powers in "The Powers That Be". She played Judge Roberta Kittleson in "The Practice". She played Evelyn Harper in "Two and a Half Men". She won an Emmy Award in 1999.
Taylor was born on January 14, 1943 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. She studied at Westtown School and at Bennington College.

</doc>
<doc id="374717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374717" title="Alan King">
Alan King

Alan King (Irwin Alan Kniberg, December 26, 1927 – May 9, 2004) was an American movie, television, stage, radio, voice actor, writer, movie producer, and comedian. He was known for his roles in "Casio", "Rush Hour 2", "The Anderson Tapes", "Just Tell Me What You Want" and in "Cat's Eye". He is also known for his voice guest-star role as the Don in "Family Guy".
King was born on December 26, 1927 in New York City, New York. He was born to a Jewish family. King was married to Jeanette Sprung from 1947 until his death 2004. King died on May 9, 2004 in New York City, New York from lung cancer, aged 76.

</doc>
<doc id="374719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374719" title="Four Freedoms">
Four Freedoms

The Four Freedoms is an important concept of American president Franklin D. Roosevelt. He presented them in the "State of the Union" of January 6, 1941, which is therefore also called the "Four Freedoms Speech".
Roosevelt made the "Four Freedoms" public just eleven months before the American participation at World War II. The concept played an important role in the American propaganda during the war. After Roosevelts death in 1945, his wife Eleanor continued being an important advocate for including the "Four Freedoms" in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
To inspire a greater public for his concept, Roosevelt arranged the creation of the Four Freedoms Monument. The statue was made public in 1943 in New York City. In honor of one of the first Americans to be killed in action, Colin Kelly, Roosevelt had the statue moved to his former home in Florida.
In 1943 artist painter Norman Rockwell got inspired by the "Four Freedoms" and made a series of four paintings on this subject. Afterwards, the American authorities made use of these paintings to collect money for the world war.

</doc>
<doc id="374720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374720" title="Category:African-American musical groups">
Category:African-American musical groups


</doc>
<doc id="374726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374726" title="Right to an adequate standard of living">
Right to an adequate standard of living

The right to an adequate standard of living is a fundamental human right. It is part of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights that was accepted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 10, 1948.
Furthermore it has been written down in article 11 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which is a human righs treaty of the United Nations as well.
The predecessor of this right, the "Freedom from Want", is one of the "Four Freedoms" that American President Franklin D. Roosevelt spoke out at his State of the Union of January 6, 1941. According to Roosevelt it is a right every human being everywhere in the world should have. In his speech Roosevelt described his third right as follows:

</doc>
<doc id="374730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374730" title="Freedom from fear">
Freedom from fear

Freedom from fear is a fundamental human right. This right was mentioned by American President Franklin D. Roosevelt as one of the "Four Freedoms" human beings everywhere in the world should have. Roosevelt presented the "Four Freedoms" at his State of the Union of January 6, 1941, which therefore has been called the "Four Freedoms Speech" as well.
This right, as well as the other three of the "Four Freedoms" of Roosevelt, makes part of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which was accepted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 10, 1948. "Freedom from fear" is written down in the introduction tot the UN Declaration.
In his speech Roosevelt described his fourth right as follows:
In 1943 Norman Rockwell painted his work "Freedom from Fear " which is one of four paintings he made on Roosevelts "Four Freedoms".
Aung San Suu Kyi has named this right many times in speeches and wrote a book with the title "Freedom From Fear" on it in 1991. Historian David M. Kennedy was inspired by the right as well and in 1991 he brought out his book with the title "Freedom From Fear: The American People in Depression and War, 1929–1945".

</doc>
<doc id="374733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374733" title="Port Coquitlam">
Port Coquitlam

Port Coquitlam is a city in the Canadian province of British Columbia. The population of Port Coquitlam was 56,342 in 2011. The mayor of Port Coquitlam is Greg Moore. The first European settlement in Port Coquitlam was established in 1859 although the Coast Salish people lived in and around the area first. The city is also nicknamed "PoCo" for short. In 2008, the city was ranked #85 for its murder rate which is for Canadian cities with a population over 50,000.

</doc>
<doc id="374736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374736" title="Four Freedoms Monument">
Four Freedoms Monument

The Four Freedoms Monument is a sculpture by Walter Russell. It was in New York City at first and later moved to Florida.
The monument is a symbol for the "Four Freedoms" human beings everywhere in the world should have. This part of his speech has therefore been named the "Four Freedoms Speech" as well. This was before the American participation at World War II. The "Four Freedoms" of President Roosevelt are the following:
Roosevelt had the monument built with the idea to inspire a greater public for his four freedoms.
The monument was first presented in 1943 in Madison Square Garden in New York City, with the presence of 60,000 people. It was presented in the honor of Colin Kelly, one of the first Americans to be named an American hero of the Second World War. On June 14, 1944, the monument was moved to the former home of Kelly in Madison, Florida.

</doc>
<doc id="374747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374747" title="Toomas Hendrik Ilves">
Toomas Hendrik Ilves

Toomas Hendrik Ilves (born 26 December 1953), is an Estonian politician. He was the President of Estonia from 2006 to 2016.
Toomas Hendrik Ilves was born in 26 December 1953, in Stockholm, Sweden. 
In 1957 he married his first wife, American psychologist Dr. Merry Bullock, and they had 1 son and 1 daughter. He got married again in 2004, Evelin Int-Lambot and has 1 daughter with her. He was elected on 23 September 2006 and began his term as President on 9 October 2006. Evelin and him were divorced on 30 April 2015. He married his third wife on 2 January 2016, Ieva Ilves. He was re-elected as president on 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="374749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374749" title="Nimravides">
Nimravides

Nimravides was a prehistoric saber-toothed cat which lived in North America during the middle and late Miocene. Despite its scientific name "Nimravides" does not belong to the Nimravidae, but belongs to the family Felidae.
The earlier species of the genus are smaller and more primitive than the later forms. The tiger-sized "Nimravides catacopsis" resembles the primitive "Machairodus aphanistus", a species known from the late Miocene of Eurasia.

</doc>
<doc id="374753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374753" title="Gong Ji-young">
Gong Ji-young

Gong Ji-young (; born 31 January 1963 in Seoul) is a South Korean novelist and journalist. Her popular novels are "My Sister Bongsoon" (2002), "Our Happy Time" (2005) and "The Crucible" (2009). She is considered a pioneer of Korean feminism. Since the mid 1990s, she has been considered one of the most eminent Korean female writers. She is gaining in popularity, especially among female readers. Her books have sold more than nine million copies.
In 1985, Gong Ji-Young received her Bachelor's in Arts in Literature from Yonsei University. At that time she worked as a writer at a publishing company and at The Council of Writers for Freedom and Practice, which is now called The Writers Association of Korea (WAK). She has participated in demonstration for Korea's democracy in the 1980s. She was sent to a detention center for joining anti-vote rigging demonstration and decided to become a writer. In 1988, she made a literary debut through her novel "Dawn". In the middle of the 1990s, her novels "Mackerel", "Human Decency" and "Go Alone Like the Rhinoceros' Horn" were on the bestseller list concurrently. In the early 2000s, she sold her novel "My Sister Bongsoon" for almost 1.6 million volumes.
Gong Ji-Young divorced three times and has raised three children. The children's last names are all different. To pay for her children's loans, she made a comeback after seven years and released "Our Happy Time"(2005). The novel was made into a feature film with a total of over four million viewers. After having published "The Crucible" (2009), the novel was made into a feature film (2011) raising public interest in the rights of disabled students. She was awarded the Lee-sang Prize for the 2011 novel "Wander an Alley in Barefoot".
Gong received several awards for her work:

</doc>
<doc id="374767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374767" title="Finnair">
Finnair

Finnair is a Finnish airline. The company was established on November 1, 1923. The first flight was in March 1924. Their motto is: "Designed for you" ().
Almost 4470 people worked for Finnair in 2014. 

</doc>
<doc id="374768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374768" title="Category:Chittagong Division">
Category:Chittagong Division


</doc>
<doc id="374786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374786" title="Hazara District">
Hazara District

Hazara District was an old district of Peshawar Division in the North-West Frontier Province of Pakistan until 1976. It was the most northerly part of the division and covered an area of about . It was a long narrow shape, about wide and about long. It separated Kashmir from the independent areas. The main cities were Abbottabad, Haripur, Mansehra, Nawashahr and Baffa. It is now renamed as the Hazara Division. 

</doc>
<doc id="374787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374787" title="Washuk District">
Washuk District

Washuk District () is a district in the Balochistan province of Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="374788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374788" title="Bengali nationalism">
Bengali nationalism

Bengali nationalism is the political expression of ethno-national consciousness of the Bengali people. These people live in the region of Bengal. The region's territory is divided between Bangladesh and the Indian state of West Bengal.
The Bengali Language Movement and its fallout had created a lot of cultural and political hostility between the two parts of a united Pakistan. Despite making up a majority of the Pakistani population, Bengalis were only a small part of Pakistan's military, police and civil services. Ethnic and socio-economic discrimination against Bengali people in East Pakistan made them angry. Because West Pakistanis were influenced by Perso-Arabic culture, they saw Bengali culture as too closely associated with Hindu culture. One of the first groups demanding the independence of East Pakistan was the Swadhin Bangal Biplobi Parishad (Free Bengal Revolutionary Council).
The restoration of a sovereign and independent state of West Bengal as existed for several centuries prior to the advent of the British Raj. The holding of a plebiscite in the western part of Bengal to determine whether the nationalists Bengali people wish to remain within the Indian Union under a distant and non caring nation or not. The Bengalis were not asked whether they wished to join the Dominion of India in 1947; it is hence imperative that this long overdue plebiscite be conducted now. The setting up a Bengali Parliament and the holding of elections in the Bengal region of East India to determine the leaders of an independence West Bengal state, the cessation of the incredible looting and pillaging of both territories or Greater Bangladesh by the corrupt and criminal mind of New Delhi government. This can only be achieved by means of the establishment of a free state government based in Kolkata in control of its own financial resources.

</doc>
<doc id="374789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374789" title="Swadhin Bangal Biplobi Parishad">
Swadhin Bangal Biplobi Parishad

The Swadhin Bangal Biplobi Parishad was an underground student political group organized in 1961 by Mujibur Rahman, the founder of Bangladesh. The group worked to oppose the military rule of Ayub Khan (Field Marshal). It also worked for more autonomy and the independence of East Pakistan as Bangladesh.

</doc>
<doc id="374791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374791" title="Helping hand">
Helping hand

A helping hand, also called a third hand is a tool for soldering. It has other uses too. A magnifying glass can be with it. It has adjustable clips to hold wires or other work parts. Benefits include better quality to soldered parts, no risk of burning hands, and easier work. 

</doc>
<doc id="374792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374792" title="Mini Israel">
Mini Israel

Mini Israel () is a miniature park located in Ayalon Valley, near Latrun, Israel. The park is in shape of the star of David. It has 385 models over and a small shopping mall and exhibition hall. The park opened in 2002 and was officially opened on April 7, 2003. 

</doc>
<doc id="374793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374793" title="CNA Center">
CNA Center

CNA Center is a 1,622-ft (494 m), 44-story high-rise building at 333 South Wabash Avenue in the Loop of Chicago, Illinois. The building is well known for lighting logos or messages on the front side of the building or for its dark red color. It is the tallest red building in Chicago. Construction began in March 1970. The building was finished in 1972 and was open to the public in 1973.

</doc>
<doc id="374795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374795" title="One Prudential Plaza">
One Prudential Plaza

One Prudential Plaza (or the Prudential Building) is a 41-story structure in Chicago. It was finished in 1955 as the headquarters for Prudential's Mid-America company. The building is known for it's 311 feet antenna. The building is 601 feet (183 m) without the antenna. With the antenne the building is 912 feet (270 m) high. The building and it's "sister" building the Two Prudential Plaza was sold in May 2006 for $470 million dollars. It was the 2012 Obama campaign headquarters for the United States presidential election, 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="374797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374797" title="Power line communication">
Power line communication

Power line communication (or Powerline communication) uses existing electric power lines to send and receive data. The data signal is modulated and multiplexed over several carrier frequencies. There are different technologies that can be used:

</doc>
<doc id="374799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374799" title="Chicago Theatre">
Chicago Theatre

The Chicago Theatre is a theatre in Chicago, Illinois where stage plays, magic shows, comedy, speeches, and popular music concerts are held every year. The building was added to the National Register of Historic Places on June 6, 1979, and it was listed as a Chicago Landmark on January 28, 1983. The theatre is also known for the bright color lights that light-up the words "Chicago" side to side.

</doc>
<doc id="374802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374802" title="Chicago River">
Chicago River

The Chicago River is 156 miles long (251 km) and goes through the city of Chicago, Illinois, including the center of the city (the Chicago Loop). The river is not long, but it is known for being the reason why Chicago became an important place, as the connection between the Great Lakes and the Mississippi Valley waterways. The river is the only river in the world to be reversed (which is, made to flow backwards, in the opposite of its natural direction) by civil engineering.
In the 19th century through civil engineering, the flow of the river was reversed to head toward the Mississippi River basin, away from Lake Michigan. This was done for reasons of sanitation. The Chicago River is also noted for the local custom of dyeing it green on St. Patrick's Day. The river is controlled for boats or ships going through the river.
The river is memorialized, in part, by two horizontal blue stripes on the Municipal Flag of Chicago. The river also serves as inspiration for one of Chicago's symbols: a three-branched, Y-shaped symbol (called the municipal device) is found on many buildings and other structures throughout Chicago; it represents the three branches of the Chicago River.
The Main Stem flows 1.5 miles (2.4 km) west from the direction at Lake Michigan; passing under the Outer Drive, Columbus Drive, Michigan Avenue, Wabash Avenue, State Street, Dearborn Street, Clark Street, La Salle Street, Wells Street, and Franklin Street bridges en route to the North Branch at Wolf Point.
At McClurg Court it passes the Nicholas J Melas Centennial Fountain, which was built in 1989 to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago; between May and October the fountain sends an arc of water over the river for ten minutes every hour.
On the north bank of the river, near the Chicago Landmark Michigan Avenue Bridge, is Pioneer Court, which marks the site where Jean Baptiste Point du Sable came to Chicago. Point du Sable is known as the founder of Chicago. On the south bank of the river is the site of Fort Dearborn. Well known buildings surrounding this area include the NBC Tower, the Tribune Tower, and the Wrigley Building.
The river turns slightly to the south west between Michigan Avenue and State Street, passing the Trump International Hotel and Tower, 35 East Wacker, and 330 North Wabash. Turning west again the river passes Marina City, the Reid, Murdoch & Co. Building, Merchandise Mart, and 333 Wacker Drive.

</doc>
<doc id="374804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374804" title="Multiplexing">
Multiplexing

Multiplexing is the name for an operation or method which combines several signals into one, before that signal is sent over a telecommunications line. At the other end of the line, the combined signals are "demultiplexed", that is, the combination of the signals is undone. There are different ways how this multiplexing can be done:
Multiplexing was first done for telegraphy in the 1870s, and for telephone lines in 1910. Today, it is widely used. 

</doc>
<doc id="374805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374805" title="Western Wall">
Western Wall

The Western Wall, Wailing Wall or Kotel (, ; ; ) is an ancient wall in the Old City of Jerusalem on the western side of the Temple Mount. According to Jewish tradition this wall is a remnant of the Second Temple in Jerusalem. It is the most holy site for Jews

</doc>
<doc id="374806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374806" title="Haifa International Airport">
Haifa International Airport

Haifa International Airport (, "") is an international airport in Haifa, Israel. It is located close to Kishon Port and the coast of the Gulf of Haifa. This is the second-largest airport in Israel after Ben Gurion International Airport. The airport is also has flights to the Middle East and Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="374807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374807" title="Category:Chilean models">
Category:Chilean models


</doc>
<doc id="374808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374808" title="Carolina de Moras">
Carolina de Moras

Carolina Andrea de Moras Alvarado (born 24 February 1981 in Osorno) is a Chilean model, actress and television presenter of French origin.

</doc>
<doc id="374809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374809" title="Rockefeller Center">
Rockefeller Center

Rockefeller Center is a group of buildings covering 22 acres (89,000 m2) between 48th and 51st streets in New York City, New York, United States. The buildings connect together underground. An ice-skating rink is located in the middle. The Rockefeller Center was made by John D. Rockefeller, Jr. during the Great Depression in the 1930s between Fifth Avenue and Sixth Avenue. Construction finished in 1939. It became a National Historic Place in December 1987. An extension was added west of Sixth Avenue in the 1970s.

</doc>
<doc id="374812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374812" title="Category:Chilean actors">
Category:Chilean actors


</doc>
<doc id="374814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374814" title="Coquitlam">
Coquitlam

Coquitlam is a city in the Canadian province of British Columbia. The population of Coquitlam was 126,456 in 2011. The mayor of Coquitlam is Richard Stewart. 
The Coast Salish people occupied the territory for at least 9,000 years before Simon Fraser came through the region in 1808. Europeans settled in Coquitlam during 1859. 
The city of Coquitlam was named a "Cultural Capital of Canada" in 2009 by the Department of Canadian Heritage. 

</doc>
<doc id="374815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374815" title="Transamerica Pyramid">
Transamerica Pyramid

The Transamerica Pyramid is the tallest skyscraper in the San Francisco skyline and one of its most iconic. The building is the headquarters of the Transamerica Corporation, it is still strongly part of the company and is part of the company's logo. Designed by architect William Pereira and built by Hathaway Dinwiddie Construction Company, at 260 m (850 ft). When the building was finished in 1972 it was among the five tallest buildings in the world. The tower has no public access except for the first floor lobby, so this means that visitors cannot go to the top for a skyline view.

</doc>
<doc id="374816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374816" title="Jerusalem International Airport">
Jerusalem International Airport

Jerusalem International Airport (or Atarot Airport) was an airport north of Jerusalem, near Ramallah. It was the first airport in the British Mandate of Palestine. It has been closed since the Second Intifada, in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="374818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374818" title="Category:Chilean movie actors">
Category:Chilean movie actors


</doc>
<doc id="374819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374819" title="Category:Chilean television actors">
Category:Chilean television actors


</doc>
<doc id="374820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374820" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Rajputana Liberation Front">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Rajputana Liberation Front


</doc>
<doc id="374821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374821" title="Category:Airports in Israel">
Category:Airports in Israel


</doc>
<doc id="374826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374826" title="Jorge Zabaleta">
Jorge Zabaleta

Jorge worked in Canal 13 until 2008, when he joined TVN working in Hijos del Monte.

</doc>
<doc id="374827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374827" title="United States presidential election, 1988">
United States presidential election, 1988

This election was between Vice President George H. W. Bush (Republican) and Governor of Massachusetts Michael Dukakis (Democratic). Bush capitalized on a good economy, a stable international stage, and on President Ronald Reagan's popularity, running an aggressive campaign. Meanwhile, Dukakis's campaign suffered from several miscues, including failure to defend from Bush's attacks. This allowed Bush to win with a substantial margin of the popular vote; while winning the Electoral College by a landslide. Since the 1988 election, no candidate has managed to equal or surpass Bush's number of electoral votes won or popular vote percentage.
Vice President George H.W. Bush won the election by 426 electoral votes. Governor of Massachusetts Michael Dukakis got 111 electoral votes. Lloyd Bentsen got 1 electoral vote by a West Virginia faithless elector.
This is where the two major candidates are still alive.
Democratic candidates:
Republican candidates:

</doc>
<doc id="374830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374830" title="Jerusalem Light Rail">
Jerusalem Light Rail

The Jerusalem Light Rail (, "") is a light rail line in Jerusalem. It was opened in 2011. It began being built in 2002 and was finished in 2010 after many failures and bankruptcy of the construction company. The light rail is famous for Chords Bridge at the western entrance to Jerusalem from Road 1.

</doc>
<doc id="374838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374838" title="Radioisotope thermoelectric generator">
Radioisotope thermoelectric generator

A radioisotope thermoelectric generator (or RTG) is a type of machine that uses radioactivity to make electricity. The RTG, powered by a radioisotope heater unit, is used in satellites.

</doc>
<doc id="374844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374844" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Super Bowl XLVII">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Super Bowl XLVII


</doc>
<doc id="374845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374845" title="Category:Monster movies">
Category:Monster movies


</doc>
<doc id="374846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374846" title="Category:Breast cancer survivors">
Category:Breast cancer survivors


</doc>
<doc id="374847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374847" title="Category:Cancer survivors">
Category:Cancer survivors


</doc>
<doc id="374848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374848" title="Category:People with cancer">
Category:People with cancer


</doc>
<doc id="374852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374852" title="Carmelit">
Carmelit

The Carmelit () is the first rapid transit rail system in Israel. It opened in 1959 after three years of building. It was closed from 1986 to 1992 for renovations. The metro has only two lines, which run from the sea to Mount Carmel. 
The system is named after Mount Carmel.

</doc>
<doc id="374854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374854" title="Jerusalem Historical City Hall Building">
Jerusalem Historical City Hall Building

The Jerusalem Historical City Hall is an historical building that used to be the city hall of Jerusalem. It is in Safra Square, next to the walls of the Old City and Jaffa Street. The building was built in 1930 during the time of the British Mandate for Palestine. It was used until 1993, when a new city hall building was opened next to the old one.

</doc>
<doc id="374855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374855" title="Norman Rockwell Museum">
Norman Rockwell Museum

The Norman Rockwell Museum is a museum in Stockbridge, Massachusetts. Its houses the art and archives of American painter and illustrator Norman Rockwell.
The museum was opened in 1969 in Stockbridge, the town where Rockwell lived the last 25 years of his life. Since 1993 the museum is in the current building that was designed by Robert Arthur Morton Stern.
The museum owns 574 original artworks by Rockwell. The museum also owns the Rockwell archives with more than 100.000 items including photographs, fan mail, and business documents.
In 2008, the museum received the National Humanities Medal from the National Endowment for the Humanities.
Series of Rockwell paintings from 1943 called the "Four Freedoms". Rockwell was inspired by the 1941 "Four Freedoms Speech" of American President Franklin Delano Roosevelt.

</doc>
<doc id="374856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374856" title="Category:Walls">
Category:Walls


</doc>
<doc id="374857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374857" title="Freedom of Speech (Norman Rockwell)">
Freedom of Speech (Norman Rockwell)

Freedom of Speech is a painting of Norman Rockwell and is one of his series of four paintings called the "Four Freedoms". Rockwell was inspired to make these paintings since he heard the "Four Freedoms Speech" of American President Franklin D. Roosevelt of January 6, 1941.
This painting was made public in "The Saturday Evening Post" of February 20, 1943, along with an essay of Booth Tarkington. The other paintings of the "Four Freedoms" series are "Freedom of Worship", "Freedom from Want" and "Freedom from Fear", and were shown in other editions of the paper.
In this painting he shows a local meeting where one person speaks out his own, opposite opinion, while the others present give him the freedom of speech as a matter of protocol. Rockwell undertook four efforts to end up with this painting. He took Vermont neighbors as models for his series.
Rockwell needed four attempts to end up with this version of the painting. In former versions he found that the attention was confused because he had used to many objects. Furthermore he did not like the place of the main person in the picture.
The paintings toured through the United States with the motto "Buy War Bonds". All together 1.2 million Americans saw the paintings and 132 million dollar was collected to be used in World War II.
The painting can be found in the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge, Massachusetts.

</doc>
<doc id="374859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374859" title="Freedom of Worship (Norman Rockwell)">
Freedom of Worship (Norman Rockwell)

Freedom of Worship is a painting of Norman Rockwell and is one of his series of four paintings called the "Four Freedoms". Rockwell was inspired to make these paintings since he heard the "Four Freedoms Speech" of American President Franklin D. Roosevelt of January 6, 1941.
This painting was made public in "The Saturday Evening Post" of February 27, 1943, along with an essay of Will Durant. The other paintings of the "Four Freedoms" series are "Freedom of Speech", "Freedom from Want" and "Freedom from Fear", and were shown in other editions of the paper.it is a very good pintor(norman Rockwell)
Rockwell needed various attempts to end up with this version of the painting. Former versions showed a number of customers in a barbershop, all with another religious and racial background. He found it to be difficult to make clear images that showed how a person of a certain religion looks like. He finally chose a neutral location where people of different race worship in their own religion. He took Vermont neighbors as models for his series.
The paintings toured through the United States with the motto "Buy War Bonds". All together 1.2 million Americans saw the paintings and 132 million dollar was collected to be used in World War II.
The painting can be found in the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge, Massachusetts.

</doc>
<doc id="374860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374860" title="Freedom from Want (Norman Rockwell)">
Freedom from Want (Norman Rockwell)

Freedom from Want is a painting by Norman Rockwell and is one of his series of four paintings called the "Four Freedoms". Rockwell was inspired to make these paintings since he heard the "Four Freedoms Speech" of American President Franklin D. Roosevelt of January 6, 1941.
This painting was made public in "The Saturday Evening Post" of March 6, 1943, along with an essay of Carlos Bulosan. The other paintings of the "Four Freedoms" series are "Freedom of Speech", "Freedom of Worship" and "Freedom from Fear", and were shown in other editions of the paper.
The painting shows a classical American family at Thanksgiving when a turkey is served during a meal. He took Vermont neighbors as models for his series.
Rockwell wanted to portray a family within a theme of continuity, virtue, homeliness and abundance without extravagance, as confirmed by water as the modest beverage choice. Outside the United States though, the images was explained as an expression of American overabundance.
There have been made many parodies of the painting. New York painter Frank Moore (1953-2002) made a painting in 1994 with Americans of different human race with the title "Freedom to Share", whilst the turkey plate is full with medicines. Of Moore's painting have been made parodies as well.
Walt Disney has made a well known parody with Mickey and Minnie Mouse and several other Disney figures at the table. Furthermore the image has been used for many advertising goals, political campaigns and picture postcards.
The paintings toured through the United States with the motto "Buy War Bonds". All together 1.2 million Americans saw the paintings and 132 million dollar was collected to be used in World War II.
The painting can be found in the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge, Massachusetts.

</doc>
<doc id="374862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374862" title="Freedom from Fear (Norman Rockwell)">
Freedom from Fear (Norman Rockwell)

Freedom from Fear is a painting of Norman Rockwell and is one of his series of four paintings called the "Four Freedoms". Rockwell was inspired to make these paintings since he heard the "Four Freedoms Speech" of American President Franklin D. Roosevelt of January 6, 1941.
This painting was made public in "The Saturday Evening Post" of March 13, 1943, along with an essay of Stephen Vincent Benét. The other paintings of the "Four Freedoms" series are "Freedom of Speech", "Freedom of Worship" and "Freedom from Want", and were shown in other editions of the paper.
The painting portrays children laying in bed, a mother tucking them in and a father watching with a newspaper in his hand, telling the stories of the war with the headlines "Bombings Kill... Horrors Hit...". The children are free from fearing these horrors of the war. He took Vermont neighbors as models for his series.
This painting is the only one in the "Four Freedoms" series he had not specially painted for this subject. He first made it to illustrate the Battle of Britain of 1940. He did not want it to be published though, because he distasted the idea that American children were resting safely in their beds as Europe burned.
The paintings toured through the United States with the motto "Buy War Bonds". All together 1.2 million Americans saw the paintings and 132 million dollar was collected to be used in World War II.
The painting can be found in the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge, Massachusetts.

</doc>
<doc id="374869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374869" title="Frank O. Salisbury">
Frank O. Salisbury

Frank O. Salisbury was an English artist painter and designer of stained glass.
Salisbury was born in on December 18, 1874, in Harpenden, Hertfordshire, as a son of a plumber and glazier. He learned the art of stained glass in the workshop of his brother in St Albans.
A visit to the London Drawing Academy woke up his interest for painting. He won a scholarship when he was 18 years old and so he was able to study at the Royal Academy of Arts in London from 1892 to 1897. In between he went on a scholarship to Italy where he was impressed by the fresco's of the Renaissance. This trip shaped his taste for pageant scenes.
On the Royal Academy he won several medals. He also returned there several times with expositions.
Salisbury made many murals in buildings, especially in London. He also painted many religious works and illustrations of historical events. He was well known for his portraits, especially of famous people like five British prime ministers, five American presidents and several others like Benito Mussolini when he visited Italy in 1934. His portraits were painted in a traditional style.
Salisbury died on August 31, 1962, in Hampstead, London, when he was 87 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="374875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374875" title="Óscar Romero">
Óscar Romero

Servant of God Óscar the Romero y Galdámez (15 August 1917 – 24 March 1980) was a bishop of the Catholic Church in El Salvador. He became the fourth Archbishop of San Salvador when he took over Luis Chávez. He was assassinated on 24 March 1980.

</doc>
<doc id="374881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374881" title="Umeå">
Umeå

Umeå is a town in northern Sweden. The town is known for the large number of birch trees. About 116,465 people were living in Umeå Municipality in late 2011.
The town had to recover from a very large fire in 1888.
Umeå is the biggest city in Norrland, the most northern region of Sweden since 1962. The town had about 80,000 people living there in 2010. The town opened a university in 1965. In the last 50 years the number of houses has doubled. About 700 buildings are built every year.
The city was elected European Capital of Culture in 2014. The city is the most norhtern location to have ever been a European city of culture. The city is partnering with a large number of voluntary organisations and the concept of open source
Umeå became a city in 1622. The King of Sweden, Gustavus Adolphus, made the new city for Swedish merchants. He made the merchants to move north so that taxes could be increased. The city was burnt by Russian troops in 1714 and then again in 1720. In 1809 the city was briefly occupied again by the Russian army before peace was agreed. In 1888 the great fire destroyed the homes of over 2,000 people. The fire started in a brewery and destroyed part of the city including the shipyards at Teg and buildings on the island of Ön. Less than 1,000 of the people had a house after the fire. After the fire the town was rebuilt and many new birch trees were planted to stop future fires. The town is known for these trees.
In 1951 the city's library was recognised as important for northern Sweden. The library has a copy of every new book printed in Sweden. In 1962 the city opened its first airport. Umeå has been the biggest city in the most northern region of Sweden since 1962. Before 1962 the largest city was Sundsvall.

</doc>
<doc id="374882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374882" title="Category:Fictional criminals">
Category:Fictional criminals


</doc>
<doc id="374886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374886" title="Billy Wara">
Billy Wara

Billy Wara (c. 1920 – November 2008) was an Australian Aboriginal craftsman who made wooden sculptures. He is best known for his sculptures of goannas, made from wood that is native to the central Australian desert. His sculptures were carved by hand and decorated by burning patterns into the wood. He also crafted traditional hunting tools, such as spears and spear-throwers.
Wara was born at Aṟan, in the south-west of the Northern Territory. He and his family were Pitjantjatjara. They lived a traditional nomadic way of life in the bush until Wara was a young man. The first "whitefella" he ever saw was Harold Lasseter, a gold prospector whose story later became an Australian legend. Wara was about 12 years old at the time, and thought Lasseter was a ghost. A portrait of him giving figs to Lasseter features in Winifred Hilliard's book "The People In Between" (1968).
When he was a young man, Wara and his family settled at Ernabella, a Presbyterian mission at the time. He worked building fences, digging wells, and as a shepherd and sheep shearer. Later, he served as an advisor for the Uluṟu-Kata Tjuṯa National Park on environmental and cultural issues. He began carving wooden sculptures shortly after Maṟuku Arts and Crafts opened in 1984. He originally made his sculptures at Muṯitjulu, in the national park. He later set up an outstation at Umutju, further south, so that he could work closer to his homelands.
Although he crafted other things, Wara was best known for his wooden sculptures ("" in Pitjantjatjara). He carved them by hand and burned designs into them with a hot wire stick (this is called pyrography). His sculptures are of the perentie lizard, a type of goanna from central Australia which is also Wara's totem.
His depictions of the perentie are taken from his , a set of beliefs about his spiritual ancestor, the and their activities which shaped the land and its people during the Dreamtime. The forms his family's sacred law, and the law associated with Wara's place of birth, Aṟan. Most of the knowledge of is restricted to its senior custodians. Wara tells that fled from the east with a stolen grindstone hidden in his tail. The men chasing after him caught up with him at Aṟan and searched his stomach for the stone, but could not find it.
Wara's work has been shown in several exhibitions, both in Australia and other countries. His sculptures are held in the Powerhouse Museum, the Museum of Victoria, the National Gallery of Australia, and the National Museum of Australia. It is also part of the National Museum of Ethnology in Japan, and the Kelton Foundation in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="374887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374887" title="Jämsä">
Jämsä

Jämsä (in the local dialect, "Jämpsä") is a town and municipality in Central Finland. It is 223 km from Helsinki, and 58 km from Jyväskylä. There were about 22,125 people living there in January 2014. Jämsä municipality was established in 1866. It is next to the municipalities of Juupajoki, Jyväskylä, Keuruu, Kuhmoinen, Luhanka, Mänttä-Vilppula, Orivesi and Petäjävesi. Isojärvi National Park, a popular hiking place, is near to Jämsä.

</doc>
<doc id="374888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374888" title="Kiyoshi Muranaga">
Kiyoshi Muranaga

Kiyoshi K. Muranaga (February 16, 1922-June 26, 1944) was a United States Army soldier. He received the Medal of Honor because of his actions in World War II.
Muranaga was born in California to Japanese immigrant parents. He is a "Nisei", which means that he is a second generation Japanese-American.
He was interned with his family at the Granada War Relocation Center in Colorado.
Muranaga joined the US Army in May 1943.
Muranaga volunteered to be part of the all-"Nisei" 442nd Regimental Combat Team. This army unit was mostly made up of Japanese Americans from Hawaii and the mainland.
For his actions in June 1944, Muranaga was awarded the Army's second-highest decoration, the Distinguished Service Cross (DSC). In the 1990s, there was a review of service records of Asian Americans who received the DSC during World War II. Muranaga's award was upgraded to the Medal of Honor. In a ceremony at the White House on June 21, 2000, his family was presented with his medal by President Bill Clinton. Twenty-one other Asian Americans also received the medal during the ceremony, but only seven of them were still alive. Without help from others, he engaged an artillery gun using a mortar.
Muranaga's Medal of Honor recognized his conduct in fighting in central Italy in 1944.
On June 26, 1944, Muranaga was in charge of shooting his squad's mortar weapon. He was trying to destroy an enemy artillery gun. Muranaga was able to fire three shells before being killed.
The words of Muranaga's citation explain:
Private First Class Kiyoshi K. Muranaga distinguished himself by extraordinary heroism in action on 26 June 1944, near Suvereto, Italy. Private First Class Muranaga's company encountered a strong enemy force in commanding positions and with superior firepower. An enemy 88mm self-propelled gun opened direct fire on the company, causing the men to disperse and seek cover. Private First Class Muranaga's mortar squad was ordered to action, but the terrain made it impossible to set up their weapons. The squad leader, realizing the vulnerability of the mortar position, moved his men away from the gun to positions of relative safety. Because of the heavy casualties being inflicted on his company, Private First Class Muranaga, who served as a gunner, attempted to neutralize the 88mm weapon alone. Voluntarily remaining at his gun position, Private First Class Muranaga manned the mortar himself and opened fire on the enemy gun at a range of approximately 400 yards. With his third round, he was able to correct his fire so that the shell landed directly in front of the enemy gun. Meanwhile, the enemy crew, immediately aware of the source of mortar fire, turned their 88mm weapon directly on Private First Class Muranaga's position. Before Private First Class Muranaga could fire a fourth round, an 88mm shell scored a direct hit on his position, killing him instantly. Because of the accuracy of Private First Class Muranaga's previous fire, the enemy soldiers decided not to risk further exposure and immediately abandoned their position. Private First Class Muranaga's extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit on him, his unit, and the United States Army.

</doc>
<doc id="374890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374890" title="Audio feedback">
Audio feedback

Audio feedback is typically unwanted noise that occurs when an audio system oscillates. It often happens when microphones are pointed at loudspeakers. There are ways to avoid or reduce feedback, such as with equalization or reducing the room's echo.

</doc>
<doc id="374896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374896" title="Werner Leich">
Werner Leich

Werner Leich is a Protestant clergyman. From 1978 to 1992 he was the bishop of the Evangelical Church in Thuringia, for the greater part during the era of the German Democratic Republic.
Leich was born in Mühlhausen on January 31 1927. From 1942 to 1945 Leich was a voluntary member of the German Luftwaffe with the rank of Fahnenjunker. He volunteered to "battle for the salvation of Germany". After World War II he finished his school and from 1947 he started studying theology at the University of Marburg and Heidelberg University.
In 1951 he started his career as a clergyman. A year later he married Trautel, with whom he has a son and daughter. Since 1960 he was a member of the Synod of the Evangelical Church. He was vice-president of the synod from 1967 to 1978 and bishop of the state of Thuringia from 1978 to 1992. In that year he retired.
During a lot of his career, he had to deal with being able to worship God in an environment of anti-religious communism. He described it as "a lot of times we did hide being Christians".

</doc>
<doc id="374898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374898" title="Eohippus">
Eohippus

Eohippus is small fossil proto-horse. It is an extinct genus of small equid ungulates. The only species is "E. angustidens", which was long considered a species of "Hyracotherium". Its remains have been found in North America and date to the early Eocene (4856 million years ago).

</doc>
<doc id="374900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374900" title="Emiel van Lennep">
Emiel van Lennep

Emile (Emiel) van Lennep was a Dutch official ("treasurer general"), diplomat and Minister of State.
Van Lennep was born in Amsterdam on 20 January 1915, as a son of Louis Henri van Lennep and Catharina Hildegonda Enschede. He studied law from 1932 to 1937 at the Municipal University of Amsterdam.
From 1951 to 1969 he was the highest official of the Dutch Ministry of Finance. From 1969 to 1984 he was secretary general of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). At the OECD Van Lennep is remembered for making the organization a more effective forum for international cooperation. In the seventies he was named several times to be a candidate for a post in the government of the Netherlands, but he did not want to be a politician. After his career at the OECD he was appointed to be Minister of State from 1986 until his death in 1996.
He was married with met Alexa Labberton and they had two sons and two daughters. In 1990 he was rewarded with a Four Freedoms Award in the category "freedom from want". Van Lennep died on October 2, 1996, when he was 81 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="374903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374903" title="Tubuai">
Tubuai

Tubuai is the name for a group of islands in the Pacific. The island of Tubuai is about 640 km south of Tahiti. It is part of the Austral Islands, which belong to French Polynesia. Slightly over 2.000 people live on an area of about 45 square kilometers. James Cook discovered the island in 1777, but saw no reason to land there. The natives looked hostile. Fletcher Christian landed there in 1789. They founded Fort George on the island, but soon left, because of troubles with the natives.

</doc>
<doc id="374919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374919" title="Christ's College, Cambridge">
Christ's College, Cambridge

Christ's College is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. It was built in 1347 with the name "God House". Then in 1505 Lady Margaret Beaufort, the mother of King Henry VII, gave some money to make the college much bigger. She also changed the name to Christ's College. 
Christ's College has about 600 students. It has a tradition to do very well in the exams: it was the best college in the 20 years period from 1980 to 2000.
Some very famous people have studied here, for example Charles Darwin and John Milton.

</doc>
<doc id="374921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374921" title="National Geographic Bee">
National Geographic Bee

The National Geographic Bee is a nation-wide event that tests students' knowledge about geography. It takes place every year in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="374926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374926" title="Smart 911">
Smart 911

Smart 911 is a smartphone application linked with the emergency telephone number from the United States (911). This application allows people to enter the information they want that 911’s operators have in case of emergency. When a person that has a profile calls 911, the operator has access to the information previously recorded as well as police, firefighters and doctors. 
Before this application, when someone called 911 from a cell phone or a landline, the operator just had the information that the victim told them. As technology advanced, workers could find the location from the caller. But sometimes, the data weren’t accurate and it took longer to get to help.
This fact and the evolution of mobile phones with internet have prompted Smart 911. It allows personal assistants, police, firefighters and doctors to have a database from the victim, that the person had created before.
It is a free and voluntary enrollment. The only thing to do is to enter on the official website (Smart 911), and introduce a number phone that you want to register, as well as other useful information like medical information that may be help in a critical situation.
Also they can add information about their pets and their kids, with photos of them and even pictures of the house, a small basic information about the distribution of their house, because it can help service workers to access on the house if it’s necessary. The photographs of children and pets can help if they disappear.
The application is very useful for people who have chronic diseases or a disability.
Registered information on the profile has to be protected by Smart 911 service. Only police, firefighters or doctors can access this profile.

</doc>
<doc id="374927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374927" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Seijin">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Seijin


</doc>
<doc id="374928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374928" title="Science Daily">
Science Daily

Science Daily is a news website. It publishes articles about new science and technology discoveries.

</doc>
<doc id="374929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374929" title="Limbdi">
Limbdi

Limbdi is a city in Surendranagar district in India. It is in the state of Gujarat.

</doc>
<doc id="374930" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374930" title="Shanghai Urban Planning Exhibition Center">
Shanghai Urban Planning Exhibition Center

The Shanghai Urban Planning Exhibition Center () is an Exhibition Center and Museum on People's Square in Shanghai, China. It is dedicated to the history of the architecture and urban planning of Shanghai. The center also introduced exhibitions in Expo 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="374934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374934" title="Shchusev State Museum of Architecture">
Shchusev State Museum of Architecture

The Shchusev State Museum of Architecture is a museum in Moscow, Russia. The museum is dedicated to architecture and urban planning in Russia. It is the largest architecture museum in Russia. It includes an archive, library, and study center. The museum was opened in 1934. It is named for Soviet architect Alexey Shchusev.

</doc>
<doc id="374935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374935" title="Cable cars in Haifa">
Cable cars in Haifa

Cable cars in Haifa go from Mount Carmel to the Mediterranean beaches. In 2007 the City Hall of Haifa decided to extend the line to the University of Haifa and open a new line from Mount Carmel to Haifa Bay. The new projects will involve building a new central bus station and new bus routes across the city. The project is still in construction. 

</doc>
<doc id="374937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374937" title="Earl Scruggs">
Earl Scruggs

Earl Eugene Scruggs (January 6, 1924 – March 28, 2012) was an American musician. He was known for playing a banjo in bluegrass. Playing the banjo in bluegrass is now known as "Scruggs Style". He is known for his songs such as "Dueling Banjos", "Foggy Mountain Breakdown", "Earl's Breakdown", "The Swimming Song", and in "Fireball Mail". He won four Grammy Awards.
Scruggs was born on January 6, 1924 in Flint Hill, North Carolina. He was raised in Shelby, North Carolina. Scruggs was married to Louise Certain from 1948 until her death in 2006. They had two sons. Scruggs died on March 28, 2012 in Nashville, Tennessee from natural causes, aged 88.

</doc>
<doc id="374942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374942" title="Jenni Rivera">
Jenni Rivera

Jenni Rivera (Jenni Dolores Rivera Saavedra), July 2, 1969 – December 9, 2012) was an Mexican-American singer who is known for her spanish albums such as "La Gran Señora", "Jenni", "Parrandera", "Rebelde Y Atrevida", and "Tema Eva Luna". She was nominated for four Latin Grammys.
Rivera was born on July 2, 1969 in Long Beach, California. Her parents were Mexican immigrants. She was raised in Long Beach, California and in Los Angeles, California. She studied at Long Beach City College.
Rivera was married to José Trinidad Marín from 1984 until they divorced in 1992. Then she was married to Juan Manuel López from 1997 until his death in 2003. Then she was married to Esteban Loaize from 2010 until they separated in 2012. They filed for divorce, but the divorced was not finalized due to her death. Rivera has three children with Marín. She also has two children with López.
On December 9, 2012, a plane that Rivera was flying in lost contact to air traffic control off the coast of Monterrey, Mexico. Mexican authorities confirmed that Rivera and four other people that were on the plane were dead.

</doc>
<doc id="374947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374947" title="Elisabeth Murdoch">
Elisabeth Murdoch

Dame Elisabeth Joy Murdoch (née Elisabeth Joy Greene, 8 February 1909 – 5 December 2012) was an Australian philanthropist. She was the widow of Keith Murdoch and the mother of Rupert Murdoch. 
She became a Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1963 for her charity work in Australia and overseas.
Murdoch was born on 8 February 1909 in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. She studied at St Catherine's School and at the Clyde School. 
Murdoch was married to Keith Murdoch from 1928 until his death in 1952. They had four children, the eldest of whom died before her. Murdoch died on 5 December 2012 in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia from natural causes, aged 103. 

</doc>
<doc id="374950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374950" title="Hole (band)">
Hole (band)

Hole was an American rock band. The band started in 1989 in Los Angeles, California and ended in 2002. In 2009, the band got back together with new members but broke up in 2012. The last members of the band were singer Courtney Love, guitarist Micko Larkin, bassist Shawn Dailey and drummer Scott Lipps.
Hole released four studio albums. The band's first album, "Pretty on the Inside", was released in 1991 but was not very successful. After the album was released, the band's members changed but Love and Eric Erlandson, the original guitarist, stayed with the band. When Kristen Pfaff and Patty Schemel joined the band, Hole released their second album, "Live Through This", in 1994. The album was very successful and entered the "Billboard" music chart. The band changed their members again in 1998 and Melissa Auf der Maur and Samantha Maloney joined the band. Hole released "Celebrity Skin" in 1998 and it is their most popular album. The band tried to make another album but broke up in 2002.
In 2009, Courtney Love started Hole again with new members. Some of the old members of Hole did not agree with this and there was legal issues with the band's name. Later, the old members allowed Love to use the name. In 2010, the band released its next album "Nobody's Daughter" but the album was not successful. After touring around the world, the band broke up in 2012 because Love wanted to work on her solo career.
In 2014 Coutney Love, Eric Erlandson, Melissa Auf Der Maur, and Patty Schemel started playing together again.
Hole began in summer 1989 in Los Angeles, California. Courtney Love put an advertisement in a magazine called "The Recycler" and said she wanted to start a band. In the ad, she said her favorite bands were Big Black, Sonic Youth and Fleetwood Mac. Eric Erlandson phoned Love when he saw the advertisement and the band began rehearsing in August. Love became the singer and second guitarist and Erlandson became the lead guitarist. Love and Erlandson got Love's friend Lisa Roberts to become the bassist for Hole and found a drummer called Caroline Rue at another punk rock show. The band had two other guitar players, Mike Geisbrecht and Errol Stewart, but both of them left the band soon after. The band played their first show in September at Raji's, a small club in Hollywood, and played three more shows in California in 1989.
After a lot of shows on the West Coast, Hole signed to the indie record label Sympathy for the Record Industry in 1990. In April 1990, Hole released their first single, "Retard Girl." The single was not popular but was played on the radio in the United States and the United Kingdom: on KROQ-FM in Los Angeles and BBC Radio 1 in London. During a tour in March 1991, the band released a second single, "Dicknail", on Sub Pop, the grunge label in Seattle, Washington and then released their first album "Pretty on the Inside" in August. The album was produced by Kim Gordon of Sonic Youth and Sonic Youth's early music influenced the album. Hole switched record labels again and they chose to be on Caroline Records. "Pretty on the Inside" and was very successful in the United Kingdom. In the UK Albums Chart, it went to number 59 and the single "Teenage Whore" went to number 1 on the UK Indie Chart. During the tour of Europe to support the album's release, Courtney Love started a relationship with Kurt Cobain of Nirvana. In February 1992, the couple got married in Hawaii. Just before they got married, Jill Emery and Caroline Rue left the band because they wanted to play different styles of music. Hole then signed a major label recording contract with DGC and Geffen Records. The record deal was worth over $3 million.
In 1993, Hole released a new single "Beautiful Son." Patty Schemel was the new drummer for the band and played on all of the songs. Before the band went on tour, they got Kristen Pfaff as a new bassist. The band then took a small break in July to work on new songs for their next album.
In 1993, Hole moved to Carnation, Washington to write songs for their next album. In October, the band went to Marietta, Georgia and began recording the album. The recording was finished in a month and was produced by Paul Q. Kolderie and Sean Slade. The album was called "Live Through This" and was released on April 12, 1994. Four days before it was released, Courtney Love's husband was found dead in Seattle. He had killed himself and all of the band members did not want to go on tour. In June, Kristen Pfaff died after a drug overdose and the band had to cancel more shows. Hole got Melissa Auf der Maur as a new bassist before the tour for "Live Through This".
"Live Through This" was very popular. The music critics gave the album very good ratings and the album went to number 52 on the "Billboard" music chart and number 13 in the UK Albums Chart. It also went onto the charts in Australia, Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden. "Miss World", "Doll Parts", "Violet" and "Softer, Softest" were released as singles and were played a lot on American modern rock radio. The music videos for the songs were played a lot on MTV aswell. The album went platinum in Australia, Canada and the United States, and sold over two million copies around the world. The tours for the album were very dramatic—Courtney Love smashed guitars onstage and people at concerts threw gun shells onstage, reminding her about the death of her husband.
Hole's band members went to work on different projects in 1996. Love began acting again and got a lead role in "The People vs. Larry Flynt" and the other members worked with other musicians. In 1998, Hole released "Celebrity Skin". The album had a different sound to the band's two other albums and was influenced by powerpop music. During the album's recording sessions, Patty Schemel was replaced by a different drummer and later left the band. She was replaced by Samantha Maloney for the "Celebrity Skin" tour.
"Celebrity Skin" was successful and the title song reached number 1 on the "Billboard" Modern Rock Tracks chart, making it Hole's most popular single. The album went to number 9 on the "Billboard" 200 and number 11 on the UK Albums Chart. Music critics called the album "sprung, flung and fun, high-impact, rock-fueled pop." Two mores singles were taken from "Celebrity Skin", "Malibu" and "Awful", and both went into the charts. The album has sold more than 1.4 million copies in the United States and has gone platinum in the U.S and Canada, and double platinum in Australia.
In October 1999, Melissa Auf der Maur left Hole and went on be a touring bassist for The Smashing Pumpkins. Samantha Maloney quit to become a tour drummer for Mötley Crüe soon after. Love and Erlandson were the only members left in the band. The band's last release was a single for the 1999 film "Any Given Sunday" called "Be a Man." It was released as a single in March 2000 but failed to make it into the charts. Hole tried to record a fourth album but broke up in May 2002. Talking about the break-up, Love said "Eric has been an important part of my family for over ten years and he'll continue to be a part of my life" and Erlandson said "we're incredibly proud of the music we've made together, but it seems like time for both of us to move on."
Music magazine "NME" announced in June 2009 that Courtney Love was reforming Hole with new members. Love said that Melissa Auf der Maur would come back as a bassist and Micko Larkin was the band's new guitarist. A small tour of Europe was planned with shows in London, Milan and Amsterdam but Auf der Maur said that she was not involved in the reunion. Original guitarist Eric Erlandson also said that no reunion could happen because he and Love had a contract when the band broke up in 2002. Love and Erlandson tried to settle the dispute but did not come to an agreement.
Even though there were legal problems, Hole released "Nobody's Daughter" in April 2010. The album included two new members, bassist Shawn Dailey and drummer Stu Fisher, and had three singles singles—"Skinny Little Bitch", "Pacific Coast Highway" and "Letter to God." Music critics did not give the album good reviews and it did not sell well. It reached number 15 on the "Billboard" 200 chart but quickly fell off the chart. The band went on a worldwide tour after the release of "Nobody's Daughter". A music video for "Samantha", a song from the album, was released in May 2011.
Love, Erlandson, Auf der Maur and Patty Schemel went to the premiere of Schemel's film "Hit So Hard: The Life and Near-Death Story of Patty Schemel" at the Museum of Modern Art in New York on March 28, 2011. After the film, Schemel said she wanted Hole to record again but Love said "if it's not moving forward, I don't want to do it." The four members reunited again at the Public Assembly in New York on April 13, 2012. The band performed two songs—"Miss World" and "Over the Edge"—and was the first time the four members were together live since 1995.
In a Twitter post for her clothing line, Never the Bride, on November 29, 2010, Courtney Love announced that Hole had broken up. She said "from now on [the band is called Courtney]" and "Hole is dead." During an interview with "Rolling Stone", Love said she was continuing as a solo artist and was releasing a new single, "This is War", in February 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="374953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374953" title="Churchill College, Cambridge">
Churchill College, Cambridge

Churchill College is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. In 1958 a group of people was formed to get money to build a new college. This group had Winston Churchill as leader, so the college was named after him. It opened in 1960. Churchill College has more than 700 students, one of the biggest. Many of them study a science subject.
Churchill College was the first college in Cambridge to allow female students. This happened in 1972. 

</doc>
<doc id="374954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374954" title="Statler and Waldorf">
Statler and Waldorf

Statler and Waldorf are a pair of Muppet characters. They are two disagreeable old men who fight and laugh at mean things on their balcony. They both appeared in all "The Muppet Show" episodes except for one in which Statler did not appeared because he was sick, so Waldorf appaered with his wife who looks like Statler in a dress. Statler and Walldorf are named after two important hotels in New York City. They are mostly known for appearing as Marley and Marley in "The Muppet Christmas Carol". 
Statler is an old man who wears a black and blue suit. Waldorf has a mustache and wears a brown suit. Statler was originally performed by Jerry Nelson and Richard Hunt, and now is performed by Steve Whitmire. Waldorf was originally performed by Jim Henson and is now performed by Dave Goelz. 

</doc>
<doc id="374956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374956" title="The Muppet Christmas Carol">
The Muppet Christmas Carol

The Muppet Christmas Carol is a 1992 American musical-comedy movie based on Charles Dickens' "A Christmas Carol". This was the first movie made after Jim Henson died.
The musical movie features the Muppets and Michael Caine as Ebenezer Scrooge. The songs were written by Paul Williams. Kermit the Frog starred as Bob Cratchit, Miss Piggy as Mrs. Cratchit, Gonzo the Great as Charles Dickens, Fozzie Bear as Fozziwig, Rizzo the Rat as himself, and Statler and Waldorf as Robert Marley and Jacob Marley.

</doc>
<doc id="374959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374959" title="Nurzhol Boulevard">
Nurzhol Boulevard

Nurzhol Boulevard (, formerly known as "сулы-нулы бульвар" Green Water Boulevard) is the national boulevard of Astana, Kazakhstan. The boulevard is a pedestrian area. It is in the new business and administrative centre of Astana. It runs from the President's residence Ak Orda to the Khan Shatyr Entertainment Centre. The Bayterek is in Nurzhol boulevard. It is one of Astana's best-known buildings. 

</doc>
<doc id="374960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374960" title="Jerusalem City Hall">
Jerusalem City Hall

Jerusalem City Hall is a building complex housing the city hall of Jerusalem. It is in Safra Square. The complex was built beside the old city hall on a corner of Jaffa Street between the Old City and the Russian Compound. In 1950, The Israeli municipal government in Jerusalem decided to build a new building for the city hall. After many proposed architectural plans, the final plan was decided on in 1986. Construction began in 1988, and a ceremony for the establishment of the new municipality was done in the old city hall. In 1993, the new municipal complex was opened by mayor Teddy Kollek and heads of state.

</doc>
<doc id="374963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374963" title="Clare College, Cambridge">
Clare College, Cambridge

Clare College is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. It opened in 1326, so it is the second oldest. Its first name was University Hall but it was changed to Clare Hall in 1338. This was because Elizabeth de Clare, granddaughter of Edward I, gave money to the college. In 1856 it changed name again to its current one.
The college building is next to King's College. It goes across the river Cam with a famous bridge which has fourteen spherical stones on it. One of the stones is missing a bit: there are many legends used to explain this fact. The bridge is the oldest on the river. Across the bridge there is a big and beautiful garden, which is usually only open to the Fellows (university teachers).
Very important people have studied here, like David Attenborough, Andrew Wiles, Charles Cornwallis and Thomas Pelham-Holles.

</doc>
<doc id="374964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374964" title="United States presidential election, 1972">
United States presidential election, 1972

This election was between United States President Richard Nixon and Senator of South Dakota George McGovern. Richard Nixon won the election by a landslide (winning 49 of 50 states). George McGovern got 17 electoral votes. John Hospers got one electoral vote by a Virginia faithless elector.
This was the highest of any Republican nominee as a vote, as well as a highest electoral vote in a United States election until Ronald Reagan was re-elected in 1984 by a huge landslide.
George Wallace, governor of Alabama was shot by a what would be assassin during the election.
George McGovern's running mate changed from Thomas Eagleton to Sargent Shriver because Eagleton had problems about his psychiatric before.
This election occurred during the Watergate scandal.
15 people declared their candidacy for the Democratic Party nomination. They were:

</doc>
<doc id="374975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374975" title="The McGuire Sisters">
The McGuire Sisters

The McGuire Sisters were a group of three American girls originally from Ohio: Christine, Dorothy and Phyllis McGuire. This trio began around 1952 and went on until 1968, during which time the group had many popular hit songs, "Sincerely" and "Sugartime", the earlier of which was in 1954 and the latter during 1958. The group were sometimes compared to the Andrews Sisters due to their sometimes similar singing style and behavior.

</doc>
<doc id="374977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374977" title="Hasmonean dynasty">
Hasmonean dynasty

The Hasmonean dynasty was a family that led the Hasmoneans led the Maccabean Revolt and transformed Judah from a Seleucid possession that was becoming more Greek-like into an independent, Jewish nation-state. The Hasmoneans expanded Judah through conquest.
After the Salome Alexandra's death in 67 B.C., Salome's sons Hyrcanus II, who was backed by Antipater (the father of Herod the Great), and Aristobulus II fought for control of the Judah. The Roman Pompey entered the conflict on Hyrcanus' side. Aristobulus surrendered to the Romans and was sent to Rome, where he was later murdered.
In 40 B.C., the Parthian Empire and Aristobulus' son Antigonus II invaded Judah and captured Hyrcanus. The Romans then proclaimed Antipater's son Herod king of Judea. The Romans defeated the Parthians and captured and killed Antigonus, the last ruler of the Hasmonean dynasty.

</doc>
<doc id="374980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374980" title="Rizzo the Rat">
Rizzo the Rat

Rizzo the Rat is a Muppet, who was voiced by Steve Whitmire. He was first in "The Muppet Show". He is known for being in a double act with Gonzo the Great. Rizzo is a rat with a New Jersey accent. 

</doc>
<doc id="374983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374983" title="Category:British composers">
Category:British composers


</doc>
<doc id="374984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374984" title="Category:People from Cambridge">
Category:People from Cambridge


</doc>
<doc id="374985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374985" title="Category:Cambridge">
Category:Cambridge


</doc>
<doc id="374987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374987" title="Category:Leicester">
Category:Leicester


</doc>
<doc id="374988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374988" title="Penola Catholic College">
Penola Catholic College

Penola Catholic College is a regional Catholic secondary college in the north-western region of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. The college is co-educational, and teaches years 9 to 12 (students aged roughly 15 to 18). The school follows the Josephite tradition (love, understanding and acceptance of others). 
Penola Catholic College was established in 1995 and is set on 27 acres over two campuses. Three former schools were combined into two campuses, Sancta Sophia College at Glenroy and Therry and Geoghegan Colleges at Broadmeadows. The College name, Penola Catholic College, was chosen for the strong connection between Broadmeadows campus with Saint Mary MacKillop Sisters of St Joseph who established a foundling home on the site in 1901. Mary MacKillop opened her first school in 1866 in the small town of Penola, in the southeastern part of South Australia. Together with Fr Julian Tenison Woods, Mary MacKillop founded the order of the Sisters of St Joseph of the Sacred Heart. From 1901 until the late 1980s, the Sisters of St Joseph ministered to the local community and lived on this site.
The tree trunk on the emblem represents the cross and points to the life of Christ and is a model for the members of Penola Catholic College. The three Colleges from which Penola Catholic College has sprung is represented by the three leaves. The three leaves also symbolize the spiritual, physical and intellectual growth potential of members of the College. The tree also reminds us of the Penola, or the native aboriginal origin. The name Penola gives a unifying feeling of security, protection and care for its members.
The Association of Canonical Administrators of Penola Catholic College is governed and conducted by the Parish Priests of the Member Parishes.
The current members of the College Board are as follows:
The grounds and facilities on both campuses have undergone significant transformations since the college was established in 1995.
The College will continue to guide this development in the years ahead using the Building Master Plan they have in place. A Performing Arts Centre, Digital Language Laboratory and Hospitality Centre on the Broadmeadows Campus are just a few recent additions to the College. There are also refurbished classrooms and outdoor sporting facilities. The Glenroy campus is undergoing a refurbishing program including a new outdoor recreation facility that was constructed recently. The Broadmeadows site has many historical buildings including the original homestead “Kerrsland” that was constructed in 1880. There are some buildings that still stand from St. Joseph’s Babies Home including the magnificent St. Joseph’s Chapel completed in 1924.
The college has what is known as a House Group System. Students are divided into six House Groups. They compete for House points in debate, sports and other extra-curricular activities. The six House Groups are:

</doc>
<doc id="374990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374990" title="Greedy algorithm">
Greedy algorithm

A greedy algorithm is an algorithm that uses many iterations to compute the result. Such algorithms assume that this result will be obtained by selecting the best result at the current iteration. In other words: the global optimum is obtained by selecting the local optimum at the current time. Examples of such algorithms:
There are some problems where greedy algorithms do not produce the best possible solution. In such cases, they often produce the worst possible one. Again look at the coin-changing example above, and imagine that there are coins for 25 cent, 10 cent and 4 cent. Now imagine that the sum of 41 cent needs to be changed. A greedy algorithm would pick 25 cent, 10 cent, and 4 cent, for a total of 39 cent. The algorithm is then stuck, because the remaining 2 cent cannot be changed. One possible way of solving the is to use the 25 cent coin, and four coins of 4 cent. 

</doc>
<doc id="374992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374992" title="United States presidential election, 1968">
United States presidential election, 1968

This election was between former Vice President Richard Nixon and Vice President Hubert Humphrey. Governor of Alabama George Wallace also ran by the American Independent Party. 
Richard Nixon won the election by 301 electoral votes. Hubert Humphrey got 191 electoral votes. George Wallace got only 46 electoral votes and a faithless elector in North Carolina voted Wallace and running mate Curtis McLay.
Incumbent United States President, Lyndon B. Johnson was able to run because he was elected to one full term, and served fourteen months after John F. Kennedy was assassinated. On March 31, 1968, Johnson withdrewed his nomination and Johnson said, "I shall not seek, and I will not accept, the nomination of my party for another term as your President". Johnson died on January 22, 1973 and the new presidential term would expire two days after.
Robert F. Kennedy, brother of former United States President John F. Kennedy was assassinated on June 5, 1968 by Sirhan Sirhan in Los Angeles after winning the California and South Dakota primaries for the Democratic nomination for President of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="374993" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374993" title="American Independent Party">
American Independent Party

American Independent Party is a right-wing political party of the United States founded in California in 1967 by Bill and Eileen Shearer. It is most notable for George Wallace running in the 1968 US Election. That year, it was made up of Democrats opposed to the ending of racial segregation and was most successful in Southern states (Wallace was governor of the Southern state of Alabama). 
Over time, the party became closer to the conservative movement and it renounced its policy against racial equality. Today, the party still exists but many of its members have left: most of the earlier members returned to the Democratic Party after the 1969 election and its later members have moved to the Constitution Party. The AIP has endorsed the Constitution Party nominee for President in recent years.

</doc>
<doc id="374994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374994" title="Zen at War">
Zen at War

Zen at War is a 1997 book by Brian Daizen Victoria. It reveals the close involvement of Zen Buddhist teachers with Japanese militarism from the Meiji period until WWII.

</doc>
<doc id="374999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374999" title="Sunda clouded leopard">
Sunda clouded leopard

The Sunda clouded leopard ("Neofelis diardi"), or Bornean clouded leopard, is found on Sumatra and Borneo. It is a genetically distinct species, related to the Clouded leopard. It has now been filmed.
The Sunda clouded leopard is the largest cat in Borneo, weighing around 12 to 25 kg (26 to 55 lb). The canine teeth are two inches long, which, in proportion, are longer than other living felines. Its tail, which may be as long as its body, helps it balance when running and jumping.
In Borneo, they occur in lowland rainforest. In Sumatra, they appear to live more in hilly, montane areas. It is not known if there are still Sunda clouded leopards on the small Batu islands close to Sumatra.
In December 2006, the genus Neofelis was reclassified into two distinct species:
The Sunda clouded leopard in each island is different enough to be a separate subspecies.

</doc>
<doc id="375017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375017" title="Seoul Fringe Festival">
Seoul Fringe Festival

The Seoul Fringe Festival is a performing arts festival. Every year it is in Seoul, South Korea. It lets all artists join. It makes it possible to try anything the artists want to try. The artists work in many different ways. Before 2002, the festival was the Independent Art Festival. The first festival was in 1988. Its motto was "The test and seeking of Korean fringe". In 2002 it became the Seoul Fringe Festival. It became an international event. There were different performance groups from Asian countries. The 15th Seoul Fringe Festival was from 15 August to 1 September 2012. It was in the Hongdae area. The Seoul Fringe Network the festival. The sponsors are the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism, Korean Culture and Arts Committee, Seoul Metropolitan Council, Mapo-gu Office, Seoul Foundation for Arts and Culture, Seoul Art Space.
It used the slogan "Open! Play! Twist!". People called the Independent Art Festival "the rebellions of underground culture". It was from 25 August to 15 September 1988 at Marronnier Park in the Deahangno area. There were 50,097 visitors.
It used the slogan "Millennium Prologue". It tried to the centre and the suburbs. It was from 17 to 26 September 1999 at Seoul Arts Centre. There were 30,000 visitors.
The slogan was "Variety Show". The goal was to make stronger an , an , an and a network. It was from 13 August to 3 September 2000 in the Deahangno area. There were 50,000 visitors.
With the slogan of "Party all night long", it created a new history of festival in Hongdae area which has been a home ground of indie culture and the cradle of new arts. It was hosted on September 7 to 23, 2001 at Hongdae area with 80,000 visitors.
The name of the festival was changed from the Independent Art Festival to the Seoul Fringe Festival to be established as a forward-looking network for young Asian artists, based on Edinburgh Festival Fringe. It was convened on May 25 to June 15, 2002 at Hongdae area with 100,000 visitors.
It was successful to consolidate the Fringe brand and make each programmes be systemized. It was hosted on August 13 to September 7, 2003 at Hongdae area with 120,000 visitors.
With the slogan of "Joy of Flowering Indie in Full Bloom", the indie culture became pivotal of the festival. It was held on August 20 to September 5, 2004 at Hongdae area with 150,000 visitors.
It made a foundation for the future and new flow of Asian independent artists. It was convened on August 12 to 28, 2005 at Hongdae area with 158,672 visitors.
With the slogan of “Indie-odyssey”, there were stereotypical genre, complex genre and also there was genre which depart from the standard pattern all together. There were various and new pattern of performances such as vision, music, arts, plays and poems which mixed with the tradition and the modern. It was held on August 13 to 27, 2006 at Hongdae area with 158,672 visitors.
The festival marked the 10th anniversary. It expanded the meeting places for arts and audiences in order to give the energy to artists by giving them the feedback on their works. It was convened on August 13 to 29, 2007 at Hongdae area with 153,501 visitors.
With the updated composition, it enlarged spaces for creation and freedom of artists' participation. The festival became more abundant by reinforcing programmes, connection with local cultural art community and feedback on criticism of works. It was hosted on August 14 to 30, 2008 at Hongdae area with 154,379 visitors.
To seek the following of the festival, the slogan was "Post Fringe Project". There were various programmes to make artists' creation be active and to make interaction between them. The festival was enlarged to communicate in more diverse way and to have fun together. It was held on August 13 to 29, 2009 at Hongdae area with 160,000 visitors.
The biggest programme, indoor art festival, was placed not only in theatres, but also in cafes and galleries, and outdoor art festival was placed not only on large stages, but also all over the streets. In addition, to share the festival with tradespeople and residents in front of Hongdae, a service bureau was reorganised and source of revenue was diversified. It convened on August 12 to 28, 2010 at Hongdae area with 160,000 visitors.
With the theme of "Artists and Spaces", it reinforced the support for artists, managed the spaces efficiently, and shed light on current independent arts which were condensed as the festival. In addition, It firstly tried "Eco-Fringe Project" to run an eco-friendly festival. It was hosted on August 11 to 27, 2011 at Hongdae area and a few more downtown Seoul with 160,000 visitors.
It has become a popular independent art festival. It has suggested an alternative of art and culture, encouraged all artists with democratic participation, discovered rising artists of the next generation, given a boost to arts and lives with value of independent arts, and become more ecological and eco-friendly festival. It was held on August 15 to September 1, 2012 at the Seoul World Cup Stadium and a few more downtown Seoul with 160,000 visitors.

</doc>
<doc id="375027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375027" title="Dynamic programming">
Dynamic programming

Dynamic programming is a method of solving problems, which is used in computer science, mathematics and economics. Using this method, a complex problem is split into simpler problems, which are then solved. At the end, the solutions of the simpler problems are used to find the solution of the original complex problem. 
Dynamic programming can be used in cases where it is possible to split a problem into smaller problems, which are all quite similar. 
Richard Bellman, an US mathematician first used the term in the 1940s, when he wanted to solve problems in the field of Control theory. He also stated what is now known as :

</doc>
<doc id="375030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375030" title="Karjala">
Karjala

Karjala is Finnish brand of beer. Sortavalan Panimo made the beer from 1932 to 1944. In 1948, it started to be made again. It is most popular in Finland.

</doc>
<doc id="375032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375032" title="Infrasound">
Infrasound

Infrasound is a type of sound with a frequency lower than humans can hear. This frequency is lower than 16 hertz. When the frequency is lower but the volume is loud enough, humans can feel the vibrations but cannot hear the infrasound. Younger people have the ability to hear lower and higher frequencies.

</doc>
<doc id="375037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375037" title="Gorgias (Plato)">
Gorgias (Plato)

Gorgias is a book of dialogue by Plato, written about the nature of rhetoric, virtue and justice.
The book is created by dialogues among persons as follow;
In the preliminary discussion, Socrates and Gorgias agree that "persuasion is the chief end (goal) of rhetoric".
Socrates gets Gorgias to agree that there is a difference between belief and knowledge. A belief can be true or false, but there is no such thing as false knowledge (the word implies its correctness). The critical point in the dialogue is now reached:
"Socrates": Shall we then assume two sorts of persuasion, one which is the source of belief without knowledge, as the other is of knowledge?
"Gorgias": By all means.
"Socrates": And which sort of persuasion does rhetoric create in courts of law and other assemblies... the sort of persuasion which gives belief without knowledge, or that which gives knowledge?
"Gorgias": Clearly, Socrates, that which only gives belief.
"Socrates": Then rhetoric, as would appear, is the artificer of a persuasion which creates belief about the just and unjust, but gives no instruction about them?
A bit later, the dialogue changes direction:
"Polus": I will ask; and do you answer me, Socrates, the same question which Gorgias, as you suppose, is unable to answer: What is rhetoric?
"Socrates": I should say a sort of experience.
"Socrates": An experience in producing a sort of delight and gratification, Polus.
"Polus": Then are cookery and rhetoric the same?
"Socrates": No, they are only different parts of the same profession.
The dialogue continues. Socrates drives it towards a contrast between true knowledge produced by the art of philosophy, and the practical tricks of rhetoric. Rhetoric is pleasing and effective, but not an art, and is closer to flattery. 
Socrates says that virtue is more important than rhetoric. Rhetoric should depend on philosophy. Philosophy is an art, but rhetoric is just a skill.
At the end of the dialogue Socrates applies his method to the affairs of Athens in its assemblies and courts. He says "I must indeed be a fool, Callicles, if I do not know that in the Athenian State any man may suffer anything". And "I think that I am the only or almost the only Athenian living who practises the true art of politics; I am the only politician of my time. [because] when I speak my words are not uttered with any view of gaining favour".
So what started as an academic discussion ends as a very direct attack on the way law and politics were done in Athens.

</doc>
<doc id="375048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375048" title="Full-range speaker">
Full-range speaker

Full-range speaker is a type of loudspeaker that can be used to play sound at all or almost all frequencies that human are able to hear. The frequency range can be anywhere from 55 to 17500 Hertz. The benefit is that all sound comes from the same point besides multi-way speakers. Also, audio crossover can be more simple. 

</doc>
<doc id="375053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375053" title="Concert band">
Concert band

A concert band is an ensemble for playing the instruments using wind. The main constituents are
woodwind instrument family, brass instrument family and percussion instrument family. Sometimes, the string instrument family such as cello and double bass can be included.
There are several names similar to concert band like wind band, symphonic band, symphonic winds, wind orchestra, wind symphony, wind ensemble, or symphonic wind ensemble. Many people frequently confused concert band with brass band or marching band. The differences between them come from the orchestration.
The songs written for the concert band are much more easy to listen because of its repertoires. The repertoires are not only about the orchestral composition. Light music, jazz, march and popular tunes are also played. Even though people don't have special knowledge about it, anyone can enjoy the concert band music. It is highly acclaimed for both its quality and popularity. As the arrangement of concert band music is completed in the 20th century,its modern and dynamic style appeals general public. Plus, many conductors conduct concert bands attracted by its unique orchestration.
A concert band can be divided into four groups; Professional bands, Military bands, School bands, and Community bands. Except for the professional bands, others are named for the location where the performers play.
Performers playing in the professional band consider the concert band members as their job. There are many professinal bands in the world. 
A concert band in the military are called Military bands. Because the repertoires are dynamic and active, concert bands usually perform in the army. Not only the military bands but also marching bands with brass often used for marching there.
School bands refer to the groups consisting student players in school. In elementary, middle, high school and university, there are many students playing wind instruments for a concert or event. People included here also can be divided into two groups. Playing them as their hobbies or studying them as their majors.
A community band is a community-based ensemble. It is sponsored by town or city. Some are professional players but the others may not. Community bands also include the union based on their workplace.
A wind instrument in which sound is produced by the vibration of reeds in the mouthpiece, as a bassoon, clarinet, oboe, or saxophone, or by the passing of air across the mouthpiece, as a flute.
A brass instrument is defined as an “aerophone,” which means it is an instrument where the musician must blow air into the instrument. The musician produces the tone by buzzing the lips into what is generally a cup-shaped mouthpiece. It doesn’t mean that the instrument is necessarily made of brass, since instruments that are made of other metals, wood, horn, or even animal bone are included in the family of brass instruments. Likewise, other instruments that are made of brass or metals, such as the flute or saxophone, are not brass instruments.
A percussion instrument is an instrument, such as a drum, xylophone, piano, or maraca, in which sound is produced by one object striking another or by being scraped or shaken.

</doc>
<doc id="375057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375057" title="Masato Nakae">
Masato Nakae

Masato Nakae (December 20, 1917-September 4, 1998) was a United States Army soldier. He received the Medal of Honor because of his actions in World War II.
Nakae was born in Hawaii to Japanese immigrant parents. He is a "Nisei", which means that he is a second generation Japanese-American.
Two months after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Nakae joined the US Army in February 1942.
Nakae volunteered to be part of the all-"Nisei" 100th Infantry Battalion. This army unit was mostly made up of Japanese Americans from Hawaii and the mainland.
For his actions in August 1944, Nakae was awarded the Army's second-highest decoration, the Distinguished Service Cross (DSC). In the 1990s, there was a review of service records of Asian Americans who received the DSC during World War II. Nakae's award was upgraded to the Medal of Honor. In a ceremony at the White House on June 21, 2000, his family was presented with his medal by President Bill Clinton. Twenty-one other Asian Americans also received the medal during the ceremony, but only seven of them were still alive.
Nakae's Medal of Honor recognized his conduct in fighting in northern Italy in 1944. He held off an enemy attack and continued to fight after being wounded.
The words of Nakae's citation explain:
Private Masato Nakae distinguished himself by extraordinary heroism in action on August 19, 1944, near Pisa, Italy. When his submachine gun was damaged by a shell fragment during a fierce attack by a superior enemy force, Private Nakae quickly picked up his wounded comrade’s M-1 rifle and fired rifle grenades at the steadily advancing enemy. As the hostile force continued to close in on his position, Private Nakae threw six grenades and forced them to withdraw. During a concentrated enemy mortar barrage that preceded the next assault by the enemy force, a mortar shell fragment seriously wounded Private Nakae. Despite his injury, he refused to surrender his position and continued firing at the advancing enemy. By inflicting heavy casualties on the enemy force, he finally succeeded in breaking up the attack and caused the enemy to withdraw. Private Nakae’s extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit on him, his unit, and the United States Army.

</doc>
<doc id="375063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375063" title="Category:1763 disestablishments">
Category:1763 disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="375064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375064" title="Category:1663 establishments">
Category:1663 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="375065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375065" title="Category:1636 establishments">
Category:1636 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="375066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375066" title="Category:1776 disestablishments">
Category:1776 disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="375067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375067" title="Category:1770s disestablishments">
Category:1770s disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="375084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375084" title="Maeshowe">
Maeshowe

Maeshowe, also known as Orkhaugr, a burial mound in Orkney, Scotland, with underground passage graves. It was built during the Neolithic period, about 3000 years ago. It has been included in the World Heritage Site, Heart of Neolithic Orkney.
The mound used to be taller, with a depression in the top, looking like a small volcano. It measured 11 meters in height and had a diameter of 30 meters. This was changed in 1861 when the mound was dug into by archaeologist James Farrer.
It was built on a raised level area and surrounded by a ditch and a raised bank. It may have been built on top of an earlier structure. Research shows that the ditch used to be filled with water, and there was a large stone circle around the mound. The grave itself is a long narrow entrance opening into a large chamber. There are three smaller rooms which open into the main chamber. It has been built to line up with the sun at the Winter Solstice.
Maeshowe had been dug up in the 12th century by the Vikings. It has many Norse carvings on the rocks.

</doc>
<doc id="375102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375102" title="Clare Hall, Cambridge">
Clare Hall, Cambridge

Clare Hall is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. It was built in 1966. It has about 145 postgraduate students (students that already have a degree). It allows both men and women but no undergraduate students. It is one of the smallest colleges but has 125 Fellows (teachers), making the ratio fellows/students very high. 
The college was built by Clare College to make it easier for people who are not students anymore to come back to university and do further education. This is why the college has many facilities for families and for sports.

</doc>
<doc id="375104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375104" title="Corpus Christi College, Cambridge">
Corpus Christi College, Cambridge

Corpus Christi College (full name:The College of Corpus Christi and the Blessed Virgin Mary) is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. It was built in 1352 and is special because it was created by local people living in Cambridge, not by royals or nobles as most of the other colleges. It is one of the smallest colleges with about 450 students.
Corpus Christi College has the oldest court in Europe, Old Court, finished in 1356. The New Court, that also has the chapel (small church), was built in 1827. On the corner of the student's library there is the Corpus Clock, a clock made of gold which has a very complicated mechanism. The clock is visible on the main street of Cambridge, King's Parade. The college has another library, the "Parker library", that has very old and precious books.
Some very famous people have studied here, like Thomas Cavendish.

</doc>
<doc id="375110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375110" title="Ipse dixit">
Ipse dixit

Ipse dixit is a Latin phrase which means "He, himself, said it". 
In logic, "ipse dixit" is known as the bare assertion fallacy. One form of the fallacy may be summarized as follows:
A bare assertion denies that an issue is debatable. In other words, that's just the way it is. In "Alice in Wonderland", the problem of "ipse dixit" is explained by example.
    "When "I" use a word," Humpty Dumpty said, in rather a scornful tone, "it means just what I choose it to mean—neither more nor less."
    "The question is," said Alice, "whether you "can" make words mean so many different things."
    "The question is," said Humpty Dumpty, "which is to be master      that's all."
The most basic way to distort an issue is to deny that it exists.
"Ipse dixit" is used to identify and describe a dogmatic statement which the speaker expects the listener to accept as valid. "Ipse dixit" is a sort of arbitrary dogmatism. The only proof we have of the fact is that this person said it.
The theory of "ipse dixit" involves that an unproven statement that the speaker claims is true because it was uttered by "an authority" on the subject. The opinion may carry some weight based solely on the authority or standing of the person said it. 
In the "De natura deorum" ("On the Nature of the Gods"), the Roman writer Cicero (106–43 BC) coined the term "ipse dixit" as an error in law. Cicero was describing the students of Pythagoras.
Jeremy Bentham changed the term "ipse-dixit" into the word "ipse-dixitism". He created this term to apply to political arguments.
"Ipse dixit" is made specific in American law. For example, in a 1997 case, the US Supreme Court recognized the problem of "opinion evidence which is connected to existing data only by the "ipse dixit" of an expert".

</doc>
<doc id="375112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375112" title="Darwin College, Cambridge">
Darwin College, Cambridge

Darwin College is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. It was built in 1964, and it was the first college to have both men and women as students. The college has about 650 students: they are all postgraduate since Darwin does not allow undergraduates. The name comes from the famous scientist Charles Darwin and his family.
Some very famous people have studied here, like Elizabeth Blackburn. She won the 2009 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in medicine.
It is on the bank of River Cam opposite to Queens' College.

</doc>
<doc id="375116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375116" title="Downing College, Cambridge">
Downing College, Cambridge

Downing College is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. It was built in 1800 and has around 650 students.
The name comes from Sir George Downing, who left money and land in his will to build a college when he died in 1749. However, not everyone in the family agreed with this. So, for many years until 1800 there were fights in courts until the judges decided that the will should be followed.
Some very famous people have studied at Downing College, like Quentin Blake, John Cleese and Thandie Newton.
Rawle, Tim, "A Classical Adventure: The Architectural History of Downing College, Cambridge", Cantabrigia, Oxbridge Portfolio, 2015, ISBN 978 0 9572867 4 0

</doc>
<doc id="375123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375123" title="Höðr">
Höðr

Höðr (also written Hodhr, Hothr, Hothur, Hoder, Hodur, Hodor, Hodr) is the blind twin brother of Baldur and a son of Odin and Frigg in Norse mythology.
He is depicted as having his eyes closed or covering them completely. Höðr is associated as the god of winter and the cold as well as being the god of darkness unlike his brother Baldur who is god of light. The only source of information of him thus far is when he is seen as being manipulated and tricked by Loki, and therefore accidentally kills his brother Baldur by throwing a shaft of mistletoe and piercing him in the heart. 
Höðr's sworn enemy is Váli_(son_of_Odin) who is born to avenge his brother's death by killing Höðr. It was said that after Ragnarök, Höðr and Baldur shall survive to rule alongside each other.

</doc>
<doc id="375137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375137" title="The Power Within">
The Power Within

The Power Within is the fifth studio album by DragonForce. It was released on April 11, 2012 in Japan and on April 15, 2012 worldwide. It is the first album to have Mark Hudson on vocals.

</doc>
<doc id="375145" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375145" title="Category:American terrorists">
Category:American terrorists


</doc>
<doc id="375146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375146" title="Category:Arsonists">
Category:Arsonists


</doc>
<doc id="375147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375147" title="Category:Arson">
Category:Arson


</doc>
<doc id="375148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375148" title="John Hancock Tower">
John Hancock Tower

The John Hancock Tower, also called Hancock Place, The Hancock Tower, or The Hancock, is a 60-story, 790-foot (241 m) skyscraper in Boston. It was named for the John Hancock Insurance company. The tower was designed by Henry N. Cobb and was completed in 1976. It has been the tallest building in Boston for more than 30 years. It is also the tallest building in New England.
Its street address is 200 Clarendon Street. At first, John Hancock Insurance primarily used the building, but after 2004, some offices moved to a new building.
The John Hancock Tower was designed in 1972. It is a glass monolith. It was made in the minimalist and the modernist skyscraper design.
The largest panes of glass possible were used. There are no spandrel panels, and very few mullions. The floor plan has a parallelogram shape. The window glass is tinted slightly blue.
The tower has an observation deck that was a famous attraction. However, the observation deck was closed after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks.
In 2006, Broadway Partners bought Hancock Place for $1.3 billion. By 2009, they had defaulted on the loans they used to buy the building, and it was forclosed. On March 30, 2009, Hancock Place was sold at auction for $660 million to a consortium of "Normandy Real Estate Partners" and "Five Mile Capital Partners". In October 2010, Boston Properties bought the John Hancock Tower for $930 million.
The Hancock Tower was built by "John Hancock Insurance".

</doc>
<doc id="375150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375150" title="4th century BC">
4th century BC

The 4th century BC started the first day of 400 BC and ended the last day of 301 BC.

</doc>
<doc id="375165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375165" title="Theophrastus">
Theophrastus

Theophrastus (Greek: Θεόφραστος; c. 371 – c. 287 BC), a Greek native of Eresos in Lesbos, was the successor to Aristotle in the Peripatetic school. 
He came to Athens at a young age and studied in Plato's school. After Plato's death, he attached himself to Aristotle. Aristotle bequeathed to Theophrastus his writings and designated him as his successor at the Lyceum. 
Theophrastus led the Peripatetic school for thirty-six years, during which time the school flourished greatly. He is often considered the "father of botany" for his works on plants. After his death, the Athenians honoured him with a public funeral. His successor as head of the school was Strato of Lampsacus.

</doc>
<doc id="375172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375172" title="Category:People from Copenhagen">
Category:People from Copenhagen


</doc>
<doc id="375173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375173" title="JYJ">
JYJ

JYJ (formerly known as Junsu/Jejung/Yuchun in Japan) is a boy group made up of three members who are formed by the former members of South Korean group TVXQ, in 2010. JYJ members are Jaejoong, Yuchun, and Junsu. Their group name is taken from the first letter of each member's name.
The group has released two studio albums so far. Because they were at law with SM entertainment, JYJ did many concert over the world after 2010.
On July 31, 2009, the three TVXQ members who became JYJ, filed a lawsuit against SM entertainment. They argued that the their contracts' period was too long for 13-year length excluding the military service and that the profit distribution was disadvantageous towards the artists. So they maintained their contracts should be invalidated. In addition, the former three TVXQ members applied for an injunction that was the same as the lawsuit to engage their entertainment activities. The Seoul Central District Court in October 2009 ruled in favor of JYJ affirming their right to independently engage in entertainment activities and granted JYJ's injunction suspending the JYJSM entertainment contract.
The three members of JYJ continued their activities as TVXQ in Japanin the end of 2009 for over half a year after the filing of the injunction until their Japanese agency, Avex, announced a group hiatus in early 2010.
JYJ members who were known as Junsu/Jejung/Yuchun in Japan continued their entertainment activities for over half a year after the filing of the injunction until their Japanese agency, Avex, announced a group hiatus in 2010. At Japan, JYJ performed the live concerts, "Thanksgiving live in Dome concerts" in June. They also had performances at the nationwide a-nation tour throughout August. JYJ's debut album, "The...", was released in September 2010, and debuted at number one on Oricon albums charts in the first week.
JYJ members made a contract with C-Jes Entertainment in Korea.
In September 2010, Avex Entertainment announced plans to suspend all of JYJ's Japanese activities claiming this stemmed from issues the label had with the president of JYJ's Korean management, C-JeS Entertainment.
JYJ released their worldwide debut album, "The beginning", on October 12 with "Ayyy Girl" as a lead track.
JYJ promoted their new album, "The beginning", through the worldwide showcase tour in South Korea, Southes Asia, and the United States.
On November 27 and 28, they performed "JYJ Worldwide Concert in Seoul", two-day concerts that were held at Seoul's Jamsil Olympic Stadium.
JYJ released their Korean EP, "Their Rooms "Our Story"" on January 25, 2011 in the format of a "music essay".
On 17 February 2011, the Seoul Central District Court dismissed SM Entertainment's injunction against the three members, filed in April 2010 for damage compensation.
In the spring of 2011, JYJ performed their first Worldwide concert Tours that were held in Thailand, Taiwan, China, Canada, and the United States. They finished their fist Worldwide concert tours with performing two special encore concerts in South Korea on June.
In September, JYJ released their first Korean studio album entitled "In Heaven".
JYJ extended their World Tour by adding performance dates in Barcelona, Spain on October 29 and in Berlin, Germany on November 6.
In January 2012, C-JeS announced two more concert dates, with Santiago, Chile being March 9 and Lima, Peru March 11. JYJ's first Worldwide concer tour came to the end in South America. 
On February 23, JYJ released a 90-minute film titled "The Day". It is a documentary film featuring their daily lives and dreams and a kind of fan events.
Starting on June 28, JYJ held the first and the largest-scale international fan fair for free in South Korea. This event was the big event expressing JYJ's thanks for fans and was opened for 4 days—from June 28 to July 1—at SETEC (Seoul Trade Exhibition & Conventions) at Hak Yeo Ul station. This membership week included photographic and video-based exhibitions of the band, as well as two sets of fan meetings. Because of great fan's cheering, JYJ's representative C-JeS Entertainment announced that this Membership Week event will be held annually.
On 28 November 2012, during a voluntary arbitration at the Seoul Central District Court, SM Entertainment and JYJ have reached a mutual agreement to terminate all contracts between the two parties and not to interfere with each other's activities in the future. At last, concluding the three years and four months, exclusive contract lawsuit came to the end.
concerts
Documentaries

</doc>
<doc id="375174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375174" title="Commodores">
Commodores

The Commodores are an American funk and soul music group who were most popular in the 1970s and 1980s. The band was formed in 1968 in Tuskegee, Alabama, and signed with Motown. Their hit songs include "Three Times a Lady", "Easy" and "Brick House". During the early times, Lionel Richie sang with the Commodores.

</doc>
<doc id="375181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375181" title="Category:Salvadoran people">
Category:Salvadoran people


</doc>
<doc id="375190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375190" title="Cops (TV series)">
Cops (TV series)

Cops is an American documentary-styled television reality show which follows police officers, constables and deputies during patrols and other activities which began in March 1989 and has been aired in many countries. The show is broadcasted through Fox and has been shown in over 100 cities in the United States. Every episode is about twenty two minutes long.

</doc>
<doc id="375191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375191" title="Category:1760s disestablishments">
Category:1760s disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="375192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375192" title="Hydrophone">
Hydrophone

Hydrophone is a microphone which is used to measure sound under water. It uses an echolocation system. You would use a hydrophone if you wanted to examine the sound of fish or maybe if you wanted to listen to find out if there is any sea creature in this part of the ocean. Using several hydrophones make the sound better by making it louder and making it able to reach further distances it is even possible to listen in a specific direction. 
The first hydrophone was used by , a Canadian inventor in 1914. 

</doc>
<doc id="375193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375193" title="Narva">
Narva

Narva is the third biggest city in Estonia. Around 64,000 people were living in Narva as of January 2011. Danish people established Narva in 1223.

</doc>
<doc id="375196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375196" title="Rochester, Kent">
Rochester, Kent

Rochester is a place in Medway, North Kent. It is famous for Rochester Cathedral.

</doc>
<doc id="375198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375198" title="8th century BC">
8th century BC

The 8th century BC started the first day of 800 BC and ended the last day of 701 BC.

</doc>
<doc id="375200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375200" title="Medway">
Medway

Medway is a large urban area in North Kent, near South East London. It has around a quarter of a million people. The Medway Towns are made up of 5 towns: Strood, Rochester, Chatham, Gillingham and Rainham. It is named after the River Medway.

</doc>
<doc id="375201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375201" title="Karhu">
Karhu

Karhu (in english "The Bear") is Finnish brand of beer. It is the most popular beer in Finland. Its history begins in 1920, in Pori. Production of Karhu stopped in the early 1930s, but continued again from 1958.

</doc>
<doc id="375202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375202" title="Kruskal's algorithm">
Kruskal's algorithm

Kruskal's algorithm is a greedy algorithm to find a minimum spanning tree in a weighted, undirected graph. Joseph Kruskal first described it in 1956:
In this case, the shortest edge is the one with the lowest weight.
Download the example data.

</doc>
<doc id="375204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375204" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/4th millennium">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/4th millennium


</doc>
<doc id="375205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375205" title="Gillingham">
Gillingham

Gillingham is a large town in Medway, North Kent. It has around 105,000 people, and a football team, Gillingham F.C..

</doc>
<doc id="375210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375210" title="Koff">
Koff

Koff is Finnish brand of beer. Koff is one of the most popular beers in Finland. It is made by Sinebrychoffs, a Finnish company that advertices lager beers.

</doc>
<doc id="375211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375211" title="Olvi">
Olvi

Olvi is Finnish brand of beer. Olvi is mostly made from Finnish ingredients, besides "Humulus lupulus", which is from Bavaria.

</doc>
<doc id="375215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375215" title="Lapin Kulta">
Lapin Kulta

Lapin Kulta is Finnish, Hartwalls brand of beer. Traditionally it's been made in Tornio but 2010 production moved to Lahti.

</doc>
<doc id="375225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375225" title="A Werewolf Boy">
A Werewolf Boy

'A Werewolf Boy' is a South Korean fantasy romance movie. It did well at the box office in 2012. The movie has been a huge box-office success by drawing audiences totaling 6,600,000 people in less than two months. The movie's lyrical atmosphere and the performance of the stars caught audiences’ eyes.
The movie starts with a flashback told by a grandmother, Suni. When a girl, Suni, lived in an isolated mountain village for her recuperation in 1965. A boy who looks like a beggar suddenly appeared. Nobody knows his origin, his family and how old he is. He cannot speak. He only growls like an aniimal. At first, Suni and can't get used to his strange behavior such as eating food with his hands ravenously. They grow fond of him gradually, so they named the boy Chulsu.
Jitae, who is a landlord of the house Suni is living, loves her. He begrudges Chulsu being close to Suni. With experts and old documents, Jitae found out that Chulsu was one of the abandoned children in the Korean war. Now he is a kind of werewolf boy. He is genetically modified by a scientist to make a more powerful soldier. Jitae slandered Chulsu because Chulsu has extreme strength unlike a normal human being. His body temperature is 46 degrees Celsius. Because of Jitae’s lies, people try to kill Chul-su to protect themselves. Suni decides to leave the village to keep him from being injured.
After 47 years, when Suni visits the village to sell the house, she sees Chulsu again. She is moved by his long waiting. Chulsu reads a fairy tale book to Suni which they promised to read together 47 years ago. However, she has to leave him again and return to America. She leaves a message "Wait for me." again as she did when she was young. Chulsu waits for her believing that she will come back again someday.
The main actor, is a famous Korean actor. He achieves popularity through various kinds of movies and dramas. For example, , , "The innocent Man" and "Hearty Paws 2". The main actress, , is also a widely loved actress who made a big name through the movie "Speedy Scandle". Both of them rose to more fame with the movie "A Werewolf Boy".
"My prince", song by Park Bo-young
This is the song Suni sings to the accompaniment of a guitar for Chulsu in the movie. By seeing her singing mellifluously, Chulsu fell in love with her.

</doc>
<doc id="375228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375228" title="Harnai District">
Harnai District

Harnai District () is a district in the Balochistan Province of Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="375234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375234" title="Mega (Chile)">
Mega (Chile)

Mega, whose letters stand for Red Televisiva Megavisión, is a Chilean television network.

</doc>
<doc id="375235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375235" title="Chilevisión">
Chilevisión

Chilevisión, whose letters stand for Red de Televisión Chilevisión, is a Chilean television network.

</doc>
<doc id="375248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375248" title="Category:People from Barcelona">
Category:People from Barcelona


</doc>
<doc id="375249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375249" title="Category:Spanish people by location">
Category:Spanish people by location


</doc>
<doc id="375250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375250" title="Coloratura">
Coloratura

Coloratura is a term meaning florid singing in which singers demonstrate great agility with their voices. Although often associated with light sopranos, it can apply to any voice type such as tenor, mezzo-soprano, baritone, bass, especially in the bel canto repertoire.

</doc>
<doc id="375254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375254" title="High intensity training">
High intensity training

High Intensity Training (HIT) is a form of strength training popularized in the 1970s by Arthur Jones. HIT focuses on performing quality weight training repetitions to the point of momentary muscular failure. The training takes into account the number of repetitions, the amount of weight, and the amount of time the muscle is exposed to muscle tension in order to maximize the amount of muscle fiber recruitment. One of the possible examples of HIT is illustrated in the animation of partial squats below:

</doc>
<doc id="375280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375280" title="Beth Hatefutsoth">
Beth Hatefutsoth

The Nahum Goldmann Museum of the Jewish Diaspora (or "Beth Hatefutsoth") is an history and anthropology museum in Tel Aviv, Israel. It is dedicated to the Jewish communities around the world. The museum was established in 1978 after 10 years of building. The museum is a part of the Tel Aviv University campus and also has an educational center to study about Jewish folklore. The museum is also a center to documenting and preserving the memory of Jews and Jewish families who have been killed or destroyed in anti-Semitic incidents.

</doc>
<doc id="375281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375281" title="International Institute for Terrorism Research">
International Institute for Terrorism Research

International Institute for Terrorism Research or International Institute for Counter-Terrorism (ICT) is an international non-profit research center located in Herzliya Interdisciplinary Center (IDC), Israel. The center explores terrorism in Israel and around the world and organizes international meetings with politicians from around the world.

</doc>
<doc id="375282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375282" title="1923 Great Kantō earthquake">
1923 Great Kantō earthquake

The was a Japanese natural disaster in the Kantō region of the island of Honshū. The earthquake struck at 11:58:44 am JST (2:58:44 UTC) on Saturday, September 1, 1923. It lasted between 4 and 10 minutes.
This earthquake destroyed Tokyo, the port city of Yokohama, surrounding prefectures of Chiba, Kanagawa, and Shizuoka. It caused widespread damage. About 140,000 people died.

</doc>
<doc id="375285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375285" title="Tom Daley">
Tom Daley

Tom Daley (born 21 May 1994) is an English diver. He was born in Plymouth, Devon. He mainly dives from the 10 metre platform, both on his own and in synchro (diving at the same time with another person). He became the World Champion at the age of 15 in 2009.
Daley went to the 2008 Summer Olympics where he was the youngest athlete for Britain. He also went to the 2012 Summer Olympics where he came third in the 10 metre platform event. He has won many other medals. For example, at the 2010 Commonwealth Games he won two golds in the 10 metre platform: one for the individual event, the other for the synchro event with Peter Waterfield.
He has won the BBC Award for Young Personality of the Year three times.
He grew up in Eggbuckland, Plymouth with his mother Debbie, father Rob and two younger brothers, Ben and Will. He went to school at the Thruston Primary School in Plymouth and later went to Plymouth College. He started swimming when he was 3, and diving when he was 7. He did his first international competition when he was 11. In 2013, he stated that he is in a relationship with a man. In 2014, he stated that he is gay.

</doc>
<doc id="375286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375286" title="Emmanuel College, Cambridge">
Emmanuel College, Cambridge

Emmanuel College is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. It was built in 1584 and has around 650 students. Emmanuel has the tradition of doing very well in the exams.
Some very famous people have studied at this College, like Graham Chapman.
In 2006 the Dean of Emmanuel College said that same sex couples can have civil partnerships at Emmanuel's Chapel. This made it the first in the Church of England to allow this.

</doc>
<doc id="375287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375287" title="Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge">
Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge

Fitzwilliam College is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. It is often called Fitz from the students. It was created in 1966, but it is based on earlier student groups and associations. These began in 1869 with the idea of helping poor people to study at Cambridge. Today the college has around 750 students and is one of the largest. Fitzwilliam has the tradition of doing quite well in the sports.
Some very famous people have studied at this College, like Charles Scott Sherrington and Albert Szent-Györgyi who both won Nobel Prizes.
The name of the college comes from the Fitzwilliam family.

</doc>
<doc id="375290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375290" title="Girton College, Cambridge">
Girton College, Cambridge

Girton College is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. It was built in 1869 and it was the first college for women. It was given official status only in 1948, when women were allowed in the university. In 1976, it started allowing men too. The college has about 700 students.
The college is about 2.5 miles (4 km) away from the university town. It takes the name from the village where it is found, Girton.
Some very famous people have studied at this Girton, like Queen Margrethe II of Denmark.
It has one of the biggest libraries in Cambridge.

</doc>
<doc id="375291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375291" title="Federation of Genealogical Societies">
Federation of Genealogical Societies

The Federation of Genealogical Societies is a non-profit organization and consortium of Genealogy Societies. Its headquarters are located in Austin, Texas in the United States. It works with genealogy organizations around the world. 

</doc>
<doc id="375292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375292" title="Pendulum (band)">
Pendulum (band)

Pendulum are an Australian/British drum and bass duo from Perth, Western Australia. The duo consists of Paul Harding and Ben Mount.
The band was created in 2002 by Rob Swire, Gareth McGrillen, and Paul Harding. The live members of the band left in 2012 to focus on other projects with Swire and McGrillen leaving to create the band Knife Party. The DJ set for the band is still active though.
They released their debut album "Hold Your Colour" on 25 July 2005. Their second album "In Silico" was released on May 12, 2008 in Europe and on May 13, 2008 in North America. They released their final studio album "Immersion" with the live band on 21 May 2010. 

</doc>
<doc id="375294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375294" title="Ryan Longwell">
Ryan Longwell

Ryan Longwell (born August 16, 1974) was an NFL kicker from 1997-2012. He went to college in California. He played for the Green Bay Packers and the Minnesota Vikings. His jersey number was 8.

</doc>
<doc id="375297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375297" title="Jovan Belcher">
Jovan Belcher

Jovan Belcher (July 24, 1987 – December 1, 2012) was an American football player. He was a line backer in the NFL for the Kansas City Chiefs. He was a student at the University of Maine. He played in the NFL from 2009 until his death.
Belcher was born in West Babylon, New York.
On the evening of December 1, 2012 in Kansas City, Missouri, he shot his partner dead and committed suicide by shooting himself.

</doc>
<doc id="375299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375299" title="Ted Bulley">
Ted Bulley

Ted Bulley (born March 25, 1955) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey player. He played in the National Hockey League (NHL) player from 1976-1984. He played the left wing position. He was born in Windsor, Ontario in Canada. For most of his career he played for the Chicago Blackhawks.

</doc>
<doc id="375300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375300" title="Bunny Roser">
Bunny Roser

Bunny Roser (November 15, 1901 – May 6, 1979) was a former baseball player for the Boston Braves. He was a left fielder. He was born in St. Louis, Missouri. He died in Rocky Hill, Connecticut at the age of 77.

</doc>
<doc id="375301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375301" title="Mutant (movie)">
Mutant (movie)

Mutant is a 1983 American horror movie that was directed by John Cardos and Mark Rosman. It has a restricted rating. The film has zombies in it. It stars Wings Hauser.

</doc>
<doc id="375311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375311" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/American Revolutionary War 1780">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/American Revolutionary War 1780


</doc>
<doc id="375313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375313" title="Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Rollback/Archives/2012/December/Done">
Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Rollback/Archives/2012/December/Done


</doc>
<doc id="375315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375315" title="Fundamental force">
Fundamental force

The four fundamental forces are the ways that all things in nature affect each other. These forces are called gravity, electromagnetism, the weak force, and the strong force.
It is thought by most physicists that three of these forces (electromagnetism, the weak force, and the strong force) become a single force under very high temperatures. This idea is known as the grand unification theory.
Gravity is the force that pulls all common objects to each other.

</doc>
<doc id="375324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375324" title="Platt Amendment">
Platt Amendment

The Platt Amendment was an amendment made in 1901 to a resolution of the United States Congress. It said that all treaties with Cuba had to be approved by the U.S. Senate and the U.S. had the right to interfere in Cuba's affairs if order broke down within Cuba. It also declared Guantánamo Bay to be U.S. territory.

</doc>
<doc id="375325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375325" title="Bob Schieffer">
Bob Schieffer

Bob Lloyd Schieffer (born February 25, 1937) is an American television journalist and news anchor for "60 Minutes" and for "CBS Evening News". He has been the moderator for "Face the Nation" for twenty-four years. May 21, 2015, is scheduled to be the last time he will be its moderator. He won six Emmy Awards.
Schieffer was born on February 25, 1937 in Austin, Texas. He studied at the Texas Christian University. Schieffer is married to Patricia Penrose. They have two children. He now lives in Washington, D.C. and in Austin, Texas. 

</doc>
<doc id="375327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375327" title="Wakeboarding">
Wakeboarding

Wakeboarding is a water sport that involves riding a wakeboard over the surface of a body of water. The rider is usually towed behind a motorboat. This sport, that appeared in the beginning of the eighties, has been inspired by surfing, water skiing and snowboarding.
To practice wakeboarding, a boat, a rope and a board are necessary. If the rider wants to do bigger jumps or tricks, he needs a tower. The waves created by the boat act like a ski jump for the surfer.
In 1985, Tonny Finn, a surfer, marketed the "Skurfer". It was a board inspired by surfing and water skiing. The "Skurfer" was thick and it had an aileron at his back. 
In 1987, the "Skurfer" board was introduced in France by Maurice Lejeune.
In 1989, Jimmy Redmond founded the World Wakeboard Association (WWA).
In 1990, the first official competition was taking place in Orlando, Florida, United States, while the first wakeboard was marketing.
In 1993, the first world wakeboard championship was organised in United States by the WWA.
In 1994, the riders Gilles Becker, Franck Ropéro and Pierre Bergia established the ANW (Association Nationale de Wakeboard).
In 1995, it was the apparition of the "twin tips". The principle of this board has still used today. The "twin tips" has one or more ailerons in its back and its front.
In 2001, wakeboarding became a discipline in the Akita’s World Games of Japan.
In 2004, the first magazine dedicated to the wakeboard, "Unleashed Wakeboard Magazine", was published in France.

</doc>
<doc id="375328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375328" title="Chicago Water Tower">
Chicago Water Tower

The Chicago Water Tower is a Chicago and U.S. historical place tower that is 154 feet (47 m) tall. The tower is believed to be the only tower to survive the Great Chicago Fire in 1871. It is the only tower to be in the fire zone to survive. The building is the symbol of Old Chicago. The tower was built in 1869. The building became a National Historic Landmark in 1975.

</doc>
<doc id="375331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375331" title="Albertus Magnus">
Albertus Magnus

Albertus Magnus, O.P. (1193/1206 – November 15, 1280), also known as Albert the Great and Albert of Cologne, is a Catholic saint. He was a German Dominican friar and a bishop who achieved fame for his comprehensive knowledge of and advocacy for the peaceful coexistence of science and religion. James A. Weisheipl and Joachim R. Söder have referred to him as the greatest German philosopher and theologian of the Middle Ages, an opinion supported by contemporaries such as Roger Bacon. Magnus was born into a rich German family, in Swabia, in about 1200. He attended Padua University, in Italy. He was very knowledgeable about Sciences, and he wrote about chemistry, geometry, astronomy, physiology. He promoted Aristotle’s writings. He later became Master of Theology, which is the study of religion and God, in the University of Paris. He also created a school in Cologne, in 1248. Magnus died on November 15, 1280, in Cologne, Germany. 250 years after his death, he was named a Saint because he helped and contributed to the Catholic Church.

</doc>
<doc id="375332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375332" title="Category:African American players of American football">
Category:African American players of American football


</doc>
<doc id="375333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375333" title="Category:Murder-suicides">
Category:Murder-suicides


</doc>
<doc id="375335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375335" title="Antônio Carlos Jobim">
Antônio Carlos Jobim

Antônio Carlos Jobim (January 25, 1927 – December 8, 1994) was a Brazilian musician of the 20th century. He was a songwriter, composer, singer, and pianist/guitarist. He and João Gilberto developed bossa nova as a genre of music. He is a co-creator of bossa nova. He is widely known as the composer of "The girl from Ipanema". The representative album "Wave" counts among his major works. Besides, He created much great bossa nova music. His songs have been performed by many singers and instrumentalists and loved by people.
Antônio Carlos Jobim was born in the Tijuca, in Rio de Janeiro. He came from a prominent family. After his parents separated, he was raised in Ipanema. At the age of ten, he started to play piano and compose. His life as a musician began at the age of 20. As a 20-year-old, Jobim earned his living by playing in night clubs before achieving success.
Jobim made his name as a musician when he teamed up with poet and diplomat Vinícius de Moraes to write the music for the play "Orfeu de Conceição" (1956). That time, A Felicidade, Frevo, and Nosso Amor were composed. A key event in making Jobim's music known in the world was his collaboration with saxophonist Stan Getz, João Gilberto. Especially Jobim wrote many of the songs with Getz/Gilberto, which became one of the best-selling jazz albums of all time.
His songs "The Girl from Ipanema" and "Corcovado" also became sensations. Getz/Gilberto won the Grammy Award for Album of the Year. "The Girl from Ipanema" won the Grammy Award for Record of the Year in 1965.
Jobim is one of the most important songwriters of the 20th century. Jobim's song has sophisticated harmonic structures. Some of his melodic twists, like the melody insisting on the major seventh of the chord, became common use in jazz and easy listening music after him.
As Brazilians have loved him so much, the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro changed the name of Rio's Galeão International Airport to Galeão - Antônio Carlos Jobim Airport.

</doc>
<doc id="375337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375337" title="Bossa nova">
Bossa nova

Bossa nova is a type of Brazilian music. Bossa nova means literally "new trend". Antonio Carlos Jobim and João Gilberto developed bossa nova as a genre. The first bossa nova single to achieve international popularity was "The Girl From Ipanema".
The bossa nova musical style evolved from samba but is more complex harmonically and less percussive. Joachim Ernst Berendt, the writer of a jazz book, said that bossa nova is a combination of samba and cool jazz. The influence on bossa nova of jazz styles is often debated, but a similar "cool sensibility" is apparent.
Bossa nova is usually performed on classical guitar and piano. It often performed with percussion and strings.

</doc>
<doc id="375339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375339" title="Charles Bridge">
Charles Bridge

Charles Bridge is the oldest stone bridge in Europe. It had been constructed from 1357 to 1400. Until 1841, this was the only bridge to connect old street of Prague. It also played an very important role as the trade route between East and West zone of Prague. At first, it was called just "Stone Bridge" or "Praha Bridge." But it had the name of "Charles Bridge" since 1870.
The bridge is 516 meters in length and 10 meters in width. Also, it has 16 arches. At a railing of the bridge, there are thirty sculptures of saint who are famous in the Bible and History. Except the sculpture of "Jan Hus", all of sculptures are made of sandstone. Some sculptures were made in the "Age of Baroque" but most of sculptures were imitated.
There has been legend in this bridge. If a person touches the statue of Sanctus Loannes Nepomucenus saying the hope, the hope will come true. This is because Nepomucenus was the confessor of the queen of Bohemia. But one day king wanted to know what the queen confessed. This was because the king had a doubt that the queen had an affair with another man. However, Nepomucenus did not tell anything to king and resisted to the bitter end. So the king made Nepomucenus fall in the river. So Nepomucenus got drowned. However, He was respected as the Saint right after his death.

</doc>
<doc id="375340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375340" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Jahméne Douglas">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Jahméne Douglas


</doc>
<doc id="375342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375342" title="Gamla stan">
Gamla stan

Gamla Stan is an old section of Stockholm, the capital of Sweden. Gamla Stan consists of three islands, Stadsholmen, Riddarholmen and Helgeandsholmen. The main buildings such as the National Assembly Building, the royal palace and the Cathedral are located here. Gamla Stan whose meaning is a small town is known to be built first in 13th century. Thus, there are a lot of old buildings in Gamla Stan and they were built in 17th or 18th century. They have very long history. After crossing the bridge in front of Royal Swedish Opera theater, there is the National Assembly Building. This building is the entrance of Gamla Stan and connects the old town, Gamla Stan, and the new town. The royal palace is just after the entrance and there are a lot of buildings which make you feel like in middle ages. 
The center of Gamla Stan is Stortorget square. This square has a sad history. Christian II killed more than 80 of the leading members of Sweden and buried their necks in the well. This is called the Stockholm massacre. In this square, there are Nobel Museum in one side and buildings built from 13th century to 19th century. Also, a lot of shops are placed in narrow alleyways. Up north from the square, the stock exchange built in 1776 and the Sweden Academy headquarters which selects the Nobel Prize winner are located.
In addition, there are a lot of famous tourist spots, such as Morten Trozigsgrand, which is the narrowest alley in Gamla Stan and as wide as 90cm, and the German Church. Since Gamla Stan preserves the image of middle ages very well, it can be one of the most famous tourist place in Sweden.

</doc>
<doc id="375345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375345" title="Category:Mountains of Jerusalem">
Category:Mountains of Jerusalem


</doc>
<doc id="375347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375347" title="Cristián de la Fuente">
Cristián de la Fuente

Cristián de la Fuente Sabarots (born 10 March 1974) is a Chilean actor. He studied mechanical engineering in Puerto Rico. He loves sports very much. At first, he was a model.He started acting in small roles in television series and movies. Internationally, he became famous with the movie Driven, from 2001. Today, de la Fuente Sabarots lives in Los Angeles. He is married, and has a daughter.

</doc>
<doc id="375351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375351" title="Kia Tigers">
Kia Tigers

The Kia Tigers is a professional baseball team in Korea. The team started in 1982 with the name of Haitai Tigers. Haitai sold the team to Kia in 2001. They won the Korean Series 9 times as Haitai Tigers (1983, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1991, 1993, 1996, 1997). They won again in 2009. Winning 10 times is the top record among all Korean baseball teams. They never lost the Korean Series so far.
Their main stadium is Mudeung Baseball Stadium in Gwangju.
The Haitai Tigers was the third professional baseball team in Korea, following OB Bears (currently Doosan Bears) and MBC Blue Dragons (currently LG Twins). It started on January 30, 1982 with only 14 players and the manager. In 1983, the team hired Kim Eung-ryong as manager and they won the Korean Series for the first time.
After the team signed Sun Dong-yeol in 1985, the Haitai Tigers Dynasty started. They won the Korean Series for 4 straight years (1986-1989). Another superstar, Lee Jong-beom, made his debut in 1993. He won the Korean Series MVP in his debut season. From 1982 to 1997, the team won the Korean Series 9 times.
Because of the financial problem of Haitai company, the team started to sell many good players including Lee Jong-beom and Lim Chang-yong. 
Kia took over the baseball team and the name was changed to Kia Tigers. Lee Jong-beom returned from Japan and he was retired in 2012. In 2005, the Kia Tigers ended the season in the lowest place for the first time ever. However, in 2009, the team won the Korean Series with Na Ji-wan's dramatic walk-off home-run in the last game. It was the first victory after 1997 and as Kia Tigers. Since 2012, Sun Dong-yeol, the legendary superstar in Tigers, has become the manager of the team.
Pitchers: Yoon Suk-min, Seo Jae-Weong, Kim Jin-woo
Field Players: Lee Yong-kyu, Choi Hee-seop, Lee Bum-ho

</doc>
<doc id="375361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375361" title="Audio mixer">
Audio mixer

An audio mixer is device which is used to mix several sounds together. The user can control the volume on each channel or sound source to be as loud as they want. The amount of channels may vary depending on the mixer. Different sources may be used such as microphones, sound cards and CD players. Usually mixers have pre-amplifiers for microphones and inputs may be balanced.
Each channel has their own volume control but also there is main volume control that changes all channels the same way. Some mixers will also have an equaliser.

</doc>
<doc id="375362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375362" title="Seoul International Fireworks Festival">
Seoul International Fireworks Festival

Seoul International Fireworks Festival is the one of the biggest festivals held in Seoul held by Hanwha group, Korean corporation. In 2000, it was held to wish for successful World Cup 2002 near Yeouido. After that, it has been held annually with Italian, Chinese, American and Korean teams except for 2001, 2006, 2009. In 2001, it was cancelled due to the September 11 attacks. In 2006, it could not be held because North Korea carried out a nuclear test, and in 2009, because of influenza A. The latest festival was held in October 6, 2012, which gathered more than 120 million people. 
The Hanwha Group spends about 1500-million won for the fireworks festival. Each team spends about 200 million won every year. People do not pay any fee to enjoy the festival. As time passes, more and more people are gathering, so the “Hot Places” become crowded 3 hours before the beginning of the festival. The best place to watch the fireworks is in front of 63 Building. People can enjoy sound effects as well near 63 Building. If the place is too crowded to enjoy the festival, Hangang Park is also a good place. If people take the subway to get to the place, they can exit at Yeouinaru Station. If the subway does not stop at Yeouinaru Station around start time of the festival, Yeouido Station is also fine.
The fireworks start around at 8 p.m. and end around at 9 p.m. Before the fireworks start, additional festivals, such as concerts or racing are held.
There is criticism that Hanhwa Group holds the festival only to advertise their company. The president Lee Myung-bak says that Seoul cannot support this festival for advertising the private company. In addition, people who do not go to the festival have to deal with inconvenience because of heavy traffic or if some subway stations are not allowed to approach due to this festival. A lot of trash left is also criticized. In 2011, 25 tons of trash was left after the festival and 130 sanitation engineers cleaned the area until 3 a.m.

</doc>
<doc id="375364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375364" title="Supercapacitor">
Supercapacitor

Supercapacitor is a quite new type of capacitor that has better ability to store energy. Some parts have thought that in future electric cars would use supercapacitors. This also means that mobile phones will be more efficient in holding their charge therefore regular charging will decrease. 

</doc>
<doc id="375369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375369" title="CouchSurfing">
CouchSurfing

CouchSurfing International Inc. is a company based in San Francisco that provides hospitality exchange and social networking. Travellers using the service stay at a host's house, where they sleep on a couch (sofa) or a mattress on the floor. The service is intended to be free of charge; the host does not ask for money from the guest. CouchSurfing is intended to be a cultural exchange program, where the host shows the visitor around their town or local place, and the guest delivers his or her own country's culture.
People using the service must register an account on the CouchSurfing website. They make a full public profile, which shows other users who they are, their interests, what languages they speak, and other information. If they want to host other travellers, users also state the location of their house, and describe their living arrangements, the type of couch they have, and what they can provide for the guests.
Travellers can look for hosts by location, and hosts can find travellers whom have stated their plans to travel to their area. Hosts also list references (recommendations from previous guests), which helps travellers in deciding whether or not a host is reliable. When a traveller applies to stay at a host's place, the host then reviews the traveller's profile and either accepts or rejects the application. If the host says yes, the two users exchange phone numbers and contact each other prior to the meeting.

</doc>
<doc id="375374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375374" title="Independence Square (Ukraine)">
Independence Square (Ukraine)

Independence Square or Maidan Nezalezhnosti is the national public square of Ukraine. The square is located in Kiev, the capital of Ukraine. Most of the buildings in the square were ruined in World War II. Today the square is a centre of public performances and political activity. The Kilometer Zero of Ukraine is located in the square.

</doc>
<doc id="375376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375376" title="Solvent extraction">
Solvent extraction

Solvent extraction, also known as Liquid–liquid extraction or partitioning, is a method to separate a compound based on the solubility of its parts. This is done using two liquids that don't mix, for example water and an organic solvent.
Solvent extraction is used in the processing of perfumes, vegetable oil, or biodiesel. It is also used to recover plutonium from irradiated nuclear fuel, a process which is usually called nuclear reprocessing. The recovered plutonium can then be re-used as nuclear fuel.
In this process one of the components of a mixture dissolves in a particular liquid and the other component is separated as a residue by filtration.

</doc>
<doc id="375379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375379" title="College Scholastic Ability Test">
College Scholastic Ability Test

College Scholastic Ability Test, known as Su-Neung, is a national standardized university entrance test in South Korea. The test is held on second Thursday of November of every year. The Korea Institute for Curriculum and Evaluation (KICE) conducts and supervises the test. A person who wants to go to university must take the test. Its result is accepted by most of universities in Korea. It is a typical criterion to judge whether the person is allowed to go to a university.
The test has five sections - Korean language, Math, English language, Social Studies/Sciences/Vocational Education and Foreign language/Chinese Character. The applicants can choose the number of the domain which they would take, after considering of applicant's ability, aptitude, demand of the university which they apply to.
The Korean and English section are common to all applicants. However, if the applicant decides to take Math, Society/Science/Vocation test and Foreign language/Chinese Character, he or she must choose the subtype of the test. 
For Math section, there are two subtypes to choose - "A" or "B". The type "A" consists of two parts - Math 1, Basic Calculus and Statistics. Type "B" consists of four parts - Math 1, Math 2, Geometry and Vector, Integral calculus and Statistics.
For Social Studies/Sciences/Vocational Education section, applicants have to choose one category from the three and each has several subtypes. 
Finally, the applicants who take the Foreign language/Chinese Character test have to decide one subject out of nine (German I, French I, Spanish I, Chinese I, Japanese I, Russian I, Arabic I, Basic Vietnamese, Chinese Characters and Classics).
The first test, Korean, starts at 8:40 A.M. The last test, Foreign language/Chinese Character test, ends at 5:00 P.M.. For disabled people, there is some extra time. Blind people are given 1.5 time prolonged time than normal applicants in every section, weak-eyed applicants and applicants who suffer from cerebral palsy are given 20 extra minutes in every sections.

</doc>
<doc id="375384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375384" title="Juho Kusti Paasikivi">
Juho Kusti Paasikivi

Juho Kusti Paasikivi (27 November 1870–14 December 1956 Helsinki). He was the seventh president of Finland, from 1946 to 1956. He was first person to have his picture printed on Finnish money. First wife was Anna Matilda Forsman (1897–1931). 
Paasikivi studied history and law in Imperial Alexander University in Helsinki. He was especially interested in history of Russia. He became a doctor in law in 1901, and associate professor in 1902. In 1913 he became director of KOP bank.
Paasikivi was elected in parliament in 1907, and second time 1910. This was time when Finland was still part of Russian empire. At the time when Finland became independent, Paasikivi was among those who supported monarchy.
During the second world war Paasikivi was negotiating with Soviet Union. In 1946, when President Mannerheim resigned, parliament selected Paasikivi as his successor. In 1950 he won an election wand was selected for second term. In 1956 he was not an official candidate, but he got some votes as "Black horse".
The foreign policy doctrine established by Paasikivi and continued by his successor Urho Kekkonen, The "Paasikivi-Kekkonen line", aimed at Finland's survival as an independent sovereign, democratic, and capitalist country in the immediate proximity of the Soviet Union.

</doc>
<doc id="375385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375385" title="Fiscal policy">
Fiscal policy

When a state uses taxes and government spending to influence the economy, this is known as fiscal policy in economics and political science. The state can influence the following parameters:
There are two basic kinds of taxes: those on revenue, and those on economic activity, usually called excise taxes. Lowering the excise taxation will lead to increased economic activity, for example. Changes in welfare also have an impact on economic activity.
In general, fiscal policy is cyclic: Effects which result from changes in fiscal policy need some time until they can be observed.
Certain schools of thought think that fiscal policy should not be used to influence the economy. This is the case for Monetarism, which demands that keeping money at its value is the most important goal.

</doc>
<doc id="375399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375399" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Amanda Lade">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/Amanda Lade


</doc>
<doc id="375400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375400" title="Intensity of preference">
Intensity of preference

Intensity of preference, also known as intensity preference, is a term used to identify and describe what happens in a process which leads to consensus agreement or consensus ranking. The phrase recognizes that decisions and decision-making involve intensity of feeling about a choice and the choice preference itself.
The concept of preference intensity has been criticized over the past sixty years because of the problems in measuring it. The term is used in economics, politics, marketing and other areas.
Ranking and consensus have been the subject of research for 200+ years.
In the 20th century, the term intensity of preference was coined by the work of the economist Kenneth Arrow, who was a recipient of the 1972 Nobel Prize in Economics.
Intensity of preference is a factor in an analysis of how individual choices develop into social choices. Standard election procedures notoriously ignore differences in intensity of preferences.
For example, the intensity of preference is a one of many factors which are important in voting. The term is a measure of an individual voter's (or group of voters') willingness to do something. Intensity of preference focuses on the inconveniences involved in the act of officially registering a choice at a specific time and place, not the vote itself. For example, the lines for voting in South Africa's 1994 election were very long. The "intensity of preference" and the inconvenience of voting were factors in the election of Nelson Mandela.

</doc>
<doc id="375406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375406" title="Category:Roads in Florida">
Category:Roads in Florida


</doc>
<doc id="375407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375407" title="Bedchamber crisis">
Bedchamber crisis

Bedchamber crisis is the name given to a number of events that happened in 1839, when the Whigs lost the election, and only had a minority rule. As a consequence of the defeat, Lord Melburne stepped down, and Robert Peel was given the task to form a new government. The Bedchamber crisis relates to the behaviour of Queen Victoria, who was twenty years old, at the time. The queen had a close relationship with the prime minister, and also listened to him, when it came to choosing Ladies-in-waiting. As a result, most ladies in waiting were the wives or relatives of leading Whig politicians. Peel who was in the Tories asked the queen to re-elect the ladies, so that their allegiance to parties would be more neutral. This would have meant that some of the ladies would have to be replaced. Victoria saw the ladies as friends, and therefore refused. In addition, the queen had little sympathy for Peel. Given the circumstances, Peel refused the task to form a new government. Lord Ashley, who was to become Lord Shaftsbury was offered the post of prime minister, but he also refused. As a result, the Whigs and Lord Melbourne stayed in power. The refusal of the queen to replace some of the ladies in waiting was met with criticism.

</doc>
<doc id="375408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375408" title="Lauri Kristian Relander">
Lauri Kristian Relander

Lauri Kristian Relander (May 1883 - February 1942) was the second president of Finland, from 1925 to 1931. He travelled to other countries a lot compared to other presidents. Relander's education was Doctor of Philosophy and agronomist.
Relander was born in Kurkijoki. His wife was Signe Östermanin (1886–1962). They had two children. He died in Helsinki.

</doc>
<doc id="375413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375413" title="Kaarlo Juho Ståhlberg">
Kaarlo Juho Ståhlberg

Kaarlo Juho Ståhlberg (28 January 1865 – 22 September 1952) was Finland's first president, from 1919 to 1925. He was born in Suomussalmi and was third from five children in the family. His first wife was Hedvig Wåhlberg. In 1920 he married Ester Elfving.
President Juho Kusti Paasikivi gave great value to Ståhlberg. He said: "Ståhlberg was a man who never made mistakes".
Ståhlberg died in Helsinki.

</doc>
<doc id="375431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375431" title="Vicki Escarra">
Vicki Escarra

Vicki Escarra is an American director of welfare organizations. She was CEO of Feeding America and is leading Opportunity International since 2012.
Escarra was born around 1955 in Decatur in Georgia. She obtained a bachelor degree in psychology at Georgia State University. Furthermore, she completed the "Executive Management Program" at Columbia University and the "Executive Leadership Program" at Harvard University.
Since 1973 she worked for Delta Air Lines. Here her career rose, and finally she became the director of the customer service. At that moment she directed over 52,000 employees. In 2002 she was honored with the YWCA Women of Achievement Award.
Since 2003 she was a member of the board of the banking firm A. G. Edwards, and also of several other boards like for the Association of Professional Women and the Committee of 200. From 2004 to 2006 she worked as a chairman of the Atlanta Convention & Visitors Bureau.
From 2006 to 2012 she was director of Feeding America, an organization behind two hundred food banks in the United States and Puerto Rico with programs like soup kitchens and shelters. The organization feeds tens of millions of Americans that do not have enough food to buy themselves. For her work for Feeding America she was honored in 2009 with a Four Freedoms Award in the category "Freedom from want".
Since 2012 Escarra leads Opportunity International, an international organization that works in the field of micro finance, insurance and training of small companies in twenty countries in the Third World.

</doc>
<doc id="375434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375434" title="Wingate Institute">
Wingate Institute

The Wingate Institute () is a sports training academy in Israel. It was established in 1957. The institute is named after Orde Wingate, who was a British general in the Mandate of Palestine. The Wingate Campus includes schools and local organizations of sport. The Wingate Institute is located in Netanya and has a supplementary compound in Tel Aviv, the National Sport Center, that includes many headquarters of Israeli sport organizations.

</doc>
<doc id="375435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375435" title="Finnish markka">
Finnish markka

The Finnish markka, also known as the Suomen markka, or simply markka, was the currency in Finland before Finland started to use Euro. Markka's abbreviation was mk and internationally FIM. There were 100 pennies, "(penni, p)", to each markka. There were also coupons.

</doc>
<doc id="375446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375446" title="National Sport Center – Tel Aviv">
National Sport Center – Tel Aviv

The National Sport Center is a complex of sports venues and sport administration buildings in Tel Aviv, Israel. It includes the Olympic Committee of Israel building. The center is located in the Western edge of the Yarkon Park near to the Ramat Gan Stadium. It is a supplementary compound to the Wingate Institute in Netanya.
The National Sport Center was established in 1978 when a several tennis courts were built close to Yarkon Park. In 1980, the building of the Olympic Committee of Israel and the national athletics stadium were built nearby. 

</doc>
<doc id="375447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375447" title="Närpes">
Närpes

Närpes () is a town in western Finland. There were 9,399 people living there on 31 August 2012. It is next to the municipalities of Kaskinen, Korsnäs, Kristinestad, Kurikka, Malax and Teuva. About 85% of the people speak Swedish.

</doc>
<doc id="375450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375450" title="Lappeenranta">
Lappeenranta

Lappeenranta is a town in eastern Finland. There were 72,289 people living there on 31 August 2012. It is next to the municipalities of Imatra, Lemi, Luumäki, Miehikkälä, Ruokolahti and Taipalsaari.
Hanhijärvi (Lappeenranta), Hiivaniemi, Kansola, Konnunsuo, Kontu (Lappeenranta), Korvenkylä, Louko, Moisio(Lappeenranta), Raippo, Ruokola (Lappeenranta), Simola (Lappeenranta), Sirkjärvi, Vainikkala, Vilkjärvi.

</doc>
<doc id="375451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375451" title="Shinyei Nakamine">
Shinyei Nakamine

Shinyei Nakamine (January 21, 1920-June 2, 1944) was a United States Army soldier. He received the Medal of Honor because of his actions in World War II.
Nakamine was born in Hawaii to Japanese immigrant parents. He is a "Nisei", which means that he is a second generation Japanese-American.
One month before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Nakamine joined the US Army in November 1941.
Nakamine volunteered to be part of the all-"Nisei" 100th Infantry Battalion. This army unit was mostly made up of Japanese Americans from Hawaii and the mainland.
For his actions in June 1944, Nakamine was awarded the Army's second-highest decoration, the Distinguished Service Cross (DSC). In the 1990s, there was a review of service records of Asian Americans who received the DSC during World War II. Nakamine's award was upgraded to the Medal of Honor. In a ceremony at the White House on June 21, 2000, his family was presented with his medal by President Bill Clinton. Twenty-one other Asian Americans also received the medal during the ceremony, but only seven of them were still alive.
Nakamine's Medal of Honor recognized his conduct in fighting in central Italy in 1944. Without help from others, he destroyed a machine gun nest and led attacks on two other machine gun nests.
The words of Nakamine's citation explain:
Private Shinyei Nakamine distinguished himself by extraordinary heroism in action on 2 June 1944, near La Torreto, Italy. During an attack, Private Nakamine’s platoon became pinned down by intense machine gun crossfire from a small knoll 200 yards to the front. On his own initiative, Private Nakamine crawled toward one of the hostile weapons. Reaching a point 25 yards from the enemy, he charged the machine gun nest, firing his submachine gun, and killed three enemy soldiers and captured two. Later that afternoon, Private Nakamine discovered an enemy soldier on the right flank of his platoon’s position. Crawling 25 yards from his position, Private Nakamine opened fire and killed the soldier. Then, seeing a machine gun nest to his front approximately 75 yards away, he returned to his platoon and led an automatic rifle team toward the enemy. Under covering fire from his team, Private Nakamine crawled to a point 25 yards from the nest and threw hand grenades at the enemy soldiers, wounding one and capturing four. Spotting another machine gun nest 100 yards to his right flank, he led the automatic rifle team toward the hostile position but was killed by a burst of machine gun fire. Private Nakamine’s extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit on him, his unit, and the United States Army.

</doc>
<doc id="375452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375452" title="National Building Museum">
National Building Museum

The National Building Museum is a museum in Washington D.C. dedicated to architecture, landscaping, urban design, urban planning, industrial design, and the history of buildings in the United States. The museum host exhibitions of architectural styles and organizes tours for visitors and activities for children and families. The museum was established in 1969 and moved to an old building that was the Interior of the Pension Office in 1980.

</doc>
<doc id="375455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375455" title="Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge">
Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge

Gonville and Caius College is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. It is often called Caius (said "keys") by the students. It was created in 1348 by Edmund Gonville who gave money to build it. In 1557 John Caius, a doctor, left some more money after studying at the college. The modern name comes from these two people. It now has about 700 students. 
Being old, the college has kept many traditions. For example, there is a formal dinner every night. Also, when students go home for holiday they need to get an official permission from a Fellow (teacher) to leave.
Some very famous people have studied at this College. Twelve of them have won a Nobel Prize:
Stephen Hawking is also a Fellow at Gonville and Caius.

</doc>
<doc id="375456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375456" title="Imatra">
Imatra

Imatra is a town in southeast Finland. There were 28,363 people living there on 31 August 2012. It is next to the municipalities of Lappeenranta and Ruokolahti.

</doc>
<doc id="375460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375460" title="Iisalmi">
Iisalmi

Iisalmi is a town in southeast Finland. There were 22,153 people living there on 31 August 2012. It is next to the municipalities of Kiuruvesi, Lapinlahti, Maaninka, Pielavesi, Sonkajärvi and Vieremä.

</doc>
<doc id="375461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375461" title="Homerton College, Cambridge">
Homerton College, Cambridge

Homerton College is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. Its name comes from the area of Homerton in London. It was first formed there in 1850 from a group of students who wanted to change the way pedagogy (how people teach) was studied. They moved to Cambridge in 1894, but the college only became part of the University in 1976. Only in 2010 it was given the full status.
Homerton College is the biggest in Cambridge: it has 1200 students. Many of them study Education because the department is there. The college is not in the city centre of Cambridge but on Hills Road.

</doc>
<doc id="375462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375462" title="Hughes Hall, Cambridge">
Hughes Hall, Cambridge

Hughes Hall is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. It only takes students who are more than 21 years old ("mature" students). They can be undergraduates or postgraduates. It opened in 1885 and was only for women at the start. The first men came in 1973. It takes its name from the first "Principal" (head of the college), Elizabeth Phillips Hughes. 
Today, Hughes Hall has about 400 students. It has the tradition of trying to mix students and Fellows (teachers) at social events, such as dinners where there is no separate table for Fellows.

</doc>
<doc id="375463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375463" title="Charlottetown">
Charlottetown

Charlottetown is the capital and the largest city of the Canadian province of Prince Edward Island.
The population of Charlottetown was 34,562 in 2011. The mayor of Charlottetown is Clifford J. Lee. 
The French were the first European settlers in the area and they founded a settlement in 1720 named Port La Joye. British forces built Fort Amherst near the site of the abandoned Port La Joye settlement after they took control of the settlement and the rest of the island during the height of the French and Indian War. The town is named after Charlotte of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, queen consort of the United Kingdom. 

</doc>
<doc id="375466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375466" title="Category:Cities in Prince Edward Island">
Category:Cities in Prince Edward Island


</doc>
<doc id="375467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375467" title="Pepsi Music 2004: Britney Exclusive">
Pepsi Music 2004: Britney Exclusive

Pepsi Music 2004: Britney Exclusive (also known as: "Pepsi Music 2004" or "Pepsi: Dare for More Music 2004") is an EP . The CD included a special version of "We Will Rock You", which has been used in Pepsi TV advert. This version was performed by Britney Spears, P!nk and Beyoncé. Enrique Iglesias played a part an evil emperor.
Front cover<br>Back cover<br> Cd

</doc>
<doc id="375468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375468" title="Summerside, Prince Edward Island">
Summerside, Prince Edward Island

Summerside is a city in the Canadian province of Prince Edward Island. 
The population of Summerside was 14,751 in 2011. The mayor of Summerside is Basil Stewart. 
Summerside was incorporated as a town on April 1, 1877, and as a city on April 1, 1995. The largest employer in the city is the Canada Revenue Agency. The city was home to CFB Summerside, an air force base located in the city, but that has since closed. The city is the only municipality in North America that owns its own electric utility and provides its residents with 46% of their energy consumption through green wind energy. The city is home to the Summerside Storm which play in the National Basketball League of Canada. The former post office that is located on Summer Street is a National Historic Site of Canada.

</doc>
<doc id="375470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375470" title="Help:Diff">
Help:Diff

A diff shows the differences between two versions of a page on Wikipedia. A version of a page is created every time someone clicks on "Save page" after it. This version is called "revision". Each revision has a time and date when it was made. This is written in the of the page. A diff lets you see what changed between two revisions of the same page.
There is a link to see the diff for every change in the page's history, in the , in and in .
This is how a diff looks like. A diff is useful because it makes it easier to see what changes have been made. It also allows to undo the change, or click on various links, for example to put a message in the of the user who made the change.

</doc>
<doc id="375474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375474" title="Peter Travers">
Peter Travers

Peter Travers is an American movie critic. He works for "Rolling Stone" and "People". He is known for listing movies or directors in the "Top Ten List" which includes Martin Scorsese, David Lynch, Paul Thomas Anderson, Clint Eastwood, Christopher Nolan, Joel and Ethan Coen, and Ang Lee.

</doc>
<doc id="375481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375481" title="A. O. Scott">
A. O. Scott

Anthony Oliver Scott (born July 10, 1966) is an American journalist and movie critic. He is the manager for all movie critics for "The New York Times". His great-uncle is American actor Eli Wallach.
Scott was born on July 10, 1966 in Northampton, Massachusetts. He is Jewish. Scott studied at the Classical High School, at Johns Hopkins University, and at Harvard University. He is married. They have two children. He now lives in Brooklyn, New York.

</doc>
<doc id="375484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375484" title="Wikipedia:AutoWikiBrowser/Sandbox">
Wikipedia:AutoWikiBrowser/Sandbox

Test page blah blah.

</doc>
<doc id="375485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375485" title="Pehr Evind Svinhufvud">
Pehr Evind Svinhufvud

Pehr Evind Svinhufvud, usually known as P. E. Svinhufvud, (1861 - 1944) was Finland's third president. He married Ellen Timgren and they had six children. His nickname was Ukko-Pekka. That's why name Pekka became more popular.

</doc>
<doc id="375486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375486" title="Karachi South District">
Karachi South District

Karachi South District () is in the Karachi Division of the Sindh province of Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="375488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375488" title="11th century BC">
11th century BC

The 11th century BC started the first day of 1100 BC and ended the last day of 1001 BC. The events below may have happened in this century.

</doc>
<doc id="375489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375489" title="2nd millennium BC">
2nd millennium BC

The 2nd millennium BC is the time between the Middle and the late Bronze Age. 
The first half of the millennium saw a lot of activity by the Middle Kingdom of Egypt and Babylonia. The alphabet develops. Indo-Iranian migration onto the Iranian plateau and onto the Indian subcontinent saw the creation and use of the chariot. Chariot warfare and population movements lead to violent changes at the center of the millennium. New order emerges with Greek control of the Aegean and the rise of the Hittite Empire. The end of the millennium sees the start of the Iron Age. World population begins to rise steadily. By 1000 BC the population of the world reached nearly 50 million.he also had 23 wives and 29 kids. 

</doc>
<doc id="375492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375492" title="3rd millennium BC">
3rd millennium BC

The 3rd millennium BC spans the Early to Middle Bronze Age.
This was a period of time in which the desire to conquer was common. Expansion occurred throughout the Middle East and throughout Eurasia, with Indo-European expansion to Anatolia, Europe and Central Asia. The civilization of Ancient Egypt rose to a peak with the Old Kingdom. World population is estimated to have doubled in the course of the millennium to 30 million people.

</doc>
<doc id="375501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375501" title="Scottish highland dance">
Scottish highland dance

Highland dancing is a traditional dance which comes from Scotland. Highland dancers need a lot of stamina and strength as they need a good sense of aesthetics. They execute the traditional dance in solo to the sound of the great highland bagpipe. The highland dances are very precise and need a lot of coordination. There are many competitions for highland dancing organized around the world, mainly in Scotland, United States, Canada and Australia.
Dancers are judged on three elements: 
If a dancer does all these three elements perfectly, they have a great advantage over the others.
Here are the main traditional highland dances:
Women wear a feminine tartan kilt, a short white blouse with a sleeveless velvet jacket over it, matching tartan hose and ghilies shoes. Men wear a kilt with a sporran, a white shirt with a thin tie, a dark jacket, green or black hose and ghilies shoes.

</doc>
<doc id="375511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375511" title="Paulina Porizkova">
Paulina Porizkova

Paulina Porizkova (born 9 April 1965 in the Czech Republic) is a Czech-American model and actress. At age eighteen, became the first female from Central Europe to be shown on the cover of the "Sports Illustrated" swimsuit issue. She was the second female (following Christie Brinkley) to be shown on the cover of the "Sports Illustrated" multiple times. She has acted in movies and in television shows, including "Desperate Housewives".

</doc>
<doc id="375512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375512" title="Rich Girl">
Rich Girl

"Rich Girl" is a song by American singer and songwriter Gwen Stefani from her debut solo studio album, "Love. Angel. Music. Baby." (2004). Produced by Dr. Dre, the track features American rapper Eve. It is the second time that both Stefani and Eve had done a song together, "Rich Girl" also samples both "Rich Girl" reggae girl group Louchie Lou & Michie One and "If I Were a Rich Man" a song from Fiddler on the Roof.
Credits adapted from the liner notes of "Love. Angel. Music. Baby."

</doc>
<doc id="375522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375522" title="The Jerry Springer Show">
The Jerry Springer Show

The Jerry Springer Show is an Americans tabloid talk show. It is hosted by Jerry Springer It is broadcasted around the world. It is taped in Stamford, Connecticut. The show focuses on family dysfunction, secrecy and infidelity. It began September 30, 1991. It has been controversial for certain subjects.

</doc>
<doc id="375523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375523" title="Merostomata">
Merostomata

Merostomata is a name given to the now extinct sea scorpions (Eurypterida) and the horseshoe crabs ((Xiphosura). There are four known species of horsehoe crabs still alive. James Dwight Dana introduced the name to refer to the horseshoe crabs only. Henry Woodward later extended it to refer to both taxa.

</doc>
<doc id="375532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375532" title="Jack (tool)">
Jack (tool)

A jack is a tool that is used to lift part of a car off the ground. It is used when changing a wheel or tyre.

</doc>
<doc id="375535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375535" title="Pielinen">
Pielinen

Pielinen is the fourth biggest lake in Finland.
Eteissaari, Hattusaari, Honkasaari (Juuka), Honkasaari (Nurmes), Iso Ristisaari, Kaitasaari, Karhusaari, Kaunissaari, Kertonsaari, Kelvänsaari, Kinahmonsaaret, Kolmassaari, Korppisaari, Koveronsaari, Kuivasaari, Kulkulsaari, Kuusisaari, Kynsisaari, Larinsaari, Laukkalansaari, Lehtosaari, Liklamo, Lokkisaari, Lörsänsaari, Läpsy, Mantina, Mustasaari, Palosaari, Paalasmaa, Patvisaaret, Pieni Ristisaari, Porosaari, Pyysaari, Pääsaari, Rekisaari, Retusaari, Romonsaaret, Rääkky, Satjanko, Sipolansaari, Toinensaari, Turakka, Uramonsaari, Varpo.

</doc>
<doc id="375536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375536" title="Karachi East District">
Karachi East District

Karachi East District () is in the Karachi Division of Sindh province of Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="375540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375540" title="Lake Inari">
Lake Inari

Lake Inari ( or "Inari") is the third largest lake in Finland's Lapland. It covers . The deepest point is . There are over 3,000 islands in the lake. The biggest islands are Kaamassaari, Mahlatti, Viimassaari and Roiro.
Inari's is located to north from Arctic Circle, still, water is not very cold.

</doc>
<doc id="375542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375542" title="Oulujärvi">
Oulujärvi

Oulujärvi ("Kainuun meri") is the fifth biggest lake in Finland. Its biggest island is Manamansalo. Other islands are Hevossaari, Iso-Kaattari, Honkinen, Kaarresalo, Karhusaari, Koljolansaari, Kuostonsaari, Käkisaari (toiseksi suurin), Manamansalo, Mulkkusaaret, Reimiluoto, Tevä, Toukka, Uupunut, and Ykspisto ja Ärjä.

</doc>
<doc id="375543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375543" title="Kemijoki">
Kemijoki

Kemijoki is the longest river in Finland. It is long. It flows to the Gulf of Bothnia.

</doc>
<doc id="375547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375547" title="Kymijoki">
Kymijoki

Kymijoki is a river in Finland. It is long. It flows through the regions Päijänne Tavastia, Kymenlaakso and Uusimaa.
There are many hydroelectric power plants on the river. In the past, the river was an important way to transport wood. 
The river starts from Päijänne and it flows to the Gulf of Finland.

</doc>
<doc id="375550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375550" title="Siikajoki (river)">
Siikajoki (river)

Siikajoki (river) is a river in Finland. It is long. It flows to Bothnian Bay. 

</doc>
<doc id="375554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375554" title="Päijänne">
Päijänne

Päijänne is the second largest lake in Finland. It is between the regions of Central Finland and Päijänne Tavastia. It covers . Päijänne flows into the Gulf of Finland through the river Kymijoki.
The quality of the water is good. It improves south of Jämsä.
Päijänne is next to the municipalities of Kuhmoinen, Jämsä, Joutsa, Luhanka, Muurame, Toivakka and Jyväskylä in Central Finland, and Padasjoki, Asikkala and Sysmä in Päijänne Tavastia.
The lake has 1,886 islands.
Some of the largest islands are Virmailansaari, Salonsaari, Judinsalo, Onkisalo, Paatsalo, Muuratsalo, Haukkasalo and Vuoritsalo.
In the southern part of Päijänne is Päijänne National Park. This was established in 1993. The park covers about 50 islands. The park is next to the municipalities of Padasjoki, Asikkala and Sysmä. It covers Kelvenne island, which is 8 km long and 50-800 meters wide. The bays in the national park are popular places for boating.

</doc>
<doc id="375556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375556" title="Näsijärvi">
Näsijärvi

Näsijärvi is a lake in Finland. It covers . The deepest point is . Near Näsijärvi are Tampere, Ylöjärvi and Kuru.

</doc>
<doc id="375561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375561" title="Höytiäinen">
Höytiäinen

Höytiäinen is a lake in Finland. It covers an area of . Its deepest point is . The biggest island is Teerisaari. In 1950, there were 118 people living at the lake. Near Näsijärvi are Juuka, Kontiolahti and Polvijärvi.

</doc>
<doc id="375563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375563" title="Kallavesi">
Kallavesi

Kallavesi is a lake in Finland. It covers . The average depth is . The deepest point is . Kallavesi is close to the city of Kuopio.

</doc>
<doc id="375564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375564" title="Lake Keitele">
Lake Keitele

Lake Keitele is a lake in Finland. It covers almost . The average depth is . The deepest point is . The quality of the water is very good. Lake Keitele is close to Äänekoski, Viitasaari and municipalities Konnevesi and Vesanto.

</doc>
<doc id="375565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375565" title="Jääsjärvi">
Jääsjärvi

Jääsjärvi is a large lake in Finland. It covers . It has many islands. The largest ones are Vehkasalo, Hirtesalo, Kotisalo, Ohrasaari, Urrionsaari and Nautsalo.
Municipalities near Jääsjärvi are Joutsa and Hartola. Jääsjärvi flows from the southwestern part via Tainionvirta and into several smaller lakes to Päijänne.

</doc>
<doc id="375566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375566" title="Keiko (whale)">
Keiko (whale)

Keiko (c. 1976 – December 12, 2003) was a killer whale who played "Willy" in the movie "Free Willy" in 1993. He was a world-famous whale. He died of pneumonia in 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="375573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375573" title="Karelian pasty">
Karelian pasty

Karelian pasty, "Karjalanpiirakka" is a traditional Finnish cookie, where inside a thin rye layer is rice pudding, pearl barley pudding, or mashed potatoes. It is often served with a spread made of butter and hard boiled eggs. There are annual baking competitions such as the one at Rääkkylä's Kihaus.

</doc>
<doc id="375576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375576" title="Pasquale J. D'Amuro">
Pasquale J. D'Amuro

Pasquale J. "Pat" D'Amuro is an American television analyst and former intelligence agent. He is an expert on terrorism. D'Amuro is a former Director of FBI in New York. He worked for the FBI for 26 years. After the FBI, he went to work for Giuliani Security & Safety, a New York security consulting company.
D'Amuro grew up in upstate New York. He earned his Bachelor's degree in Business at the Niagara University.
He bagan working for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in May 1979. While working for the FBI, D'Amuro learn much about bank robberies, fraud, organized crime, drug trafficing and similar crimes.
After the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, he focused his research on terrorist attacks. After this, he was involved with the research of the 1998 United States embassy bombings in Tanzania and Kenya, the 2000 USS "Cole" bombing in Aden, Yemen, and the attacks on September 11, 2001, on the World Trade Center and The Pentagon. Over time, he became a leading expert on al-Qaeda.
After the attacks of September 11, D'Amuro became the assistant director of the counterterrorism division of the FBI. He made changes that led to better exchange of information between the FBI, CIA, the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Defense. He is also responsible for the creation of the "Terrorism Watch List". It is a combination of the information of many different agencies.
In August 2003, he became director of the FBI office in New York. It is the largest FBI office. At this time, he held the third highest position in the FBI. At this time, he began giving public lectures often on the changes that had been made at the FBI since September 11. In March 2005, he left the FBI after a service of 26 years.
After leaving the FBI, he became director of Nine Thirty Capital Management and chairman of the board of Giuliani Security & Safety. In March 2006 he became a commissary of Mercy College. In April 2008, he became the director of American Defense Systems.
D'Amuro is often on the television network CNN as a senior analyst.
D'Amuro has been given several awards. These include the Presidential Rank Award of the FBI. In 2004, he was given an honorary doctorate in law from Mercy College in Dobbs Ferry, New York. In 2009, D'Amuro got a Four Freedoms Award in the category "Freedom from fear".

</doc>
<doc id="375577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375577" title="Category:Civil servants">
Category:Civil servants


</doc>
<doc id="375586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375586" title="Karachi Central District">
Karachi Central District

Karachi Central District () is in the Karachi Division of the Sindh province of Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="375587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375587" title="Karachi West District">
Karachi West District

Karachi West District () is in the Karachi Division of the Sindh province of Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="375588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375588" title="Goa liberation movement">
Goa liberation movement

The Goa liberation movement was a political struggle for the independence of Goa during the 20th century. The city had been under the colonial rule of the Portuguese for over 450 years. In 1960, India invaded and annexed the territory.

</doc>
<doc id="375604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375604" title="Sunamganj District">
Sunamganj District

Sunamganj (, ) is a district in north-eastern Bangladesh. It is part of the Sylhet Division.

</doc>
<doc id="375605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375605" title="Maulvibazar District">
Maulvibazar District

Moulvibazar (, "Moulvibazar Zila") is a district of the Sylhet Division in Bangladesh.

</doc>
<doc id="375606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375606" title="Habiganj District">
Habiganj District

Habiganj ( "") is a district in northeastern Bangladesh. It is part of the Sylhet Division.

</doc>
<doc id="375607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375607" title="William Nakamura">
William Nakamura

William Kenzo Nakamura (January 21, 1922-July 4, 1944) was a United States Army soldier. He received the Medal of Honor because of his actions in World War II.
Nakamura was born in Seattle to Japanese immigrant parents. He is a "Nisei", which means that he is a second generation Japanese-American.
His family was interned in Minidoka in Idaho during World War II.
Nakamura joined the US Army in July 1943.
Nakamura volunteered to be part of the all-"Nisei" 442nd Regimental Combat Team. This army unit was mostly made up of Japanese Americans from Hawaii and the mainland.
For his actions in July 1944, Nakamura was awarded the Army's second-highest decoration, the Distinguished Service Cross (DSC). In the 1990s, there was a review of service records of Asian Americans who received the DSC during World War II. Nakamura's award was upgraded to the Medal of Honor. In a ceremony at the White House on June 21, 2000, his family was presented with his medal by President Bill Clinton. Twenty-one other Asian Americans also received the medal during the ceremony, but only seven of them were still alive.
Nakamura's Medal of Honor recognized his conduct in fighting in central Italy in 1944. He silenced a machine gun nest and he stayed behind to provide covering fire as his unit withdrew.
The words of Nakamura's citation explain:
Private First Class William K. Nakamura distinguished himself by extraordinary heroism in action on 4 July 1944, near Castellina, Italy. During a fierce firefight, Private First Class Nakamura's platoon became pinned down by enemy machine gun fire from a concealed position. On his own initiative, Private First Class Nakamura crawled 20 yards toward the hostile nest with fire from the enemy machine gun barely missing him. Reaching a point 15 yards from the position, he quickly raised himself to a kneeling position and threw four hand grenades, killing or wounding at least three of the enemy soldiers. The enemy weapon silenced, Private First Class Nakamura crawled back to his platoon, which was able to continue its advance as a result of his courageous action. Later, his company was ordered to withdraw from the crest of a hill so that a mortar barrage could be placed on the ridge. On his own initiative, Private First Class Nakamura remained in position to cover his comrades' withdrawal. While moving toward the safety of a wooded draw, his platoon became pinned down by deadly machine gun fire. Crawling to a point from which he could fire on the enemy position, Private First Class Nakamura quickly and accurately fired his weapon to pin down the enemy machine gunners. His platoon was then able to withdraw to safety without further casualties. Private First Class Nakamura was killed during this heroic stand. Private First Class Nakamura's extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit on him, his unit, and the United States Army.
Nakamura is the namesake of the William Kenzo Nakamura United States Courthouse in Seattle.

</doc>
<doc id="375608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375608" title="Rotuma">
Rotuma

Rotuma is a volcanic island about south of Fiji. It covers an area of about . It has been a part of Fiji since 1881. While the Fijian Islands are Melanesian, Rotuma is isolated far to the north. Its people and culture are more closely related to Polynesia.

</doc>
<doc id="375610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375610" title="Virmajärvi">
Virmajärvi

Virmajärvi is a small lake in eastern Finland's Ilomantsi region and Russia. An island on lake is the most eastern tectonic part of Finland and the European Union. The nearest village is Hattuvaara.

</doc>
<doc id="375611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375611" title="Shonan Gold">
Shonan Gold


</doc>
<doc id="375616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375616" title="Luirojärvi">
Luirojärvi

Luirojärvi is a lake in Finland's Lapland. Luirojoki (a river) flows first to Lokan tekojärvi (reservoir) and continues from that to Kemijoki. At the east side of lake is Sokosti mountain, which is over 700 meters high. Luirojärvi belongs to Urho Kekkonen National Park.

</doc>
<doc id="375617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375617" title="Lake Ruovesi">
Lake Ruovesi

Lake Ruovesi is a lake in Finland. It covers . It collects water from Keuruun reitti, Pihlajaveden reitti and Ähtärin reitti. Lake Ruovesi flows to Palovesi.

</doc>
<doc id="375621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375621" title="Lake Lappajärvi">
Lake Lappajärvi

Lake Lappajärvi is a lake in Finland. It is in an impact crater. The biggest island is Kärnänsaari. The lake covers an area of . The deepest point is .

</doc>
<doc id="375627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375627" title="Adrian Smith (architect)">
Adrian Smith (architect)

Adrian D. Smith (born August 19, 1944) is an American architect who has designed skyscrapers including the Burj Khalifa, the Jin Mao Tower, the AT&T Corporate Center, and the Trump International Hotel and Tower, Chicago. He is now building the worlds tallest building that will be taller than the Burj Khalifa, the Kingdom Tower.
Smith was born on August 19, 1944 in Chicago, Illinois. He was raised in Chicago, Illinois. Smith studied at the University of Illinois at Chicago and at the Texas A&M University. 

</doc>
<doc id="375635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375635" title="Luc Besson">
Luc Besson

Luc Besson (born March 18, 1955) is a French movie director, screenwriter, and producer who is known for his movies such as "", "The Fifth Element", "Taken", "The Lady", and the entire "Arthur and the Invisibles trilogy". He has won an BAFTA Award. 
Besson was born on 18 March 1955 in Paris, France. He was married to Anne Parillaud until they divorced. Then he was married to Maïwenn Le Besco from 1992 until they divorced in 1997. Then he was married to Milla Jovovich from 1997 until they divorced in 1999. He has been married to Virginie Silla since 2004. He has five children. 

</doc>
<doc id="375639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375639" title="Blushing">
Blushing

Blushing is involuntary reddening of the human facial area. This happens if a person feels embarrassed, uncomfortable in certain situations or lovestruck. The affected area feels very hot when blushing takes place.

</doc>
<doc id="375646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375646" title="Patricia Wettig">
Patricia Wettig

Patricia Wettig (born December 4, 1951 in Cincinnati, Ohio) is an television performer and playwright. She starred in the series "Thirtysomething". She was also in a few movies.

</doc>
<doc id="375653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375653" title="Category:Beers of Finland">
Category:Beers of Finland


</doc>
<doc id="375654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375654" title="Category:Geography of Finland">
Category:Geography of Finland


</doc>
<doc id="375655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375655" title="San Bernardino County, California">
San Bernardino County, California

San Bernardino County is a very large county in southeastern California, with a population of over 2 million. Places within the county include the city of San Bernardino, California. In area it is larger than the state of Maryland.

</doc>
<doc id="375656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375656" title="The Heroes of Olympus">
The Heroes of Olympus

The Heroes of Olympus is a series of adventure and fantasy novels by Rick Riordan. It is the continuation of the "Percy Jackson & the Olympians" series. There are five novels in the series. The stories are based around Greek and Roman mythology. It describes the efforts of seven demigod heroes to prevent the waking of the earth goddess Gaia. The first book in the series was released on October 12, 2012 and the last one is set to be released in autumn of 2014.
The series begins with "The Lost Hero", which is followed by "The Son of Neptune", and then "The Mark of Athena". Some characters from the "Percy Jackson & the Olympians" series return, including Percy, Annabeth, Clarisse, Chiron, other camp half blood campers and others. There are also some new characters. Some are Leo Valdez, son of Hephaestus, Jason Grace, son of Jupiter (Zeus as a Greek)and Piper Mclean daughter of Aphrodite and movie star Tristen Mclean who is kidnapped in the lost hero.
Riordan based some of his series on "The Golden Fleece and The Heroes Who Lived Before Achilles" by Padraic Colum.
In addition to these books, Rick Riordan has also written a supplementary book named "The Demigod Diaries" which was released on August 14, 2012.
Following are the main characters of the series.

</doc>
<doc id="375660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375660" title="John of the Cross">
John of the Cross

Saint John of the Cross (1542-1591) was a Spanish Catholic mystic. He belonged to the Carmelite order. He is one of the Doctors of the Church.

</doc>
<doc id="375661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375661" title="Exmoor pony">
Exmoor pony

The Exmoor pony is a breed of horse. It is native to the British Isles.
The fur is brown, from beige and brown to dark brown and black. The Exmoor pony eats grass and hay. It can be up to tall and weigh . The breeding time is 336 days. They can become 25 years old. 

</doc>
<doc id="375665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375665" title="Cairo spiny mouse">
Cairo spiny mouse

The Cairo Spiny Mouse (Acomys cahirinus) is a species of mouse that lives in Africa, the Middle East and Europe.
It eats seeds, fruits and invertebrate animals. The mouse grows to long and weighs up to . It lives for about four years. The gestation period is about 38 days. The speed of the spiny mouse is up to .

</doc>
<doc id="375666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375666" title="Harz red mountain cattle">
Harz red mountain cattle

Harz red mountain cattle is a breed of cattle. They come from Harz, in Germany. They can live up to 20 years old. They have fair colored cornets, are beefier built, and have plain fur.
The females are up to and the males . They are between high. At birth, they weigh from .
Their main food is grass. They produce milk and are used for meat.
The Harz red mountain cattle is from the oldest race of cows. They were bred in the middle of the 19th century. Today, it is an endangered species.

</doc>
<doc id="375668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375668" title="Consequentialism">
Consequentialism

Consequentialism is a theory in the field of ethics. The moral value of an action can be judged by looking at the consequences it has. One of the big theories that can be called consequential is called utilitarianism. 

</doc>
<doc id="375681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375681" title="Play">
Play

The word "play" has more than one meaning. It could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="375687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375687" title="Play (activity)">
Play (activity)

Play is a word used in psychology and ethology to describe voluntary activities associated with recreational pleasure and enjoyment, and with early learning in mammals. Although everyone understands what the word means, it is extremely difficult to define. Play is usually connected with children and their juvenile-level activities, but it can also be a useful adult activity, and occurs among other higher-functioning animals as well. 
Many of the most prominent researchers in the field of psychology (including William James, Sigmund Freud, Carl Jung, Jean Piaget and Lev Vygotsky) have viewed play as endemic to the human species. Play may be frivolous; but it may be serious. A player can be intently focused on his or her objective ("in the zone"), particularly when play is structured and goal-oriented, as in a game. Accordingly, play can range from relaxed, free-spirited and spontaneous through frivolous to planned or even compulsive.
There have been two major reviews of research into animal play, and both have said it is extremely difficult to define. Play is almost universal in very young mammals, and also in some groups of birds such as parrots and ravens. Therefore, it must have a function, but what is that function? It is definitely not immediate survival. In fact, the young animals of many species may risk their lives playing. Yet, since it survives in so many species, it must have survival value. That, as Fagan says, is a paradox.
The main idea is that play is basically useful, and so it can be explained by the normal process of evolution by natural selection. This was proposed by Karl Groos over a century ago, and it is still the majority explanation.
Researchers know the difficulty of deciding when a behaviour is play, and when it is not. Konrad Lorenz developed a criterion. To be called "play", the behaviour should be really distinct from the response in the normal situation. Thus, play-fighting of young pups is quite different from serious dog-fights, not just a lesser degree of the same thing.
Play can take the form of improvisation or pretend, performance, mimicry, games, sports. Play can be structured, with goals and rules; when this is the case, the play is a "game". Other play is unstructured, without rules. The gurus of children's games were Iona and Peter Opie, who collected them in England in the post-World War II period.
Often sports with specific rules will take place within designated play spaces, such as sports fields. Other play spaces may be playgrounds with equipment and structures to promote active and social play. Some play spaces may be indoors, as with museums, or family entertainment centres. 
The National Institute for Play describes seven play types: 
Piaget had a general framework for play: 
Separate from self-initiated play, play therapy is used as a clinical application of play aimed at treating children who suffer from trauma, emotional issues and other problems.

</doc>
<doc id="375699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375699" title="North Karachi">
North Karachi

North Karachi () is a suburb of Karachi, in the Karachi Division of the Sindh province of Pakistan.
URDU
NORTH KARACHI ME 4 SECTOR HAIN JIN ME 5A/4 MASHHOOR HE

</doc>
<doc id="375705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375705" title="Dravida Nadu">
Dravida Nadu

Dravida Nadu () was the name of a proposed sovereign state for the speakers of the Dravidian languages in South Asia. It was also known as Dravidistan or Dravidadesa.

</doc>
<doc id="375709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375709" title="Electric bicycle">
Electric bicycle

An electric bicycle is a bicycle that uses electricity as its power. These bikes do not pollute the air. Usually a biker can control how much the motor helps. For example, it can be 50% of the force needed. These kinds of bikes have become more popular. In some cases it is possible to convert a traditional bike to electric using a conversion kit.

</doc>
<doc id="375732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375732" title="Kokemäki">
Kokemäki

Kokemäki is a town in south-west Finland. The city has a population of 7,653 (30 June 2015) and an area of 531,27 km². Through Kokemäki flows the Kokemäenjoki river which is 121 km long.

</doc>
<doc id="375733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375733" title="Laihia">
Laihia

Laihia is a municipality in Finland. About 8,000 people lived there as of 31 August 2013. It covers 508.38 km². Near Laihia is municipalities: Ilmajoki, Isokyrö, Kurikka, Maalahti, Mustasaari and Vähäkyrö.

</doc>
<doc id="375734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375734" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 16">
Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team 16

In the last couples of years, society and technology have evolved a lot. Those changes have created some kind of addictions. Do you think you’re addicted to some kind of technology? One of those is video games, cellphones and social networks.
First of all, one of the most popular addicting technologies is the video games. Related to the web site webmd.com video games are a big problem. The article tells that it can raise the chances to become addicted to gambling, reduce the need of eat and sleep. Addicted people become angry, violent or depressed. Those are signs that are dangerous for our personal health to be addict of video games. On the web site, it’s told also that every hour giving to video games reduce dramatically your time of life. For sure, it’s okay to play some times to distress a bit, but abusing of it can change your tough more than you think. 
Every teenager, or most of them, have a cell phone. That become a real drug for them they are always on their cell phone texting, on facebook or making call. Cell phone can be realy useful if you're in need, but today it's more an addiction. It's like if we always need to be in virtual touch whit are friend. One of the worse thing is texting will driving, that is real dangerous for your life but also the life of the other drivers. I think we need to unhook from or phone and reconnect whit the reality.
The biggest technology addictions is the social network because a lot of teenager and some adult pass their life on them computer or cell phone to express what they think about everything. The social networks isolate people from the reality and they rest alone with their self. We can say that an addiction because teenager, in most of them, spend more time to talk to their friend behind there screen instead in face to face...social network was not create to make a virtual life that was just creating to talk with people you don't saw about a long time not to pass you're life on it.
In conclusion, technology can be useful in some situation like at work or can help people for their homework, but we need to stay in touch with the realty and the society. We need to find our limit between video games, cellphones, social networks and the real realty.Try it, try to find your own limit.

</doc>
<doc id="375735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375735" title="Spacetime metric">
Spacetime metric

In special relativity, the spacetime metric, also called the Minkowski metric', is the metric tensor that describes the line element in Minkowski spacetime. 
The metric can be described by the following line element:
formula_1
In units where the speed of light, formula_2, is one, then the metric in matrix form is
formula_3

</doc>
<doc id="375736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375736" title="Rautalampi">
Rautalampi

Rautalampi is a municipality in Finland. The city has 3,451 people (as of 31 August 2012). It covers 761,97 km². Near Laihia are the municipalities Hankasalmi, Konnevesi, Pieksämäki, Suonenjoki, Tervo and Vesanto.
History starts from 1561 when Sweden's king Gustav I of Sweden gave order to establish so called "hallintopitäjä" Rautalampi, "(Rautalammen hallintopitäjä)."

</doc>
<doc id="375740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375740" title="Vaasa">
Vaasa

Vaasa () is a city in Ostrobothnia, Finland. The city has a population of 60 622 (31.8.2012) and the area 191,68 km². Vaasa is different compared to the nearest municipalities because so many people there speak Finnish. From Helsinki, it is 419 km to Vaasa.
Neighbouring municipalities are Isokyrö, Laihia, Malax, Korsholm and Vöyri. 

</doc>
<doc id="375751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375751" title="Kamakura shogunate">
Kamakura shogunate

The Kamakura shogunate (Japanese: 鎌倉幕府, "Kamakura bakufu") was a feudal Japanese feudal military government. The heads of government were the shoguns. The first three were members of the Minamoto clan. The next two were members of the Fujiwara clan. The last six were minor Imperial princes.
These years are known as the Kamakura period. The period takes its name from the city where the Minamoto shoguns lived.
After 1203, the Hōjō clan held the office of "Shikken". In effect, the "shikken" governed in the name of the shoguns. 
In 1192, Minamoto no Yoritomo and the Minamoto clan established a military government in Kamakura. The shogunate functioned within the framework of the Heian system of Imperial rule.
The Mongols under Kublai Khan attempted to invade Japan. On 19 November 1274 ("Bun'ei 11, 20th day of the 10th month"), Kublai Khan's army landed near Fukuoka in Kyūshū. The invaders retreated to Korea. This was called Bun'ei War ("Bunei no eki"). There was a second invasion attempt by Mongol forces in 1281 ("Kōan 4"). This was called the Kōan War ("Kōan no eki").
The shogunate prepared to defend against a third invasion, but it did not come. The costs of defense a weakened the shogunate.
In the in 1333 ("Genkō 3"), forces led by Nitta Yoshisada destroyed the Kamakura shogunate 

</doc>
<doc id="375753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375753" title="Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting">
Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting

The Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting was a school shooting which happened in Connecticut, United States on Friday, December 14, 2012. Twenty-eight people were killed in the shooting, including many children and teachers.
The shooter was Adam Peter Lanza. He shot and killed his mother, before going to the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut. He shot twenty children and six adult staff members. Lanza committed suicide (killed himself).

</doc>
<doc id="375754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375754" title="Sysmä">
Sysmä

Sysmä is a municipality in Päijänne Tavastia, Finland. It covers about . As of 31 August 2012, 4,232 people lived there. Its population triples during summer. This has made lot of summer happenings.
Neighbouring municipalities are Asikkala, Hartola, Heinola, Kuhmoinen, Luhanka and Padasjoki.
Joutsjärvi, Karilanmaa, Kinnarila (Skinnarila), Koivisto, Käenmäki (Tikkala), Liikola, Nikkaroinen, Nuoramoinen, Onkiniemi, Otamo, Palvala, Rapala, Ravioskorpi, Saarenkylä, Soiniemi, Suurkylä, Särkilahti, Taipale, Toivola, Valittula, Vintturi, Virtaa, Voipala (Suopelto).

</doc>
<doc id="375760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375760" title="Lee Archer (pilot)">
Lee Archer (pilot)

Lee Archer was an American pilot for the United States Air Force. He flew from 1941 during World War II until the year of 1970. He rose until the rank of Lieutenant Colonel.
Archer was born in Yonkers, New York, on September 6, 1919.
He studied at the New York University. After his study he joined the army having the hope to become a pilot. In that era he had to discover that it was not possible for him as an African-American, due to the Jim Crow laws. As a result he was sent of to Georgia for a communication job. After the army changed its policy, he was accepted to the trainings program for African-American on Tuskegee Army Airfield in Alabama.
During World War II Archer flew on 169 combat missions for the 302nd Fighter Squadron above Europe, and brought down several hostile planes. During a mission in August 1944 he destroyed six German planes on the ground. On October 12, 1944, he 'landed' in a series of air combats above Hungary, which was occupied territory then by Nazi Germany. Flying a P-51 Mustang he brought down three German fighters.
When he came back in 1945 he discovered that nothing had changed in the American society. When he stepped out of his plane, the first sign he saw demanded ′Colored Troops to the Right, White Troops to the Left′. Archer stayed in the army until 1970. At that moment he was a Lieutenant Colonel.
He continued his career in civil society at General Foods in White Plains, New York, where he was one of the first African-American vice presidents of an American corporation. In 1987 he founded his own company in venture capital, called Archer Asset Management.
Archer died on January 27, 2010, in New York City. Television personality Bill Cosby held a speech for him at his funeral ceremony on February 4.
Archer was named "Honorary Honoree" of the American Fighter Aces Association. He received several military awards, like the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Air Medal, and a Presidential Unit Citation.
Furthermore he was mentioned as an exemplary air force fighter at the presentation of the "Freedom Medal" as well as in the category of "Freedom from fear" of the Four Freedoms Awards. Furthermore he and his fellow Tuskegee pilots were honored with a Congressional Gold Medal in 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="375761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375761" title="Lee Archer">
Lee Archer

Lee Archer may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="375768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375768" title="1289">
1289


</doc>
<doc id="375772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375772" title="Brenda Ann Spencer">
Brenda Ann Spencer

Brenda Ann Spencer (born in San Diego, California on April 3, 1962) is a convicted American murderer who performed a deadly shooting spree, during which she killed two people at the Cleveland Elementary School in San Diego on January 29, 1979. Another nine got hurt during that incident. Spencer showed no remorse in her crime; her full explanation of her actions was "I don't like Mondays; this livens up the day." Those comments were the inspiration to the song "I Don't Like Mondays" by The Boomtown Rats, which reached #1 in the United Kingdom in mid 1979.

</doc>
<doc id="375775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375775" title="Mango (airline)">
Mango (airline)

Mango Airlines SOC Ltd, known as Mango, is a South African low-cost airline, founded in 2006 as a subsidiary of South African Airways, that operates domestic scheduled budget services. Mango's main base is OR Tambo International Airport near Johannesburg.

</doc>
<doc id="375784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375784" title="Oakville, Ontario">
Oakville, Ontario

Oakville is a town in the Canadian province of Ontario. 
The population of Oakville was 182,520 in 2011. The mayor of Oakville is Rob Burton. 
Dundas Street was surveyed for a military road in 1793 and was bought by the Legislative Assembly of Upper Canada in 1805. British immigrants settled the area surrounding Dundas Street as well as on the shore of Lake Ontario in 1807. The Crown bought the area surrounding the waterways in 1820 and the area around the creeks, gave up to the Crown by the Mississaugas, was auctioned off to William Chisholm in 1827.
The towns of Bronte, Palermo, Sheridan, and the remainder of Trafalgar Township merged with Oakville in 1962.
The new Oakville Trafalgar Memorial Hospital at 3001 Hospital Gate is open (as of December 13, 2015).

</doc>
<doc id="375787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375787" title="Category:Monarchists">
Category:Monarchists


</doc>
<doc id="375789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375789" title="Category:Republicans">
Category:Republicans


</doc>
<doc id="375794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375794" title="United States presidential election, 1976">
United States presidential election, 1976

This election was between former Governor of Georgia Jimmy Carter and President Gerald Ford. 
Jimmy Carter won the election by 297 electoral votes. Incumbent president Gerald Ford got 240 votes. A faithless elector from Washington voted for Ronald Reagan, who would win the 1980 election.
This election followed the resignation of President Richard Nixon in 1974 due to the Watergate scandal. It is the last election to have a Democratic candidate to get a good vote in American South. The American South is most known to be Republican.
This is the last election where one of the two major candidates is still alive. Jimmy Carter is currently 92 years old.
Democratic candidates
Republican candidates

</doc>
<doc id="375798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375798" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/2044">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/2044


</doc>
<doc id="375803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375803" title="Green Party of Canada">
Green Party of Canada

The Green Party of Canada is a federal political party based in Canada. 
Although the party has had both leftist and centrist factions throughout their history, many of the members think that the left wing-right wing political spectrum doesn't capture the ecological orientation of an evolving Green Party.
The leader of the party is Elizabeth May. She was voted as leader when she defeated David Chernushenko and Jim Fannon in the leadership race with 65% of the vote on the first ballot.

</doc>
<doc id="375807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375807" title="Andrea Yates">
Andrea Yates

Andrea Yates (née Andrea Pia Kennedy, July 2, 1964) is a former Houston resident who took the lives of her five children by drowning them in her home's bathtub on Wednesday, June 20, 2001. She was born in Hallsville, Texas. She had been suffering from severe postpartum depression and postpartum psychosis. She was convicted of murder in 2002 and given life in prison; however, that was later overturned on appeal. In July 2006, a Texas jury declared her not guilty by reason of insanity; Yates was then sent to the North Texas State Hospital near Vernon, Texas.

</doc>
<doc id="375808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375808" title="Gaia hypothesis">
Gaia hypothesis

The Gaia hypothesis, also known as Gaia theory or Gaia principle, indicates that living organisms interact with their nonliving inorganic surroundings on Earth to self-regulate the Earth environment, a complex system that contributes to maintaining the conditions for life on the planet. The hypothesis was developed in the 1970's by James Lovelock with Lynn Margulis.

</doc>
<doc id="375809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375809" title="Bangladesh Premier League">
Bangladesh Premier League

Bangladesh Premier League (BPL) is a professional Twenty20 cricket league in Bangladesh. The first edition of the tournament started on 10 February 2012 with six franchises consisting of players from around the world.
Dhaka Gladiators were the first champions of the BPL. The Bangladesh Premier League was shown on television internationally through ESPN Star Sports who made agreements to broadcast matches every day. The official channel for the BPL was Channel 9.

</doc>
<doc id="375812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375812" title="Justin Welby">
Justin Welby

Justin Portal Welby (born 6 January 1956) is a bishop in the Church of England and the present Bishop of Durham and also the confirmed nominee to succeed Rowan Williams as Archbishop of Canterbury.
Welby was born in London. His early career was in the oil industry but in 1989, he studied for ordination in Durham, England. After several parochial appointments he became the Dean of Liverpool and was appointed as the Bishop of Durham in 2011.
Welby's theology is reported as representing the evangelical tradition within Anglicanism and he has written about the relationship between finance and religion. On 9 November 2012, it was officially announced that Justin Welby would become the next Archbishop of Canterbury; this will not happen until February 2013 when the current archbishop will retire.
Recently there has been revelations as a result of a released DNA test, showing that, he is in fact the son of Winston Churchill's last private secretary. 

</doc>
<doc id="375824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375824" title="Plan 9">
Plan 9

Plan 9 may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="375828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375828" title="Sattar Bahlulzade">
Sattar Bahlulzade

Sattar Bahlulzade (; , – 14 October 1974) was an Azerbaijani painter. He was born in the village of Amirjan, just outside the Azerbaijani capital Baku.
Sattar Bahlulzade is the founder of modern Azerbaijani landscape painting. He began his professional education at the National Art Institute in Baku (1927–1931). In 1933, he went to Moscow to continue his education in the Drawing Department at the Moscow Fine Arts Institute. There he studied in the studio of the Russian painter V. A. Favorsky. During the summer workshops in Crimea, Russian painter G. Shegal saw some of Sattar's sketches and suggested that he study at the Institute's Painting Department, which he did.
Though he experimented in many styles of art, his unique talent was landscape painting. At first, he used to paint nature realistically as he had been taught. But soon he developed his own style. In fact, some of his paintings look like photos of the Earth taken from space. Using a combination of pastel colors and bold strokes, he made nature look more colorful and lively, and sometimes even more fantastic, than it did in reality.
Many of his works show different places of Azerbaijan. For example, "Bazarduzu Outskirts" is about Bazarduzu, the highest mountain in Azerbaijan. Other examples are "Old Shamakhi" and "Autumn in Nakhchivan."
Bahlulzade won many prizes for his art. He won the title of Honored Art Worker of the Republic of Azerbaijan in 1960 and was named People's Artist in 1963.
In 1973, Sattar became extremely ill due to blood poisoning and he died in 1974 in Moscow. When Sattar died, he was not buried in the Avenue of the Honored Ones, unlike other famous Azerbaijani people. Instead, according to his will, he was buried in his native village of Amirjan, next to his mother's grave. 
Sattar's legacy includes many works that have been shown all over the world, including personal exhibitions in the USA, England, Turkey and Russia. 
Most of his works are shown in museums all over Azerbaijan, particularly in the cities like Baku, Ganja and Nakhchivan. 
Some of his most famous works are:

</doc>
<doc id="375834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375834" title="United States presidential election, 1956">
United States presidential election, 1956

This election was between Incumbent United States President Dwight D. Eisenhower/Vice President Richard Nixon and former Governor of Illinois Adlai Stevenson/Running mate Estes Kefauver. 
Incumbent president Dwight D. Eisenhower won the election by 457 electoral votes. Adlai Stevenson got 73 electoral votes. Walter Burgwyn Jones got one vote by a faithless elector in Alabama.
This was the last election when Alaska and Hawaii were not states. It did not include Washington, D.C. until the 1964 election.
Eisenhower suffered a heart attack in September 1955 while in Colorado for a vacation. His doctors told him not to run for another election. However, his doctors told him he was feeling better. Eisenhower announced his re-election by an announcement on television in early 1956.

</doc>
<doc id="375837" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375837" title="Joe Nishimoto">
Joe Nishimoto

Joe M. Nishimoto (February 21, 1919-November 15, 1944) was a United States Army soldier. He received the Medal of Honor because of his actions in World War II.
Nishimoto was born in California to Japanese immigrant parents. He was a "Nisei", which means that he was a second generation Japanese-American.
He was interned at the Jerome War Relocation Center in Arkansas,
Nishimoto joined the US Army in October 1943.
Nishimoto volunteered to be part of the all-"Nisei" 442nd Regimental Combat Team. This army unit was mostly made up of Japanese Americans from Hawaii and the mainland.
For his actions in November 1944, Nishimoto was awarded the Army's second-highest decoration, the Distinguished Service Cross (DSC). In the 1990s, there was a review of service records of Asian Americans who received the DSC during World War II. Nishimoto's award was upgraded to the Medal of Honor. In a ceremony at the White House on June 21, 2000, his family was presented with his medal by President Bill Clinton. Twenty-one other Asian Americans also received the medal during the ceremony, but only seven of them were still alive.
Nishimoto's Medal of Honor recognized his conduct in fighting in France in 1944. Without help from others, he destroyed three machine gun positions.
The words of Nishimoto's citation explain:
Private First Class Joe M. Nishimoto distinguished himself by extraordinary heroism in action on 7 November 1944, near La Houssiere, France. After three days of unsuccessful attempts by his company to dislodge the enemy from a strongly defended ridge, Private First Class Nishimoto, as acting squad leader, boldly crawled forward through a heavily mined and booby-trapped area. Spotting a machine gun nest, he hurled a grenade and destroyed the emplacement. Then, circling to the rear of another machine gun position, he fired his submachine gun at point-blank range, killing one gunner and wounding another. Pursuing two enemy riflemen, Private First Class Nishimoto killed one, while the other hastily retreated. Continuing his determined assault, he drove another machine gun crew from its position. The enemy, with their key strong points taken, were forced to withdraw from this sector. Private First Class Nishimoto's extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit on him, his unit, and the United States Army.

</doc>
<doc id="375842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375842" title="Ahl al-Bayt">
Ahl al-Bayt

Ahl al-Bayt () is an Arabic phrase that means "People of the House", or "family of the House". The phrase was used in Arabia before the founding of Islam to refer to someone's clan. Within Islam, the term refers to the family of the prophet Muhammad.Shia Muslims limited this term to five people who were Ali, Fatimah, Hassan and Hussain while Sunni Islam extend it to the wives of Muhammad.

</doc>
<doc id="375843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375843" title="Julia Vial">
Julia Vial

Julia Beatriz Vial Cuevas (born June 24, 1977 in Santiago) is a Chilean journalist and television presenter.
Julia Vial began her career as a commentator in 2001 on television screens Chilevisión.
In mid-2001 he emigrated to Canal 13, to be part of the television program "Pantalla Abierta". 
She was on Canal 13 until the end of 2004, in 2006 emigrated to TV channel La Red, to be the host of "Intrusos" with journalist Gaspar Domínguez (until 2007).
In December 2012, announced in its program output screen "Intrusos" to migrate the morning of La Red "Mañaneros".
Since January 2013, will take over as host of "Mañaneros".
Julia Vial is married to Leopoldo Muñoz, who has a daughter who was born with Down's Syndrome named Julia "Julita" Muñoz Vial.

</doc>
<doc id="375844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375844" title="Category:1924 establishments">
Category:1924 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="375846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375846" title="Wikidata">
Wikidata

Wikidata is a wiki that is a collection of data on the internet. The information stored on Wikidata can be used by related websites like Wikipedia. Wikidata is designed so that humans and machines can read it. As of September 2016, it has more than 20 million data items.

</doc>
<doc id="375853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375853" title="Category:1585 establishments">
Category:1585 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="375855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375855" title="Category:Unknown disestablishments">
Category:Unknown disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="375856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375856" title="Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Current issues and requests archive 42">
Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Current issues and requests archive 42

I think I have already pointed it out on IRC, but some edits Goblinbot reverts are not clear cases of vandalism. Another such case occurred just now.
In the long run, I think the bot needs a few changes:
Yes, whether the case abnove is vandalism can be debated, but a bot repalcement/improvement should be considered.-- () 14:52, 17 November 2012 (UTC)
I just noticed that a well known and prolific sockpuppet from En Wikipedia has found his way here and created an account. seems to identify to User:Willie on Wheels, User:Willy on Wheels, User:Willie on wheels and a whole pile of others from English Wikipedia. Someone might need to do a checkuser and see how many others there are. () 21:36, 23 November 2012 (UTC)
 has a redlinked category, . Would an admin please change this to ? I did not do this via because I didn't want to create a talk page just for that. The user has not been active in over a year. Thanks. -- () 01:01, 25 November 2012 (UTC)
Hello, just looking for clarification if any further action is required. I noticed editing the article Susie Figgis. I have left a message for the user to read but is any other action needed? 14:06, 5 December 2012 (UTC)
User 46.60.252.85 has been vandalising frequently since 28 November. Looks like he needs a bit of attention. () 14:10, 12 December 2012 (UTC)
I am working on some AWB typo and formatting cleanup and I don't want to flood the New changes so could I get the flood flag for a little while? () 01:25, 13 December 2012 (UTC)
Overnight, someone has screwed up the taxoboxes. Please revert back to former, and discuss proposed changes with me. I am way the biggest user of taxoboxes on this wiki... () 08:45, 13 December 2012 (UTC)
Please mass delete all pages created by , and a local block would also be appropriate. 00:14, 27 December 2012 (UTC)
Requesting action re 222.165.27.167, repeat vandalism of my talk page. () 09:10, 6 January 2013 (UTC)
Hi folks. Would like to suggest the protection of both Daniel Tosh and Tosh.0. Both have been protected for fairly extended amounts of time in the passed, as they are both some of the most commonly vandalized pages on this wiki. The history of both of those pages paints a pretty clear message.-- |  01:57, 7 January 2013 (UTC)
Hi Folks. I've been fairly inactive for around a year. I let this go for a while, however eventually I asked for my tools to be removed. It's been a long story as some of you know, involving school, work, and the death of various family members. I'm slowly coming back to the wiki, and my plan was to edit for a month before holding an RFA to ask the community for my tools back, as it has been so long. However, after the few days I've been editing I've had to nominate a few pages for deletion, and even send a user to VIP. I never thought it would come to this, but I kinda feel like this wiki needs active admins. At one point we had way to many of them, now it appears we don't have enough. I thought about nominating another user for admin while I got myself re-integrated back into the community, however, I've decided it would just be best to ask for them back myself. So, +admin please? It really wasn't my plan to do this, but I feel simple needs the help. I think I'm still within the criteria to get them back, so thanks.-- |  02:36, 8 January 2013 (UTC)
Looking at the autogenerated statistics for Simple English is quite interesting. What I see, and would like to address:
Summing it up: we probably have 62 "active editors and bots", which account for almost 60% of the mainspace edits.-- () 09:41, 8 January 2013 (UTC)
How does it determine who a bot is? It seems to think is a normal contributor, not a bot. – "  21:05, 10 January 2013 (UTC)
Today I emptied some cats, then QD'd them with the note, "This cat was emptied on 11 January 2013. You can wait 4 days to delete if you want." Is that acceptable? -- () 17:30, 11 January 2013 (UTC)
There have been no good IP edits on Electrical circuit since the beginning of December. Requesting semi-protection. -- 01:43, 14 January 2013 (UTC)
I would like to unprotect per request. Thanks -- 10:45, 19 January 2013 (UTC)
In December 2009, was blocked. Since June 2010, it was discovered he had a large sockfarm and to this day has been creating sockpuppets. If you look at his , there are more than 40 (actually more like 60+) confirmed socks. I propose a community ban for Huik. -- 19:06, 22 January 2013 (UTC)
I'd like to request the flood flag as I plan to use AWB and don't want to flood the new changes log. () 00:33, 30 January 2013 (UTC)
An IP made a bot edit (cleaning the sandbox). In accordance with the bot policy (all bots must log in to edit), this IP may need to be blocked. 20:13, 5 February 2013 (UTC)
The new page Professor Albus Dumbledore should be at Albus Dumbledore, which currently redirects to Harry Potter#Main characters. Would an admin please move the new page over the redirect? Thanks. -- () 02:36, 9 February 2013 (UTC)
Would someone please import and its doc page? Thanks. -- () 23:29, 16 February 2013 (UTC)
The version we have of this template isn't accepting some fields like birth_date. Would someone please import the current version from enwiki?
By the way, is Import a right that non-admins can have? -- () 23:51, 24 February 2013 (UTC)
I think it would be good if the article Barack Obama is protected. There are no constructive changes in the history since the expiration of the last protection. -- 21:16, 28 February 2013 (UTC)
 for (requested on my talk page) -- 22:02, 28 February 2013 (UTC)
Could someone import the template here? I'd like to add it to the Metroid articles, as we have a good amount of them here, and I think it would be useful for those articles. Thanks. () 03:08, 1 March 2013 (UTC)
We have a long-standing problem culture of bullying that has been ignored for too long. 
The culture of bullying harms the work of our project. DJSasso's behaviour is not limited to any one isolated incident, nor is it limited to me. The good work that DJSasso does is clear, but it does not excuse or resolve the problems caused by a bystanders in a culture of bullying.
DJSasso used the word "disruptive" and the phrase "bad faith" here. These are loaded words. With bitter regret, I have learned the hard way that this is only the first threat, the first step in a process of SHOUTING.
This is something that only administrators the entire community can handle. I cannot -- see here
The response to a glass-half-empty-or-a-glass-half-full shows that a culture of bullying was well established in early 2012.
A year of patient investigation and thoughtful reflection makes up the foundation of this mildly written complaint. The too-often repeated pattern is beginning to speak for itself.
It is timely and necessary to repeat Osiris' words as if they were my own: DJSasso should not be belittling anyone's contributions to the project.
DJSasso's likely escalation is also consistent with a long-standing pattern -- predicable and unsurprising. 
I am intimidated, and I don't think I'm the only one. But I am not yet overwhelmed. It is now the job of administrators the community as a group to help me if they can. -- () 18:43, 11 January 2013 (UTC)
As a first step, this problem needs to be recognized. 
Wikipedia's administrative tools are often likened to a janitor's mop, but this problem is not something that can be cleaned up in an ordinary way. Isn't this a bit outside what janitors are expected to do? Can you imagine a janitor (a) explaining what he sees as the problem; and (b) explaining why he can't clean it up or fix it?
If we use DJSasso's own words as a baseline here, this is a problem that has recurred more than a dozen times in the past two years. My complaint focuses on what DJSasso has done wrong; but isn't it also implied that the community was wrong to let this go on unchecked with such frequency across a span of so many months. DJSasso unintentionally explains that Eptalon's long-term strategy is an example of something done right. In this context of blocked consensus-building, my diffs may have provided the missing catalyst at . My plan was made explicit here. -- () 18:19, 14 January 2013 (UTC) 
Thank you for your comments, Ansei, DJSasso, Creol. The situation is currently being reviewed. Findings will be published in due time. Until then, please try to refrain from arguing. Regards, 19:16, 15 January 2013 (UTC)
I am willing step away from this. If I change my name and start over, then I take myself out of this arguing context. A review of my change histories shows that my main interest is in articles, not arguing. 
I see that the username (SUL) has been inactive since 2009. Maybe it's a good idea to take over this old name?As I pull back, I hope this helps to sharpen the focus on what remains. -- () 16:39, 16 January 2013 (UTC)
Ansei, I believe I understand your problem and I am not 're-fram[ing] [your] questions' - What I pointed out as arguing, is a clear case of arguing, and is not related to the culture of bullying you mentioned. As stated before, the case is being looked upon, but many factors make this longer: time, number of people helping, looking at diffs, checking you haven't decided to strike out diffs, changing your comments, to only state a few... An answer will be issued, but only when we are happy the evidence has been looked at properly. In the meantime I would suggest you avoid talk pages/AN/ST or any other place where conflict is possible, and continue your good article work (by this, I don't mean you shouln't post there, but simply avoid common threads with DJSasso). Until a solution is found, this is the best way of avoiding further conflict. 15:03, 24 January 2013 (UTC)
Would an admin please either delete per the QD request, or move it to article space? Thanks. -- () 23:34, 1 March 2013 (UTC)
-- () 00:02, 2 March 2013 (UTC)
There is a discussion at regarding moving the speedy deletion part to another page. Comments requested. -- 06:43, 4 March 2013 (UTC)
Would someone please import and its doc page? Thanks. -- () 02:07, 8 March 2013 (UTC)
The page Space Needle has been twice suffering persistent vandalism from IP Addresses so I am requesting this page for page semi-protection. Diffs show how it is attracting persistent vandalism are:, , , , . It must be from IP Addresses and semi protect it. The protection can expire April 1, 2013. Please respond below this message.-- 00:51, 9 March 2013 (UTC)
Could someone import the template here? I'd like to use it on Donkey Kong-related articles. Since we have a good amount of them here, I think it would be useful. Thanks. () 16:41, 11 March 2013 (UTC)
Hello all,
Pope Francis was elected on the 13th of this month, and is the current pope of the catholic church. Media interest is high at the moment. Consequently, I expect many edits to the article. If possible, I want to leave the article unprotected (i.e. allow all to contribute). This also means that we need to closely monitor the changes made, so that we can revert hoaxes/vandalism quickly, and perofrm revision deletions/oversight in a timely manner. -- () 12:53, 14 March 2013 (UTC)
Please and thank you? -- () 08:58, 18 March 2013 (UTC)
Could someone(s) take a look at the history of Fairview Alpha, Louisiana and other assorted article revolving around it? In particular, edits regarding its status, its importance, etc taking into account the same articles history on the English Wikipedia and similar edits to its wikidata entry.
Data is constantly being added that is hard to justify or prove (but not always hard to disprove). The main user (possible 2 users = one = en: IP vandal) has also blanked my user page, dropped unsigned comment(s) on another's user page (instead of the talk page) and spread the issue across multiple name spaces (Auntof6, likely having a justifiable fit with the cat issues, has nom'd one cat already for deletion). 
en:IP/simple:user CU would not be requested as the style of editing, wording, grammar, capitalization, etc is pretty much quacking up a storm here. All evidence does seem to point to a disruptive editor pushing a personal objective and PoV. -- 17:08, 20 March 2013 (UTC)
, please. -- 18:26, 20 March 2013 (UTC)
There has been one persistent user creating several template sandboxes for no purpose at all. The message on the editor's seems to have been ignored, and from the fact that some of these edits have been made behind es the edits seem to be made in bad faith and rather similar to the behavior of the template copy-paster. The most recent IP (‎67.205.103.205) has just been globally blocked as an open proxy (I intend to block further IPs with this pattern), but we also have those sandboxes lying around. Do we want to do anything with them?     18:20, 20 March 2013 (UTC)
This template copy-paster has been frustrating me for several months. He/she overwrites templates with (quote) "the updated codes from en"; in some cases it's actually helpful but in many instances it breaks things or wipes out improvements that the local community has done to make the templates more suited to our purposes. In other cases, they just copy over a random template and leave it, no apparent intention of using it. The sandboxes they create are for templates that are protected; they create them with the codes from enwiki and then leave them without any indication of purpose. I'm not too bothered by the sandboxes (although they do show up on ), but the copying and pasting and overwriting is getting tedious. The fact that they hop IPs every visit makes it almost impossible to contact them. () 03:17, 21 March 2013 (UTC)
Would someone please import updates to this template from enwiki, including the subpages Classification, Colour, and Doc? Thanks. -- () 01:19, 21 March 2013 (UTC)
How much time it takes to decide about a user whether he'll get rights or not?-- 15:58, 21 March 2013 (UTC)
Yeah if you are asking how long the RfA itself is then Creol pretty much sums it up. 7 days is the minimum unless its oppose. If you mean how long do you have to be around before you are likely to be an admin. Our guideline I believe says you have to be around a minimum of 3 months but I highly recommend the number be more like a year. (many have had less than a year but many have also run into troubles by running too soon and then too often) It is just a rule of thumb I notice. - () 14:03, 22 March 2013 (UTC)
Please block this for vandalizing pages after warnings. This IP also vandalized page Nephron right after its final warning. -- () 13:32, 24 March 2013 (UTC)
 was recently blocked as a continuation of the Pakistan vandal issue. Before he was taken out, multiple articles and a category were created. Most every change he made is an issue. All the districts he created need to be researched and fixed as none that I went over are in the correct state. Each is listed as being in Hyderabad State which ceased to exist back in the mid 20th century. Each has been in a new state for quite some time. There is also the issue of PoV in general - Hyderabad State got put in even though it has not even existed for years. Given the flood of issues created by a banned user avoiding that ban, could we get his slate wiped clear with a mass revert/deletion spree on everything he touched rather than let all this false info lay around until someone eventually gets the time to look into fixing them all? The new articles are microstubs anyway and even if fixed serve little use. Others have naming issues making them a pain to get added to wikidata so they can get their IW links. -- 20:13, 25 March 2013 (UTC)
I was recently informed by Facebook that the "North Port, Florida" Facebook page was not controlled by an individual or local organization, but by Wikipedia.
Wikipedia is currently using the City of North Port's official seal as its portrait photo for this web page. This is causing a serious misperception within the community. In addition, the City of North Port has a local ordinance prohibiting the use of the City's seal by any unauthorized individual or organization. It is a misdemeanor crime.
The City of North Port is asking Wikipedia to please remove the City's seal as the portrait photo for its "North Port, Florida" community page on Facebook (https://www.facebook.com/#!/pages/North-Port-Florida/103961276307065?fref=ts) as soon as possible.
Please contact me directly if you have have any questions or concerns. 
Thank you for your immediate attention to this matter.
Would someone please import to my userspace. I'd like to simplify it and publish it here as a guideline. Thanks. -- () 01:04, 27 March 2013 (UTC)
The creator of Macedonians keeps removing a QD tag from the article. I've tried communicating on the user's talk page and the article talk page. Please help. -- () 01:28, 28 March 2013 (UTC)
There are quite a few user javascript pages in this category. I don't think they belong there. If your excellencies agree, would someone please remove the category from those pages? Thanks. -- () 00:57, 31 March 2013 (UTC)
I noticed that DJsasso has been undoing something I've been working on for a bit -- placing unreferenced BLP tags on articles that I didn't think had valid references. I asked him/her (sorry, I don't know which) if we could both stop the work and discuss so that I could understand what he/she felt I had done wrong. He/she is apparently frustrated with past things I've done that he/she disagreed with, and is continuing undoing my changes. I ask for help from the other admins to 1) determine what I've done that's inappropriate and 2) get DJsasso to communicate. Thanks. -- () 14:38, 4 April 2013 (UTC)
Thank you for the link. I will not put the unref BLP tag on pages that have things in an other-pageswebsites/external-links section.
By the way, when I said I have 10,000 pages in my queue, most of those would be skipped because they have references (even by what I consider references) so it wouldn't be that many more tagged.
I am not aware that "any such major task should be discussed prior to being undertaken". I am aware that tasks done with a bot must be approved, but I am not doing this with a bot. I have seen bot requests be denied for the reason that some changes should be visible, and I thought that likely to be the case here. I do not remember anyone saying that such tasks should not be done at all without approval. I will wait to see what other admins have to say before I continue.
Also, I believe you are mistaken about why my bot was created. I was not asked to create it, and there are no mass-tagging tasks on the approved list. -- () 15:13, 4 April 2013 (UTC)
Please, could someone hide this diff taken from here? Thanks, -- 08:48, 7 April 2013 (UTC)
Dear administrators!
I'm a long term Wikipedian, working with teachers on . One of the biggest problem we have is to create multiple accounts using school IP address, because were blocked after 6 accounts. Is there a group here called "accountcreator", and if yes, where should I ask this status? Thanks a lot for your help. () 19:40, 10 April 2013 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="375859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375859" title="Chris Ellis">
Chris Ellis

Chris Ellis (born April 14, 1956) is an American movie, television, stage, and voice actor who is known for his roles in "Days of Thunder", "Apollo 13", "Armageddon", "My Cousin Vinny", and in "The Dark Knight Rises". His career began in 1979.
Eliis was born on April 14, 1956 in Dallas, Texas. He was raised in Memphis, Tennessee.

</doc>
<doc id="375861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375861" title="Aidan Gillen">
Aidan Gillen

Aidan Gillen (born Aidan Murphy; April 24, 1968) is an Irish movie, stage, television, and voice actor who is known for his roles in "Shanghai Knights", "Blitz", "12 Rounds", and "The Dark Knight Rises".
Gillen was born on April 24, 1968 in Dublin, Ireland. He studied at St. Vincent's C.B.S.. Gillen has been married to Olivia O'Flanagan since 2001. They have two children.

</doc>
<doc id="375862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375862" title="Josh Stewart">
Josh Stewart

Joshua Regnall "Josh" Stewart (born February 6, 1977) is an American movie, television, stage, and voice actor. He is known for his roles as Brendan Finney in "Third Watch", as Arkin in "The Collector" and in "The Collection", and as Barsad in "The Dark Knight Rises".
Stewart was born on February 6, 1977 in Diana, West Virginia. He studied at West Virginia Wesleyan College and at West Virginia University. Stewart is married to Deanna Brigidi. They have two children.

</doc>
<doc id="375865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375865" title="Karimganj district">
Karimganj district

Karimganj District () is an administrative district in the state of Assam in India. The district headquarters are in Karimganj. It is claimed by the peoples of Bangladesh as part of their Sylhet Division.

</doc>
<doc id="375868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375868" title="Life After People">
Life After People

Life After People was a television show about how would the World look like when all humans disappeared. They show what will happen to the environment, to cities, houses, landmarks, and skyscrapers. The show aired from January 21, 2008 through March 16, 2010. The show was aired in the History Channel.
The show showed what would happen to the Egyptian pyramids, the Empire State Building, the Willis Tower, the Astrodome, the Space Needle, the Eiffel Tower, the Burj Khalifa, the Golden Gate Bridge, the Gateway Arch, Taipei 101, the USS Constitution, the White House, the Hoover Dam, the Sydney Harbour Bridge, Grant's Tomb, the John Hancock Center, Wrigley Field, Big Ben, 30 St Mary Axe, the Lincoln Memorial, the Chrysler Building, the Washington Monument, Monticello, the United States Capitol, the Library of Congress, and St. Peter's Basilica.

</doc>
<doc id="375870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375870" title="USS Constitution">
USS Constitution

USS "Constitution" is a wooden, three-masted heavy frigate of the United States Navy. Named by President George Washington after the Constitution of the United States of America, she is the world's oldest commissioned naval vessel afloat.
It was constructed in 1794. It was later launched in 1797, "Constitution" was one of six original frigates authorized for construction by the Naval Act of 1794 and the third constructed. Joshua Humphreys designed the frigates to be the young Navy's capital ships, and so "Constitution" and her sisters were larger and more heavily armed and built than standard frigates of the period. Built in Boston, Massachusetts, at Edmund Hartt's shipyard, her first duties with the newly formed United States Navy were to provide protection for American merchant shipping during the Quasi-War with France and to defeat the Barbary pirates in the First Barbary War.
"Constitution" is most famous for her actions during the War of 1812 against Great Britain, when she captured numerous merchant ships and defeated five British warships: HMS "Guerriere", "Java", "Pictou", "Cyane" and "Levant". The battle with "Guerriere" earned her the nickname of "Old Ironsides" and public adoration that has repeatedly saved her from scrapping. She continued to serve the nation as flagship in the Mediterranean and African squadrons, and circled the world in the 1840s.
During the American Civil War she served as a training ship for the United States Naval Academy and carried artwork and industrial displays to the Paris Exposition of 1878. Retired from active service in 1881, she served as a receiving ship until designated a museum ship in 1907 and in 1934 she completed a three-year, 90-port tour of the nation. "Constitution" sailed under her own power for her 200th birthday in 1997, and again in August 2012, to commemorate the 200th anniversary of her victory over "Guerriere".

</doc>
<doc id="375872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375872" title="Grant's Tomb">
Grant's Tomb

General Grant National Memorial or Grant's Tomb is a memorial and resting place of 18th President of the United States and Civil War general Ulysses S. Grant and his wife Julia Grant.
The tomb is in Manhattan, New York City, New York. The tomb was constructed by the United States Congress. The tomb was constructed in 1890 (five years after Grant's death) and was finished on April 22 1897 (Grant's 75th birthday).
In 1902, Julia Grant died and was later buried in the tomb. The tomb was decaying or falling apart and was vandalised during the 1980s until the tomb was fixed and restored in 1994. The tomb was rededicated in April 27, 1997. It was later named an United States National Landmark.

</doc>
<doc id="375879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375879" title="Adlai Stevenson II">
Adlai Stevenson II

Adlai Ewing Stevenson II (February 5, 1900 – July 14, 1965) was an American politician. He ran against Dwight D. Eisenhower in the 1952 and 1956 elections, but he lost. He was the grandson of Vice President Adlai E. Stevenson. He was also the 31st Governor of Illinois from 1949-1953. He became United States Ambassador to the United Nations from 1961 until his death in 1965.
Stevenson was born in Los Angeles, California to Lewis Stevenson and Helen Davis Stevenson. His maternal great-grandfather Jesse W. Fell was a close friend and campaign manager for Abraham Lincoln. His oldest son Adlai Stevenson III became a United States Senator from Illinois from 1970 until 1981. He grew up in Bloomington, Illinois. He studied at Bloomington High School until his junior year. After that he went at University High School in Normal, Illinois. Then he studied at Princeton University and Northwestern University Law School.
He ran for president six times which were 1940, 1944, 1948, 1952, 1956, and 1960, lost the Democrat primaries to Franklin D. Roosevelt, Harry S. Truman and John F. Kennedy. He also lost the 1952 and 1956 elections to Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower. Stevenson was Governor of Illinois from January 10, 1949-January 12, 1953.
He married Ellen Borden in 1928 and divorced in 1949. Stevenson is a second cousin, once removed of actor McLean Stevenson. His son is former Illinois Senator Adlai Stevenson III.
In 1953, he was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
In 1957 he went back to law practice. He was employed part-time by Encyclopædia Britannica.
Stevenson tried to run for the nomination in the 1960 election. He lost to Senator John F. Kennedy. Stevenson refused to give the nomination address to John F. Kennedy. After Kennedy won the nomination, Stevenson campaigned for him.
He was appointed Ambassador to the United States in 1961. Stevenson was one of the choices for Secretary of State but was aware of himself that he was a skilled politician.
Stevenson's moments happened during the Cuban Missile Crisis when he gave a presentation at an emergency session of the Security Council on October 25, 1962.
Stevenson suffered a heart attack on the afternoon and died later on July 14, 1965 in London of heart failure. The funeral in Bloomington, Illinois Unitarian Church was attended by President Lyndon B. Johnson and Vice President Hubert Humphrey and Supreme Court Chief Justice Earl Warren.

</doc>
<doc id="375882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375882" title="Allan Ohata">
Allan Ohata

Allan Masaharu Ohata (September 13, 1918-October 17, 1977) was a United States Army soldier. He received the Medal of Honor because of his actions in World War II.
Ohata was born in Hawaii to Japanese immigrant parents. He was a "Nisei", which means that he was a second generation Japanese-American.
One month before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Ohata joined the US Army in November 1941.
Ohata volunteered to be part of the all-"Nisei" 100th Infantry Battalion. This army unit was mostly made up of Japanese Americans from Hawaii and the mainland.
For his actions in November 1943, Ohata was awarded the Army's second-highest decoration, the Distinguished Service Cross (DSC). In the 1990s, there was a review of service records of Asian Americans who received the DSC during World War II. Ohata's award was upgraded to the Medal of Honor. In a ceremony at the White House on June 21, 2000, his family was presented with his medal by President Bill Clinton. Twenty-one other Asian Americans also received the medal during the ceremony, but only seven of them were still alive. According to the story he shared with his brother, "[H]e held a hill by himself and a lot of people died except him. He said the enemy came from both sides, and [at] one point he came from one side and the enemy soldier came from the other end. The only reason he lived was because he saw the guy first."
Ohata's Medal of Honor recognized his conduct in fighting in central Italy in 1944. With the help of one rifleman, he held back an attack by a large force of enemy soldiers.
The words of Ohata's citation explain:
Sergeant Allan M. Ohata distinguished himself by extraordinary heroism in action on 29 and November 30, 1943, near Cerasuolo, Italy. Sergeant Ohata, his squad leader, and three men were ordered to protect his platoons left flank against an attacking enemy force of 40 men, armed with machine guns, machine pistols, and rifles. He posted one of his men, an automatic rifleman, on the extreme left, 15 yards from his own position. Taking his position, Sergeant Ohata delivered effective fire against the advancing enemy. The man to his left called for assistance when his automatic rifle was shot and damaged. With utter disregard for his personal safety, Sergeant Ohata left his position and advanced 15 yards through heavy machine gun fire. Reaching his comrades position, he immediately fired upon the enemy, killing 10 enemy soldiers and successfully covering his comrades withdrawal to replace his damaged weapon. Sergeant Ohata and the automatic rifleman held their position and killed 37 enemy soldiers. Both men then charged the three remaining soldiers and captured them. Later, Sergeant Ohata and the automatic rifleman stopped another attacking force of 14, killing four and wounding three while the others fled. The following day he and the automatic rifleman held their flank with grim determination and staved off all attacks. Staff Sergeant Ohatas extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit on him, his unit, and the United States Army.

</doc>
<doc id="375884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375884" title="Kazuo Kitai">
Kazuo Kitai


</doc>
<doc id="375890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375890" title="Ville Nieminen">
Ville Nieminen

Ville Nieminen (born 6 April 1977 in Tampere, Finland) is a Finnish professional ice hockey player that currently plays for Tappara of the SM-liiga. 
Nieminen has also played in the NHL for the Colorado Avalanche, Pittsburgh Penguins, Chicago Blackhawks, Calgary Flames, New York Rangers, San Jose Sharks and St. Louis Blues. He won the Stanley Cup with the Avalanche in the 2000–01 NHL season. Nieminen also won a silver medal with the Finland men's national ice hockey team in the 2006 Winter Olympics.

</doc>
<doc id="375891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375891" title="Mara Wilson">
Mara Wilson

Mara Elizabeth Wilson (born July 24, 1987 in Los Angeles, California) is an American actress and playwright. She was born in Los Angeles. She currently acts on stage. She is best known for her acting in movies when she was a child. Her best known movies include "Mrs. Doubtfire" (1993) and "Matilda" (1996). She came out as bisexual in June 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="375895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375895" title="Category:2012 in the United States">
Category:2012 in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="375896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375896" title="Category:2007 in the United States">
Category:2007 in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="375900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375900" title="Heather (name)">
Heather (name)

The name Heather is a girl and woman name. It is based around "heather", the English word for a variety of shrubs having pink and white flowers. There are many famous people having the name, including Heather Locklear.

</doc>
<doc id="375907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375907" title="Converter">
Converter

Converter may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="375914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375914" title="Category:2010s books">
Category:2010s books


</doc>
<doc id="375917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375917" title="Alberta Williams King">
Alberta Williams King

Alberta Christine Williams King (September 13, 1904 – June 30, 1974) was the mother of Martin Luther King, Jr.. She was married to Martin Luther King, Sr. for 58 years.
She had an important part in the activities of the Ebenezer Baptist Church. The church is now a part of the Martin Luther King, Jr. National Historic Site. She was shot and killed in the church six years after the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.
Alberta Christine Williams was born on September 13, 1904 in Atlanta, Georgia. Her father was Reverend Adam Daniel Williams. He was then the pastor of the Ebenezer Baptist Church. Jennie Celeste (Parks) Williams was her mother. She earned a teaching certificate at the Hampton Normal and Industrial Institute in 1924. Later the college name became just Hampton University.
Williams met Martin Luther King, Sr. right before she left for school at Hampton. After graduating, she and King got formally engaed at the Ebenezer Baptist Church. She taught for a short time before their Thanksgiving Day wedding in 1926. She then had to quit because married female teachers were not allowed at that time. Martin Luther King Jr. was born on January 15, 1929. He was one of their three children.
Alberta King's mother died on May 18, 1941 of a heart attack. The King family later moved to a large yellow brick house three blocks away. Alberta was president of the Ebenezer Women's Committee from 1950 to 1962. She was also a talented musician who became the choir organist and director at Ebenezer. This may have been the reason her son was interested in Black music and art. By the end of this time, Martin Luther King Sr. and Jr. were sharing the role of pastors of the church.
King was shot and killed in a church by a 23-year-old man while she was playing the organ in Atlanta, Georgia. She died six years after the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., aged 69.

</doc>
<doc id="375923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375923" title="Coretta Scott King">
Coretta Scott King

Coretta Scott King (April 27, 1927 – January 30, 2006) was an American author, activist, and civil rights leader. She was the widow of Martin Luther King, Jr.. Scott King helped lead the African-American Civil Rights Movement in the 1960s.
Scott King played an important role in the years after her husband's 1968 assassination when she took on the leadership of the struggle for racial equality herself and became active in the Women's Movement.
Scott King was born on April 27, 1927 in Heiberger, Alabama. She studied at Lincoln Normal School and at Antioch College.
King was married to Martin Luther King, Jr. from 1953 until his death in 1968. They had four children:
Dexter Scott King; Yolanda King; Bernice Albertine King and Martin Luther King III
King was in a hospital in Rosarito Beach, Mexico after she had a stroke and had ovarian cancer. She died on January 30, 2006 in the hospital from a stroke and respiratory failure, aged 78.

</doc>
<doc id="375928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375928" title="Elles">
Elles

Elles is a 2011 erotic French drama movie. Juliette Binoche plays a journalist named Anne. "Elles" is about female student prostitution. This movie has an NC-17 rating because of explicit sexual content.

</doc>
<doc id="375929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375929" title="Aokigahara">
Aokigahara

Aokigahara is a forest at the northwest base of Mount Fuji in Japan. The forest is known to be quiet because of the absence of wildlife and the wind-blocking density of the trees that are in it. A number of rocky, icy caverns are in the forest and some of them are popular tourist destinations. Demons in Japanese mythology are associated with the forest.
It is known as a popular suicide spot and is reportedly the most popular in Japan. It also ranks as the second in the world after San Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge. There are signs in the forest in both Japanese and English that try to persuade people not to commit suicide. The forest is said to be haunted by the Yūrei (angry spirits) that were left to die.

</doc>
<doc id="375947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375947" title="Category:Czech actors">
Category:Czech actors


</doc>
<doc id="375949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375949" title="Category:Czech entertainers">
Category:Czech entertainers


</doc>
<doc id="375979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375979" title="Breaking Bad">
Breaking Bad

Breaking Bad is an American television series set in Albuquerque, New Mexico. It started in January 2008. The show is broadcasted across Canada and the United States on cable channel AMC. It has won 10 Emmy Awards. "Breaking Bad" ended in September 2013. Bryan Cranston plays the leading role, Walter White. There were five seasons and 62 episodes. It is about a chemistry teacher who is diagnosed with lung cancer and starts cooking crystal methamphetamine to pay for his family's needs after he dies. "Breaking Bad" was made by Vince Gilligan.

</doc>
<doc id="375994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375994" title="Margaret Purves">
Margaret Purves

Margaret Purves (born 25 November 1934  ), formerly Margaret Vaughan, is a British nurse. She is best known for receiving the George Cross for an act of bravery when she was only 14 years old. She is the only living woman who has been recognized with this honour.
Margaret Vaughan was born in Cardiff, Wales. Her father James Boswell Vaughan was Chief Superitendent of Cardiff City Police and her mother was Dorothy May Vaughan (nee Powditch)
In 1949, Vaughan was awarded the Albert Medal because she saved a Boy Scout and his leader from a rough sea off the coast of Cardiff. The Albert Medal is now replaced with the George Cross. In 1974 the Albert medal was exchanged before the Queen at Buckingham Palace.
Notice of the award was published in the "London Gazette" on 1 November 1949. She became one of the few living s of the Albert Medal.
When she married, she changed her name to Purves. She married John Watt Purves, Captain in REME. They met while she was a
Serving nurse in the QA's in Hanover, Germany. Margaret served
With the QA's in Nairobi and Mauritius prior to this having trained at the Royal London Hospital. She had 3 children. Alison Fiona(1962) Rebecca (1963) and James (1965)
Margaret Purves was an Army nurse serving as an officer in the Queen Alexandra Royal Nusing Corps. After meeting Capt. John Watt Purves in a hospital bed in Hanover -
Due to a broken rib after a rugby match -
They married
Within 6 months at Llandaff Cathedral and Cardiff Castle.
She lived in Singapore. Canada, UK , Belgium and Germany while he was husband served in the British Army. Whilst in the UK she was the editor of The Craftsman magazine,
Well known to REME
Purves' George Cross was given because of an act of bravery when she was a young girl.
She received his decoration from King George VI at Buckingham Palace. The words of her citation explain:
On May 28th, 1949, a party of Scouts, aged between 11 and 15 years, visiting Sully Island were cut off by the rising tide from a causeway which led to the mainland. Most of the boys got safely across, but two of them were forced off the causeway by the strong tide. The leader of the party returned to help the elder boy but in the struggle he too became exhausted. Margaret Vaughan (aged 14 years) saw from the beach the difficulties they were in. She undressed and swam towards them over a distance of some 30 yards in cold, rough water and against strong currents due to the rising tide. On reaching them she towed the boy to the shore while he supported himself by grasping the straps of her costume and his leader's coat. At about ten feet from the shore a life belt was thrown in which the boy was placed by the other two and the three reached the shore safely. Margaret Vaughan's action probably saved the life of the Scout leader as well as that of the elder boy.
Meanwhile, John Howard Davies (aged 13 years) had safely reached the mainland when he saw that his friend, who was unable to swim, was being forced away from the causeway into deep water. He stripped to the waist and went back along the causeway to help him. By swimming out he was able to grasp his friend, and hold him up in the water. Both boys shouted for help and it was obvious that they would not get ashore unaided. By this time a rescue boat had put out from the shore but Davies became exhausted by his efforts and before the boat could reach them he was forced to release his hold on his friend and they drifted apart. The boat rescued the friend but no further sign of Davies was seen. His body was subsequently recovered. There is no doubt that in returning to the aid of his friend after he himself had reached safety Davies gave his life in this rescue attempt.

</doc>
<doc id="375997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375997" title="United States presidential election, 1952">
United States presidential election, 1952

This election was between Governor of Illinois Adlai Stevenson and General Dwight D. Eisenhower. Dwight D. Eisenhower won the election by 442 electoral votes. Adlai Stevenson got only 89 electoral votes.
Incumbent President Harry S. Truman was eligible to run again because the newly passed amendment did not matter who was president at that time. Truman chose not not run so the Democratic Party elected Adlai Stevenson. 
Eisenhower was 62 when he won the election. This was the last time an older candidate was elected since James Buchanan was elected in 1856 at 65 until Ronald Reagan surpassed his age at 69 in the 1980 election. 
Notable candidate included General Douglas MacArthur as the Constitution.
Democratic candidates:
Barkley was 74 years old and not accepted by labor union leaders because of his age. 
Truman's running mate was going to be Senator Estes Kefauver, but he did not choose to run in the election. Truman's presidential disapproval rating was 66% at the end of his presidential term until decades later by Richard Nixon and later surpassed by George W. Bush.
Republican candidates:
Election results in these states were less than or ten percentage points. Colors represent the winning party, using the present-day convention in which red indicates Republican and blue indicates Democrat.

</doc>
<doc id="375999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375999" title="Bill Apiata">
Bill Apiata

Bill Henry "Willie" Apiata VC (born 28 June 1972-  ) is a New Zealand soldier. He is best known for receiving the Victoria Cross because of his actions in the war in Afghanistan.
Apiata was born in Mangakino, New Zealand. He is Maori
Apiata was a soldier in the New Zealand Special Air Service (NZSAS). For his actions in July 2004, Apiata became the first New Zealand soldier to be awarded the Victoria Cross since World War II. He is the 22nd New Zealander to receive the honour since 1856. He is the first to be conferred with the Victoria Cross for New Zealand which was established in 1999.
He became one of the very few living holders of the Victoria Cross.
Apiata's Victoria Cross recognized his conduct in fighting in Afghanistan.
In a 2004 firefight, a grenade explosion blew Apiata off the bonnet of his vehicle. At the same time, two other soldiers were wounded by shrapnel. Apiata carried the more seriously wounded solder to safety. Then he rejoined the fighting.
The words of Apiata's citation explain:
In total disregard of his own safety, Lance Corporal Apiata stood up and lifted his comrade bodily. He then carried him across the seventy metres of broken, rocky and fire swept ground, fully exposed in the glare of battle to heavy enemy fire and into the face of returning fire from the main Troop position. That neither he nor his colleague were hit is scarcely possible. Having delivered his wounded companion to relative shelter with the remainder of the patrol, Lance Corporal Apiata re-armed himself and rejoined the fight in counter-attack.

</doc>
<doc id="376001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376001" title="Jean-Claude Van Damme">
Jean-Claude Van Damme

Jean-Claude Van Damme (Jean-Claude Camille François Van Varenberg, born 18 October 1960) is an Belgian martial artist, actor, and director.
He is known for his roles in "The Expendables 2", "JCVD", "Bloodsport", "Kickboxer", "Hard Traget", "Timecop", "Sudden Death", "Universal Soldier", "Cyborg" and in "Universal Soldier Day of Reckoning".
Van Damme was born on October 18, 1960 in Berchem-Sainte-Agathe, Brussels, Belgium. He was married to Maria Rodriguez from 1980 until they divorced in 1984. Then he was married to Cynthia Derderian from 1985 until they divorced in 1986. Then he was married to Darcy LaPier from 1994 until they divorced in 1997. Then he was married to Gladys Portugues from 1987 until they divorced in 1992 then remarried in 1999. He has three children. He lives in Los Angeles, California. Van Damme has been diagnosed with bipolar disorder.

</doc>
<doc id="376002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376002" title="United Liberation Front of Assam">
United Liberation Front of Assam

The United Liberation Front of Assam is a separatist group from Assam, among many other such groups in North-east India. It seeks to establish a sovereign Assam via an armed struggle in the Assam conflict.

</doc>
<doc id="376004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376004" title="Tamil Nadu Liberation Army">
Tamil Nadu Liberation Army

The Tamil Nadu Liberation Army (TNLA) is a small militant separatist movement in Tamil Nadu. It seeks an independent nation for the Tamil people. It began about 1985 as the military part of the Tamil Nadu Communist Party Marxist-Lenisist. It began a campaign of murders and bombings which it said were aimed at enemies of the people. They always put up posters to explain their reasons for these attacks. The leader of the group, Thamizharasan, was killed when he and a small group tried to rob a bank in Ponparappi. 
Their next leader, known as Lenin, increased the number of members in the group. They began to bomb police stations and steal police weapons. Lenin was killed when one of his bombs exploded while being taken to an attack on a police station in 1994. The group took a movie actor, Dr. Rajkumar, prisoner in July 2000.
The TNLA is believed to get support from the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam. The TNLA was listed as a terrorist organization in 2002 by the government of Tamil Nadu. The TNLA has said it wants a Greater Tamil Homeland which would include all of Tamil Nadu, the Laccadive Islands, Minicoy Island, the 'Tamil Eelam' in Sri Lanka, the Maldives, Malaysia, Singapore, and Mauritius.

</doc>
<doc id="376008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376008" title="John Sparkman">
John Sparkman

John Jackson Sparkman (December 20, 1899-November 16, 1985) was an American politician from Alabama. He ran in the 1952 United States Presidential election.

</doc>
<doc id="376009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376009" title="Dolph Lundgren">
Dolph Lundgren

Dolph Lundgren (born Hans Lundgren on November 3, 1957) is a Swedish actor, martial artists, and director who is known for his roles in "Universal Soldier", "Universal Soldier Day of Reckoning", "Rocky IV", "The Expendables" and in "The Expendables 2".
Lundgren was born on November 3, 1957 in Spånga, Stockholm, Sweeden. He studied at Washington State University and at Clemson University. Lundgren was married to Annette Qviberg from 1994 until they separated in 2011. They have 2 daughters. Lundgren currently resides in Los Angeles, California.

</doc>
<doc id="376010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376010" title="Estes Kefauver">
Estes Kefauver

Carey Estes Kefauver (July 26, 1903 – August 10, 1963) was an American politician from Tennessee. He was the Vice Presidential running mate in the 1952 election.
Kefauver was born in Madisonville, Tennessee, to Robert Cooke Kefauver and Phredonia Bradford (née Estes). Robert Kefauver was a hardware manager. Estes attended the University of Tennessee from 1922 to 1924, receiving a Bachelor of Arts degree and being initiated into the Kappa Sigma Fraternity. After a year of teaching mathematics and coaching football at a Hot Springs, Arkansas, high school, he attended Yale Law School, where he received a LL.B. "cum laude" in 1927. The next twelve years Kefauver practiced law in Chattanooga, first with the firm of Cooke, Swaney & Cooke, as a partner in Sizer, Chambliss & Kefauver, and later in the firm of Duggan, McDonald, & Kefauver. In 1935 he married Nancy Pigott, who is from Glasgow, Scotland, United Kingdom, whom he had met during her visit to relatives in Chattanooga, Tennessee. They had four children, one of them was adopted. Mrs. Kefauver died in 1967.
He was aroused by his role as attorney for the "Chattanooga News", Kefauver became interested in local politics and sought election to the Tennessee Senate in 1938. He lost but in 1939 spent two months as Finance and Taxation Commissioner under the newly-elected governor Prentice Cooper. When Congressman Sam D. McReynolds of Tennessee's 3rd district, which included Chattanooga, died in 1939, Kefauver was elected to succeed him in the House.

</doc>
<doc id="376011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376011" title="Muslim United Liberation Tigers of Assam">
Muslim United Liberation Tigers of Assam

The Muslim United Liberation Tigers of Assam (MULTA) is an Islamist extremist organization founded around 1996 in the North-east Indian state of Assam. MULTA wants Muslims to be represented is the state government legislature. It has about 1000 members who have declared a jihad against the Indian Government. 

</doc>
<doc id="376012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376012" title="Estelle Reiner">
Estelle Reiner

Estelle Reiner (June 5, 1914 – October 25, 2008) was an American actress, comedian, and singer. She was best known known for her roles in "When Harry Met Sally", "Fatso", and in "To Be or Not to Be". She was the mother of Rob Reiner and the wife of Carl Reiner.
Reiner was born Estelle Lebost on June 5, 1914 in The Bronx, New York. She studied at James Monroe High School.
She was married to Carl Reiner from 1943 until her death in 2008. They had three children.
Reiner died from natural causes at her home in Beverly Hills, California on October 25, 2008, aged 94.

</doc>
<doc id="376017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376017" title="Category:Villages in Pakistan">
Category:Villages in Pakistan


</doc>
<doc id="376018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376018" title="History of Punjab">
History of Punjab

In 1947, the Punjab Province of British India was divided along religious lines into West Punjab and East Punjab. The western part was assimilated into new country of Pakistan while the east stayed in India. This led to massive rioting as both sides committed atrocities against fleeing refugees.

</doc>
<doc id="376019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376019" title="Newtown, Connecticut">
Newtown, Connecticut

Newtown is a town in the western area of Connecticut, near Danbury. The town was founded in 1705.

</doc>
<doc id="376026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376026" title="Qilin">
Qilin

The Qilin (Chinese: 麒麟; pinyin: qílín; Wade-Giles: ch'i-lin) is a mythical hooved Chinese chimerical creature known throughout various East Asian cultures, and is said to appear with the imminent arrival or passing of a wise sage or an illustrious ruler. 
A qilin has a single horn on its forehead, a yellow belly, a multicoloured back, the hooves of a horse, the body of a deer, and the tail of an ox. Gentle of disposition, it never walks on verdant grass or eats living vegetation.
The first qilin is said to have appeared in the garden of the legendary Huangdi (Yellow Emperor) in 2697 bc. Some three centuries later a pair of qilin were reported in the capital of Emperor Yao. Both events bore testimony to the benevolent nature of the rulers.
The advent of a great sage was made known when a qilin appeared to the pregnant mother of Confucius (6th century bc). The qilin thereupon coughed up an inscribed jade tablet that foretold the future greatness of the unborn child. The death of Confucius was foreshadowed when a qilin was injured by a charioteer.
In 1414 a live giraffe was brought to China for the first time and presented as a qilin to the Ming emperor Yongle. The tough old warrior, seeing through the intended flattery, curtly remarked that he certainly was no sage and the animal was certainly no qilin. In Japanese, a giraffe is called kirin, but the characters are those for qilin.

</doc>
<doc id="376034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376034" title="Jesse">
Jesse

Jesse was the father of King David. He is in the Book of Ruth as Ruth's future grandson (chapter 4 verse 17). He is also mentioned in the Gospel of Matthew 1:6 as an ancestor of Jesus.

</doc>
<doc id="376037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376037" title="Industrial Workers of the World">
Industrial Workers of the World

The Industrial Workers of the World, or IWW, is a world-wide radical labor union. Members of the IWW are often called "Wobblies".
The IWW was started in 1905 in Chicago, Illinois, USA at a big meeting of many unions. For its first few decades, the IWW had many thousands of members who led many of the most important fights against bosses. The United States government and other unions often worked together to enforce more conservative labor relations. Partly because this happened membership dropped and there were few members for many years after. Today the IWW has grown back to a few thousand workers and has members in most continents of the world.
The IWW pushed many unique ideas when it started. It disliked the American Federation of Labor's way of splitting workers by what kind of work they did even if they worked on the same job. Instead, it believed that all workers should organize together in "one big union" in their industry and as workers altogether. The IWW also focused less on winning contracts and more on giving workers more power against bosses on any job they work at.
The IWW believes that workers themselves should have control over their work, as opposed to bosses. In that regard, they are anti-capitalist. The preamble of the IWW's constitution begins, "The working class and the employing class have nothing in common."

</doc>
<doc id="376041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376041" title="Category:Industrial Workers of the World">
Category:Industrial Workers of the World


</doc>
<doc id="376053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376053" title="Category:Murders by firearm">
Category:Murders by firearm


</doc>
<doc id="376055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376055" title="John Donne">
John Donne

John Donne (1572-1631) was a British metaphysical poet. He wrote love poems and sonnets but later in his life became religious and wrote many Christian poems. He was also Dean of St Paul's Cathedral and was the author of many sermons.
His famous poems include A valediction forbidding mourning and Good Friday, riding westward.

</doc>
<doc id="376056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376056" title="Category:Crime in Germany">
Category:Crime in Germany


</doc>
<doc id="376058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376058" title="Flat feet">
Flat feet

The term flat feet (also called a fallen arch) refers to when human foot arches are very low or the entire sole of the human foot is touching the ground. Flat feet for children usually become regular arches later on. Adults with this condition may have problems involving arch development. The opposite, less common condition is called High arch.

</doc>
<doc id="376060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376060" title="Metaphysical poets">
Metaphysical poets

The metaphysical poets are a group of English poets known for long difficult metaphors. John Donne is perhaps the most famous. Although their work was not popular in some periods, thanks to writers like T. S. Eliot their value to English literature seems mostly recognised these days.

</doc>
<doc id="376080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376080" title="Carrie (2013 movie)">
Carrie (2013 movie)

Carrie is an American teen horror movie. It is set in Maine and was released on 18 October 2013. It is a remake of the 1976 movie of the same name. Starring in this are Chloë Grace Moretz, Julianne Moore and Judy Greer; Moretz plays Carrie White. Moore plays Carrie's mother Margaret White in this 2013 adaptation.

</doc>
<doc id="376081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376081" title="Gustavo Ayon">
Gustavo Ayon

Gustavo Ayon (b. 1 April 1985 is a Mexican NBA basketball player. He was born in Tepic, Mexico. He currently is playing for the Orlando Magic.

</doc>
<doc id="376083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376083" title="Zach Zarba">
Zach Zarba

Zachary "Zach" Zarba (b April 29, 1975) is a referee in the NBA. He was born in New York, New York. He went to the SUNY at New Paltz.

</doc>
<doc id="376084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376084" title="Ben Hansbrough">
Ben Hansbrough

Ben Hansbrough (b. December 23, 1987) is a rookie NBA basketball player signed as a free agent with the Indiana Pacers. He went to the University of Notre Dame. He was born in Poplar Bluff, Missouri.

</doc>
<doc id="376085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376085" title="Thomas Cranmer">
Thomas Cranmer

Thomas Cranmer (1489-1556) was an Archbishop of Canterbury and one of the founders of the Church of England under Henry VIII. He wrote the Book of Common Prayer. He was killed by Owen Reece when he refused to return to Catholicism.

</doc>
<doc id="376087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376087" title="Category:1489 births">
Category:1489 births


</doc>
<doc id="376094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376094" title="Kim Hughes">
Kim Hughes

Kim Spencer Hughes GC (born 12 September 1979) is a British Army soldier. He is best known for receiving the George Cross because of his actions in the war in Afghanistan.
Hughes was born in Munster, Germany. His father was serving in the Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers. His family returned to England in 1985; and they lived in Weston-super-Mare. In 1988, he moved to Telford.
Hughes joined the Royal Logistic Corps (RLC). He was awarded the George Cross because he made safe over 80 improvised explosive devices in Afghanistan. 
Notice of the award was published in the "London Gazette" on 19 March 2010. He became one of the very few living s of the George Cross.
Hughes' George Cross recognized his conduct in fighting in Afghanistan in 2010. He carried out "the single most outstanding act of explosive ordnance disposal ever recorded in Afghanistan".
Hughes received his decoration from Queen Elizabeth II at Buckingham Palace. The words of Hughes' citation explain:
On 16 Aug 09, Staff Sergeant Hughes, a High Threat Improvised Explosive Device Disposal (IEDD) operator, along with a Royal Engineers Search Team (REST), was tasked to provide close support to the 2 RIFLES Battlegroup during an operation to clear a route, south west of Sangin.In preparation for the operation, elements of A Company deployed early to secure an Emergency Helicopter Landing Site and isolate compounds to the south of the route as part of the inner cordon.Whilst conducting these preliminary moves the point section initiated a Victim Operated IED (VOIED) resulting in a very serious casualty.During the casualty recovery that followed, the stretcher-bearers initiated a second VOIED that resulted in two personnel being killed outright and four other very serious casualties, one of whom later died from his wounds.The area was effectively an IED minefield, over-watched by the enemy and the section were stranded within it. Hughes and his team were called into this harrowing and chaotic situation to extract the casualties and recover the bodies.
Speed was absolutely essential if further lives were not to be lost.Without specialist protective clothing in order to save time, Hughes set about clearing a path to the injured, providing constant reassurance that help was on its way.On reaching the first badly injured soldier he discovered a further VOIED within one metre of the casualty that, given their proximity, constituted a grave and immediate threat to the lives of all the casualties.Without knowing the location of the power source, but acutely attuned to the lethal danger he was facing and the overriding need to get medical attention to the casualties rapidly, Hughes calmly carried out manual neutralisation of the device; any error would have proved instantly fatal.This was a ‘Category A’ action only conducted in one of two circumstances; a hostage scenario where explosives have been strapped to an innocent individual and a mass casualty event where not taking action is certain to result in further casualties.Both place the emphasis on saving other peoples’ lives even, if necessary, at the expense of the operator. It was an extraordinary act. With shots keeping the enemy at bay, Hughes coolly turned his attention to reaching the remaining casualties and retrieving the dead.Clearing a path forward he discovered two further VOIEDs and, twice more, carried out manual neutralisation. His utterly selfless action enabled all the casualties to be extracted and the bodies recovered.Even at this stage Hughes’ task was not finished. The Royal Engineers Search Team (REST) had detected a further four VOIEDs in the immediate area and stoically, like he has on over 80 other occasions in the last five months, he set about disposing of them too.Dealing with any form of IED is dangerous; to deal with seven VOIEDs linked in a single circuit, in a mass casualty scenario, using manual neutralisation techniques once, never mind three times, is the single most outstanding act of explosive ordnance disposal ever recorded in Afghanistan.That he did it without the security of specialist protective clothing serves even more to demonstrate his outstanding gallantry. Hughes is unequivocally deserving of the highest level of public recognition.

</doc>
<doc id="376096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376096" title="Matsumoto Yamaga F.C.">
Matsumoto Yamaga F.C.

The club was founded in 1965.

</doc>
<doc id="376111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376111" title="Category:Albuquerque, New Mexico">
Category:Albuquerque, New Mexico


</doc>
<doc id="376112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376112" title="Category:People from Albuquerque, New Mexico">
Category:People from Albuquerque, New Mexico


</doc>
<doc id="376113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376113" title="Category:Musicians from New Mexico">
Category:Musicians from New Mexico


</doc>
<doc id="376115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376115" title="Christopher Finney">
Christopher Finney

Christopher Finney GC (born 23 May 1984) is a British soldier. He is best known for receiving the rare George Cross because of his actions in the Iraq War.
Finney was born in Brussels, Belgium. He grew up in Marple, Greater Manchester. His family moved to Wimborne in Dorset where he joined the Dorset Army Cadet Force at the age of 13.
In 2000, he joined the British Army. In 2002, he became part of the Household Cavalry Regiment at Windsor. His name was recommended the George Cross because of bravery under attack from a pair of American aircraft in a friendly fire event.
Notice of the award was published in the "London Gazette" on 30 October 2003. He became one of the very few living s of the George Cross.
Hughes' George Cross recognized his conduct in fighting in Iraq in 2003. He showed "clearheaded courage and devotion to his comrades which was out of all proportion to his age and experience. Acting with complete disregard for his own safety even when wounded,".
Hughes received his decoration from Queen Elizabeth II at Buckingham Palace. The words of Hughes' citation explain:
On 28 March 2003, D Squadron Household Cavalry Regiment were probing forward along the Shatt Al Arab waterway, north of Basrah, some thirty kilometres ahead of the main force of 16 Air Assault Brigade. In exposed desert, their mission was to find and interdict the numerically vastly superior, and better equipped, Iraqi 6th Armoured Division.
Trooper Finney, a young armoured vehicle driver with less than a year's service, was driving the leading Scimitar vehicle of his troop, which had been at the forefront of action against enemy armour for several hours. In the early afternoon, the two leading vehicles paused beside a levee to allow the troop leader to assess fully the situation in front. Without warning, they were engaged by a pair of Coalition Forces ground attack aircraft. Both vehicles were hit and caught fire, and ammunition began exploding inside the turrets. Trooper Finney managed to get out of his driving position and was on the way towards cover when he noticed that his vehicle's gunner was trapped in the turret. He then climbed onto the fiercely burning vehicle, at the same time placing himself at risk from enemy fire, as well as fire from the aircraft should they return. Despite the smoke and flames and exploding ammunition, he managed to haul out the injured gunner, get him off the vehicle, and move him to a safer position not far away, where he bandaged his wounds.
The troop officer, in the other Scimitar, had been wounded and there were no senior ranks to take control. Despite his relative inexperience, the shock of the attack and the all-too-obvious risk to himself, Trooper Finney recognised the need to inform his headquarters of the situation. He therefore broke cover, returned to his vehicle which was still burning, and calmly and concisely sent a lucid situation report by radio. He then returned to the injured gunner and began helping him towards a Spartan vehicle of the Royal Engineers which had moved forward to assist.
At this point, Trooper Finney noticed that both the aircraft were lining up for a second attack. Notwithstanding the impending danger, he continued to help his injured comrade towards the safety of the Spartan vehicle. Both aircraft fired their cannon and Trooper Finney was wounded in the buttocks and legs, and the gunner in the head. Despite his wounds, Trooper Finney succeeded in getting the gunner to the waiting Spartan. Then, seeing that the driver of the second Scimitar was still in the burning vehicle, Trooper Finney determined to rescue him as well. Despite his wounds and the continuing danger from exploding ammunition, he valiantly attempted to climb up onto the vehicle, but was beaten back by the combination of heat, smoke and exploding ammunition. He collapsed exhausted a short distance from the vehicle, and was recovered by the crew of the Royal Engineers' Spartan.
During these attacks and their horrifying aftermath, Trooper Finney displayed clear-headed courage and devotion to his comrades which was out of all proportion to his age and experience. Acting with complete disregard for his own safety even when wounded, his bravery was of the highest order throughout.

</doc>
<doc id="376117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376117" title="Ronnie Lott">
Ronnie Lott

Ronald Mandel "Ronnie" Lott (born May 8, 1959) is a former American college and professional football player. He played as a cornerback, free safety, and strong safety in the National Football League (NFL) for fifteen years during the 1980s and 1990s. Lott played college football for the University of Southern California. He was a first-round pick in the 1981 NFL Draft. Lott played for the San Francisco 49ers, Los Angeles Raiders, New York Jets, and Kansas City Chiefs of the NFL. Lott was made a member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 2000. He is considered one of the best defensive backs in NFL history.
Lott graduated from the University of Southern California in 1981 with a degree in public administration. While playing for USC (1977–1980), he played in the 1979 and 1980 Rose Bowls.
After college, Lott was drafted by the San Francisco 49ers in the first round of the 1981 NFL Draft. In his first season, he recorded seven interceptions and helped the 49ers to win Super Bowl XVI. He was only the second rookie in NFL history to return three interceptions for touchdowns. His finish second for Rookie of the Year honors, behind New York Giants linebacker Lawrence Taylor.
Lott switched to the safety position in 1985. He had the end of his left pinky finger removed after the 1985 season because it was crushed while playing. A 1986 injury made him not play that season's last two games. He still had 10 interceptions. This was the most in the league and his personal best. In his 10 years with the 49ers, Lott helped them win four Super Bowls: XVI (1981), XIX (1984), XXIII (1988), and XXIV (1989). 
After his career with San Francisco, played for the Los Angeles Raiders, the New York Jets and the Kansas City Chiefs before returning to San Francisco where he retired. He was made a member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 2000. 
In his 14 NFL seasons, Lott had 8.5 sacks and 63 interceptions. He had five touchdowns from interceptions. He recovered 17 fumbles, returned them for 43 yards. Lott was named All-Pro eight times, All-NFC six times, and All-AFC once.
Lott was born in Albuquerque, New Mexico. He now lives in Cupertino, California, with his wife, Karen, and his children, Hailey, Isaiah, and Chloe. He now manages $2.4 billion in investments and owns both Toyota and Mercedes-Benz car dealerships. He opened World Sports Cafe in Fresno, California. Lott is the father of former Tampa Bay Buccaneers linebacker Ryan Nece.

</doc>
<doc id="376118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376118" title="Category:Athletes from New Mexico">
Category:Athletes from New Mexico


</doc>
<doc id="376122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376122" title="Category:George Cross holder">
Category:George Cross holder


</doc>
<doc id="376124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376124" title="Jesus College, Cambridge">
Jesus College, Cambridge

Jesus College is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. It was created in 1496. It took over buildings from a nunnery (a place where nuns live), including the chapel which was called Jesus Chapel. Because of this it still looks more like a monastery than a college. It has very big gardens and is one of the largest colleges in Cambridge with more than 700 students. 
Some very famous people have studied here, for example Thomas Cranmer, Samuel Taylor Coleridge and Laurence Sterne.

</doc>
<doc id="376126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376126" title="Lucy Cavendish College, Cambridge">
Lucy Cavendish College, Cambridge

Lucy Cavendish College is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. It was created in 1956. It only has students which are both women and over 21. This can include postgraduates and undergraduates who are older than usual. It was built by women within the university who thought that women were not treated fairly in Cambridge. At the time in fact most colleges were still for men only. The name comes from Lucy Cavendish (1841-1925), who was very important in making reforms to give more education to women.
Lucy Cavendish is quite a small college with about 350 total students. Some famous people have been given honorary fellowships from the college, which is a title to show that they have done something important for the role of women. For example, Judi Dench and Margrethe II of Denmark were given this title.

</doc>
<doc id="376129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376129" title="Magdalene College, Cambridge">
Magdalene College, Cambridge

Magdalene College is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. It was created in 1428 as Buckingham College, a Benedictine hostel. In 1542 this was changed, taking the name from the city of magda. It was built over many years thanks to money given by many different important people, such as the Dukes of Norfolk and Buckingham. Today, it has about 600 students.
The most famous person to have studied here is Samuel Pepys. He was an influential Member of Parliament. When he died, he gave lots of books to the college. The library in Magdalene, which is very old and beautiful, is named after him (the Pepys Library). Magdalene is one of the colleges that keeps many old traditions. It was the last one in Cambridge to allow women to study there: this only happened in 1988. 

</doc>
<doc id="376132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376132" title="Get Up Stand Up">
Get Up Stand Up

"Get Up Stand Up" is a reggae song by Bob Marley. It was released in 1973. It is about rebellion. It lasts 3 minutes and 16 seconds. It was written by Bob Marley and Peter Tosh. It was produced by Chris Blackwell and The Wailers. It is from the album "Burnin"'.
In "Get Up Stand Up", Bob Marley opens people's eyes ("Now you see the light"). It's about how appearances can fool the people ("half the story has never been told"). In the song, Bob Marley believes that the society controls the people. The song is a message of rebellion. He promotes the Rastafari culture.

</doc>
<doc id="376148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376148" title="List of Matsumoto Yamaga F.C. players">
List of Matsumoto Yamaga F.C. players

The List of Matsumoto Yamaga FC players is evolving. The history of the team is created by its players.
Matsumoto Yamaga F.C. is a Japanese professional football club in Mastumoto in Nagano Prefecture.

</doc>
<doc id="376184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376184" title="Matsumoto, Nagano">
Matsumoto, Nagano

It has been recognized as a special city since 2000.
Matsumoto was the capital of Shinano Province during the Edo period.

</doc>
<doc id="376194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376194" title="Kwangmyŏngsŏng-3 Unit 2">
Kwangmyŏngsŏng-3 Unit 2

The Kwangmyŏngsŏng-3 Unit 2 is North Korea's first orbital satellite. It was launched on December 12, 2012. It replaced the Unit 1 that failed to orbit on April 13, 2012. It weighs almost 220 pounds. It is used to collect Korea's weather data, estimate crop yields, and gather data about the country's forest coverage. Its planned lifespan is only two years.

</doc>
<doc id="376205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376205" title="Derek Kinne">
Derek Kinne

Derek Godfrey Kinne GC (born 11 January 1930) was a British soldier. He is best known for receiving the George Cross because of his actions in the Korean War. 
Kinne was born in Nottingham and raised in Leeds.
In 1950, he joined the Royal Northumberland Fusiliers. He was taken prisoner by the North Koreans on 25 April 1951. He was not released until 10 August 1953. His name was His name was recommended for the George Cross because of his actions during the time he was a prisoner of war. According to Lord Ashcroft, he arguably went through more suffering that any of the 159 individuals to have been awarded the George Cross.
Notice of his award was published in the "London Gazette" on 9 April 1954. He became one of the very few living s of the George Cross.
Kinne' George Cross recognized his endurance as a military prisoner who was held in Korea in 1951-1953. 
Hughes received his decoration from Queen Elizabeth II at Buckingham Palace. The words of Hughes' citation explain:
In August, 1950, Fusilier KINNE volunteered for service in Korea. He joined the 1st Battalion, The Royal Northumberland Fusiliers, and was captured by Chinese Communist forces on the 25th April, 1951, the last day of the Imjin River battle. From then on he had only two objects in mind; firstly to escape, and secondly by his contempt for his captors and their behaviour, and his utter disregard for the treatment meted out to him, to raise the morale of his fellow prisoners. The treatment which he received during his period of captivity is summarised in the
succeeding paragraphs.
Fusilier KINNE escaped for the first time within 24 hours of capture but was retaken a few days later while attempting to regain our own lines. Eventually he rejoined a large group of (prisoners being marched North to prison camps, and despite the hardships of this march, which lasted a month, rapidly emerged as a man of outstanding leadership and very high morale. His conduct was a fine example to all his fellow-prisoners.
In July, 1952, Fusilier KINNE, who was by now well known to his captors, was accused by them of being non-co-operative and was brutally interrogated about the other P.W. who had unco-operative views. As a result of his refusal to inform on his comrades, and for
striking back at a 'Chinese officer who assaulted him, he was twice severely beaten up
and tied up for periods of 12 and 24 hours, being made to stand on tip-toe with a running
noose round his neck which would throttle him if he attempted to relax in any way.
He escaped on 27th July but was recaptured two days later. He was again beaten up very
severely, and placed in handcuffs (which could be and frequently were tightened so as to
restrict circulation), from which he was not released until 16th October, 1952, a period of
81 days.
He was accused of insincerity, a hostile attitude towards the Chinese, "sabotage" of compulsory political study, escape, and of being reactionary. From the 15th to the 20th August, he was confined in a very small box cell, where he was made to sit to attention all day, being periodically beaten, prodded with bayonets, kicked and spat upon by the guards, and denied any washing facilities.
On 20th August, 1952, he was made to stand to attention for seven hours and when he complained was beaten by the Chinese guard commander with the butt of a submachine gun, which eventually went off and killed the guard commander. For this Fusilier KINNE was beaten senseless with belts and bayonets, stripped of his clothes, and thrown into a dank rat-infested hole until the 19th September. He was frequently taken out and beaten, including once (on 16th September), with pieces of planking until he was unconscious.On 16th October Fusilier Kinne was tried by a Chinese military court for escape and for being a reactionary and hostile to the Chinese, and was sentenced to twelve months' solitary confinement. This was increased to eighteen months when he complained at his trial of denial of medical attention, including that for a severe double hernia which he had sustained in June, 1952, while training to escape.
On 5th December, 1952, he was transferred to a special penal company. His last award of solitary confinement was on 2nd June, 1953, when he was sentenced for defying Chinese orders and wearing a rosette in celebration of Coronation Day.
He was eventually exchanged at Panmunjom on 10th August, 1953. As late as 8th and 9th August he was threatened with non-repatriation for demanding an interview with the International Red Cross Representatives who were visiting prisoner-of-war camps.
Fusilier Kinne was during the course of his periods of solitary confinement kept in no less than seven different places of imprisonment, including a security police gaol, under conditions of the most extreme degradation and increasing brutality. Every possible method both physical and mental was employed by his captors to break his spirit, a task which proved utterly beyond their powers. Latterly he must have been fully aware that every time he flaunted his captors and showed openly his detestation of themselves and their methods he was risking his life. He was in fact several times threatened with death or non-repatriation. Nevertheless he was always determined to show that he was prepared neither to be intimidated nor cowed by brutal treatment at die hands of a barbarous enemy.His powers of resistance and his determination to oppose and fight the enemy to the maximum were beyond praise. His example was an inspiration to all ranks who came into contact with him.

</doc>
<doc id="376209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376209" title="Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles">
Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles

The owner of the Eagles is Rakuten, an IT company. The Eagles are very popular in Miyagi. The mascot character is Clutch and Clutchyna.
The Eagles became the champion of the Pacific League on September 26, 2013. Masahiro Tanaka contributed to becoming the champion. He won 24 games in the 2013 series. In the Japan Series, the Eagles had four wins and three losses to Yomiuri Giants, who became the champion in Japan.
The Kleenex Stadium Miyagi in Sendai is their home stadium. This stadium is in the central ward of Sendai city, near Miyaginohara subway station.

</doc>
<doc id="376219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376219" title="John DeLorean">
John DeLorean

John Zachary DeLorean (January 6, 1925 – March 19, 2005) was an American engineer and executive in the U.S. automobile industry, most notably with General Motors. He founded the DeLorean Motor Company. His car company became well known when "Back to the Future" used his car as the time travel car.
DeLorean was born on January 6, 1925 in Detroit, Michigan to a family of Romanian and Hungarian background. He studied at the University of Michigan, then at the Cass Technical High School, and later at the Lawrence Technological University.
He was married to Sally Baldwin until they divorced. Then he was married to Elizabeth Haggin from 1954 until they divorced in 1969. Then he was married to Kelly Harmon from 1969 until they divorced in 1972. Then he was last married to Cristina Ferrare from 1973 until they divorced in 1985. He had two children.
During a difficult period because of accusations of cocaine trafficking (eventually he was not convicted), DeLorean and his last wife Cristina Ferrare became born again Christians.
John DeLorean died on March 19, 2005 in Summit, New Jersey from a stroke, aged 80. He was buried at White Chapel Cemetery in Troy, Michigan.

</doc>
<doc id="376228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376228" title="Corey Haim">
Corey Haim

Corey Ian Haim (December 23, 1971 – March 10, 2010) was a Canadian actor who is known for his roles in such movies such as "Lucas", "Silver Bullet", "Murphy's Romance", "License to Drive" and "Dream a Little Dream". His best-known role was alongside Corey Feldman in "The Lost Boys". He was a drug addict. 
Haim was born on December 23, 1971 in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. He was raised in Toronto. Haim studied at Zion Heights Junior High School. He never married. He died on March 10, 2010 in Burbank, California from pneumonia, aged 38.

</doc>
<doc id="376230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376230" title="Category:1428 establishments">
Category:1428 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="376231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376231" title="Category:1956 establishments">
Category:1956 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="376233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376233" title="Category:1496 establishments">
Category:1496 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="376235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376235" title="Category:George Cross holders">
Category:George Cross holders

This is a index of articles about people who have received the George Cross.

</doc>
<doc id="376241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376241" title="Liberal Democratic Party (Japan)">
Liberal Democratic Party (Japan)

Jiminto or the Japanese Liberal Democratic Party is one of the main political parties in Japan. It has ruled Japan for most of the time since World War II. It is right-wing, despite its name in English. The current leader is Shinzo Abe.

</doc>
<doc id="376243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376243" title="Maccabees (disambiguation)">
Maccabees (disambiguation)

Maccabees may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="376248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376248" title="Women of WWI">
Women of WWI

There were many women involved in WWI. American women and British women helped their country with the war. The women’s groups in Britain did not like that Britain was going to go to war at first. British women took over the jobs of the men who went into battle. The men were guaranteed their jobs back when they came home. When the U.S first got involved in WWI, they were opposed to using women’s power. Before that, they did not think twice about women or their rights. 
Belgian and Italian women also helped their countries. The women were nurses who served in the war. They helped the wounded soldiers of their side. They also helped on troop trains and transport ships. Over 30,000 women helped in the Army, Navy, Marines, or the Coast Guard. They did this even before they were given the right to vote. In America, the women in the military gave a huge push to the 19th Amendment to get passed. President Woodrow Wilson got won over to the women’s suffrage side because they were very brave. The women served on the front line. They also replaced men in offices and factories. 
More than 25,000 U.S women served in Europe in WWI. They helped nurse the wounded and provided food and other supplies to the military. Some of the women became “horrifyingly bloodthirsty” when they heard about the fighting. They wanted to go into combat but could not because they were women. There was a “reconstruction of gender” in Britain. After WWI, women became stronger and not just looked at as mothers or “girly.” 
The feminist movement never regained its strength after the war but kept the same status as before the war. The world wars shook up the gender’s relations, but only temporarily.

</doc>
<doc id="376251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376251" title="Tennessee Williams">
Tennessee Williams

Thomas Lanier "Tennessee" Williams III (March 26, 1911 – February 25, 1983) was an American writer, perhaps best known for his play A Streetcar Named Desire. He was of English, Welsh and Huguenot ancestry. He was gay. He was an alcoholic and drug addict who died of an accidental drug overdose.

</doc>
<doc id="376252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376252" title="The Creation (Haydn)">
The Creation (Haydn)

The Creation is an oratorio by Joseph Haydn which some consider his masterpiece. As the name suggests, the work celebrates the creation of the world as described in the Book of Genesis.

</doc>
<doc id="376253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376253" title="Killing Them Softly">
Killing Them Softly

Killing Them Softly is a 2012 American crime thriller movie based on Cogan's Trade. It stars Brad Pitt, Richard Jenkins, James Gandolfini, Ben Mendelsohn, Sam Shepard and Ray Liotta. The subject is organized crime and illegal gambling during hard economic times in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="376255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376255" title="Blainville-Boisbriand Armada">
Blainville-Boisbriand Armada

The Blainville-Boisbriand Armada are a Canadian ice hockey team. They began playing in 2011. The team currently plays in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League. They play their home games in Boisbriand, Quebec at the Centre d'Excellence Sports Rousseau. 
The team originally played in the Verdun borough of Montreal as the Montreal Junior Hockey Club but was moved to Boisbriand, Quebec by former NHL defenseman Joel Bouchard in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="376256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376256" title="Category:Quebec Major Junior Hockey League">
Category:Quebec Major Junior Hockey League

This lists articles related to the current junior hockey Quebec Major Junior Hockey League. 

</doc>
<doc id="376258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376258" title="Drummondville Voltigeurs">
Drummondville Voltigeurs

The Drummondville Voltigeurs are a Canadian ice hockey team. They began playing in 1982. The team currently plays in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League. They play their home games in Drummondville, Quebec at the Centre Marcel Dionne. 
The team is named after the Canadian Voltigeurs, a Quebec-based regiment that fought in the War of 1812. The team has won the Jean Rougeau Trophy in 2009. They have also won the President's Cup against the Shawinigan Cataractes in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="376261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376261" title="Gatineau Olympiques">
Gatineau Olympiques

The Gatineau Olympiques are a Canadian ice hockey team. They began playing in 1969. The team currently plays in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League. They play their home games in Gatineau, Quebec at the Robert Guertin Centre.
The team was first a member of the Central Junior A Hockey League and was known as the Hull Castors and then the Hull Hawks. They renamed themselves the Hull Festivals and then the Hull Olympiques. The city of Hull was merged with the city of Gatineau in 2002 and the team changed their name to the Gatineau Olympiques.
The team has won seven President's Cups and one Memorial Cup in 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="376262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376262" title="Category:Drug-related accidental deaths">
Category:Drug-related accidental deaths


</doc>
<doc id="376263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376263" title="Rouyn-Noranda Huskies">
Rouyn-Noranda Huskies

The Rouyn-Noranda Huskies are a Canadian ice hockey team. They began playing in 1933, again in 1954 and finally again in 1975. The team currently plays in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League. They play their home games in Rouyn-Noranda, Quebec at the Aréna Iamgold.
The team was first known as the Montreal Junior Canadiens and they were based in Montreal. The team won Memorial Cups in 1950, 1969 and 1970 when they played in Montreal. The team then played in Verdun borough of Montreal as the Juniors and Junior Canadiens. They relocated to Saint-Hyacinthe, Quebec and became the Saint-Hyacinthe Laser. The owners of the Laser transferred the team to Rouyn-Noranda and renamed the team the Huskies in 1996. As the Huskies, they have won one Jean Rougeau Trophy in 2007. 

</doc>
<doc id="376266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376266" title="Sherbrooke Phoenix">
Sherbrooke Phoenix

The Sherbrooke Phoenix are a Canadian ice hockey team. They began playing in 2012. The team currently plays in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League. They play their home games in Sherbrooke, Quebec at the Palais des Sports Léopold-Drolet.
The team was created when the Lewiston Maineiacs folded and the team was relocated to Sherbrooke. Sherbrooke used to have two other QMJHL teams in the past but they relocated. One of their old teams was relocated to Lewiston, Maine in 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="376269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376269" title="Val-d'Or Foreurs">
Val-d'Or Foreurs

The Val-d'Or Foreurs are a Canadian ice hockey team. They began playing in 1969. The team currently plays in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League. They play their home games in Val-d'Or, Quebec at the Centre Air Creebec.
The name of the team is reference to the drilling operations that are associated with mining and exploration and are one of the major sources of blue-collar work in the area of Val-d'Or. The team's name is translated to "Valley of Gold Drillers". 
They have won the President's Cup two times and have been to the Memorial Cup finals twice.

</doc>
<doc id="376270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376270" title="Baie-Comeau Drakkar">
Baie-Comeau Drakkar

The Baie-Comeau Drakkar are a Canadian ice hockey team. They began playing in 1997. The team currently plays in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League. They play their home games in Baie-Comeau, Quebec at the Centre Henry-Leonard.
The team started playing in the QMJHL in 1997. They have not won a Memorial Cup or President's Cup. The team was the subject of a documentary in 2008 called Junior. Marc-André Bergeron, Jean-François Jacques, Yanick Lehoux, Olivier Michaud, Joel Perrault, Patrick Thoresen and Bruno St. Jacques have all played for the team during their careers. 

</doc>
<doc id="376273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376273" title="Big E Langston">
Big E Langston

Ettore Ewen (born March 1, 1986 in Tampa, Florida) better known by his ring names Big E Langston, is an American professional wrestler, powerlifter and former American football player currently signed to the WWE.
He played college football at the University of Iowa. He is also a National Powerlifting Champion and has set multiple national and state records in the raw division.
On the December 6th episode of NXT developmental territory, he defeated Seth Rollins to win the NXT Championship. On December 17, 2012, He made his WWE debut when he attacked John Cena after AJ Lee ordered him to. He lost the NXT Championship to Bo Dallas on May 23, 2013.
He would team with Dolph Ziggler and AJ Lee but started a feud with Ziggler after he ended his relationship with AJ on Raw. He had several matches with Ziggler and eventually lost a mixed tag team match with AJ against Ziggler and Kaitlyn at SummerSlam which ended their feud.
On the October 18 episode of SmackDown, he turned face after his match with CM Punk when he helped Punk fending off an attack by Ryback and Curtis Axel.
Langston defeated Curtis Axel on the November 18, 2013 edition of Raw titled "Raw Country" to win the WWE Intercontinental Championship and his first championship on the WWE's main roster.

</doc>
<doc id="376278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376278" title="Chicoutimi Saguenéens">
Chicoutimi Saguenéens

The Chicoutimi Saguenéens are a Canadian ice hockey team. They began playing in 1973. The team currently plays in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League. They play their home games in Chicoutimi, Quebec at the Centre Georges-Vézina.
The team was created in 1973. The name of the team means "People from the Saguenay" which Chicoutimi is a part of. The team has won two President's Cups in their history. They have also made it to the Memorial Cup finals in 1997 but were defeated by the host Hull Olympics. 

</doc>
<doc id="376282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376282" title="Khowar Language Movement">
Khowar Language Movement

The Khowar Language Movement (KLM) () is a linguistic movement in Chitral, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan aimed at reviving the Khowar Chitrali language, Khowar art, Khowar culture and Khowar literature in Chitral, Swat and Ghizer Districts of Pakistan. The Khow Chitrali people constitute the largest ethnic group in Khyber Pakhtunkhaw and Gilgit-Baltistan, Pakistan though Pashto is the provincial language in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Khowar (Chitrali) language itself does not have an official status in Chitral, Swat and Ghizer Districts of Pakistan. 
The KLM's ideologies are based on Chitrali nationalism.

</doc>
<doc id="376285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376285" title="Quebec Remparts">
Quebec Remparts

The Quebec Remparts are a Canadian ice hockey team. The original team started playing in 1969 and ceased operations in 1996. The team was revived and started playing again in 1997. The team currently plays in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League. They play their home games in Quebec City, Quebec at the Colisée Pepsi.
The original team was started in 1969. During the original teams run they won 5 President's Cups. Guy Lafleur also played for the original team. The team then moved to Longueuil and became the Longueuil Collège Français. They played three seasons as in Longueuil and then moved to the Verdun borough of Montreal and became the Verdun Collège Français. The team ceased operations in 1994 and were revived in 1997. 
The team won the Memorial Cup when they defeated the Moncton Wildcats 6-2 in the finals.

</doc>
<doc id="376297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376297" title="The Egyptian Theatre">
The Egyptian Theatre

The Egyptian Theatre, also known as the Ada Theater, at 700 West Main Street in Boise, Idaho is a movie theater that opened in 1927.
The Egyptian Theatre is surrounded by Boise history that makes this building a tour of Boise history.
It was first opened in 1927. The building was built in the model of the newly discovered King Tut's tomb. Over time it was changed repeatedly. In 1999 it was remodeled once again after the original building. 
Now, it mainly runs movies and concerts.
The theater is architecturally significant as one of the few surviving theaters from the grand cinema and movie palace era in Boise.
The Bourne Identity, The Bourne Supremacy, and The Bourne Ultimatum, starring Matt Damon, premieres were all hosted at The Egyptian Theatre. 
It is also said to be one of the more haunted buildings in Boise, and was featured on the Travel Channel show Ghost Stories in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="376300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376300" title="Someone like You">
Someone like You

Someone like You may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="376304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376304" title="John E. Tourtellotte">
John E. Tourtellotte

John Everett Tourtellotte (February 22, 1869 – 1939) was a prominent western American architect. He is best known for his projects in Idaho. His work in Boise included the Idaho State Capitol, the Boise City National Bank, the Carnegie Library, and numerous other buildings for schools, universities, churches, and government institutions.
His company was called John E. Tourtellotte & Company. He also worked with another company called Tourtellotte and Hummel, based in Boise. Works by these firms were covered in a 1982 study and many of the buildings were immediately or later listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
Numerous buildings designed by Tourtellotte and associated firms are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.

</doc>
<doc id="376309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376309" title="Ada Odd Fellows Temple">
Ada Odd Fellows Temple

Ada Odd Fellows Temple was built in 1903 in Boise, Idaho. It served historically as a clubhouse. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982.

</doc>
<doc id="376313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376313" title="Elks Temple (Boise, Idaho)">
Elks Temple (Boise, Idaho)

The Elks Temple in Boise, Idaho was built in 1914 in "Italian Palazzo Style". It has served as a clubhouse of the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks (Elks) organization. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1978.

</doc>
<doc id="376315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376315" title="Murray Edwards College, Cambridge">
Murray Edwards College, Cambridge

Murray Edwards College is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. It was created in 1954 with the name New Hall. In 2008, it changed its name to remember Dame Rosemary Murray, the first President of the College, and the Edwards family which gave £30 million to the college.
Murray Edwards is a college for women only. When it was built, most colleges only accepted men. Therefore, the main aim of New Hall was to increase the presence of women in the University. At the beginning, New Hall was found near Darwin College. In 1964, the new buildings were made and in 1965 the college moved to today's location, Huntingdon Road, about a mile from the city centre of Cambridge. It has about 500 students.
Murray Edwards has a very big women's art collection, the second largest in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="376318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376318" title="Marabou Stork">
Marabou Stork

The Marabou Stork ("Leptoptilos crumeniferus") is a large wading bird in the stork family Ciconiidae. It breeds in Africa south of the Sahara, in wet and arid habitats, often near human habitation, especially waste tips. It is sometimes called the "Undertaker Bird" due to its shape from behind: cloak-like wings and back, skinny white legs, and sometimes a large white mass of "hair."

</doc>
<doc id="376322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376322" title="Juliet Mills">
Juliet Mills

Juliet Mills (born 21 November 1941) is an English actress who has performed in movies, television and stage acts since 1942. She played in the supernatural NBC soap opera "Passions". She also performed in other television shows.
She is the elder daughter of John Mills and Mary Hayley Bell. Her sister is Hayley Mills.
She has a son by her first husband and a daughter by her second husband. Her current husband is Maxwell Caulfield.

</doc>
<doc id="376326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376326" title="Hayley Mills">
Hayley Mills

Hayley Mills (born 18 April 1946) is a British television, stage and movie actress. She was born in Marylebone, London. She began her acting career in Disney movies. She starred in "Pollyanna" in 1960 and "The Parent Trap" the following year. She made four more movies for Disney. Her elder sister Juliet is also acting in movies and TV. In her later career, she stared as Caroline Duplessis in ITV's drama "Wild at Heart" which aired from 2005-2012.
She is the younger daughter of John Mills and Mary Hayley Bell. 
She was married to Roy Boulting from 1971 until they divorced in 1977. Their son is Crispian Mills. Her partner from 1975-1984 was Leigh Lawson; the couple had a son. Since 1997, her partner is Firdous Bamji. 

</doc>
<doc id="376330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376330" title="Road signs in South Africa">
Road signs in South Africa

Road signs in Africa stay close to the Vienna Convention on Road Signs and Signals concerning shape and function. There are also some local signs unique to South Africa. A white background signifies the sign is permanent. A yellow background signifies that the sign is temporary. Warning signs are an upwards-pointing red triangle and black pictogram describing the danger or obstruction. Speed limit signs are a red circle with the limitation in black. South Africa drives on the left.

</doc>
<doc id="376338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376338" title="Çayırköprü, Aydıntepe">
Çayırköprü, Aydıntepe

Çayırköprü is a village in the District of Aydıntepe, Bayburt Province, Turkey. As of 2010, 133 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="376341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376341" title="Helen Smith (writer)">
Helen Smith (writer)

Helen Smith is an English novelist and dramatist. She's a member of the Writers' Guild of Great Britain, English PEN and the Society of Authors. She lives in Brixton, London.
Helen Smith was born in London in November 1968. She has one daughter named Lauren with the writer Damon Rochefort. When her daughter was small, they travelled extensively in Australia, South East Asia, Hong Kong and South America before returning to the UK. Her first novel, Alison Wonderland, was published in 1999 by Gollancz. 
She was a winning writer in the IRDP London Playwrights Festival. Her novels have been optioned for development by the BBC. She continues to work as a novelist and playwright. She was the recipient of an Arts Council Award. She currently volunteers as a writing mentor with the Write to Life group run by the Medical Foundation for Care of Victims of Torture.
Novels
Children's Books
Anthologies
2010 "The Memory Man"Arcola Theatre, London <br>
2009 "Purple, Silver, Olive, Orange"Arcola Theatre, London <br>
2007 "The Psychic Detective" National Theatre Watch This Space and touring
1995 "Looking for Baby Jesus"

</doc>
<doc id="376345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376345" title="1996 All-Ireland Senior Camogie Championship Final">
1996 All-Ireland Senior Camogie Championship Final

The 1996 All-Ireland Senior Camogie Championship Final was the 65th All-Ireland Final and the deciding match of the 1996 All-Ireland Senior Camogie Championship. It is an inter-county camogie tournament for the top teams in Ireland. 
Cork led 1-9 to 1-6 at half-time. After that they went on to regret missed chances. Denise Gilligan scored two goals for Galway.

</doc>
<doc id="376347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376347" title="Wasylów Wielki">
Wasylów Wielki

Wasylów Wielki is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Ulhówek. It is within Tomaszów Lubelski County, Lublin Voivodeship which is in eastern Poland. It is close to the border with Ukraine. It is about east of Ulhówek, east of Tomaszów Lubelski and south-east of the regional capital Lublin.
The village has a population of 510.

</doc>
<doc id="376350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376350" title="Metamya">
Metamya

Metamya is a genus of moth in the family Arctiidae.

</doc>
<doc id="376352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376352" title="Arctiidae">
Arctiidae

Arctiidae is a large family of moths with around 11,000 species found all over the world. It included 6,000 neotropical species. This family includes the groups commonly known as tiger moths (or tigers). Tiger moths usually have bright colours, footmen (which are usually much drabber), lichen moths and wasp moths. Many species have 'hairy' caterpillars which are popularly known as woolly bears or woolly worms. The scientific name refers to this (Gk. αρκτος = a bear). Caterpillars may also go by the name 'tussock moths' (more usually this refers to Lymantriidae, however).

</doc>
<doc id="376354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376354" title="Cinnabar moth">
Cinnabar moth

The cinnabar moth (Tyria jacobaeae) is a brightly colored arctiid moth. It is found in Europe and western and central Asia. It has been introduced into New Zealand, Australia and North America to control poisonous ragwort. This is because the larvae feeding on the ragwort. The moth is named after the red mineral cinnabar because of the red patches on its mostly black wings. Cinnabar moths are about 20mm long and have a wingspan of 32–42 mm (1.3-1.7 in).
Cinnabar moths are day-flying insects. Like many other brightly colored moths, it cannot be eaten. The larvae use members of the genus "Senecio" as foodplants. Newly hatched larvae feed from under the ragwort leaves to the area of their old eggs. The larvae absorb toxic and bitter tasting alkaloid substances from the foodplants. This makes them unable to be eaten themselves. The bright colors of both the larvae and the moths act as warning signs. Partly due to this they are seldom eaten by predators. An exception is among different species of Cuckoo which eat hairy and poisonous caterpillars including cinnabar moth larvae.
Like several other Arctiidae moth larvae, the cinnabar caterpillars can turn cannibalistic. This can be due to lack of food. Sometimes they can eat other cinnabar larvae for no apparent reason. Females lay up to 300 eggs and usually in clusters of 30 to 60. The larvae start out as a pale yellow. Later larval stages develop the jet black and orange/yellow striped coloring. They can grow up to 30mm, and are voracious eaters; large populations can strip entire patches of ragwort clean, a result of their low predation.
Many do not survive to the pupal stage. This is mainly due to them completely consuming the food source before reaching maturity. This could be a possible explanation for their tendency to engage in seemingly random cannibalistic behaviour. It is common for them to die from starvation.
The moth has proven to be successful as a biocontrol agent for ragwort when used in conjunction with the ragwort flea beetle in the western United States.

</doc>
<doc id="376356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376356" title="Antanas Sutkus">
Antanas Sutkus

Antanas Sutkus (born 27 June 1939 in Kluoniškiai, Kaunas district) is a renowned Lithuanian photographer and recipient of the Lithuanian National Prize. He also received the Order of the Lithuanian Grand Duke Gediminas. He was one of the co-founders and a President of the Photography Art Society of Lithuania (). 
Sutkus's series "People of Lithuania" is considered one of his most important works. It is a continuing project begun in 1976 to document the changing life and people of Lithuania. Working at the time when Lithuania (as the Lithuanian SSR) was part of the Soviet Union, Sutkus focused on black and white portraits of ordinary people in their everyday life rather than the model citizens and workers promoted by Soviet propaganda. Sutkus had an opportunity to spend time with Jean-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir in 1965 when they visited Lithuania. One image, taken against the white sand of Nida, is highly regarded as capturing Sartre's ideas.

</doc>
<doc id="376359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376359" title="Lithuanian National Prize">
Lithuanian National Prize

The Lithuanian National Prize () was established in 1989. It is an award granted for achievements in culture and the arts. It has been awarded annually in six categories since 2006 (between 1989 and 2006 there were nine categories). The prize is formally bestowed on February 16. This is when the decorations and diplomas are presented to the winners at Presidential Palace. This is also the commemorating of the anniversary of the 1918 Act of Independence of Lithuania.
The award honors significant recent achievements in cultural fields and works by artists or art collectives. The honorees may be citizens of Lithuania or members of the Lithuanian World Community. When the award was first established, works accomplished during the previous five years were considered; this period was extended to seven years in 2008. The candidacies are open each year until September 15, and the winners are announced on December 15. Each "Lithuanian National Prize" consists of a memorial sign, a diploma, and a monetary grant (circa 104,000 litas). A single person can only receive the National Prize once.
Current candidates for the Prize are nominated by professional associations and societies. Before 2008 the nominations could be made by members of the public. The winners are selected by a special committee. 
As of May 2008 there were 156 people who had been given the Prize.

</doc>
<doc id="376362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376362" title="XSP (software)">
XSP (software)

XSP is a simple, standalone web server written in C#. It hosts ASP.NET's System for Linux and other Unix operating systems. As well as running on the mono runtime for Linux it also runs on the .NET runtime. This makes it usable as a light weight web server on any .NET supporting platform.
XSP was originally the name of the internal project at Microsoft that became ASP.NET. The name is a homage to the original name of what became ASP.NET
XSP is also a term for the eXtensible Server Pages technology in Apache Cocoon.

</doc>
<doc id="376365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376365" title="Constitutionalism">
Constitutionalism

Constitutionalism is a form of political thought and action that seeks to prevent tyranny including worst result of majority rule and to guarantee the liberty and rights of individuals. Constitutionalism is the conduct of politics in accordance with a constitution. 
From the eighteenth century the essential element in modern constitutionalism is the doctrine of limited government under a written fundamental law. 
Limited government means that officials cannot act arbitrarily when they make and enforce public decisions. Public officials cannot simply do as they please. The Constitution is the supreme law that guides and limits the exercise of power by government officials. 
In 1787 representatives of the people of the United States drafted and ratified a Constitution. Article 6 of the United States Constitution states this principle: “The Constitution, and the Laws of the United States which shall be made in Pursuance thereof … shall be the supreme Law of the Land.” All laws, passed either by Congress or by state legislatures, must conform to the supreme law—the Constitution. As Alexander Hamilton explained in The Federalist No. 78: “No legislative act contrary to the Constitution, therefore, can be valid.” Actually, a legislative or executive action that violates the Constitution can be declared unconstitutional, or unlawful, by the Supreme Court.
Constitutionalism is a form of government that lies between absolutism and monarchy, backed by a parliament. In absolutism, the monarch is free to do what he likes, and there is no way to control him. In a parliamentary monarchy, the monarch has his power bound by parliament, and is accountable for what he does.

</doc>
<doc id="376366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376366" title="Lovely Mary">
Lovely Mary

Lovely Mary is a 1916 silent drama movie directed by Edgar Jones.
Mary and her cousin Clairborne are the last descendants of the Lane family. They announce they are selling their land. Two land scouts come over to buy their property. One of them is Roland Manning who falls in love with Mary. The other is Wade Dempster who tries to get his hand on their home by getting Clairborne drunk. One of the townsfolk finds out of Dempster's way of buying the land and tries to stop it. Dempster defends himself by shooting him and next blames Manning for the murder. It doesn't take long before Manning is found guilty and receives a life prison sentence. 
Mary tries to set him free and turns to the law to help him. Mary's former sweetheart Oscar witnessed the murder and finally admits Dempster shot him. Roland is set free and marries Mary. They keep the land and start a family living happily ever after.

</doc>
<doc id="376368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376368" title="Russell Simpson (actor)">
Russell Simpson (actor)

Russell McCaskill Simpson (17 June 1880 – 12 December 1959) was an American actor.
Simpson was born in San Francisco, California. He is best known for his work in the movies of John Ford. He is most famous for his portrayal of Pa Joad in "The Grapes of Wrath" in 1940.
Simpson reportedly prospected for gold in Alaska in his youth. By 1909 he had gone into the theatre. He appeared in at least two plays on Broadway between 1909 and 1912. He made his motion picture debut in Cecil B. DeMille's 1914 original movieversion of "The Virginian". He only had a minor role in that movie. By 1923, when the movie was remade, Simpson had progressed to playing the lead villain. 
Simpson was a familiar character actor for almost forty-five years as a member of the John Ford Stock Company. He worked up to 1959. His final movie was "The Horse Soldiers". It was his tenth movie for Ford. He died in Woodland Hills, California 12 December 1959. 
He was survived by his wife Gertrude. Simpson had two children, Russell Jr. and Roberta.

</doc>
<doc id="376373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376373" title="Bat'leth">
Bat'leth

The bat'leth is a long and curved ceremonial sword with handholds on the back. It was created by "" visual effects producer, Dan Curry, for the "Star Trek" television series. It is mainly used within "Star Trek" fiction by the Klingons, a race in the series. It is thought to be a highly noticed image of "Star Trek" and copies are widely available online as highly collected things and as a part of costumes. They have also been used in crimes.
A bat'leth is made up of a curved blade with spikes coming out at both ends and with handles along the centre of the blade's back, and is about five feet long.. The handles are used to twist and spin the blade quickly, the weapon can be used with one or both hands.

</doc>
<doc id="376379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376379" title="Great-billed Heron">
Great-billed Heron

The Great-billed Heron ("Ardea sumatrana") is a wading bird of the heron family Ardeidae, resident from southeast Asia to Papua New Guinea and Australia. Its habitats are largely coastal such as islands, coral reefs, mangroves, large rivers. However, occasionally, it can be found inland in shallow ponds.
It feeds in shallow water, spearing fish with its long, sharp bill. It will wait motionless for prey, or slowly stalk its victim.

</doc>
<doc id="376380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376380" title="Ping">
Ping

Ping can have several meanings

</doc>
<doc id="376381" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376381" title="Little egret">
Little egret

The little egret ("Egretta garzetta") is a small white heron.
Adults are 55–65 cm long with an 88–106 cm wingspan, and weigh 350–550 grams. The plumage is often all white, but can also be blue-grey. In the breeding season, the adult has two long plumes on the nape that form a crest. There are similar feathers on the breast, but the barbs are more widely spread. The legs are black and the feet yellow. Juveniles are similar to non-breeding adults but have greenish-black legs and duller yellow feet. The subspecies nigripes differs in having yellow skin between the bill and eye, and blackish feet.
Little Egrets are mostly silent but make various croaking and bubbling calls at their breeding colonies and produce a harsh alarm call when disturbed.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="376389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376389" title="Chuck Jones">
Chuck Jones

Charles Martin "Chuck" Jones (September 21, 1912 – February 22, 2002) was an American animator, cartoon artist, screenwriter, producer, and director.
He was known for his works in "Looney Tunes" and in "Tom & Jerry". He directed many of the Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck cartoons. He won an Academy Award for Best Animated Short. Jones produced 34 "Tom and Jerry" shorts from 1963 to 1967.
Jones was born on September 21, 1912 in Spokane, Washington. He was raised in Los Angeles, California. Jones studied at the Chouinard Art Institute.
He was married to Dorothy Webster from 1935 until her death in 1978. Then he was married to Marian J. Dern from 1981 until his death in 2002. He has a daughter with Webster, Linda Jones Clough.
Jones died on February 22, 2002 in Corona del Mar, Newport Beach, California from heart failure, aged 89.

</doc>
<doc id="376392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376392" title="Dick Cavett">
Dick Cavett

Richard Alva "Dick" Cavett (born November 19, 1936) is an American television talk show host, comedian, game show host, entertainer, television, and radio personality, and actor who is known for "The Dick Cavett Show". He won two Emmy Awards. 
Cavett was born on November 19, 1936 in Gibbon, Nebraska. He was raised in New York City, New York. He has German, French, British and Irish ancestry. Cavett studied at Yale University. He was married to Carrie Nye from 1964 until her death in 2006. He has been married to Martha Rogers since 2010. He has no children. 

</doc>
<doc id="376394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376394" title="Charles Cannon">
Charles Cannon

Charles-Arthur Dumoulin Cannon (11 September 1905 – 23 September 1976) was a Liberal party member of the Canadian House of Commons. He was a lawyer by career.
He was first elected at the Îles-de-la-Madeleine riding in the 1949 general election. Cannon was re-elected for multiple terms in 1953 and 1957. After completing his final term in the 23rd Canadian Parliament, Cannon was defeated by James Russell Keays of the Progressive Conservative party.
Cannon was born in Quebec City and died there.
Some of Cannon's relatives have also been Members of Parliament. Namely his grandfather Charles Fitzpatrick, his uncle Lucien Cannon and his nephew Lawrence Cannon.

</doc>
<doc id="376396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376396" title="Sylvestre Ntibantunganya">
Sylvestre Ntibantunganya

Sylvestre Ntibantunganya (born 8 May 1956) is a Burundi politician. He was Speaker of the National Assembly of Burundi from December 1993 to 1 October 1994. He was also President of Burundi from 6 April 1994 to 25 July 1996 (interim to October 1994).
Ntibantunganya was born in Gishubi, Gitega. He is an ethnic Hutu. He served as foreign minister briefly during 1993.
He came into office when the previous president, Cyprien Ntaryamira, was killed in a plane crash. It was an assassination in which the Rwandan president Juvénal Habyarimana was also killed. Ntibantunganya left office when he was deposed by Pierre Buyoya in a military coup of 1996. 
Ntiybantunganya is presently a Senator for life as a former head of state.

</doc>
<doc id="376399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376399" title="Antoine Nduwayo">
Antoine Nduwayo

Antoine Nduwayo (born 1942) was the Prime Minister of Burundi from February 22, 1995 until July 31, 1996. He is an ethnic Tutsi and a member of UPRONA. He was appointed prime minister by the Hutu president in an effort to stop some Tutsis from fighting with his government. He resigned shortly after the 1996 military coup.

</doc>
<doc id="376401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376401" title="Gęsianka">
Gęsianka

Gęsianka is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Dobre. Its within Mińsk County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately south-west of Dobre, north of Mińsk Mazowiecki, and east of Warsaw.

</doc>
<doc id="376403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376403" title="Crocmaz">
Crocmaz

Crocmaz is a commune in Ştefan Vodă district, Moldova. It is composed of a single village, Crocmaz.

</doc>
<doc id="376405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376405" title="James King">
James King

James King (born 24 July 1990) is a Welsh rugby union player. He plays for the Ospreys regional team having previously played for Aberavon RFC as a flanker.
In January 2012 King suffered a lacerated ear injury in a collison with Xavier Rush of the Cardiff Blues. He had to undergo emergency plastic surgery at Morriston Hospital, Swansea.

</doc>
<doc id="376409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376409" title="Plympton Hundred">
Plympton Hundred

Plympton Hundred was the name of one of thirty two ancient administrative units of Devon, England.
The parishes in the hundred were: 
Brixton, Plympton St Mary, Plympton St Maurice, Plymstock, Revelstoke, Shaugh Prior, Wembury and Yealmpton

</doc>
<doc id="376411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376411" title="Brixton, Devon">
Brixton, Devon

Brixton is a village near Plymouth in England. It is on the A379 Plymouth to Kingsbridge road and is about from Plymouth. In 2011, its population is 1.252.
It has views of the River Yealm. The church is 15th century, with a tower arch 200 years older.

</doc>
<doc id="376416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376416" title="KWUT">
KWUT

KWUT (97.7 FM) is a radio station broadcasting a Country music format. Licensed to Elsinore, Utah, USA, the station is currently owned by Mid-Utah Radio, Inc.
The station went on the air as KRFD-FM on November 9, 1998. On September 11, 1998, the station changed its call sign to KSGI and on November 1, 1999 to KRFD. On November 25, 2000, the station became KACE, and KMGR by December 31, 2000. On November 15, 2001 it switched back to KACE and back to KRFD on May 29, 2001. The station became KLGL on June 16, 2001. On August 8, 2005, the station flipped to KCYQ. It then flipped in the fall of 2010, to the current calls.

</doc>
<doc id="376419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376419" title="Slogan">
Slogan

A slogan is a memorable motto or phrase. It is often used in a political, commercial, religious, and other context as a repetitive expression of an idea or purpose. The word slogan is derived from "slogorn" which was an Anglicisation of the Scottish Gaelic "sluagh-ghairm tanmay" ("sluagh" "army", "host" + "gairm" "cry"). Slogans vary from the written and the visual to the chanted and the vulgar. Their simple rhetorical nature usually leaves little room for detail. A chanted slogan may serve more as social expression of unified purpose than as communication to an intended audience.
Marketing slogans are often called "taglines" in the United States. They can be called "straplines" in the U.K. Europeans use the terms "baselines", "signatures", "claims" or "pay-offs".

</doc>
<doc id="376423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376423" title="Badbaado (refugee camp)">
Badbaado (refugee camp)

Badbaado is a refugee camp outside of Mogadishu, Somalia. It began as a result of the 2011 East Africa drought and famine. It now houses roughly 30,000 refugees.
Food aid is available for refugees there, but its supply has been poor because of the policies of al-Shabab. The limited access to food has been a source of violence in the camp. There has also been looting by freelance militias and government forces. Due to the unsafe conditions, some refugees have fled Badbaado to seek other camps.

</doc>
<doc id="376426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376426" title="Dúnchad mac Fiachnai">
Dúnchad mac Fiachnai

Dúnchad mac Fiachnai (died circa 644) was King of Ulaid from the Dal Fiatach dynasty. He was the son of Fiachnae mac Demmáin (died 627), a previous king. He ruled from 637-circa 644.
The Dal Fiatach recovered the kingship of Ulaid after the Battle of Mag Roth in 637 and were to retain it until 674. Family strife was a common theme among the dynasty at this time. Dúnchad's mother was Cumne Dub ingen Furudráin of the Uí Tuirtri (a tribe of the Airgialla west of Lough Neagh in modern County Tyrone). She had previously been married to Dúnchad's great uncle Baetan mac Cairill (died 581) by whom she had children. These children were eliminated by Dúnchad's full brother Máel Dúin mac Fiachnai in 605. However, the ambitions of Máel Dúin were not to be fulfilled as he was murdered by Dúnchad at Óenach Deiscirt Maige, probably in southern Muirthemne in modern County Louth. 
His son Congal Cennfota mac Dúnchada (died 674) was also a King of Ulaid.

</doc>
<doc id="376427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376427" title="Sales tax">
Sales tax

Sales tax is a regressive form of taxation based on what people buy rather than their income. In the UK it is called Value added tax, and certain vital items are exempt. Hungary has one of highest rates in the world- 27%.

</doc>
<doc id="376429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376429" title="Thomas Kendrick (Medal of Honor)">
Thomas Kendrick (Medal of Honor)

Thomas Kendrick (born 1839, date of death unknown) was a Union Navy sailor in the American Civil War. He was also a recipient of the U.S. military's highest decoration, the Medal of Honor. He received it for his actions at the Battle of Mobile Bay.
Kendrick was born in 1839 in Bath, Maine. He was still living in that city when he joined the Navy. He served during the Civil War as a coxswain on the . He volunteered to join the for the Battle of Mobile Bay on August 5, 1864. It was there he showed "courageous devotion to duty". For this action, he was presented the Medal of Honor four months later, on December 31, 1864.
Kendrick's official Medal of Honor citation reads:
Served as coxswain on board the U.S.S. "Oneida" in the engagement at Mobile Bay, 5 August 1864. Volunteering for the Mobile Bay action from "Bienville", Kendrick displayed courageous devotion to duty, and his excellent conduct throughout the battle which resulted in the capture of the rebel ram "Tennessee" and in the damaging of Fort Morgan, attracted the attention of the commanding officer and those serving around him.

</doc>
<doc id="376431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376431" title="Samuel W. Kinnaird">
Samuel W. Kinnaird

Samuel W. Kinnaird (May 2, 1840 – April 20, 1923) was a Union Navy sailor in the American Civil War. He was a recipient of the U.S. military's highest decoration, the Medal of Honor. He got it for his actions at the Battle of Mobile Bay.
He was born on May 2, 1840, in New York City. Kinnaird was still living in the state of New York when he joined the Navy. He served during the Civil War as a landsman on the . At the Battle of Mobile Bay on August 5, 1864, "Lackawanna" engaged the . They fought at close range and Kinnaird displayed "presence of mind and cheerfulness" which helped maintain his shipmates' morale. For this action, he was presented the Medal of Honor four months later on December 31, 1864.
Kinnaird's official Medal of Honor citation reads:
Served as a landsman on board the U.S.S. "Lackawanna" during successful attacks against Fort Morgan, rebel gunboats and the ram "Tennessee" in Mobile Bay, 5 August 1864. Showing a presence of mind and cheerfulness that had much to do with maintaining the crew's morale, Kinnaird served gallantly through the action which resulted in the capture of the prize rebel ram "Tennessee" and in the destruction of batteries at Fort Morgan.
Kinnaird died on April 20, 1923. He was 82 and was buried in the New York City neighborhood of Woodside, Queens.

</doc>
<doc id="376437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376437" title="Lisa Hartman Black">
Lisa Hartman Black

Lisa Hartman (more often recognized as Lisa Hartman Black; June 1, 1956) is an American actress and singer who has mostly acted on television. She starred on the short lived "Tabitha" in 1977-78; she then performed in the soap "Knots Landing" as the rock singer Ciji Dunne. Through the name Lisa Hartman, she recorded four solo records between 1976 and 1987. She was born around Houston, Texas.

</doc>
<doc id="376460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376460" title="Parveen Talukder">
Parveen Talukder

Parveen Talukder (b. 31 January 1958 is a Bangladeshi politician and businessperson. She is an Honorable Parliament Member of 9th National Assembly (Constituency 316, Barisal). In business, Talukder deals with the ready-made garments industry of Bangladesh.
Talukder was born in a Muslim family of Moheshpur Thana of Jhenaidah district on 31 January 1958.
She became involved in politics at a very early age, when she joined Dhaka Mohanagar Chatra League in 1973 and got elected the Assistant General Secretary of Shiddeshawry Degree College Chatra Sansad. Since then, she has been active in political movements and activities against violations of human rights.
She was elected Chairman of Nolua Union Parished, Bakergonj, Barisal for two consecutive terms, in the year 1997 and 2003. During 12 years as UP Chairman, she was very successful in improving the living standard of the people of Nolua Union. She played a large part in the creation of schools, roads and culverts, electrification and other infrastructural developments. Above all else, she is well known for her fighting against human rights violations and women and child abuse. Currently, she is the President of Bangladesh Mohila Awami League, Bakergonj, Barisal.
Praveen Talukder is a member of committee of Ministry of Environment and Forest. In addition to basic environmental issues, she has worked on climate change. Her work is most notable on the impacts and changes of national and regional climate issues. She took seat in Copenhagen Climate Change Conference2009 in Denmark and Cancun Climate Change Summit 2010 in Mexico.
Parveen Talukder takes personal interest in issues dealing with human rights and environmental protection. For her work on the matter she was awarded “Gold Medal 2009” by National Human Rights Journalist Organization.
Parveen Talukder is also a very successful entrepreneur. She has made a large contribution to the ready-made garments industry of Bangladesh. She is the Managing Director of Pretty Composite Textile Limited, and Pretty Woolwear Limited and Director of several other concerns of Pretty Group. She is also a former Director of Northern General Insurance Company Limited.

</doc>
<doc id="376461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376461" title="Barge">
Barge

A barge is a boat with a flat bottom, mostly built to transport heavy goods along rivers and canals. Some barges cannot move themselves, and must be pushed or pulled by towboats.

</doc>
<doc id="376465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376465" title="Newnham College, Cambridge">
Newnham College, Cambridge

Newnham College is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. It is for women only and has about 500 students. It was created in 1871 by Henry Sidgwick who wanted to make education more available to women. It was built at a time when most colleges where for men only. It was the second college to allow women after Girton. It started just as a group of houses in Regent Street. In 1875 the first buildings were finished in Sidgwick Avenue and the college moved there.
Newnham College has beautiful large gardens that the students can walk on. This is different from the other colleges where only Fellows can walk on the grass. It also has one of the largest libraries in Cambridge, with more than 90,000 books.
Some very important people have studied here. Philippa Fawcett, for example, was the first woman to get the best result in the mathematics course in Cambridge in 1890. Virginia Woolf based her famous book "The Room of One's Own" around Newnham College. Other people to have studied here include:

</doc>
<doc id="376468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376468" title="Humayun">
Humayun

Nasir uddin Muhammad Humayun (; OS 7 March 1508 AD – OS 17 January 1556 AD) was the second Mughal Emperor. He ruled Afghanistan, Pakistan, and parts of northern India from 1530 to 1540. He was the son of the previous emperor, Babur. 
His son was Akbar, one of the most famous emperors in Mughal history.
In 1532, Humayun and Sher Shah Suri clashed on the battlefield. Humayun won the battle and capured Chunar. In 1534, Humayun defeated Bahadur Shah and captured Gujarat. Sher Shah meanwhile regrouped and defeated Humayun, at Chausa in 1539 and at Kanauj a year later.
Humayun was forced to go to Persia in exile, for 15 years. In 1555, Humayun returned to India and defeated the succesor of Sher Shah, Islam Shah and regained India.
In 1556, he fell down the steps of his library in Sher Mandal, (in Purana Kila) and died soon after. He was succeeded by Akbar

</doc>
<doc id="376471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376471" title="Andrew Jones (Medal of Honor)">
Andrew Jones (Medal of Honor)

Andrew Jones (born 1835, date of death unknown) was a Union Navy sailor in the American Civil War. He received the Medal of Honor which is the U.S. military's highest decoration. He received it for his actions at the Battle of Mobile Bay.
Jones was born in 1835 in Limerick, Ireland. He immigrated to the United States and was living in New York when he joined the U.S. Navy. He served during the Civil War as a chief boatswain's mate on the . Although their enlistments had expired, Jones and crewmate James Seanor voluntarily transferred to the to fight in the Battle of Mobile Bay on August 5, 1864. During the battle they "carried out [their] duties gallantly" according to the Medal of Honor citation. For this actions, both Jones and Seanor were presented the Medal of Honor four months later, on December 31, 1864.
Jones's official Medal of Honor citation reads:
Served as chief boatswain's mate on board the U.S. Ironclad "Chickasaw", Mobile Bay, 5 August 1864. Although his enlistment was up, Jones volunteered for the battle of Mobile Bay, going on board the "Chickasaw" from the "Vincennes" where he then carried out his duties gallantly throughout the engagement with the enemy which resulted in the capture of the rebel ram "Tennessee".

</doc>
<doc id="376473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376473" title="James Seanor">
James Seanor

James Seanor (born 1833, date of death unknown) was a Union Navy sailor in the American Civil War. He was also a recipient of the U.S. military's highest decoration, the Medal of Honor. He received it for his actions at the Battle of Mobile Bay.
Seanor was born in 1833 in Boston, Massachusetts. He was living in New York when he joined the Navy. He served during the Civil War as a master-at-arms on the . Although their enlistments had expired, Seanor and crewmate Andrew Jones voluntarily transferred to the to fight in the Battle of Mobile Bay on August 5, 1864. During the battle they "carried out [their] duties gallantly" according to the Medal of Honor citation. For this action, both Seanor and Jones were awarded the Medal of Honor four months later on December 31, 1864.
Seanor's official Medal of Honor citation reads:
Served as master-at-arms on board the U.S. Ironclad "Chickasaw", Mobile Bay, 5 August 1864. Although his enlistment was up, Seanor volunteered for the battle of Mobile Bay, going on board the "Chickasaw" from the "Vincennes" where he carried out his duties gallantly throughout the engagement which resulted in the capture of the rebel ram "Tennessee".

</doc>
<doc id="376477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376477" title="Gannett Government Media">
Gannett Government Media

Gannett Government Media was formerly the Army Times Publishing Company. It is a United States company which publishes newspapers, magazines, Web sites, and other publications about the U.S. and other militaries. It was Founded in 1940 and was purchased by the Gannett Company in August 1997. 
It publishes four weekly newspapers aimed at current and former U.S. military personnel, collectively called the Military Times Media Group: "Army Times" (founded 1940), "Navy Times" (founded 1951), "Air Force Times" (founded 1947), and "Marine Corps Times". 
Its Defense News Media Group publishes "Defense News" (founded 1986), "Armed Forces Journal" (founded in 1863), "Training & Simulation Journal" and "C4ISR Journal". The company also publishes "Federal Times".
According to a Huffington Post AOL News online news article from Boston, Massachusetts by Jim Finkle of Thomson Reuters, dated Wednesday, June 29, 2011:
"Hackers broke into a Gannett Co database containing personal information about subscribers to publications read by U.S. government officials, military leaders, and rank-and-file soldiers, the media company said on Tuesday." 

</doc>
<doc id="376483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376483" title="Category:Reggaeton">
Category:Reggaeton


</doc>
<doc id="376485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376485" title="Kutub al-Sittah">
Kutub al-Sittah

Kutub al-Sittah are the main hadith collections in Sunni Islam meaning "the six books". They are sometimes called the "Sahih Sittah". They consist of Sahih Bukhari, Sahih Muslim, Sunan al-Sughra, Sunan Abu Dawood, Jami al-Tirmidhi and Sunan ibn Majah. Huraira is the most quoted person in these books.

</doc>
<doc id="376487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376487" title="Quranism">
Quranism

Quranism ( ) is a denomination in Islam that believes the Qur'an to be the only source of guidance in Islam. It generally rejects the authority of the hadiths. Such Muslims do not necessarily reject the authenticity of hadiths, but do criticize the hadith claiming that such religious literature is not endorsed by the Quran, with some claiming that text collections are an innovative bid'ah.

</doc>
<doc id="376489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376489" title="George Taylor (Medal of Honor)">
George Taylor (Medal of Honor)

George Taylor (November 15, 1830 – October 7, 1893) was a Union Navy sailor in the American Civil War. He was also a recipient of the Medal of Honor, which is the U.S. military's highest decoration. He got it for his actions at the Battle of Mobile Bay.
Taylor was born on November 15, 1830, in Watertown, New York. He was still living in that state when he joined the Navy. He served during the Civil War as an armorer on the . At the Battle of Mobile Bay on August 5, 1864 his ship engaged the . It was struck by a broadside at close range. The Confederate artillery shells hit "Lackawanna's" berth deck near the magazine. This caused mass casualties and ignited loose gunpowder. It spilled onto the floor while "Lackawanna's" sailors were assembling their own shells. The flames moved along a passageway towards the powder room where 17 tons of gunpowder were stored. Although he had received a wound to his forehead Taylor ran towards the fire and extinguished it with his bare hands. This saved his ship. He then returned to his duties for the remainder of the battle. While putting out the fire his hands were burned down to the bone. For this action, he was given the Medal of Honor four months later, on December 31, 1864.
Taylor's official Medal of Honor citation reads:
On board the U.S.S. "Lackawanna" during successful attacks against Fort Morgan, rebel gunboats and the ram "Tennessee" in Mobile Bay, on 5 August 1864. When an enemy shell exploded in the shellroom, Taylor although wounded went into the room and, with his hand, extinguished the fire from the explosion. He then carried out his duties during the remainder of the prolonged action which resulted in the capture of the prize rebel ram "Tennessee" and in the damaging and destruction of Fort Morgan.
Taylor died on October 7, 1893. He was 62 and was buried in Paragould, Arkansas.

</doc>
<doc id="376491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376491" title="Ferdinand Lemaire">
Ferdinand Lemaire

Ferdinand Lemaire was a librettist and writer. He is best remembered as the librettist for Camille Saint-Saëns's opera "Samson et Delila" (1876). Lemaire was born in Martinique. He was a creole. He married into Saint-Saëns's family. He agreed to write "Samson" but only as opera, rather than as an oratorio as the composer first intended. 

</doc>
<doc id="376495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376495" title="Category:Articles needing additional references from November 2012">
Category:Articles needing additional references from November 2012


</doc>
<doc id="376496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376496" title="Category:Articles needing additional references from December 2012">
Category:Articles needing additional references from December 2012


</doc>
<doc id="376497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376497" title="Pauline Viardot">
Pauline Viardot

Pauline Viardot (18 July 1821 – 18 May 1910) was a 19-century French mezzo-soprano of Spanish descent. She also taught and composed. She was instrumental in getting Camille Saint-Saens's "Samson and Delilah" composed and staged. 

</doc>
<doc id="376505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376505" title="Seoul Guarantee Insurance Company">
Seoul Guarantee Insurance Company

Seoul Guarantee Insurance Company (SGIC, ) is a financial services company in South Korea. Its headquarters are in Seoul. SGIC is the largest provider of surety and trade credit insurance. It is fully owned by Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation. KDIC is a government institution that insures bank deposits.
The company was formed after the merger between Hankuk and Korea Fidelity and Surety Corporation. It happened during the economic crisis that hit Korea in 1998. A mass layoff and restructuring followed.

</doc>
<doc id="376508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376508" title="Blind Love (2006 film)">
Blind Love (2006 film)

Blind Love is a 2006 independent low-budget movie. It was directed by Janghun Troy Choi. The movie won the Orson Welles Award at the 2007 Tiburon International Film Festival. It won the Best Feature Film at the 2006 Ellensburg International Film Festival. It also won the Best Feature Film at the 2006 Cinewest International Film Festival. "Blind Love" was also nominated for the Best Produced Screenplay at the 2006 AOF International Film Festival. It was Janghun Troy Choi's directorial debut in the United States.
"Blind Love" was written, directed, produced by Janghun Troy Choi, and shot on Panasonic DVX 100 with a DOF Box.

</doc>
<doc id="376511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376511" title="Special cities of Japan">
Special cities of Japan

, also known as Special Case cities, is a defined class or category of Japanese cities. It is a local administrative division created by the national government. All special cities have a population greater than 200,000.
The special or special case cities were created because of the Local Autonomy Law of Japan. Each city does many of the things normally done by prefectures. 
Special cities were recognized starting in 2000. There are 40+ of these cities, including

</doc>
<doc id="376515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376515" title="Rockfish, Virginia">
Rockfish, Virginia

Rockfish is an unincorporated community in Nelson County, Virginia, United States. 
It was among the communities severely affected by flash flooding from Hurricane Camille in 1969.
Rockfish was frequently referenced in the CBS television series "The Waltons". It was noted as being the closest town to Waltons Mountain. Which was the fictional version of the nearby community of Schuyler.
Also known as "Rockfish Depot" even though the railroad depot building has been gone for decades.

</doc>
<doc id="376520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376520" title="Lowesville, Virginia">
Lowesville, Virginia

Lowesville is an unincorporated community in Nelson County, Virginia, United States. It lies along the path of the now-defunct Virginia Blue Ridge Railway. 

</doc>
<doc id="376525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376525" title="Virginia Blue Ridge Railway">
Virginia Blue Ridge Railway

The Virginia Blue Ridge Railway (VBR) is a historic intrastate short line railroad. It operated in central Virginia in the 20th century.
The company was incorporated in 1914. Construction was started in 1915. The VBR went between Tye River Depot in Nelson County to Massies Mill. It met up with the Southern Railway in Massies Mill. The railroad followed the course of the Tye and Piney Rivers for several miles. It eventually enters the mountains. It was initially built to haul chestnut for lumber out of the heavily-timbered Piney River area to local mills until World War I. The chestnut blight wiped out much of the timbered areas. The railroad later served several quarries in the area where titanium dioxide and aplite were mined. It passed through the communities of Roses Mill, Piney River, Canopy, Lowesville, and Buffalo Mine.
The line was abandoned in 1980. In the early 21st century, part of the roadbed was being developed as a rails-to-trails project, the Blue Ridge Railway Trail.

</doc>
<doc id="376527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376527" title="Roses Mill, Virginia">
Roses Mill, Virginia

Roses Mill is an unincorporated community in Nelson County, Virginia, United States. It lies along the path of the now-defunct Virginia Blue Ridge Railway. 

</doc>
<doc id="376529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376529" title="Adial, Virginia">
Adial, Virginia

Adial is an unincorporated community in Nelson County, Virginia, United States.

</doc>
<doc id="376531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376531" title="Rimouski Océanic">
Rimouski Océanic

The Rimouski Océanic are a Canadian ice hockey team. That began playing in 1995. The team currently plays in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League. They play their home games in Rimouski, Quebec at the Colisée de Rimouski.
The team first started as the Sherbrooke Castors and they played in Sherbrooke from 1969 to 1982 before they moved to Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Quebec in 1982 and became the Saint-Jean Castors. They later renamed themselves the Saint-Jean Lynx. The team moved to Rimouski in 1995 and became the Rimouski Océanic.
Many NHL players have played for their team including Sidney Crosby, Vincent Lecavalier, Brad Richards, Ryane Clowe and Michael Frolík.
The team won both the QMJHL championship and the Memorial Cup in the 1999–00 season.

</doc>
<doc id="376535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376535" title="Connie McHugh">
Connie McHugh

Connie Black McHugh was a former Republican member of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives.

</doc>
<doc id="376537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376537" title="Shawinigan Cataractes">
Shawinigan Cataractes

The Shawinigan Cataractes are a Canadian ice hockey team. That began playing in 1995. The team currently plays in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League. They play their home games in Shawinigan, Quebec at the Centre Bionest de Shawinigan.
The team was first known as the Shawinigan Bruins but they changed their name in 1973. The team was then known as the Shawinigan Dynamos from until 1978. They are only team in the history of the QMJHL to occupy the same city since its inception.
The team won the Memorial Cup in 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="376539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376539" title="Victoriaville Tigres">
Victoriaville Tigres

The Victoriaville Tigres are a Canadian ice hockey team. That began playing in 1982. The team currently plays in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League. They play their home games in Victoriaville, Quebec at the Colisée Desjardins.
The team first started in 1986 and played in Longueuil, Quebec where they were known as the Longueuil Chevaliers. The Chevaliers moved from Longueuil to Victoriaville in 1987 and were renamed the Tigres. 
The Tigres won the President's Cup in 2002. They also competed in the Memorial Cup finals in 2002 but lost against the Kootenay Ice.

</doc>
<doc id="376540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376540" title="Chemical weapons in World War I">
Chemical weapons in World War I

Chemical weapons were a major part of World War I. It was the first time that chemical weapons were widely used in warfare. The gas was very harmful to both sides because the gas would often blow back into the attackers front lines. For this reason the use of gas was feared by both sides. Gas masks were used to stop the gas by preventing it from traveling to the lungs. The first masks were big and clumsy. This caused them to be hated.
The soldiers and the public had been told that the First World War would have been over by December of 1914. In 1916 the war was still going on, and a stalemate had been reached. ‘The Triple Alliance’ and ‘The Triple Entente’ had to compete to create better technology to break the stalemate and to win the war.
Gas was a very effective way of attacking the enemy without direct contact. The first use of gas in the war was in 1914, when the French used tear gas grenades against the Germans. This sparked an idea for the Germans, and on 31 of January 1915, they first used Gas on a large scale. Over 18,000 shells filled with gas were launched towards the Russians. Chlorine Gas saw its first use on the 22 of April 1915 by the Germans against the French. The French thought it was tear gas so took not so much notice of it. As it hit them, they fled in fear and some were overcome with the poisonous gas. A big opportunity had opened up for the Germans. They however had not thought Chlorine Gas add such deadly effects, so retreated, missing a huge opportunity.
Britain’s first use of gas was in December of 1915. This caused public outcry. People saw it as inhumane. This lasted during and after the war. The factories that manufactured the gases were not allowed to call them gases. An act had been signed years before forbidding the use of poisonous gases in combat. The gas was referred to as an accessory.
In WWII, Hitler refused to use gas against the enemy, as he was a victim of a gas attack in the past.
Types of Gas:
Phosgene Gas: First used by the French. Some symptoms appeared nearly 24 hours after exposure. It was colourless and smelt like stale hay. Sometimes it was mixed with Chlorine.
Mustard Gas: First used by the Germans in 1917. It was the most effective and most publicized gas in the war. It was very painful. It caused huge yellow blisters on contact with skin. It wasn’t as good as killing as the others. What made it so effective was that gas masks were ineffective. It was a heavy and dense mist. It sunk to the bottom of the trenches and into cracks and crevices and stayed there for weeks or even months.
Many soldiers suffered from gas attacks but only 3% of those affected actually died. However blindness was a common side effect of exposure. Death was slow and very painful. Most soldiers were sent home to die. Some took many months to die.
Russia suffered the most casualties, adding up to a total of 57,000. Gas attacks were the thing soldiers in the trenches feared over anything. 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OrHFEPu_ANI

</doc>
<doc id="376547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376547" title="Jet Set Radio Future">
Jet Set Radio Future

Jet Set Radio Future is a video game that was made by Smilebit. It is published by Sega and is available for Xbox. It is the sequel to the 2000 game, "Jet Set Radio".
The game is set in a futuristic Tokyo which the player as part of a gang trys to gain control of. The games gameplay also requires the player to find other gangs graffiti tags and tag over them when the player collects enough spraycans that are littered around each stage. The game's tagging system is also different from the last game. Some of the tagging locations contain multiple spray targets which depend on the tag's size. Time limits for stages are removed and the stages are interconnected.

</doc>
<doc id="376549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376549" title="Dreadnought">
Dreadnought

A dreadnought is a navy battleship. A battleship is a large ship used in ocean battles between countries. The first dreadnoughts were made in the early 20th century. They were named after HMS Dreadnought, of the Royal Navy, the first ship of that type.
The first dreadnought was launched in 1906 by the United Kingdom, and was a new design of battleship. These ships had bigger guns; they also had guns that could shoot longer distances. Heavy steel layers were built on to the dreadnoughts as protection, which made them very strong and hard to sink. They were also much faster than older battleships. World War 1 was the first war in which dreadnoughts were used. After the war, a treaty was signed in Washington DC to limit the construction of battleships. This treaty helped stop the manufacturing of dreadnoughts. Japan, the UK, France, Italy and the United States signed this treaty.

</doc>
<doc id="376550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376550" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team13">
Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team13

In today’s society, technology is part of our life. Teenagers can’t live without their cell phones, their iPod or facebook. But did you know that all this technology can be dangerous, especially facebook. We should be more vigilant by protecting our pictures and or personal informations. We will talk that the companies can have access to all your personal information, that on facebook no one is immune to an identity theft and that we should protect our photos. 
On Facebook, even known personalities be a victim of identity theft. Someone pretending to be you and using your personal informations to say things in your name, how would you react? This story happened in February 2009 to the animator Clodine Desrochers. She doesn’t have a Facebook profile and her friends said that they had already talked with her. Clodine Desrochers realized that someone was pretending to be her. This fake profile has her name and true informations like her employer, city and other details proving that it’s really her. Second, if you are a celebrity or not, being victim of an identity theft is shocking. They have accessibility of all your private information That’s why you should be more careful whit this kind of website because it can be used against you. Manipulators can give bad informations to your friends, they can charge large bills that you do not have knowledge, a criminal can be using your private datas and you can’t cross customs. Third, be careful when you accept a few friends on facebook because they will have access to your private informations. Accept only those that you know well and protect your information, it’s not everyone who wants to know about your privacy life. So it’s important to remember that all of your private information on Facebook can harm you.
Also, we should more protect our photos that are on facebook, because they can do what they want with them without knowing. When we post a picture on facebook, it becomes his propriety. If they want they can sell our picture to a company and the company can use it and give nothing to us. For example, if Sears need a picture of two little girls for publicity, they can ask to Facebook, and Facebook can give a picture. Facebook can do whatever they what with your pictures. That’s why we should be careful of witch pictures we put. We can be victim of intimidation on facebook because of our pictures. Even if we think that our pictures are protecting, they aren’t, to protect it, we could put a little logo on the bottom of the picture, and like this they can’t use it. 
In conclusion, companies can have access to your information, facebook can be dangerous for thieves identity and that we should protect our pictures. We should be careful about what information and pictures we put on facebook because it can be use against you, for example theft identity. That’s why we should think about what it’s going to happen in the future generation if we continue this way.

</doc>
<doc id="376554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376554" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/team 12">
Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/team 12

Now, the new technologies are everywhere and the cell phone is one of the most visible forms of it. If the technology can have a lot of advantages, it can also be the cause of some disagreements.Cellphones have negative impacts in many ways. In effect, they can have negative impacts on society,on our daily activities and on communication.
In first place, the cell phones have negative impacts on our society. The workers involved in the fabrication process are, for the bigger part, poor Asian people. The cell phone companies use the critical economic conditions of those people to force them to accept poor working conditions. For example, in most of the countries where that kind of companies has their factories, the locals call them “Suicide factories”. To continue, the wastes create after the life of an electronic product are shipped in the poor countries. This way to treat the wastes contaminates our planet and contributes to the environment degradation. Likewise, cell phones help to a faster communication but, this advantage can also be use by some terrorists to coordinate their action and, therefore, be the source of a better criminal activity. 
Cellphones are a source of distraction and while driving, it can cause death easily, just if the driver doesn’t pay attention while he’s driving. In 2009, 5,474 people were killed in the U.S. because of accidents that involved distracted driving. Another 448,000 were injured. Cellphones are also a source of distraction in class. Teenagers that use to text in school have some trouble of understanding. It also disrupts the teacher and the entire class while someone’s texting, that’s what Aaron Hatch, a Rider graduate student in the school’s psychology program said. Plus, the fact of texting cause an addiction and it appears everywhere, while eating, while talking, it disrupts every mundane activities. Plus, addiction is not something very useful, it is even difficult to live with, during activities, you’re always stressed and you always want to send a message text. 
Finally, cell phones also have negative effects on communication. Texting can bring a lot of language troubles especially on grammar and spelling because while people are texting, they abbreviate many words and don’t take care of the way they’re writing. So, this habit has negative impact on the way people write. Furthermore, people who use a cell phone tend to have more superficial communication. The fact is, even if it’s easier to stay connected with their friends, cell phone users tend to find that this kind of communication is enough and take less time to see them for real. Besides, talking with cell phone in public isn’t safe at all because complete strangers can hear and enter in your private life.
To concluded, Cellphones have negative impacts in society, on daily activities and communication. So, cell phones can affect many aspects of our society like social, environment and terrorism but this also has a lot of consequences on people. For example, cell phones can cause a lot of distractions while driving and studying. It can also cause addiction. By the way, cell phones can have damages on grammar and spelling, on the quality of relationships and can be dangerous for the privacy. So, if the technology can help us (like in science or research), we have to remember that it can be a source of trouble if we lost the control of it. A lot of science-fiction novels present the human controlled by technology; if we want to avoid that maybe we’re better to ask us some questions about our relation with it now.

</doc>
<doc id="376555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376555" title="Chromo, Colorado">
Chromo, Colorado

Chromo is an unincorporated town and U.S. Post Office in Archuleta County, Colorado, United States. The Chromo Post Office has the ZIP Code 81128.
Chromo is located at (37.036818,-106.843243).

</doc>
<doc id="376557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376557" title="Swahili coast">
Swahili coast

Swahili coast refers to the East cost of Africa inhabited by the Swahili people, that is Kenya, Tanzania and the northern part of Mozambique. Sometimes the islands off this coast are also included. Examples of such islands are Zanzibar, Cormoros and Pate.

</doc>
<doc id="376560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376560" title="Robert Bork">
Robert Bork

Robert Heron "Bob" Bork (March 1, 1927 – December 19, 2012) was an American writer, politician, lawyers, and legal scholar who was nominated by Ronald Reagan to be part of the Supreme Court in 1987, but his nomination was rejected by the Senate. He was the United States Solicitor General and acting United States Attorney General.
Bork was born on March 1, 1927 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He studied at the University of Chicago. He was married to Claire Davidson from 1952 until her death in 1980. Then he was married to Mary Ellen Pohl from 1982 until his death in 2012. With Davidson he had three children. Bork died on December 19, 2012 from heart disease.

</doc>
<doc id="376561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376561" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team">
Wikipedia:Schools/Projects/Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe/Team

Cellphones have negative impacts in many ways 
Cellphones have negative impacts on our daily activities.
Cellphones are a source of distraction and while driving, it can cause death easily, just if the driver doesn’t pay attention while he’s driving. In 2009, 5,474 people were killed in the U.S. because of accidents that involved distracted driving. Another 448,000 were injured. Cellphones are also a source of distraction in class. Teenagers that use to text in school have some trouble of understanding. It also disrupts the teacher and the entire class while someone’s texting, that’s what Aaron Hatch, a Rider graduate student in the school’s psychology program said. The fact of texting cause an addiction and it appears everywhere, while eating, while talking, it disrupts every mundane activities. Plus, addiction is not something very useful, it is even difficult to live with, during activities, you’re always stressed and you always want to send a message text. 
To concluded, Cellphones have negative impacts in society, on daily activities and communication.

</doc>
<doc id="376562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376562" title="Alphonso Taft">
Alphonso Taft

Alphonso Taft (November 5, 1810 – May 21, 1891) was the United States Attorney General and United States Secretary of War under President Ulysses S. Grant. He was the father of U.S. President William Howard Taft.
Taft was born on November 15, 1810 in Townshend, Vermont. He was raised in Cincinnati, Ohio. Taft stuided at Yale Collge, at Yale Law School, and at Yale University. He was married to Fanny Phelps from 1841 until her death in 1951. They had five children. Then he was married to Lousie Maria Torrey from 1853 until his death in 1891. They had five children. Taft died on May 21, 1891 in San Diego, California from heart failure, aged 80.

</doc>
<doc id="376570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376570" title="Bacolet">
Bacolet

Bacolet is a town on the island of Tobago, Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. The town itself lies beneath Fort King George at the Bacelot Bay. It is near Scarborough, Tobago, to the south-east of the island-capital. It is one of the most developed parts of Tobago where the high society of the island lives. There are also many villas and hotels for tourists.
The Dwight Yorke Stadium is located in Bacolet.

</doc>
<doc id="376572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376572" title="Dwight Yorke Stadium">
Dwight Yorke Stadium

The Dwight Yorke Stadium is in Bacolet, Tobago, (Trinidad and Tobago). It is named after former Manchester United footballer Dwight Yorke. The stadium was constructed for the 2001 FIFA U-17 World Championship which was hosted by Trinidad and Tobago. The Dwight Yorke Stadium can seat 7,500. It is on the Island of Tobago. The stadium is only minutes from the capital Scarborough and 25 minutes from the airport. It is used by the local football team. The playing surface dimension is 105 metres x 68 metres.
The stadium hosted the 2005 Carifta Track and Field Championships and is also used for minor Tobagonian athletics events.
It also hosted games from the 2010 FIFA U-17 Women's World Cup.

</doc>
<doc id="376574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376574" title="United States Ambassador to the United Nations">
United States Ambassador to the United Nations

The United States Ambassador to the United Nations is the leader of the delegation of the United States, the U.S. Mission to the United Nations. It's incumbent is Nikki Haley since January 24, 2017.
Ambassadors that served in political positions include Adlai Stevenson, George H.W. Bush, and Madeleine Albright.

</doc>
<doc id="376575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376575" title="Ben Herring">
Ben Herring

Ben Herring (born 14 March 1980, Auckland, New Zealand) is a former rugby union player. He played for the Leicester Tigers in the Guinness Premiership. His position is flanker. Herring missed out on a 2007 Super 14 rugby contract with any New Zealand Super 14 team. He negotiated a move to join the Leicester Tigers in early 2007. In April 2009 Herring retired on medical advice after suffering a series of concussions.

</doc>
<doc id="376577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376577" title="Barłogi, Lubusz Voivodeship">
Barłogi, Lubusz Voivodeship

Barłogi (formerly German "Berloge") is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Bobrowice within Krosno Odrzańskie County, Lubusz Voivodeship. It is in western Poland. It lies approximately south of Bobrowice. It is about south of Krosno Odrzańskie and west of Zielona Góra.
Before 1945 the area was part of Germany (see "Territorial changes of Poland after World War II").
The village has a population of 85.

</doc>
<doc id="376579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376579" title="Gmina Bobrowice">
Gmina Bobrowice

Gmina Bobrowice is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Krosno Odrzańskie County, Lubusz Voivodeship, in western Poland. Its seat is the village of Bobrowice. It lies approximately south of Krosno Odrzańskie and west of Zielona Góra.
The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 3,113.
Gmina Bobrowice contains the villages and settlements of Barłogi, Bobrowice, Bronków, Bronkówek, Brzezinka, Chojnowo, Chromów, Czeklin, Dachów, Dęby, Dychów, Janiszowice, Kołatka, Kukadło, Lubnica, Młyniec, Prądocinek, Przychów, Strużka, Tarnawa Krośnieńska, Wełmice and Żarków.
Gmina Bobrowice is bordered by the gminas of Dąbie, Gubin, Krosno Odrzańskie, Lubsko and Nowogród Bobrzański.

</doc>
<doc id="376581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376581" title="Czeklin">
Czeklin

Czeklin is a former village in the administrativedistrict of Gmina Bobrowice. It was formerly a German village named "Schegeln". The village is within Krosno Odrzańskie County, Lubusz Voivodeship, in western Poland. It lies approximately west of Bobrowice, south-west of Krosno Odrzańskie, and west of Zielona Góra.
Before 1945 the area was part of Germany (see "Territorial changes of Poland after World War II").

</doc>
<doc id="376583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376583" title="Piegłowo-Wieś">
Piegłowo-Wieś

Piegłowo-Wieś is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Szydłowo. It is within Mława County, Masovian Voivodeship in east-central Poland.

</doc>
<doc id="376585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376585" title="Weyer, Germany">
Weyer, Germany

Weyer is a municipality in the district of Rhein-Lahn, in Rhineland-Palatinate, in western Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="376587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376587" title="Saint Pauls Mountain">
Saint Pauls Mountain

Saint Pauls Mountain () is a mountain in Antarctica. It is high and has steep cliffs. It is 2 nautical miles (3.7 km) northeast of Round Mountain on the north side of Taylor Glacier. It is joined to Round Mountain by a high ridge. It was named by the "Discovery" expedition (1901-04).

</doc>
<doc id="376590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376590" title="Gabrielle">
Gabrielle

Gabrielle is a female name. The male form is Gabriel, from the Archangel in the Gospel of Luke. 

</doc>
<doc id="376591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376591" title="Cities of Japan">
Cities of Japan

Cities in Japan are one of the basic local entities of the nation.
Japan's smallest sub-national jurisdictions are sometimes grouped together. The term "shichoson" combines suffixes which recognize the municipalities, including
The small cities generally have populations of over 30,000.
There are three defined classes or categories of big cities. 
Each of the largest cities does many of the things normally done by prefectures. 
Japan's system of local governments date from 1947. Cities in Japan are local governments which are defined by the Local Autonomy Law.

</doc>
<doc id="376596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376596" title="Stephanie">
Stephanie

Stephanie (which can be spelled in different ways) is a female given name. The masculine version is Stephen. Stephanie is a very popular female name. Many celebrities carry the name. For example, Stefani Germanotta goes by the stage name Lady Gaga. Another famous person with this name is Princess Stéphanie of Monaco.

</doc>
<doc id="376597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376597" title="Kwon Young-ghil">
Kwon Young-ghil

Kwon Young-ghil (, born November 5, 1941) is a South Korean politician, journalist, human rights activist, and workers' rights activist. He was a member of the 17th, 18th, and 19th South Korea National Assembly.
In 1997 he was defeated by the Democratic Labor Party candidate for South Korea's 15th presidential election. He was defeated again in 2002 at 16th presidential election, and in 2007 for the 17th presidential elections. Between 1996 and 1997 he was Chairman of Korean Confederation of Trade Unions (KCTU). In 2000 to 2009 he was leader of Democratic Labour Party ().

</doc>
<doc id="376602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376602" title="The Mentality of Apes">
The Mentality of Apes

The Mentality of Apes by Wolfgang Köhler is a 1925 book. It is a landmark work in ethology, cognitive psychology and the study of the hominid apes. In it the author, a leading gestalt psychologist, showed that chimpanzees could solve problems by insight (intelligence). The importance of this work was to show there is no "absolute" dividing line between the human species and their nearest living relative, at least in this respect. It was also a marker in the struggle between behaviourism and cognitive psychology which continued for the following half century. Köhler's observations and experiments were done on chimpanzees in captivity. Not until Jane Goodall's work later in the century was the behaviour of chimpanzees in the wild studied in depth.
The book in English was preceded by important publications in German, which are listed in Henle, Mary 1971. "The selected papers of Wolfgang" Köhler. New York: Liveright, bibliography 438/9. The book publications are as follows:

</doc>
<doc id="376605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376605" title="Jessica">
Jessica

The name Jessica is a female given name. It is very popular for the United States of America and in certain other countries. It comes from the Hebrew language. There are many famous people with the name "Jessica" and its variant names.

</doc>
<doc id="376607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376607" title="Laurens Hammond">
Laurens Hammond

Laurens Hammond (11 January 1895 - 3 July 1973) was American inventor and he also made musical instruments. His most famous invention is the Hammond organ.

</doc>
<doc id="376608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376608" title="Eureka effect">
Eureka effect

The Eureka or Aha! effect refers to the moment of insight when a puzzling problem is suddenly solved. It is named after the Greek polymath Archimedes.
Archimedes was asked by the local king to detect whether a crown was pure gold, or if the goldsmith had added silver. During his trip to the public bath, he noticed how water got displaced when his body sank into the bath. The volume of water displaced equals the volume of the body immersed in the water. He suddenly realised that two objects which weighed the same in air might not weigh the same in water, because the less dense object would displace more water. This is known as Archimedes' principle. 
Archimedes leaped out of a public bath, and ran home naked shouting "Eureka!" (I found it). This story is thought by some to be a myth, but Archimedes was indeed a most notable inventor. He would certainly have experienced the Aha! effect.
There is some research on the Aha! insight. Aha! moments cannot be predicted. Insight is a psychological term describes the process in problem solving when a previously unsolvable puzzle becomes suddenly clear and obvious. Often this transition from not understanding to sudden comprehension is accompanied by an exclamation of joy or satisfaction, an Aha! moment. A person using insight to solve a problem is able to give accurate, clear, all-or-nothing type responses, whereas individuals not using the insight process are more likely to produce partial, incomplete responses.
There seems to be a two phase process. In the first phase, the problem solver gets stuck. Even though they may have explored all the possibilities, they still cannot see the solution. The second phase occurs suddenly and unexpectedly. After a break in mental fixation or re-evaluating the problem, the answer is seen. Insight problems may be difficult to solve because of our mental fixation on the inappropriate aspects of the problem. People have a good memory for Aha! moments. Insight may occur after a break in mental fixation, allowing the solution to appear transparent and obvious.

</doc>
<doc id="376609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376609" title="David Sarnoff">
David Sarnoff

David Sarnoff was a Russian-born American broadcasting pioneer. He was born 27 April 1891 and died 12 December 1971. He picked up the alert signal from the RMS Titanic on 14 April 1912. In 1916, he had the idea for radios. After a couple of years, the RCA sold radios with a value of 80 000 000 dollars.

</doc>
<doc id="376611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376611" title="Insight">
Insight

Insight is the act of understanding the inner nature of things. It is a type of comprehension or learning. It can be used in several ways:
Higher intelligence (higher IQ) has also been found to be associated with better performance on insight problems. However, those of lower intelligence benefit more than those of higher intelligence from being provided with cues and hints for insight problems.

</doc>
<doc id="376618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376618" title="Lockheed Martin">
Lockheed Martin

Lockheed Martin is a company that makes aircraft and missiles. In 2011 it made 2.6 billion dollars in profits. In January 2013, Marillyn Hewson took over as CEO. Lockheed Martin corporate headquarters are located in Bethesda Maryland. 
It is the world's largest arms exporting company.

</doc>
<doc id="376619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376619" title="C. Srinivasa Iyengar">
C. Srinivasa Iyengar

C. Srinivasa Iyengar was an Indian politician. He was also a former Member of the Legislative Assembly of Tamil Nadu. He was elected to the Tamil Nadu legislative assembly as an Indian National Congress candidate from Paramakudi constituency in 1962 election.

</doc>
<doc id="376621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376621" title="K. Ugrapandian">
K. Ugrapandian

K. Ugrapandian (b. 1945) is an Indian politician. He is a former Member of the Legislative Assembly of Tamil Nadu. He was elected to the Tamil Nadu legislative assembly as an Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam candidate from Paramakudi constituency in 1977 election.

</doc>
<doc id="376623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376623" title="Ron Gourlay">
Ron Gourlay

Ron Gourlay is the Chief Executive of Chelsea Football Club. He took the position on 31 October 2009, Before he was Chief Operating Officer of the club.
Ron Gourlay has worked at Chelsea for 5 years. He previously worked for Manchester United and Umbro.
He was appointed the chief executive of Chelsea on 17 September 2009. He began there after Peter Kenyon's left the club on 31 October 2009.
He was quoted as saying: "It is a huge honour to be offered the chance to lead Chelsea". "We have a fantastic team both on and off the field and those teams can move us on to even greater success in the future. To be responsible for that is a fantastic challenge and I will be giving it my total commitment, drive and energy" after being named as the successor.

</doc>
<doc id="376625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376625" title="Balranald, New South Wales">
Balranald, New South Wales

Balranald is a town in New South Wales, Australia. It is built on the banks of the Murrumbidgee River. In 2006 there were 1216 people living in the town and another 1500 live in the Shire of Balranald. The town is the centre of the Shire of Balranald, and is the largest town in the district. The main industry in the area is farming: grains, sheep, cattle and grapes. It is named after Balranald in the Outer Hebrides of Scotland.
Captain Charles Sturt was the first European explorer to visit the Balranald area. This was in January 1803 as he was going down the Murrumbidgee River in a boat. In 1836, the explorer Major Thomas Mitchell camped on the site of Balranald during his trip to explore the south of Australia. The first person to begin farming was Benjamin Boyd, a squatter, in 1842. George Hobler settled in what became the town area in 1845. The town itself began when the police set up a camp at a spot where the river was easy to cross in 1848. They were there to support the Commissioner for Crown Lands, George James McDonald, who named the area after the town in Scotland where he was born.
A shop and hotel opened in 1848 and the town became an official settlement in 1851. The first 35 blocks of land were sold by auction on 14 January 1845. In 1858 the first steamboat arrived and Balranald became an important inland port. The explorers Burke and Wills camped outside the hotel in 1860 on their journey north to the Gulf of Carpentaria.
Baranald is on the flood plains of the Murrumbidgee. These plains have many swampy areas which have redgum and blackbox forests. It is also a habitat for the Southern Bell Frog, or Growling Grass Frog, which is on the NSW list of endangered species.

</doc>
<doc id="376626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376626" title="United States fiscal cliff">
United States fiscal cliff

The United States fiscal cliff was an economic situation in the United States in 2012. The fiscal cliff could have happened due to tax increases, spending cuts and a fall in the US budget deficit. A compromise was reached which delayed the economic impact.

</doc>
<doc id="376627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376627" title="Leaf spring">
Leaf spring

A Leaf spring is a spring type, usually it have been used in vehicles but nowadays current type is not so popular. Using leaf spring is one of the oldest ways to make suspension.

</doc>
<doc id="376630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376630" title="Camp Funston">
Camp Funston

Camp Funston was a training camp during World War I. American soldiers were there in France in the spring of 1918. Camp Funston was the largest of the 16 camps. The camp was to help soldiers for the military. The money the camp got was $10 million. The camp was . There was space for the commander (officer) to rest. The ground was divided into 4 blocks each by . The camp could fit 2,000 people in it. There were 3 theaters, a large pool, a barbershop, restaurants, clothing stores, and an arcade (a place with lots of stores on one side). The west division of the camp was where the troops stayed from Kansas, Missouri, and Colorado.
One of the people in charge of the camp was Leonard Wood. He trained all of the troops. Each of the malls, stores, and restaurants paid money back to the camp to help the camp have money.
In March 1918, a sickness called the Spanish flu went to just about everyone in the camp.

</doc>
<doc id="376631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376631" title="U-boat">
U-boat

An U-boat was a type of military submarine used by Germany. They were most active in the First Battle of the Atlantic in World War I and in World War II. Although they could be very effective as weapons against enemy warships, they were most effectively used in economic warfare (commerce raiding) and enforcing naval blockades against enemy shipping.
The name is an abbreviation of the German ("undersea boat"). In English, "U-boat" refers exclusively to the German vessels used during the World Wars. In German, however, the term "U-Boot" refers to any kind of submarine.

</doc>
<doc id="376636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376636" title="Kampos, Karditsa">
Kampos, Karditsa

Kampos () is a former community in the Karditsa regional unit, Thessaly, Greece. Since the 2011 local government reform it is part of Karditsa. Population 5,469 (2001). The seat of the community was in Stavros.

</doc>
<doc id="376638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376638" title="Mordellistena degressa">
Mordellistena degressa

Mordellistena degressa is a species of beetle in the family "Mordellidae". It is in the "Mordellistena" genus. It was discovered in 1917. 

</doc>
<doc id="376640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376640" title="Mordellistena">
Mordellistena

Mordellistena is a genus (type) of beetles in the family Mordellidae. It contains many species.
They are "tumbling flower beetles", so-called for the typical irregular movements they make when escaping predators.

</doc>
<doc id="376643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376643" title="Holism">
Holism

Holism is the idea that natural systems (physical, biological, chemical, social, economic, mental, linguistic, etc.) and their properties, should be viewed as wholes, not as collections of parts. This often includes the view that systems somehow function as wholes and that their functioning cannot be fully understood solely in terms of their component parts.
Reductionism is often viewed as the opposite of holism. Reductionism in science says that a complex system can be explained by "reduction" to its fundamental parts. For example, the processes of biology are reducible to chemistry and the laws of chemistry are explained by physics.
Social scientist and physician Nicholas A. Christakis explains that "for the last few centuries, the Cartesian project in science has been to break matter down into ever smaller bits, in the pursuit of understanding. And this works, to some extent...but putting things back together in order to understand them is harder, and typically comes later in the development of a scientist or in the development of science".

</doc>
<doc id="376655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376655" title="The Lone Ranger (TV series)">
The Lone Ranger (TV series)

The Lone Ranger is a 30-minute American western television series. It stars Clayton Moore as The Lone Ranger and Jay Silverheels as The Lone Ranger's Indian pal Tonto. The series was one of the highest-rated series in television's early years and ABC's first true "hit". Its first run lasted from September 15, 1949 to June 8, 1957. Its first five seasons were broadcast in black and white. Its last season aired in color. There was a total of 221 episodes. 
George Trendle and Fran Striker were producers. John Hart briefly took the role of The Lone Ranger while Moore was tied-up in a salary dispute with producers. Oil millionaire Jack Wrather bought the show in 1954. Wrather's other television 
properties included the hit series "Lassie" and "Sgt. Preston of the Yukon". Two feature-length movies were produced after the show was canceled, "The Lone Ranger" (co-starring Wrather's wife Bonita Granville Wrather) and "The Lone Ranger and the Lost City of Gold". 
Some episodes are available on video and DVD. The series is sometimes seen in reruns. The series was known for its use of classical music collected from many sources. Especially famous was the series's opening and closing music, a part of Gioachino Rossini's "William Tell Overture". Equally well known were the cries heard at the end of each episode of "Who was that masked man?" and The Lone Ranger's "Hi-Yo, Silver! Away!" Much merchandise was manufactured during the series run such as toys, games, costumes, guns and holsters, and comic books.

</doc>
<doc id="376657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376657" title="Pembroke College, Cambridge">
Pembroke College, Cambridge

Pembroke College is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. It was created in 1347 on Christmas Eve. This was when Edward III gave Marie de St Pol the right to build a new college. She was the wife of the Earl of Pembroke, who died in 1327. The name of the college comes from him. However, it used to be called "Hall of Valence Mary" and only in 1856 the name was changed to the current one.
Pembroke College has about 700 students. The buildings within the college are of very different age. The oldest ones are from the 14th century, including the Chapel. The Hall was built later in the 1850s, and many of the student's rooms after the 1950s. It is found on Trumpington Street, which is near King's Parade, the main street in Cambridge.
Some very important people have studied here, like John Sulston (he won the 2002 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine) and Edmund Spenser (a poet).

</doc>
<doc id="376663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376663" title="William Dean Howells">
William Dean Howells

William Dean Howells (March 1, 1837 – May 11, 1920) was an American author and literary critic. His works include the Christmas story "Christmas Every Day" and the novel "The Rise of Silas Lapham". He married Elinor Mead and had three children.
The following were written during his residence in England and in Italy, as was "The Rise of Silas Lapham" in 1885.
He returned to the United States in 1886. He wrote various types of works, including fiction, poetry, and farces, of which "The Sleeping Car, The Mouse-Trap, The Elevator"; "Christmas Every Day"; and "Out of the Question" are characteristic.

</doc>
<doc id="376664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376664" title="Doughboy">
Doughboy

Doughboy was a nickname given to the 85,000 American soldiers who fought in France during World War I. Their leader was John J. Pershing. 
The word "doughboy" was well known almost 100 years before World War I in Britain and America. Doughboy had a different meaning then. Soldiers in Spain, America, and Britain were all familiar with fried doughnuts called doughboys. Because of the occasional contact of the nation's armed force and transatlantic migration, it seems likely that this usage was known to the members of the U.S. Army by the early 19th century. 
Though the first person to use the term is unclear, it was in use as early as the 1840s. One place that may have used "doughboy" first was during the Mexican–American War. Infantry forces, the army, were always covered with dust from marching through Mexico. This made the men look like uncooked dough. Another idea is the dusty infantry men looked like the mud bricks used in the area called adobes. Another idea is that doughboys were named this was because of their way of cooking field servings in the 1840s and 1850s when they baked doughy flour and rice mixtures in the ashes of a fire, but this does not explain why only army men had the doughboy name. 

</doc>
<doc id="376666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376666" title="Colourful Radio">
Colourful Radio

Colourful Radio is a commercial radio station in London. It broadcasts to the Greater London area on DAB Digital Radio. It also plays over the Internet. Colourful Radio's output is split between news, current affairs and music. Their slogan is 'old skool to new cool'. The type of music they play is a combination of soul, reggae, and jazz-funk.
Colourful Radio began on 2 March 2009. It was started by Head of Station Gordon Mac (founder of London's KISS FM) and Head of Programmes Henry Bonsu (former presenter of BBC London 94.9).
Colourful Radio was founded in 2006 by CJ Kool. It played various shows on Sky and over the internet.

</doc>
<doc id="376668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376668" title="Cootie">
Cootie

Cootie is a roll-and-move-, 3-dimensional, table-top children's game for 2 to 4 players. At the roll of the die, the player selects a component of the cootie such as the head or the tongue. The winner is the first to complete his cootie. Schaper's plastic bug has become an icon. For some, it is a symbol for the baby boomer generation.
The game was invented in 1948 by William Schaper. It sold in the millions after being launched in 1949. There were many games called "Cootie" in the early years of the 20th century. Only Schaper's game had a free-standing cootie though. The game is now produced by Hasbro subsidiary Milton Bradley. In 2003, "Cootie" was named to the Toy Industry Association's "Century of Toys List".

</doc>
<doc id="376670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376670" title="Play-Doh">
Play-Doh

Play-Doh is a children's modeling compound. It is made of flour, water, salt, boric acid, and mineral oil. It was first manufactured in Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S., as a wallpaper cleaner in the 1930s. Children began using the wallpaper cleaner as a modeling compound. The product was reworked and marketed to schools in the middle 1950s. Play-Doh was introduced at an educational convention in 1956. Important department stores opened retail accounts. Advertisements on many children's television shows in 1957 brought more sales. Play-Doh has much spinoff merchandise such as The Fun Factory. In 2003, the Toy Industry Association named Play-Doh in its "Century of Toys List".

</doc>
<doc id="376672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376672" title="Onslow, Nova Scotia">
Onslow, Nova Scotia

Onslow is a small Canadian rural community in central Colchester County, Nova Scotia. It is an unincorporated community. The community is located along the north bank of the Salmon River. It is on the opposite side of the river from the town of Truro. It is largely a farming area. It is situated in a region first settled by Europeans as Onslow Township (1761).
An important highway interchange is located in the community. It is where Highway 102 terminates at Highway 104.
Onslow is home to Central Colchester Junior High School. The school is operated by the Chignecto-Central Regional School Board. Onslow also contains a small corner store, a John Deere dealership and a volunteer fire department. The area is mostly farmland but people live here also and the community is expanding somewhat. In the fall and spring, migrating Canada Geese are attracted to the farmlands and corn fields. Onslow is geographically situated in an area with high winds. This makes it an excellent location for wind turbines. Some farmers in the area have chosen to erect wind turbines to power their farms.
Nova Scotia Power has a power distribution point in Onslow where it interconnects the Halifax Regional Municipality with Cape Breton, South Shore and New Brunswick Power Transmission System.

</doc>
<doc id="376678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376678" title="Sylvie Testud">
Sylvie Testud

Sylvie Testud (born January 17, 1971) is a French actress, writer and director. She started acting in films in 1991. She has since won two César Awards for her performances.
She grew up in the La Croix-Rousse quarter of Lyon, France. Her mother immigrated from Italy in the 1960s and married a Frenchman. He left the family when Sylvie was just two years old.
In 1985, when Testud was 14, she started taking acting classes in Lyon with the actor and director Christian Taponard. In 1989, she moved to Paris and studied for three years at the Conservatoire (CNSAD). In the early and mid 1990s, she began to have small roles in films. She acted in "L'Histoire du garcon qui voulait qu'on l'embrasse" (directed by Philippe Harel) and "Love, etc." (directed by Marion Vernoux). In 1997 she had an important role in Caroline Link's "Jenseits der Stille". This film was a great success in Germany. She had to learn German, sign language, and the clarinet for this film. In 1998, she played Béa in Thomas Vincent's "Karnaval". This was her first important role in a French film. In 2000, she performed in Chantal Akerman's "La Captive". In 2001 she won the César Award for Most Promising Actress for her role in "Les Blessures assassines" (English title: "Murderous Maids").
In 2003, she wrote the book "Il n'y a pas beaucoup d'etoiles ce soir" about her life as an actress.
One of her most important performances was in the film "Stupeur et tremblements" in 2003. She was awarded a César Award for Best Actress and a Prix Lumière award for best actress for her performance in this film. In 2007, she acted in "La Vie en Rose". This film won two Academy Awards.
She became "Chevalier" (Knight) of the Ordre national du Mérite in March 2009.
She has two children. Her son, Ruben, was born on 15 February 2005. Her daughter, Esther, was born in January, 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="376679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376679" title="Mugur Sundar">
Mugur Sundar

Mugur Sundar () is a popular dance choreographer in South Indian cinema. He has directed more than 10,000 dance sequences for various south-Indian films. Sundar was born in "Mugur", a village located in Mysore district, Karnataka. He has three sons, Prabhu Deva, Raju Sundaram and Nagendra Prasad, who are established dance masters. One of the judges in the famous Dance show AATA 4 which is telecasted in Zee Telugu, Telugu channel. Sundaram donned the role of a judge on Vijay TV's popular show Jodi No.1, Jodi No.1 Season Two where the participants are television artistes. His fellow judges were Silambarasan and Sangeetha.
In 2001 he directed his first Kannada film "Manasella Neene". It was a remake of Telugu film "Manasanthaa Nuvve". His son Nagendra Prasad played a lead role in the film.
Sundar played a guest role in a Kannada film "Thabbali". He also choreographed a song for the same film.

</doc>
<doc id="376682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376682" title="Douglas Jackman">
Douglas Jackman

Air Marshal Sir (Harold) Douglas Jackman KBE CB (26 October 1902 - 15 June 1991) was a senior Royal Air Force officer. He became Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief RAF Maintenance Command.
Jackman joined the Royal Air Force in 1926. He initially served as a Stores Officer. He served in World War II as an Administrative Staff Officer at Headquarters RAF Middle East. Then as Air Officer Administration at Headquarters Mediterranean Air Command. Next he became assistant Air Officer Administration at Headquarters Mediterranean Allied Air Forces and then Air Officer Administration at Headquarters Balkan Air Force.
After the War he was appointed Director of Movements and then Director of Organisation (Forecasting and Planning) at the Air Ministry. He went on to be Air Officer Commanding No. 40 Group in 1952. He became Director-General of Equipment at the Air Ministry in 1955. Then in 1958 he was appointed Air Officer Commanding RAF Maintenance Command. It was here he laid the foundation stone for a new Headquarters at Andover before retiring in 1961.
In retirement he became Chief Co-ordinator of the Anglo-American Community Relations Scheme in the UK.

</doc>
<doc id="376684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376684" title="Kurt Koffka">
Kurt Koffka

Kurt Koffka (18 March 1886 – 22 November 1941) was a German psychologist. He was one of the founders of Gestalt psychology.
Koffka was born and educated in Berlin and earned his PhD there in 1909 as a student of Carl Stumpf. Koffka also spent one year at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland where learnt English, a skill that later served him well. Koffka worked at the University of Frankfurt when Max Wertheimer arrived in 1910 and invited Koffka to take part as a subject in his research on the phi phenomenon.
Koffka left Frankfurt in 1912 to take a position at the University of Giessen, where he worked for over eleven years. Koffka then travelled to the United States, where he was a visiting professor at Cornell University from 1924 to 1925, and two years later at University of Wisconsin–Madison. Eventually, in 1927, he accepted a position at Smith College in Northampton, Massachusetts, where he remained until his death in 1941.

</doc>
<doc id="376688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376688" title="Diassodou">
Diassodou


</doc>
<doc id="376699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376699" title="1918 Standard Time Act">
1918 Standard Time Act

The Standard Time Act is also known as the Calder Act. It was the first United States federal law implementing standard time and Daylight saving time in the United States. It authorized the Interstate Commerce Commission to define each time zone.
The section concerning daylight saving time was repealed by the act titled "An Act For the repeal of the daylight-saving law".

</doc>
<doc id="376703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376703" title="Cable TV Privacy Act">
Cable TV Privacy Act

The Cable TV Privacy Act of 1984 became effective on December 29, 1984. It provides for the privacy of personal information. It prohibits cable TV providers from disclosing personally identifiable information. It also allows users to view and verify their information.

</doc>
<doc id="376706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376706" title="Lewis F. Powell, Jr.">
Lewis F. Powell, Jr.

Lewis Franklin Powell, Jr. (September 19, 1907 – August 25, 1998) was an American politician and judge. He was the Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States.
Powell was born on September 19, 1907 in Suffolk, Virginia. He was a Presbyterian. Powell studied at Washington and Lee University, at Washington and Lee University School of Law, and at Harvard Law School. He was married to Josephine Pierce Rucker and had three daughters and one son. Powell died on August 25, 1998 in Richmond, Virginia from pneumonia, aged 90.

</doc>
<doc id="376707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376707" title="East Pakistan Rifles">
East Pakistan Rifles

After the partition of the Indian sub-continent ‘Eastern Frontier Rifles’ was re-grouped and renamed East Pakistan Rifles. It was the primary border protection force of the then East Pakistan provincial region. A number of Metropolitan Armed Police of Calcutta and some 1,000 ex-soldiers of West Pakistan merged into this force. Officers from the army were transferred to command and reorganize EPR. In 1958, it was also assigned the anti-smuggling duties on top of its primary role as the border guards. In 1965 India Pakistan war this force fought valiantly and successfully in a number of skirmishes in Lathitila, Dohogram, Laksmipur, Assalong and Boroibari. Major Tofael was awarded the highest military award of erstwhile Pakistan, ‘Nishan-e-Haider’, for his action in the Laksmipur Operation. The strength of the force was 13,454 during March 1971.

</doc>
<doc id="376708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376708" title="Harry Blackmun">
Harry Blackmun

Harold Andrew Blackmun (November 12, 1908 – March 4, 1999) was an American politician. He was an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States from 1970 until 1994. He helped create "Roe v. Wade". 
Blackmun was born on November 12, 1908 in Nashville, Illinois. He was a Methodist. Blackmun studied at Harvard College, at Harvard Law School. Blackmun was never married. He had no children. Blackmun died on March 4, 1999 in Arlington County, Virginia from natural causes, aged 90.

</doc>
<doc id="376711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376711" title="National Socialist Council of Nagaland">
National Socialist Council of Nagaland

The Nationalist Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN) is a nationalist paramilitary group. It operates mainly in Northeast India, and sometimes in Myanmar. Its members are Christian Naga people. The main aim of the organization is to establish a sovereign state, "Nagalim". This would cover all areas inhabited by the Naga people.
The NSCN has been declared as a terrorist organisation in India.

</doc>
<doc id="376712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376712" title="Havaily District">
Havaily District

Havaily District () is part of Azad Kashmir in Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="376713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376713" title="Hattian Bala District">
Hattian Bala District

Hattian District () is part of Azad Kashmir in Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="376723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376723" title="Anointing of the Sick">
Anointing of the Sick

Anointing of the Sick is a sacrament (a sacred ceremony) in Roman Catholicism and other Christian denominations. It is given to people who are "in danger due to sickness or old age". 
A person does not have to be dying to receive the Anointing of the Sick. It can be done for anyone with a medical problem which they could die from.
Anointing of the Sick is also called Unction. In the past, it was called Extreme Unction. ("Anointing" and "Unction" are both words for putting oil on a person. Oil is an important part of the ceremony.)
All four Gospels in the Bible say that Jesus healed many people. Catholics believe that even after his death, Jesus is still able to heal people through the power of the sacraments.
The main part of the Bible that talks about anointing of the sick is : "Are any among you sick? They should call for the elders of the Church and have them pray over them, anointing them with oil in the name of the Lord. And their prayer offered in faith will heal the sick, and the Lord will make them well. And if they have committed sins, these will be forgiven." , and also talk about the anointing of the sick.
The Anointing of the Sick sacrament is done by a priest. The priest brings oil, which he has blessed. Usually, the oil is olive oil or another pure plant oil. The priest rubs the blessed oil on the patient's forehead, and sometimes other parts of the body. While he does this, he says special prayers that are meant for the Anointing of the Sick sacrament. 
Catholics believe the Anointing of the Sick sacrament can:
Several other Christian churches have similar rituals.
The Anointing of the Sick is one of the three sacraments that make up the last rites. In Catholicism, last rites are a set of sacraments that are given to people who are dying. 
The steps in the last rites are:

</doc>
<doc id="376724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376724" title="Category:1347 establishments">
Category:1347 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="376725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376725" title="Category:1340s establishments">
Category:1340s establishments


</doc>
<doc id="376726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376726" title="People's Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak">
People's Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak

The People's Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak (PREPAK) is an armed insurgent group in Manipur demanding a separate and independent homeland. PREPAK was formed under the leadership of R. K. Tulachandra on October 9, 1977.

</doc>
<doc id="376727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376727" title="Category:Black and white television series">
Category:Black and white television series

This category collects television series first broadcast in black and white.

</doc>
<doc id="376728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376728" title="Stranded Pakistanis">
Stranded Pakistanis

Stranded Pakistanis, also known as Biharis, describes the people mainly of the Biharis ethnic group currently residing in Bangladesh who immigrated to East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) with the hopes of joining Pakistan but after the East Pakistan seceded and became Bangladesh were unable to re-immigrate (due to the large distances) in 1971 and continue to claim Pakistani citizenship.

</doc>
<doc id="376729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376729" title="Olga Yakovleva (basketball, born 1963)">
Olga Yakovleva (basketball, born 1963)

Olga Yakovleva (born 15 December 1963) is a Russian former basketball player. She was born in Leningrad. She was part of the Soviet team which won a bronze medal in the 1988 Summer Olympics.

</doc>
<doc id="376732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376732" title="Michael Cassidy">
Michael Cassidy

Michael Cassidy (1837 – March 18, 1908) was a Union Navy sailor in the American Civil War. He received the U.S. military's highest decoration called the Medal of Honor. He got the medal for his actions at the Battle of Mobile Bay.
Cassidy was born in 1837 in Ireland. He immigrated to the United States and was living in New York when he joined the Navy. He served during the Civil War as a landsman on the . At the Battle of Mobile Bay on August 5, 1864, "Lackawanna" engaged the at close range. Cassidy distinguished himself as the sponger on a gun crew. For this action, he was presented the Medal of Honor four months later on December 31, 1864.
Cassidy's official Medal of Honor citation reads:
Served on board the U.S.S. "Lackawanna" during successful attacks against Fort Morgan, rebel gunboats and the ram "Tennessee", in Mobile Bay, 5 August 1864. Displaying great coolness and exemplary behavior as first sponger of a gun, Cassidy, by his coolness under fire, received the applause of his officers and the guncrew throughout the action which resulted in the capture of the prize ram "Tennessee" and in the destruction of batteries at Fort Morgan.
Cassidy died on March 18, 1908, at age 70 or 71. He was buried at Hampton National Cemetery in Hampton, Virginia.

</doc>
<doc id="376734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376734" title="Hampton National Cemetery">
Hampton National Cemetery

Hampton National Cemetery is a United States National Cemetery in the city of Hampton, Virginia. It sits on . As of the end of 2005 it had 27,799 interments. There are two separate parts to this facility. The original cemetery is called the “Hampton Section” and is located on Cemetery Road in Hampton, VA. It is on the western side of I-64. The new section which is called the “Phoebus Addition” or the “Phoebus Section” and is on West County Street in Hampton, VA east of I-64. It is less than a mile from the original cemetery. Both sections of the Hampton National Cemetery are closed to new interments.
The first burials took place in the cemetery in 1862. They were primarily Union soldiers who died in service or at the hospital at Fort Monroe. It became a National Cemetery in 1866. While primarily for Union soldiers, it also has the interments of 272 Confederate soldiers in their own section.
Hampton National Cemetery has the interred remains of World War II prisoners of war. Fifty-five are German and 5 Italian. It also has the remains of 28 sailors from the . It was sunk by off Cape Hatteras in 1942.
Hampton National Cemetery was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on February 26, 1996.

</doc>
<doc id="376736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376736" title="Alison Lohman">
Alison Lohman

Alison Marion Lohman (September 18 1979 in Palm Springs, California) is an American movie and television actress. She has been in theatrical features, including "White Oleander" and the erotic 2005 biography "Where the Truth Lies" (the latter was given an NC-17 rating by MPAA; it was later released unrated). Lohman has also been in TV programs, including "7th Heaven".

</doc>
<doc id="376738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376738" title="Category:861">
Category:861


</doc>
<doc id="376739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376739" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/2026">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2012/2026


</doc>
<doc id="376751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376751" title="Haapanen">
Haapanen

Haapanen is a Finnish surname. Some people with this surname are:

</doc>
<doc id="376752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376752" title="Hec Lalande">
Hec Lalande

Hector Joseph Lalande (November 24, 1934 – August 18, 2010) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player that played 5 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL).
Lalande played in the NHL with the Chicago Blackhawks for 4 seasons and with the Detroit Red Wings for 1 season. Even though he played in the NHL, he was most successful in the minor league with the Clinton Comets of the Eastern Hockey League. During his time with the Comets, he recorded two back-to-back 100 point seasons and won both the Atlantic City Boardwalk Trophy Winner and the James J. Walker Trophy Winner in the 1963–64 season. He also won the Calder Cup when he was playing with the Hershey Bears in the 1957–58 and 1958–59 AHL seasons.
He died on August 18, 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="376753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376753" title="Erkkilä">
Erkkilä

Erkkilä is a Finnish surname. Some people with this surname are:

</doc>
<doc id="376758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376758" title="Mike Hudson">
Mike Hudson

Michael Hudson (born February 6, 1967 in Guelph, Ontario) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey player that played a total of 11 seasons in the NHL.
In the NHL, he played for the Chicago Blackhawks, Edmonton Oilers, New York Rangers, Pittsburgh Penguins, Toronto Maple Leafs, St. Louis Blues and Phoenix Coyotes. He also played in the DEL for 2 seasons; 1 season with Augsburger Panther and 1 season with Adler Mannheim.
He won the Stanley Cup with the Rangers in the 1993–94 NHL season. 

</doc>
<doc id="376759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376759" title="Divisions of the Australian House of Representatives">
Divisions of the Australian House of Representatives

The Australian House of Representatives is elected from 150 single-member areas called Divisions. They are also commonly known as electorates or seats.
The Divisions are divided among the states and territories of Australia as set out in the Australian Constitution and the "Electoral Act" It is based on population, with the following exceptions:
Within each state and territory, the boundaries of the divisions must be redrawn in a process known as "redistribution" at least once every seven years, or when the state's allocation of Divisions changes. Boundaries are drawn by Redistribution Committee. Population is based on the number of "enrolled voters" not the total number of residents.
Within a state or territory, the number of voters in each Division can not vary by more than 10% from the average across the state. The number of voters cannot vary by more than 3.5% from the average projected enrolment three-and-a-half years into the future.
The Divisions of the House of Representatives are unusual in the way they are named. Many of them are not named after geographical features or numbered, as in most other legislatures around the world. Most Divisions are named after important historical people, such as former politicians (often Prime Ministers), explorers, artists and engineers.
In some cases where a Division is named after a place, the connection to that place may have changed a lot. For example, the Division of Werriwa, was named after the Aboriginal word for Lake George near Canberra. However, Werriwa has not included Lake George for many years. The boundary of Werriwa is now 200km north of the lake.
The Australian Electoral Commission (AEC) is in charge of creating, abolishing, or redistributing the boundaries of the Divisions. Some of the guidelines the AEC use when naming new Divisions are listed below:
The maps below show the Division boundaries as they were for the election in 2010.
There are 48 Divisions: 
There are 37 Divisions:
There are 30 Divisions:
There are 15 Divisions:
There are 11 Divisions:
There are 5 Divisions:
Australian Capital Territory
There are 2 Divisions:
Northern Territory
There are 2 Divisions:
These Australian electoral divisions no longer exist.

</doc>
<doc id="376761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376761" title="Kansallis-Osake-Pankki">
Kansallis-Osake-Pankki

Kansallis-Osake-Pankki was a merchant bank in Finland in 1889–1995. The bank's sign was blue squirrel.

</doc>
<doc id="376762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376762" title="Taco John's International">
Taco John's International

Taco John's International is a franchisor of small, Mexican restaurants. The chain is based in Cheyenne, Wyoming. Taco John's was started in 1969 by Harold Holmes and Jim Woodson. The chain has about 400 restaurants. It has not had much growth for many years.

</doc>
<doc id="376763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376763" title="Mytilus (genus)">
Mytilus (genus)

Mytilus is a common genus of medium to large-sized marine mussels. They are bivalve molluscs of the family Mytilidae. Mussels are edible, and are used in various stews and soups. In life, they are attached to the substrate (rocks etc) by byssus threads.
Species within the genus "Mytilus" include:
"Mytilus" mussels are widely used as food. In California they were eaten by coastal Native American people for almost 12,000 years. 

</doc>
<doc id="376765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376765" title="Mytilus coruscus">
Mytilus coruscus

Mytilus coruscus is the scientific name for the Korean mussel. It is also called the hard-shelled mussel. It is a species of mussel and a marine bivalve mollusc. It is in the family Mytilidae. This species is heavily used as a food item via mariculture in Korea. and in China
This species lives along the coasts of the subtropical western Pacific Ocean. It is found in the Yellow Sea and the Sea of Japan. It can also be found as far north as the Peter the Great Gulf. This mussel generally inhabits the upper part of the sublittoral zone.

</doc>
<doc id="376773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376773" title="Embryophyte">
Embryophyte

Embryophytes are land plants. They are they things most people call plants, the bryophytes, ferns, gymnosperms and flowering plants. Another way of looking at it is to say they are the Viridiplantae minus the algae.

</doc>
<doc id="376777" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376777" title="Chanterelle">
Chanterelle

A chanterelle is a mushroom that is used in cooking. It is yellow. A chanterelle looks much like some other mushrooms. About 25% of its dry weight is protein, because it is a vegetable.

</doc>
<doc id="376780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376780" title="Rubber band">
Rubber band

A rubber band is a stretchable band. They can be different sizes, colours and shapes. Stephen Perry patented the rubber band in England in 1845. It is useful when is need to keep two or more items together. They are made out of latex.

</doc>
<doc id="376783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376783" title="List of American Civil War Medal of Honor recipients: A–F">
List of American Civil War Medal of Honor recipients: A–F

This is a complete alphabetical list of Medal of Honor recipients during the American Civil War. This list only has the people with last names starting from A–F. Many of the medals received during the Civil War were for capturing or saving regimental flags. During the Civil War these regimental flags served as the rallying point for the unit. They also served as guids for the unit's movements. These flags were usually heavily protected. Loss of the flag could greatly disrupt a unit. It could also have a greater effect than the death of the commanding officer.
The Medal of Honor is the highest military decoration awarded by the United States government. It is bestowed on a member of the United States armed forces who distinguishes himself "…conspicuously by gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty while engaged in an action against an enemy of the United States…". Due to the nature of this medal it is commonly presented after the recipient was killed (posthumously).
Recipients are listed alphabetically by last name. Posthumous receipt is denoted by an asterisk. The rank indicated is the individual's rank at the time of their Medal of Honor action.

</doc>
<doc id="376787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376787" title="Category:Lists of Medal of Honor recipients">
Category:Lists of Medal of Honor recipients


</doc>
<doc id="376788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376788" title="Chinese scholar's rocks">
Chinese scholar's rocks

Chinese scholars' rocks (供石 or gōngshí), also known as scholar stones or viewing stones, are small naturally shaped rocks which are traditionally valued by Chinese scholars. 
Scholars rocks can be any color. There are a wide variety of sizes. Scholars rocks can weigh hundreds of pounds or less than one pound. The term also means stones which are placed in traditional Chinese gardens.
Four important qualities for the rocks were recognized in the Tang dynasty. They are: thinness ("shou"), openness ("tou"), perforations ("lou"), and wrinkling ("zhou"). 
Chinese scholar's rocks influenced the development of "suseok" in Korea and "suiseki" in Japan.
The origin of the stone is a notable feature.
The evaluation of a scholar's rock identifies subtlety of color, shape, markings and surface. The qualities which are prized include
The stone may be displayed on a wooden base that has been carved specifically for the stone. The stones are a traditional subject of Chinese paintings.

</doc>
<doc id="376794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376794" title="Common kingfisher">
Common kingfisher

The common kingfisher ("Alcedo atthis") is a small kingfisher. Like most kingfishers, it needs a perch to do its fishing. Usual is to see it on a tree branch overlooking a river.
There are seven subspecies in its wide distribution across Eurasia and North Africa. It is resident over much of its range, but migrates from areas where rivers freeze in winter.
This sparrow-sized bird has the typical short-tailed, large-headed kingfisher profile; it has blue upperparts, orange underparts and a long bill. It feeds mainly on fish caught by diving, and has special visual adaptions to see its prey underwater. The glossy white eggs are laid in a nest at the end of a burrow in a riverbank.

</doc>
<doc id="376795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376795" title="Wattieza">
Wattieza

Wattieza is the earliest known tree. 
Their fossils were found in New York State.
They stood 8 m (34 ft) or more tall, and looked like the modern tree ferns. 
They lived in the mid-Devonian, about 385 million years ago. They were cladoxylopsids, close relatives of modern ferns and horsetails. 
The crown of "Wattieza", discovered in 2005, was united with its root and trunk, known since 1870. The fossilized grove of "Gilboa stumps" had been described as "Eospermatopteris", though the complete plant remained unknown. 
"Wattieza" had fronds rather than leaves, and reproduced with spores.
 

</doc>
<doc id="376802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376802" title="Susan">
Susan

The name Susan is a female given name, based around the name Susanna; the name was extremely popular in the United States during earlier parts of the 20th century. Famous people with the name include Susan Lucci and Susan Sarandon.

</doc>
<doc id="376805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376805" title="Category:Military personnel of the American Civil War">
Category:Military personnel of the American Civil War


</doc>
<doc id="376806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376806" title="Category:Lists of the American Civil War">
Category:Lists of the American Civil War


</doc>
<doc id="376807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376807" title="Suiseki">
Suiseki

"Suiseki" can be any color. There are a wide variety of sizes. "Suiseki" can weigh hundreds of pounds or less than one pound. The term also means stones which are placed in traditional Japanese gardens.
Chinese scholar's rocks influenced the development of "suiseki" in Japan. The history of "suiseki" in Japan begins during the reign of Empress Suiko. The small objects were brought to Japan as gifts from the Chinese Imperial court.
The evaluation of "suiseki" recognizes color, shape, markings and surface. According to in ,
It is not a silly thing at all to enjoy a stone in a tray. I see the whole world in a tiny stone. Some objects in this world are huge, and others are small, and they come in all shapes, but they are not that different when you look at their essence.
Some types of "suiseki" suggest a mountain, a waterfall, an island, a thatched hut or an animal.

</doc>
<doc id="376811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376811" title="Prudential Tower">
Prudential Tower

The Prudential Tower, also called the Prudential Building or The Pru, is a skyscraper in Boston, Massachusetts. The building is the 2nd-tallest building in Boston. It was designed by Charles Luckman and Associates for Prudential Insurance and was completed in 1964. It is tall and has 52 floors. With its radio mast, the tower is and is the tallest building in Boston. It has an observation deck, called the "Prudential Skywalk", on its 50th floor. It is currently the highest observation deck in New England that is open to the public. The building also has a restaurant on the 52nd floor, called "Top of the Hub."
Construction on the Prudential Tower began in 1960. When it was completed in 1964, it was the tallest building in the world outside of New York City.
Since the Prudential Tower was built, other tall buildings have been built in Boston. Today, it is not one of the fifty tallest buildings in the USA.
Boston Properties currently owns the Prudential Tower.
The main rooftop mast has two FM master antennas, and a television antenna. The roof also has a smaller tower with standby antennas. These antennas broadcast several Boston radio stations.

</doc>
<doc id="376813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376813" title="Suseok">
Suseok

Suseok (수석) is the Korean term for small naturally occurring or shaped rocks which are traditionally valued. They are similar to Chinese scholar's rocks.
"Suseok" can be any color. There are a wide variety of sizes. "Suseok" can weigh hundreds of pounds or less than one pound. The term also means stones which are placed in traditional Korean gardens.
Chinese scholar's rocks influenced the development of "suseok" in Korea. 
The evaluation of "suseok" recognizes color, shape, markings and surface.

</doc>
<doc id="376814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376814" title="Category:People from Swindon">
Category:People from Swindon


</doc>
<doc id="376819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376819" title="Division of Werriwa">
Division of Werriwa

The Division of Werriwa is a Federal Electoral Division for the Australian House of Representatives in the state of New South Wales. 
The name "Werriwa" is the local Aboriginal name for Lake George. The lake was in the division when the boundaries were drawn in 1900. The division was one of the original 75 divisions for Australia's first federal election in 1901. It covered a large rural area from the south west of Sydney to the northern part of what is now the ACT. 
Over the years, the population around Sydney increased. The boundaries were redrawn and Werriwa became smaller in area. By 1913 Lake George was no longer included in the Dvision. Werriwa become a south-western Sydney suburban electorate over 150 km away from Lake George. It has kept the name of Werriwa, because it is an original Federation electorate. The Australian Electoral Commission tries to keep the names of original Federation electorates. 
Werriwa now covers the suburbs of Austral, Bardia, Bow Bowing, Casula, Claymore, Denham Court, Edmondson Park, Eschol Park, Glenfield, Horningsea Park, Hoxton Park, Ingleburn, Leppington, Lurnea, Macquarie Fields, Minto, Minto Heights, Prestons, Raby, St Andrews and Varroville and parts of Liverpool, Leumeah and West Hoxton.
It is a very safe seat for the Australian Labor Party (ALP), which has held it without a break since 1934.
Werriwa was the electorate (1952-78) of former Prime Minister Gough Whitlam. From 1994 to 2005 the Werriwa was held by one of Whitlam's former aides, Mark Latham. Latham was the leader of the ALP and Leader of the Opposition from 2003-2005. 
In a by-election in March 2005, Labor's Chris Hayes was elected with over 55% of the vote. There were 16 other candidates but none got more than 8% of the vote.

</doc>
<doc id="376822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376822" title="Zadar">
Zadar

Zadar is a small city in Croatia with around 75000 people. It is a city because it has a cathedral, dedicated to Saint Anastasia.

</doc>
<doc id="376831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376831" title="Category:Australia political party colour templates">
Category:Australia political party colour templates


</doc>
<doc id="376846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376846" title="Cyclic vomiting syndrome">
Cyclic vomiting syndrome

Cyclic vomiting syndrome (US English) or cyclical vomiting syndrome (UK English), abbreviated CVS, is a medical condition whose main symptoms are nausea and repeated vomiting. CVS happens more often in children but it can occur at any age. 
CVS is one of the "childhood periodic syndromes". This is a group of migraines syndromes that happen to children. Children who have one of these "childhood periodic syndromes" like cyclic vomiting, will when they get older, usually get one of the other types of migraine that affect adults 

</doc>
<doc id="376848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376848" title="East Bengal Regiment">
East Bengal Regiment

The East Bengal Regiment () is an infantry regiment of the new modern Bangladeshi Army.

</doc>
<doc id="376849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376849" title="Category:Migraine">
Category:Migraine


</doc>
<doc id="376850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376850" title="People's Liberation Army of Manipur">
People's Liberation Army of Manipur

The People's Liberation Army (PLA) was founded by N. Bisheshwar Singh on September 25, 1978. It is a separatist armed revolutionary group fighting for a separate independent socialist state of Manipur. It was the first organization from Manipur to have been trained by the China's People Liberation Army at Lhasa in the eighties. It was also trained by the NSCN in Myanmar during this time.

</doc>
<doc id="376851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376851" title="Naga National Council">
Naga National Council

The Naga National Council was a political organization of Naga people, active from the late 1940s to the early 1950s. Under the leadership of Angami Zapu Phizo in the 1940s, it unsuccessfully campaigned for the secession of the Naga territory from the Republic of India and creation for a sovereign Naga state.

</doc>
<doc id="376852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376852" title="Naga nationalism">
Naga nationalism

Naga nationalism is an ideology that supports self-determination by the Naga people, and furtherance of Naga culture.

</doc>
<doc id="376853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376853" title="Naga people">
Naga people

The term Naga people (Burmese: နာဂ, Hindi: नागा) refers to a conglomeration of several tribes inhabiting the North Eastern part of India and north-western Burma. The tribes have similar cultures and traditions, and form the majority ethnic group in the Indian states of Nagaland, Assam and the disputed territory of Southern Tibet.

</doc>
<doc id="376855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376855" title="Garo people">
Garo people

The Garos are a tribal people in Meghalaya, Republic of India and neighboring areas of Bangladesh, who call themselves A·chik Mande (literally "hill people," from "a·chik" "hill" + "mande" "people") or simply A·chik or Mande. They are the second-largest tribe in Meghalaya after the Khasi and comprise about a third of the local population. The Garos are one of the few remaining matrilineal societies in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="376856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376856" title="Khasi people">
Khasi people

The Khasi are an indigenous or tribal people, the majority of whom live in the State of Meghalaya in North-east India, with small populations in neighbouring Assam, and in parts of Bangladesh. They call themselves Ki Hynñiew trep, which means "the seven huts" in the Khasi language. Their language Khasi is the northernmost Austro-Asiatic language.

</doc>
<doc id="376857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376857" title="Erin Burnett">
Erin Burnett

Erin Isabelle Burnett (born July 2, 1976, [Mardela Springs, Maryland]]) is an American news anchor and journalist. She has also done reporting through NBC. Her current program is "Erin Burnett OutFront" on CNN.

</doc>
<doc id="376858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376858" title="List of American Civil War Medal of Honor recipients">
List of American Civil War Medal of Honor recipients

The Medal of Honor was first presented in the American Civil War. President Abraham Lincoln signed a bill creating the medal. When it started it was for the United States Navy. It was signed on December 21, 1861. It was "to be bestowed upon such petty officers, seamen, landsmen, and Marines as shall most distinguish themselves by their gallantry and other seamanlike qualities during the present war." Another law was created to include the United States Army. That law was signed by the president on July 12, 1862.
While the Medal of Honor is now the highest military decoration attainable by a member of the United States armed forces, during the Civil War, it was the "only" one. This means it was often earned for reasons that would not meet modern criteria. For example, Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton promised a Medal of Honor to every man in the 27th Maine Volunteer Infantry Regiment who extended his enlistment. 311 men in the unit accepted. Because there was no official list of their names, the War Department issued 864. One for each man in the unit. In 1916, a group of five retired generals reviewed Army awards and recommended that these 864 and others be revoked. 
Since then 3,464 Medals of Honor have been presented. 1522 were for actions during the American Civil War. The first Medals of Honor were given to many of the participants of the Andrews' Raid. Some of the people from the raid received them after they died (posthumously). Andrews himself was a civilian and thus ineligible at the time. Mary Edwards Walker was a surgeon and became the only woman (and one of only eight civilians) who received a Medal of Honor. It was later taken away but after many years it was given back. Twenty-five were presented to African Americans. These included seven sailors of the Union Navy. Fifteen soldiers of the United States Colored Troops received it for their actions. Three soldiers of other Army units also received it. It was common for Civil War Medals of Honor to be granted decades after the conflict ended. In the case of Andrew Jackson Smith the Medal was not authorized until 2001. That is 137 years after the action in which he earned it. Smith's wait was caused by a missing battle report. It is the longest delay of the medal for any recipient.
This is an overview list of Medal of Honor recipients for the American Civil War.

</doc>
<doc id="376861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376861" title="List of American Civil War Medal of Honor recipients: G–L">
List of American Civil War Medal of Honor recipients: G–L

This is a complete alphabetical list (G to L) of Medal of Honor recipients during the American Civil War. Many of the medals presented during the Civil War were for capturing or saving regimental flags. At that time regimental flags served as the rallying point for the unit. They guided the unit's movements and loss of the flag could greatly disrupt a unit. Getting the flag could have a greater effect than the death of the commanding officer.
The Medal of Honor is the highest military decoration presented by the United States government. It is bestowed on a member of the United States armed forces who distinguishes himself "…conspicuously by gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty while engaged in an action against an enemy of the United States…". Due to the nature of this medal it is commonly presented after the individual dies (posthumously).

</doc>
<doc id="376866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376866" title="List of American Civil War Medal of Honor recipients: M–P">
List of American Civil War Medal of Honor recipients: M–P

This is a complete alphabetical list (M to P) of Medal of Honor recipients during the Civil War. Many of the medals presented during the Civil War were for capturing or saving regimental flags. During this time regimental flags served as the rallying point for the unit. They also guided the unit's movements. Loss of the flag could greatly disrupt a unit. It could have a greater effect than the death of the commanding officer.
The Medal of Honor is the highest military decoration awarded by the United States government. It is bestowed on a member of the United States armed forces who distinguishes himself "…conspicuously by gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty while engaged in an action against an enemy of the United States…". Due to the nature of this medal it is commonly presented after the recipient has been killed. This is sometimes referred to as posthumously.

</doc>
<doc id="376872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376872" title="List of political parties in Australia">
List of political parties in Australia

This is a list of Australian political parties. There are also other parties which are only active at a state level. This list includes all parties registered with the Australian Electoral Commission (AEC).
For latest details see: http://aec.gov.au/Parties_and_Representatives/Party_Registration/Registered_parties/index.htm
As of 2015 the following parties held in the Australian Federal Parliament:
These groups are no longer registered and can no longer take part in elections. A number of these may still exist but they are not political parties.

</doc>
<doc id="376882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376882" title="Lev Vygotsky">
Lev Vygotsky

Lev Vygotsky ( – 11 June 1934) was a Russian psychologist. He worked on child development, play and language. He also developed a holistic theory of human cultural and biosocial development. 
Vygotsky's early death to tuberculosis left many manuscripts. Sorting them out has taken many years.
Perhaps Vygotsky's most important work was the inter-relationship of language development and thought. This establishes the connection between speech and the development of mental concepts and cognitive awareness. Vygotsky described inner speech as being qualitatively different from normal (external) speech. Although Vygotsky believed inner speech developed from external speech by a gradual process, with younger children only really able to "think out loud".
Language starts as a tool external to the child used for social interaction. The child guides its behavior by using a kind of self-talk or "thinking out loud". Initially, self-talk is very much a tool of social interaction and this tapers to negligible levels when the child is alone. Gradually, self-talk is used more as a tool for self-directed and self-regulating behavior. Because it gets internalized, self-talk is no longer present when the child starts school. Self-talk "develops along a rising not a declining, curve; it goes through an evolution, not an involution. In the end, it becomes inner speech".
Speaking has thus developed along two lines, the line of social communication and the line of inner speech, by which the child mediates and regulates their activity through their thoughts. This is not to say that thinking cannot take place without language, but rather it is mediated by language, and so develops to a much higher level of sophistication. Just as the birthday cake as a sign provides much deeper meaning than its physical properties allow, inner speech as a sign provides much deeper meaning than the lower psychological functions would otherwise allow.
Inner speech is not comparable in form to external speech. External speech is the process of turning thought into words. Inner speech is the opposite; it is the conversion of speech into inward thought. Inner speech, for example, contains predicates only. Subjects are superfluous. Words are also used much more economically. One word in inner speech would take many words to express it in external speech.

</doc>
<doc id="376883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376883" title="Category:Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations">
Category:Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations


</doc>
<doc id="376884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376884" title="Category:User bn-2">
Category:User bn-2


</doc>
<doc id="376886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376886" title="List of Australian Leaders of the Opposition">
List of Australian Leaders of the Opposition

In Australian Federal Politics the Leader of the Opposition is a Member of Parliament in the House of Representatives. The Leader of the Opposition is usually the leader of the party which has the most seats but is not part of the Government. In Parliament the Leader of the Opposition sits on the left-hand side of the table in the centre, in front of the Opposition and opposite the Prime Minister. The Opposition Leader is elected by the Opposition Party. A new Opposition Leader may be elected if the person in the position dies, resigns or is challenged for the leadership.
The Commonwealth of Australia is a constitutional monarchy with a parliamentary system. It is based on the British Westminster model. The term Opposition has a specific meaning in the parliamentary system. Its formal title is Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition. This is an important part of the Westminster system. The Opposition directs its criticism at the Government and attempts to defeat and replace the Government. The Opposition is therefore the 'Government in waiting' and it is a formal part of the parliamentary system, just as is the Government. It is in opposition to the Government, but not to the Crown, hence the term 'Loyal Opposition'.
The current Leader of the Opposition is not yet decided. It will be a member of the Labor Party, which lost the federal election to the Liberal Party in September 2013. The leader of the Labor Party will be decided by a vote in the caucus, and will be between Anthony Albanese and Bill Shorten. As of 2013, there have been 32 Opposition Leaders. Of these, 18 have served terms as Prime Minister.

</doc>
<doc id="376896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376896" title="List of American Civil War Medal of Honor recipients: Q–S">
List of American Civil War Medal of Honor recipients: Q–S

The Medal of Honor is the highest military decoration presented by the United States government. It is bestowed on members of the United States armed forces. To receive it they must distinguish themselves "…conspicuously by gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty while engaged in an action against an enemy of the United States…". Due to the nature of this medal, it is commonly presented after the person was killed (posthumously).
Many of the medals presented during the American Civil War were for capturing or saving regimental flags. During the Civil War these flags served as the rallying point for the unit. They also guided the unit's movements. Loss of the flag could greatly disrupt a unit. It could have a greater effect than the death of the commanding officer.

</doc>
<doc id="376898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376898" title="List of American Civil War Medal of Honor recipients: T–Z">
List of American Civil War Medal of Honor recipients: T–Z

This is a complete alphabetical list (T to Z) of Medal of Honor recipients during the American Civil War. Many of the medals presented during the Civil War were for capturing or saving regimental flags. At this time regimental flags served as the rallying point for the unit. It guided the unit's movements and loss of the flag could greatly disrupt a unit. It could have a greater effect than the death of the commanding officer.
The Medal of Honor is the highest military decoration presented by the United States government. It is presented to members of the United States armed forces who distinguish thesmelves "…conspicuously by gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty while that could engaged in an action against an enemy of the United States…". Due to the nature of this medal, it is commonly presented after the recipient has been killed (posthumously).

</doc>
<doc id="376900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376900" title="List of Medal of Honor recipients for the Second Battle of Fort Fisher">
List of Medal of Honor recipients for the Second Battle of Fort Fisher

The Second Battle of Fort Fisher was a joint assault by Union Army and naval forces. It was against the Confederate Fort Fisher. The fort was located outside Wilmington, North Carolina. The battle was near the end of the American Civil War. The battle was sometimes referred to as the "Gibraltar of the South". The fort was the last major coastal stronghold of the Confederacy. Fort Fisher had tremendous strategic value during the war.
The Medal of Honor was created during the American Civil War. It is the highest military decoration presented by the United States government to a member of its armed forces. The recipient must have distinguished themselves at the risk of their own life above and beyond the call of duty in action against an enemy of the United States. Due to the nature of this medal, it is commonly presented after the recipient has been killed (posthumously).

</doc>
<doc id="376902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376902" title="List of Medal of Honor recipients for the Battle of Opequon">
List of Medal of Honor recipients for the Battle of Opequon

The Battle of Opequon was more commonly known as the Third Battle of Winchester. It was fought in Winchester, Virginia on September 19, 1864. It happened during the Valley Campaigns of 1864 in the American Civil War. Fourteen Union Army enlisted men and one officer were presented the Medal of Honor for gallantry during the battle.
The Medal of Honor was created during the American Civil War and is the highest military decoration presented by the United States government to a member of its armed forces. The recipient must have distinguished themselves at the risk of their own life above and beyond the call of duty in action against an enemy of the United States. Due to the nature of this medal, it is commonly presented posthumously.

</doc>
<doc id="376904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376904" title="List of Medal of Honor recipients for the Battle of Cedar Creek">
List of Medal of Honor recipients for the Battle of Cedar Creek

The Battle of Cedar Creek was fought near Middletown, Virginia on October 19, 1864. The battle was the decisive engagement of Major General Philip Sheridan’s Valley Campaigns of 1864. It was the largest battle fought in the Shenandoah Valley. Twelve Union Army enlisted men and nine officers were presented the Medal of Honor for their actions during the battle.
The Medal of Honor was created during the American Civil War. It is the highest military decoration presented by the United States government to a member of its armed forces. The recipient must have distinguished themselves at the risk of their own life above and beyond the call of duty in action against an enemy of the United States. Due to the nature of this medal it is commonly presented after the recipient has been killed (posthumously).

</doc>
<doc id="376908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376908" title="List of Medal of Honor recipients for World War I">
List of Medal of Honor recipients for World War I

World War I (also known as the First World War and the Great War) was a global military conflict that involved most of the world's great powers. The war was assembled in two opposing groups: the Entente and the Central Powers. The immediate cause of the war was the June 28, 1914 assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand. He was heir to the Austro-Hungarian throne. He was killed by Gavrilo Princip who was a Bosnian Serb citizen of Austria–Hungary. He was also a member of the Black Hand. The retaliation by Austria–Hungary against Serbia activated a series of alliances that set off a chain reaction of war declarations. Within a month, much of Europe was in a state of open warfare. This resulted in the mobilization of more than 65 million European soldiers, and more than 40 million casualties—including approximately 20 million deaths by the end of the war.
When World War I broke out, the United States maintained a policy of isolationism, avoiding conflict while trying to negotiate peace between the warring nations. However, when a German U-boat sank the British liner "Lusitania" in 1915, with 128 Americans aboard, U.S. President Woodrow Wilson demanded an end to attacks on passenger ships. Germany complied and Wilson unsuccessfully tried to mediate a settlement. He repeatedly warned that the U.S. would not tolerate unrestricted submarine warfare, in violation of international law.
By the time the United States of America entered the war in 1917—three years after the first shots were fired—several Americans had already gone to fight as pilots by joining the Royal Flying Corps. These pilots reported to Canada, and after flight training were sent to fight as officers in the British military.
The Medal of Honor was created during the American Civil War and is the highest military decoration presented by the United States government to a member of its armed forces. The recipient must have distinguished themselves at the risk of their own life above and beyond the call of duty in action against an enemy of the United States. Due to the nature of this medal, it is commonly presented posthumously.
By the end of the war, 119 men received the Medal for their actions (33 of them posthumously): 90 from the Army, 21 from the Navy, and 8 from the Marine Corps. Among the recipients were Alvin York, who later became the basis for the movie "Sergeant York", and Edward Rickenbacker, who became a flying ace. Ralph Talbot of the Marine Corps also became a flying ace and was the first Marine aviator to receive the Medal of Honor.
Since the Medal of Honor was established, 19 recipients have received it twice, of whom 5 received both awards during World War I. These 5 men were all Marines who received both the Army and Navy versions of the Medal of Honor for the same action. This was made possible by the practice of attaching some units of the U.S. Marine Corps, a part of the Department of the Navy, to larger U.S. Army commands, making Marines in such units eligible for both Army and Navy decorations. Of the other three Marines who earned the Medal of Honor during World War I, two were awarded only the Navy version and one, Fred W. Stockham, received only the Army version. In February 1919, the criteria for the award were amended to state that no person could receive more than one Medal of Honor, thus precluding any future double recipients.

</doc>
<doc id="376915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376915" title="Karl Duncker">
Karl Duncker

Karl Duncker (Leipzig, 2 February 1903 23 February 1940) was a German psychologist.
Until 1935 he was a student and assistant of the founders of Gestalt psychology in Berlin: Max Wertheimer, Wolfgang Köhler and Kurt Koffka.
In 1935, exiled by the Nazis, he got an assistantship at Cambridge University with Frederic Bartlett. Later he emigrated to the USA where he was again an assistant of Köhler’s at Swarthmore College. He committed suicide in 1940 at 37 years of age. He had been suffering from depression for some time and had received professional treatment. 
Duncker coined the term "functional fixedness" in visual perception and problem solving. This describes the difficulties arising from a part of a problem which normally has a fixed function. In the problem, the fixed function must be changed to reach the perception or solution.
In his "candle problem" the situation was defined by the objects: a box of candles, a box of thumb-tacks and a book of matches. The task was to fix the candles on the wall without any additional elements. The difficulty of this problem arises from the functional fixedness of the candle box. It is a container in the problem but must be used as a shelf in the solution.
Other examples of this type of problem are:

</doc>
<doc id="376922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376922" title="Dianthus armeria">
Dianthus armeria

Dianthus armeria is an annual or biennial flowering plant commonly known as Deptford pink or grass pink. It is in the family Caryophyllaceae.
It has small pink flowers that bloom from spring to summer followed by an explosive, inedible fruit. The blooms close up in the afternoon. The seeds are small and blackish or brownish. 
It is a native plant in Europe, and widely grown as an ornamental plant in gardens. It has been introduced to New Zealand and much of North America.

</doc>
<doc id="376923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376923" title="Gorkha National Liberation Front">
Gorkha National Liberation Front

Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) (Nepali: गोर्खा राष्ट्रिय मुक्ति मोर्चा) is a political party in the Darjeeling District of West Bengal, Republic of India. It was formed in 1980 by Subhash Ghisingh with the objective of demanding a Gorkhaland state within India.

</doc>
<doc id="376924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376924" title="Ted Demme">
Ted Demme

Edward Kern Demme (known as Ted Demme; October 26, 1963 - January 13, 2002) was an American movie director and producer. His career began in 1988. His movies included "The Ref" (1994), "Beautiful Girls" (1996), "Life" and "Blow". He died in Santa Monica, California due to a heart attack brought on by cocaine; the director was 38 when it happened.
He was married to Amanda Demme from 1994 until his death. The couple had two sons. He was the nephew of Jonathan Demme.

</doc>
<doc id="376925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376925" title="Tie-dye">
Tie-dye

Tie-dye is a colorful pattern used on clothing. It is made by tying a piece of clothing into a tight bundle, and then dyeing it with various colors. This became very popular in the 1960s and '70s. It was often made to represent signs like 'peace' and 'flower power'.
Tie dye is an expression of emotion and is a very colourful and expressive type of art.

</doc>
<doc id="376926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376926" title="Dhol">
Dhol

The dhol is a drum used during Punjabi wedding processions and parties.
In Western Punjab, the beats of dhol have been an element in the ceremonies of the great Sufi mystics and their followers. The patterns of dhol have been developed to catalyze the mind of the devotee as is seeking spiritual trance. Someone who plays the "Dhol" is known as Dholi (). 
Traditionally the Punjabi dhol has been the domain of men.

</doc>
<doc id="376928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376928" title="List of Medal of Honor recipients for World War II">
List of Medal of Honor recipients for World War II

World War II was a global military conflict. It is also called Second World War. It was the joining of what started off as two separate conflicts. The first began in Asia as the Second Sino-Japanese War. The other began in Europe in 1939 with the German invasion of Poland.
This global conflict split the majority of the world's nations into two opposing military alliances. On one side was the Allies. On the other was the Axis powers. It involved the mobilization of over 100 million military personnel. This made it the most widespread war in history. It placed the participants in a state of "total war". The distinction between civil and military resources were eliminated. This resulted in the complete activation of a nation's economic, industrial, and scientific capabilities for the purposes of the war effort. Over 60 million people, the majority of them civilians, were killed, making it the deadliest conflict in human history. The financial cost of the war is estimated at about a trillion 1944 U.S. dollars worldwide, making it the most costly war in capital as well as lives.
The Allies won. The result was the United States and Soviet Union emerged as the world's two leading superpowers.
During this conflict 464 United States military personnel received the Medal of Honor, 266 of them posthumously. Seventeen of these were Japanese-Americans fighting in both Europe and the Pacific. Additionally, the only recipient for the United States Coast Guard received the Medal for his actions during this war.
The Medal of Honor was created during the American Civil War. It is the highest military decoration presented by the United States government to a member of its armed forces. The recipient must have distinguished themselves at the risk of their own life above and beyond the call of duty in action against an enemy of the United States. Due to the nature of this medal, it is commonly presented posthumously.
 N.B. A in the citation indicates that the award was given posthumously.

</doc>
<doc id="376931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376931" title="Hairspray (1988 movie)">
Hairspray (1988 movie)

Hairspray is a 1988 American musical teen comedy movie. It was produced by John Waters, Robert Shaye and Rachel Talalay and was directed by Waters. In 2002 a Broadway musical of the same name was made. In 2007, the Broadway musical was turned into a movie. Set in 1962 in Baltimore, Maryland, it is about teenager Tracy Turnblad who pursues stardom as a dancer on a local television show and rallies against racial segregation.
 

</doc>
<doc id="376933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376933" title="Linderte">
Linderte

Linderte is a small village in the city of Ronnenberg in Lower Saxony, in Germany. It has about 500 inhabitants, as of 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="376936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376936" title="Ronnenberg">
Ronnenberg

Ronnenberg is a town in the region Hanover in Lower Saxony, Germany. It has about 23,300 inhabitants.
The town Ronnenberg is divided into the districts Benthe, Empelde, Ronnenberg, Ihme-Roloven, Weetzen, Vörie and Linderte.

</doc>
<doc id="376938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376938" title="Alicia Witt">
Alicia Witt

Alicia Roanne Witt (born August 21 1975) is an American singer, model and actor. She is best known for the movie "Citizen Ruth" (1996). She was born in Worcester, Massachusetts. Her television work includes "Ally McBeal" and "The Sopranos".
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="376939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376939" title="List of Medal of Honor recipients for the Battle of Iwo Jima">
List of Medal of Honor recipients for the Battle of Iwo Jima

The Battle of Iwo Jima took place in February and March 1945 during World War II. Some of the fiercest fighting of the war happened during this battle. The American invasion was called Operation Detachment. It was charged with capturing the airfields on the Japanese island of Iwo Jima.
The Imperial Japanese Army positions on the island were heavily fortified. There were vast bunkers with hidden artillery. It had 18 kilometers (11 mi) of tunnels. The battle was the first American attack on the Japanese Home Islands. The Imperial soldiers defended their positions tenaciously. Of the 21,000 Japanese soldiers present at the beginning of the battle, over 20,000 were killed. Only 216 were taken prisoner.
The battle lasted 2 months. After the battle 27 U.S. military personnel received the Medal of Honor for their actions. Of the 27 medals presented, 22 were presented to Marines. Five were presented to United States Navy sailors. A full 30% of the 82 Medals of Honor presented to Marines in World War II were from this battle.
The Medal of Honor was created during the American Civil War. It is the highest military decoration presented by the United States government to a member of its armed forces. The recipient must have distinguished themselves at the risk of their own life above and beyond the call of duty in action against an enemy of the United States. Due to the nature of this medal, it is commonly presented after the recipient is killed (posthumously).

</doc>
<doc id="376967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376967" title="List of Medal of Honor recipients for the Indian Wars">
List of Medal of Honor recipients for the Indian Wars

Indian Wars is the name generally used in the United States to describe a series of conflicts between the colonial or federal government and the native people of North America.
These wars which ranged from the 17th-century (King Philip's War, King William's War, and Queen Anne's War at the opening of the 18th century) to the Leech Lake uprising in 1898. They generally resulted in the opening of Native American lands to further colonization. They also represent the conquest of American Indians and their assimilation or forced relocation to Indian reservations.
The Indian Wars comprised a series of smaller wars. American Indians who were diverse peoples with their own distinct tribal histories, were no more a single people than the Europeans. They lived in societies organized in a variety of ways. American Indians usually made decisions about war and peace at the local level. They sometimes fought as part of formal alliances. One example is the Iroquois Confederation. They also sometimes used temporary confederacies inspired by leaders such as Tecumseh.
The Medal of Honor was created during the American Civil War. It is the highest military decoration presented by the United States government to a member of its armed forces. The recipient must have distinguished themselves at the risk of their own life above and beyond the call of duty in action against an enemy of the United States. Due to the nature of this medal it is commonly presented after the recipient has been killed (posthumously).

</doc>
<doc id="376975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376975" title="List of Medal of Honor recipients for the Spanish–American War">
List of Medal of Honor recipients for the Spanish–American War

The Spanish-American War (, "desastre del 98", "Guerra Hispano-Cubana-Norteamericana" or "Guerra de Cuba ") was a military conflict between Spain and the United States. It began in April 1898. Hostilities halted in August of that year. The Treaty of Paris was signed in December.
The war began after America demanded Spain peacefully end the Cuban fight for independence. The demand was rejected. Strong expansionist sentiment in the United States may have motivated the government to target Spain's remaining overseas territories. These territories included Cuba, Puerto Rico, the Philippines, Guam and the Caroline Islands.
Riots in Havana by pro-Spanish "Voluntarios" gave the United States a reason to send in the warship . It was sent to indicate high American interest. Tension among the American people was raised because of the explosion of the . "Yellow journalism" added to it accusing Spain of doing a lot of bad things. This made the American public opinion show increased support of the conflict. The war ended after decisive naval victories for the United States in the Philippines and Cuba.
The Treaty of Paris ended the conflict 109 days after the outbreak of war. That gave the United States ownership of the former Spanish colonies of Puerto Rico, the Philippines and Guam.
The Medal of Honor was created during the American Civil War. It is the highest military decoration presented by the United States government to a member of its armed forces. The recipient must have distinguished themselves at the risk of their own life above and beyond the call of duty in action against an enemy of the United States. Due to the nature of this medal it is commonly presented to the recipient after they are killed (posthumously).

</doc>
<doc id="376978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376978" title="List of Philippine–American War Medal of Honor recipients">
List of Philippine–American War Medal of Honor recipients

The Philippine-American War was an armed military conflict between the United States and the First Philippine Republic. It was fought from 1899 to at least 1902. The conflict arose from a Filipino political struggle against U.S. occupation of the Philippines. While the conflict was officially declared over on July 4, 1902, American troops continued hostilities against remnants of the Philippine Army and other resistance groups until 1913. Some historians consider these unofficial extensions part of the war.
The Medal of Honor was created during the American Civil War. It is the highest military decoration presented by the United States government to a member of its armed forces. The recipient must have distinguished themselves at the risk of their own life above and beyond the call of duty in action against an enemy of the United States. Due to the nature of this medal it is commonly presented after the recipient has been killed (posthumously).
Eighty-six men received the Medal of Honor for their actions in the Philippine–American War. 70 from the Army. 10 from the Navy. 6 from the Marine Corps. Four of the medals were posthumous. Among the recipients were Webb Hayes who was the son of former U.S. President Rutherford B. Hayes. Two well known Marine Corps officers, Hiram I. Bearss and David Dixon Porter. Bearss became known for leading long-range reconnaissance patrols behind enemy lines. He was later wounded as a colonel in World War I. Porter was from a distinguished military family and rose to become a major general. José B. Nísperos was a member of the Philippine Scouts. He was honored for continuing to fight after being wounded and was the first Asian recipient of the Medal of Honor.

</doc>
<doc id="376981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376981" title="List of national parks in Albania">
List of national parks in Albania

The List of national parks in Albania includes the following:

</doc>
<doc id="376983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376983" title="List of national parks of Argentina">
List of national parks of Argentina

The national parks of Argentina, South America.

</doc>
<doc id="376986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376986" title="National parks of Austria">
National parks of Austria

There are seven national parks in Austria.
Austria's national parks are:

</doc>
<doc id="376988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376988" title="National parks of Azerbaijan">
National parks of Azerbaijan

This is a list of national parks in the Republic of Azerbaijan. 

</doc>
<doc id="376992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376992" title="Mid-range speaker">
Mid-range speaker

A mid-range speaker is a type of loudspeaker. These are designed to reproduce sounds which are not very low, but mid-range speaker can also play hi frequency sounds, example frequency going up to 20kHz. Depending on the speakers structure there can be a tweeter that plays hi-frequencies. Typically it is then a 3-way speaker. If there is only a woofer and mid-range speaker, it would be 2-way speaker.

</doc>
<doc id="376993" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376993" title="Marlo Thomas">
Marlo Thomas

Margaret Julia "Marlo" Thomas (born November 21, 1937, Detroit, Michigan) is an American television and movie actress. She is best known for her role in the television series "That Girl" (1966-1971). She also represents the Marlo Thomas Foundation and is the elder daughter of the late comedian Danny Thomas.

</doc>
<doc id="376998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376998" title="Yellow Mama">
Yellow Mama

Yellow Mama is the nickname given to Alabama's electric chair, which was used for executions from 1927–2002.
It was used at Kilby State Prison in Montgomery, Alabama. Yellow Mama was painted with highway-line paint from the State Highway Department lab. The chair was built by a British inmate in 1927 and was first used the same year.

</doc>
<doc id="377013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377013" title="List of Medal of Honor recipients (Veracruz)">
List of Medal of Honor recipients (Veracruz)

The United States occupation of the Mexican port of Veracruz lasted for six months. It occurred in the midst of poor diplomatic relations between Mexico and the United States. It also related to the ongoing Mexican Revolution.
In response to the Tampico Affair President Woodrow Wilson ordered the U.S. Navy to prepare for the occupation of the port of Veracruz. While waiting for authorization of Congress to carry out such action, Wilson was alerted to a German delivery of weapons. They were for Victoriano Huerta due to arrive to the port on April 21. Because of this Wilson issued an immediate order to seize the port's customs office. They were also ordered to confiscate the weaponry.
The Medal of Honor was created during the American Civil War. It is the highest military decoration presented by the United States government to a member of its armed forces. The recipient must have distinguished themselves at the risk of their own life above and beyond the call of duty in action against an enemy of the United States. Due to the nature of this medal it is commonly presented after the recipient has been killed (posthumously).
Secretary of the Navy Josephus Daniels ordered that 56 Medals of Honor be presented to participants in the occupation of Veracruz. This was the most for any single action before or since. In total 63 Medals of Honor were received for actions during the occupation. One went to the Army. Nine webt to members of the United States Marine Corps. Fifty three went to Navy personnel.

</doc>
<doc id="377016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377016" title="Yukio Okutsu">
Yukio Okutsu

Yukio Okutsu (November 3, 1921 – August 24, 2003) was a United States Army soldier. He received the Medal of Honor because of his actions in World War II.
Okutsu was born in Koloa, Hawaii to Japanese immigrant parents. He was a "Nisei", which means that he was a second generation Japanese-American.
Okutsu joined the US Army in March 1943.
Okutsu volunteered to be part of the all-"Nisei" 100th Infantry Battalion. This army unit was mostly made up of Japanese Americans from Hawaii and the mainland.
For his actions in April 1945, Okutsu was awarded the Army's second-highest decoration, the Distinguished Service Cross (DSC). In the 1990s, there was a review of service records of Asian Americans who received the DSC during World War II. Okutsu's award was upgraded to the Medal of Honor. In a ceremony at the White House on June 21, 2000, he was presented with his medal by President Bill Clinton. Twenty-one other Asian Americans also received the medal during the ceremony, but only seven of them were still alive.
Okutsu's Medal of Honor recognized his conduct in fighting in northern Italy in 1945. Without the help of others, he silenced three machine gun nests.
The words of Okutsu's citation explain:
Technical Sergeant Yukio Okutsu distinguished himself by extraordinary heroism in action on 7 April 1945, on Mount Belvedere, Italy. While his platoon was halted by the crossfire of three machine guns, Technical Sergeant Okutsu boldly crawled to within 30 yards of the nearest enemy emplacement through heavy fire. He destroyed the position with two accurately placed hand grenades, killing three machine gunners. Crawling and dashing from cover to cover, he threw another grenade, silencing a second machine gun, wounding two enemy soldiers, and forcing two others to surrender. Seeing a third machine gun, which obstructed his platoon's advance, he moved forward through heavy small arms fire and was stunned momentarily by rifle fire, which glanced off his helmet. Recovering, he bravely charged several enemy riflemen with his submachine gun, forcing them to withdraw from their positions. Then, rushing the machine gun nest, he captured the weapon and its entire crew of four. By these single-handed actions he enabled his platoon to resume its assault on a vital objective. The courageous performance of Technical Sergeant Okutsu against formidable odds was an inspiration to all. Technical Sergeant Okutsu's extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit on him, his unit, and the United States Army.
Okutsu is the namesake of the Yukio Okutsu Veterans Home at Hilo. It is the first veterans home operated by the state government in Hawaii.

</doc>
<doc id="377018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377018" title="George McCall Courts">
George McCall Courts

George McCall Courts (February 16, 1888 – August 1, 1932) was born in the District of Columbia. He graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1907. He received the Medal of Honor for actions at the United States occupation of Veracruz, 1914.
Rank and organization: Lieutenant, Junior Grade Organization: U.S. Navy Born:16 February 1888, Washington, D.C. Accredited to: District of Columbia Date of issue: 12/04/1915
Citation:
For distinguished conduct in battle, engagements of Vera Cruz, 21 and 22 April 1914. Under fire, Lt.(j.g.) Courts was eminent and conspicuous in the performance of his duties. He had well qualified himself by thorough study during his years of duty in Mexico to deal with the conditions of this engagement, and his services were of great value. He twice volunteered and passed in an open boat through the zone of fire to convey important orders to the Chester, then under a severe fire.

</doc>
<doc id="377020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377020" title="List of Medal of Honor recipients for the Boxer Rebellion">
List of Medal of Honor recipients for the Boxer Rebellion

The Boxer Movement or Boxer Rebellion was a Chinese uprising from November 1899 to September 7, 1901. It was against foreign influence in areas such as trade, politics, religion and technology that occurred in China during the final years of the Manchu rule (Qing Dynasty).
The members of the Chinese Society of Righteous and Harmonious Fists were simply called "boxers" by the Westerners. This was due to the martial arts and calisthenics they practiced. It began as an anti-foreign, anti-imperialist, peasant-based movement that attacked foreigners who were building railroads and violating Feng shui. Christians who they felt were responsible for foreign domination of China were also targeted. In June 1900, the Boxers invaded Beijing and killed 230 non-Chinese. Before it ended, tens of thousands of Chinese Christians, Catholic and Protestants were killed. Most of them in the Shandong and Shanxi provinces.
The government of Empress Dowager Cixi gave her support to the boxers. This caused foreign diplomats, civilians, soldiers and even some Chinese Christians to retreat. They went to the legation quarter. They held out against the boxers for 55 days. A multinational coalition rushed 20,000 troops to their rescue. The Chinese government was forced to compensate the victims and make many additional concessions. Subsequent reforms implemented after the crisis of 1900 laid the foundation for the end of the Qing Dynasty. It establishment of the modern Chinese Republic.
The Medal of Honor was created during the American Civil War. It is the highest military decoration presented by the United States government to a member of its armed forces. The recipients must have distinguished themselves at the risk of their own life above and beyond the call of duty in action against an enemy of the United States. Due to the nature of this medal it is commonly presented after the recipient has been killed (posthumously).
During the Boxer rebellion, 59 American servicemen received the Medal of Honor for their actions. Four of these were for Army personnel, twenty-two went to navy sailors and the remaining thirty-three went to marines. Harry Fisher was the first Marine to receive the medal posthumously and the only posthumous recipient for this conflict.

</doc>
<doc id="377030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377030" title="Jimmy Savile">
Jimmy Savile

Sir Jimmy Savile (James Wilson Vincent Savile, 31 October 1926 29 October 2011) OBE, KCSG was an English DJ, television presenter, and comedian. A year after his death, he was accused of many counts of child sexual abuse and rape which he committed from 1963 up to his death.
Savile was born in Leeds the youngest of seven children. His siblings were Mary, Marjory, Vincent, John, Joan and Cristina. His parents were Vincent Joseph Marie Savile and Agnes Monica Kelly. He died in Leeds of natural causes. He was a devout Roman Catholic. He presented "Jim'll Fix It" and "Top of the Pops". Savile was also a professional wrestler and cyclist when he was young and during World War II he was conscripted to work as a Bevin Boy in the coal mines.
Savile started being a DJ at Radio Luxembourg in 1958. He stopped working for them in 1967. In 1968 he joined BBC Radio 1. On New Year's Day 1964 he presented the first edition of the BBC music chart television programme Top of the Pops. In 1971 he was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire.
Savile was also an honorary life member of the British Gypsy Council and the first non-gypsy to be an honorary life member.
In 1990, he was made a Knight Bachelor for his charity work.
On the night of 29 October 2011, Savile was found dead in his home at the age of 84, just 2 days before his 85th birthday. Police said there were no suspicious circumstances to his death. A year later his crimes were revealed by victims. He had been in hospital with pneumonia, and his death was not suspicious.
Savile was known to own several cars including Bentley, Rolls-Royce and Mercedes-Benz.
Savile smoked expensive Cuban cigars and was a heavy smoker.
Savile was close friends with Edward Heath.
In 1963, a boy told police that Savile had raped him.
Since he died in 2011, 589 people have made complaints about Savile to the police. 31 said that they were raped by Savile. 16 said they were under 16 when Savile raped them. Police called Savile "Britain's worst paedophile". In March 2013 Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary reported that 214 of the complaints that had been made against Savile after his death would have been criminal offences.
It was also revealed that Savile also committed some child sex offences in his silver Rolls-Royce Corniche.
On 3 October 2012, a television programme called "Exposure: The Other Side of Jimmy Savile" was shown on ITV. In it several women said that Savile sexually abused them when they were teenagers. "Exposure Update: The Jimmy Savile Investigation", was shown on ITV on 21 November 2012.
An investigation codenamed Operation Yewtree was launched and several arrests were made. People arrested included Gary Glitter, Rolf Harris, Dave Lee Travis, William Roache, Wilfred De'ath, Max Clifford, Stuart Hall, Jimmy Tarbuck and Paul Gambaccini.
Savile was the subject of an episode of Louis Theroux's When Louis Met! where Theroux asked him if he is a paedophile in 2001 and Savile laughed off the question and told him that those were just claims.
In June 2014, the UK government Secretary of State for Health Jeremy Hunt apologised to Savile's victims after it was revealed that Savile had also abused dead bodies while at Broadmoor Psychiatric Hospital and he was a regular visitor and evil stalker.

</doc>
<doc id="377032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377032" title="Category:British sex offenders">
Category:British sex offenders


</doc>
<doc id="377033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377033" title="Personal Best">
Personal Best

Personal Best is a 1982 American drama movie in which the story is focused on lesbian issues in the Summer Olympics of 1980, directed by Robert Towne. Starring in this are Mariel Hemingway and Patrice Donnelly; the earlier plays Chris Cahill in this movie. This motion picture was rated highly, although it did not do well in the box office.

</doc>
<doc id="377034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377034" title="List of Korean War Medal of Honor recipients">
List of Korean War Medal of Honor recipients

The Korean War was an increase of border clashes between two rival Korean governments (each of which was supported by external powers). Each Korean government was trying to topple the other through political and guerilla tactics. Some may refer to it as a civil war. Though many other factors were at play. South Korea filed to strengthen their cause in free elections held in May 1950. The refusal of South Korea to hold new elections per North Korean demands was also a factor. The communist North Korean Army moved south on June 25, 1950. It was an attempt to reunite the Korean peninsula which had been formally divided since 1948. The conflict was then expanded by the United States and the Soviet Union's involvement as part of the larger Cold War. The main hostilities were during the period from June 25, 1950 until the armistice was signed on July 27, 1953.
The Medal of Honor was created during the American Civil War. It is the highest military decoration presented by the United States government to a member of its armed forces. The recipient must have distinguished themselves at the risk of their own life above and beyond the call of duty in action against an enemy of the United States. Due to the nature of this medal it is commonly presented after the recipient is killed (posthumously).
During this war 135 Medals of Honor were presented for bravery in action. Ninety seven were presented posthumously.

</doc>
<doc id="377037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377037" title="Against All Odds">
Against All Odds

Against All Odds is a 1984 crime drama movie in which Rachel Ward and Jeff Bridges are among the cast. This movie is about a mix of infidelity, gangsters, crime and adultery. The movie was a remake of "Out of the Past", a romance-thriller from 1947.

</doc>
<doc id="377041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377041" title="Zechariah">
Zechariah

Zechariah was the father of John the Baptist. He appears in the Gospel of Luke. He was struck dumb by an angel for failing to have faith. His voice was restored after John was born.

</doc>
<doc id="377042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377042" title="Category:Leaders of the Opposition (Australia)">
Category:Leaders of the Opposition (Australia)


</doc>
<doc id="377051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377051" title="Pennsylvania Turnpike">
Pennsylvania Turnpike

The Pennsylvania Turnpike is a toll road (a road cars have to pay to drive on) operated by the Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in the United States. The turnpike is a limited-access highway, which means cars must use ramps to get onto the highway. It runs across the state. The turnpike begins at the Ohio border in Lawrence County, where it goes into that state as the Ohio Turnpike. The designation ends at the New Jersey border at the Delaware River – Turnpike Toll Bridge over the Delaware River in Bucks County, where it goes into that state as the Pearl Harbor Memorial Extension of the New Jersey Turnpike. The roadway goes east-west path through the state, going through the Pittsburgh, Harrisburg, and Philadelphia areas. As it goes across the Appalachian Mountains in the middle of the state, the turnpike goes through four tunnels. It is part of the Interstate Highway System and is signed as part of Interstate 76 (I-76) between the Ohio border and Valley Forge, I-70 and I-76 between New Stanton and Breezewood, and I-276 between Valley Forge and the New Jersey border. The road uses a ticket system of tolling, where cars get a ticket listing fares when they head onto the road and pay when they leave the road, between the Warrendale and Neshaminy Falls toll plazas. There is also an eastbound toll plaza at Gateway near the Ohio border and a westbound toll plaza at the Delaware River Bridge that uses cameras to take a picture of the car's license plate and send a bill in the mail. E-ZPass, a form of electronic toll collection, is also used at all toll plazas.
The Pennsylvania Turnpike was planned in the 1930s to make traveling by car better across the mountains of Pennsylvania. It went through seven tunnels that were created for the abandoned South Pennsylvania Railroad in the 1880s. The road opened on October 1, 1940 between Irwin and Carlisle as the first long-distance limited-access highway in the United States that led to the building of other limited-access toll roads and the Interstate Highway System. Following World War II, the turnpike was built east to Valley Forge in 1950 and west to the Ohio border in 1951. In 1954, the road was built east to the Delaware River. The mainline turnpike was done in 1956 when the Delaware River bridge was built. In the 1960s, another tube was bored at four of the two-lane tunnels while the other three tunnels were closed when a new road was built around them. This made all of the highway four lanes wide. Work continues to be done to make the road better, such as rebuilding the original section to today's standards, widening parts of the turnpike to six lanes, and adding new interchanges.

</doc>
<doc id="377054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377054" title="Free Trade Party">
Free Trade Party

The Free Trade Party was an Australian political party from 1889 to 1909. It was officially known as the Australian Free Trade and Liberal Association. It was also called the Revenue Tariff Party in some states and renamed the Anti-Socialist Party in 1906. It wanted to remove tariffs (taxes on imports and exports) as well as other restrictions on trade. It argued that free trade would benefit everyone. However, many members also supported some tariffs to raise money for the government.
The party was based in New South Wales, where its leaders were Sir Henry Parkes and Sir George Reid. It was the main party in New South Wales politics before federation.
After the elections for the first Commonwealth Parliament, the Free Traders were the second largest group in the Australian House of Representatives, with 25 seats. Reid became the Parliament's first leader of the Opposition. He later became Prime Minister in 1904-05. The deputy leader of the Free Trade Party was Willima McMillan.Joseph Cook became deputy leader of the party when McMillan retired in 1903.
A separate Tasmanian Revenue Tariff Party took part in the 1903 federal election in Tasmania and won two seats. It joined with the Free Trade Party in federal parliament.
After the question of tariffs had largely been settled, Reid looked around for another cause for his party. He settled on opposition to socialism. He criticised both the Australian Labor Party and the Protectionist Party, led by Alfred Deakin. The Free Trade Party was renamed the Anti-Socialist Party (ASP) before the 1906 federal election. The Labor Party and the FTP/ASP continued to grow in electoral strength. Some Protectionists left the party to join Labor and the ASP.
Reid retired in 1908, and the party leadership passed to Joseph Cook. He agreed to merge with the Protectionists to become the Commonwealth Liberal Party in 1909.

</doc>
<doc id="377057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377057" title="Dubai International Airport">
Dubai International Airport

Dubai International Airport () is an international airport serving Dubai, United Arab Emirates. It is a major airline hub in the Middle East, and is the main airport of Dubai. The airport is the hub for Emirates, and also the secondary hub for Qantas from 31 March 2013. The airport consists of 3 terminals, named Terminal 1, 2, and 3. Emirates and Qantas uses Terminal 3.

</doc>
<doc id="377058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377058" title="List of living Medal of Honor recipients">
List of living Medal of Honor recipients

There are currently 79 living recipients of the Medal of Honor. It is the United States military's highest decoration. The Medal of Honor is given to any member of the United States armed forces who distinguishes himself "conspicuously by gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty while engaged in an action against an enemy of the United States."
Of the 79 living recipients 11 earned their Medals of Honor in World War II. 11 received them for actions in the Korean War. 54 were earned in the Vietnam War. Three were in the War in Afghanistan. Five earned their medal while serving in the U.S. Air Force. 51 were in the U.S. Army. 16 were in the U.S. Marine Corps. 7 were in the U.S. Navy. The oldest recipient is Robert D. Maxwell. He is . The youngest is Dakota Meyer. He is . Only one medal holder is still on active duty in the U.S. military. He is War in Afghanistan soldier Leroy Petry. Among the recipients is former U.S. Senator Bob Kerrey. Three are retired generals: Patrick Henry Brady and Robert F. Foley of the Army and James E. Livingston of the Marine Corps. 
Recipients who died within the last twelve months are listed below.

</doc>
<doc id="377060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377060" title="Zero Dark Thirty">
Zero Dark Thirty

Zero Dark Thirty is a 2012 action drama movie about the hunt for Osama bin Laden. Starring in this thriller are Jessica Chastain, Chris Pratt, and James Gandolfini. The movie is directed by Kathryn Bigelow. This movie has an R rating from the MPAA for very strong violence. The movie is 157 minutes long.

</doc>
<doc id="377062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377062" title="Wayne Hillman">
Wayne Hillman

Wayne James Hillman (November 13, 1938 – November 24, 1990) was a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman. He played 14 seasons in the NHL.
Hillman played in the NHL with the Chicago Black Hawks for 5 seasons, the New York Rangers for 4 seasons, the Minnesota North Stars for 1 season and the Philadelphia Flyers for 4 seasons. Hillman also played for the Cleveland Crusaders of the World Hockey Association for 2 seasons and retired after his time with the Crusaders wa done.
Even though Hillman only played 1 playoff game for the Black Hawks in the 1960-61 NHL season his name was still engraved on the Stanley Cup.
Hillman died of cancer on November 24, 1990.

</doc>
<doc id="377063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377063" title="List of foreign-born Medal of Honor recipients">
List of foreign-born Medal of Honor recipients

The Medal of Honor was created during the American Civil War. It is the highest military decoration presented by the United States government to a member of its armed forces. The recipient must have distinguished themselves at the risk of their own life above and beyond the call of duty in action against an enemy of the United States. Due to the nature of this medal it is commonly presented after the recipient has been killed (posthumously).
Although Medals of Honor can be presented only to members of the U.S. armed forces it is not required to be a U.S. citizen. Since the American Civil War hundreds of people born outside the United States have received the medal. The most recent of these recipients being Leslie H. Sabo, Jr.. He received his medal in May 2012 for actions performed during the Vietnam War. The large number of foreign-born recipients during the 19th and early 20th centuries was likely due to immigration waves from Europe.

</doc>
