<doc id="21583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21583" title="Szczecin">
Szczecin

Szczecin () is a large city in Poland in West Pomeranian Voivodeship. As of 2005, 411,119 people live there. The city is on the river Odra (), near the border to Germany. It is one of the largest sea ports on the Baltic. It is the historical capital of the German province of Pomerania. Szczecin has got one of the biggest harbours on the Baltic Sea.
Szczecin borders with Police, a district town at the Oder River.

</doc>
<doc id="21586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21586" title="Metropolitan area">
Metropolitan area

A metropolitan area is a city and its surrounding suburbs. The word "metropolitan" comes from two Greek language words meaning "mother" and "city". A metropolitan area may be much larger than its inner city, and its suburbs may be smaller towns and villages which are now connected to the larger city as it has grown. The biggest such metropolitan area is that of Tokyo. 8.5 million people live in Tokyo itself, 36.5 million live in the "metropolitan area".
A metropolitan area is a large urban area. The inner city may look little different from the surrounding area of buildings and lights. The entire built-up area is the metropolitan area. The inner city may be near the middle, or to one side. Some urban areas have more than one inner city. 
Some places, such as in Australia, have metropolitan government. The entire metropolitan area is included as a part of the city, and the population of the suburban area is considered to be part of the city's population. 
Sydney, for example, has a population off approx. 4.5 million people, which includes the population of the suburbs, although there are some places which are part of the Greater Sydney Area, whose population does not count toward the population of Sydney 

</doc>
<doc id="21588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21588" title="Marathi language">
Marathi language

Marathi ("") is the language spoken in Maharashtra, India. It is also Maharashtra's official language. It is at least one thousand years old and is based on Sanskrit. The written script is Devanāgarī - the same as one used to write Hindi.
People living in Maharashtra and parts of neighboring states of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Karnataka, Chattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh, union-territories of Daman-diu and Dadra Nagar Haveli speak Marathi. 

</doc>
<doc id="21589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21589" title="Gujarati language">
Gujarati language

Gujarati is an Indo-Aryan language. It is spoken in Gujarat, India and also in neighbouring Pakistan. It was the "mother tongue" of Gandhi and Muhammad Ali Jinnah. There are millions of Gujaratis who speak it as their first language. Gujarati is the 20th most common language in the United States of America. Mahatma Gandhi, the India's leader, once said about the Gujarati language: "Bad handwriting is a sign of an uncomplete education".

</doc>
<doc id="21590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21590" title="Punjabi language">
Punjabi language

Punjabi is a Indo-Aryan language. It is the native language of about 130 million people, and is the 10th most spoken language in the world. Most of the people who speak this language live in the Punjab region of Pakistan and India. It is also widely spoken in Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi. It is natively spoken by the majority of the population of Pakistan.
Punjabi developed from the ancient language of Sanskrit just like many other modern Indo-Aryan languages. Punjabi is unusual among this group for being a tonal language.
Punjabi is written in two different scripts, called Gurmukhī and Shahmukhī. Punjabi is the main language spoken by the Sikhs. Most parts of the Guru Granth Sahib use the Punjabi language written in Gurmukhī, though Punjabi is not the only language used in Sikh scriptures. The "Janamsakhis", stories on the life and legend of Guru Nanak (1469–1539), are early examples of Punjabi literature.
Punjabi has many dialects. They form a continuous series that eventually becomes Hindi in India and Urdu in Pakistan. The dialects are similar enough to each other that speakers can understand most of the dialects that are related to theirs. In India, the main dialects of Punjabi are: Majhi, Doabi, Malwi and Pwadhi. In Pakistan, the main dialects are Majhi, Pothohari, Hindko and Multani.
Majhi is Punjabi's most important dialect because it forms the standard for writing in Punjabi. It is spoken in the centre of Punjab, including the districts of Lahore, Sheikhupura, Kasur, Okara, Nankana Sahib, Faisalabad, Gujranwala, Sialkot, Narowal, Gujrat, Pakpattan, Hafizabad and Mandi Bahauddin. In India it is spoken in Amritsar, Tarn Taran Sahib and Gurdaspur districts.
Other dialects of Punjabi include Pahari, Dhani, Shah Puri, Jhangochi, Rachnavi, Chenavari, Chhachi, Jandali, Ghebi, Thalochi, Riasti. The Saraiki, spoken in northern Punjab, and Dogri, spoken in Kashmir, are closely related to Punjabi. The relation of several dialects to languages other than Punjabi creates problems in assigning them to one or another "language".
Over 93% of people who speak Punjabi as their first language live in Pakistan and India. It is the most widely spoken native language in Pakistan. It is spoken as a first language by over 44% of Pakistanis. There were 76 million Punjabi speakers in Pakistan in 2008. In India, Punjabi is spoken as a native language by 3% of the population. This was about 33 million in 2011. It is the official language of the Indian states of Punjab and Haryana.
Punjabi is also spoken as a minority language in several other countries where large numbers of Punjabis have emigrated.In the United Kingdom, it is the second-most-commonly used language. In Canada, it is the fourth-most-spoken language. There were 1.3 million Punjabi speakers in the UK in 2000, and 368,000 in Canada in 2006.
There are three ways to write Punjabi: Gurmukhī, Shahmukhī, and Devanāgarī. In the Punjab province of Pakistan, the script that is most used is Shahmukhī. The Majhi dialect is the written standard for Punjabi in both parts of Punjab.

</doc>
<doc id="21592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21592" title="Sikhism">
Sikhism

Sikhism is a monotheistic religion, or a religion that believes in one god. The followers are called "Sikhs", and their holy book is the Guru Granth Sahib. 27 million people are followers of Sikhism, that makes it the fifth largest religion in the world. It is most popular in Asia. Sikhs are usually identified by the Turban that they wear, but not all wear turbans.
Sikhism was started around 1500 by Guru Nanak Dev, the first of the "Ten Gurus". It took on a distinct identity in 1699, celebrated by Vaisakhi. This is when Guru Gobind Singh, the tenth guru, started the baptism with Khande di Pahul, and the Sikhs were required to keep the 5 Ks. This is also called the birth of the Khalsa.
The holy book of Sikhism is the Guru Granth Sahib. "Granth" is a Hindi word, which means "book". It contains the writings of each of the ten gurus.
Sikhism teaches that God lasts forever, cannot be seen, and has no body. It is taught that he created the universe, can destroy it, and keeps it running. He is considered to be infinite, or he always existed and always will. Sikhs worship him, and meditate on his name through intense (passionate) repetition. They believe everything is a part of God and God is a part of everything. Good, bad, neutral are not applicable to God and for human beings, as Sikh philosophy indicates that human beings are born innately good.
Followers are all trying to reach salvation, meaning they are trying to break the process of rebirth and become one with God. The thing that is keeping people from reaching union is bad karma. Bad karma is taught to be caused by pride, anger, greed, attachment and lust. Sikhs try to stay away from these things. Sikhs also believe that a piece of god resides within everything in the world. Once an individual discovers the god within and stops searching else then can he reach salvation.
A Sikh temple is called a "Gurdwara" (meaning "the house of Guru"). It is the place of worship in the Sikh religion. Birth, death, baptism and marriage ceremonies are held in the temple. There are four doors which are called the door of peace, the door of livelihood, the door of learning and the door of grace. When a person enters the temple, their head must be covered. There are no chairs in the temple so people sit on the floor.
The temple is also a communal kitchen. The kitchen is where festival food is donated, prepared and cooked by two Sikh families. All the food that has been made there is shared with all the community who visit the temple on that day. The meal is vegetarian and is called the Langar.
The Golden Temple in Amritsar is the most visited temple in all of the Sikh faith. It is covered in gold.
Vaisakhi is an important festival celebrated by Sikhs and Hindus. Vaisakhi is also known as Basaki. It is the harvest festival in the Punjab region. Vaisakhi is celebrated on the first day of the Basak month, in the Sikh calendar.
The term guru comes from the Sanskrit "gurū", which means teacher, guide, or mentor. The traditions and philosophy of Sikhism were made by ten gurus from 1469 to 1708. Each guru added to and reinforced the message taught by the previous one. This resulted in the creation of the Sikh religion.
And the eternal Guru is the Sri Guru Granth Sahib, which is a not just a book but contains the writings of each Guru.
In addition to the above, Sikhs also believe in fifteen "bhagats" or saints, including ones from other creeds, whose words and deeds have been adopted into Sikhism by the great ten Gurus. Most notable of these "bhagats" is the Punjabi Sufi saint, Hazrat Baba Farid.
The 5 Ks are the things Sikhs wear at all times. They are:

</doc>
<doc id="21593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21593" title="Kaveri River">
Kaveri River

Kaveri is a river in south India. It flows from Karnataka to Tamil Nadu.

</doc>
<doc id="21595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21595" title="Bhopal">
Bhopal

Bhopal is the capital of Madhya Pradesh, India, and the second largest city of the state, after Indore. Bhopal is also called the City of Lakes. It is the headquarters of Bhopal District. It is in the central part of India.
The city is believed to have first been called Bhojpal, named after the King of Bhoj. According to this theory, it was later changed to Bhopal.
Bhopal has an average elevation of 499 metres (1637 ft). 
In 1984 a poisoned gas was leaked from a private chemical factory at night when a worker was cleaning out a clogged pipe connected with a tank containing gas. The tank had 42 tons of methyl isocyanate (MIC) that was leaked at midnight and leaving more than 5,000 people and animals dead. Many people also became sick and they are still suffering from deadly diseases. This has been called as "World's worst industrial disaster".

</doc>
<doc id="21596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21596" title="Dialect">
Dialect

A dialect is a variation of a standard language spoken by a group of people. Sometimes people who live in the same place share a dialect. Sometimes people who are similar in some other way, such as social class, share a dialect. 
There is no absolute difference between a "dialect" and a "language". British English and American English are dialects of English. They differ slightly in spelling, in pronunciation, and in vocabulary. However, they are "mutually intelligible", which means people who speak either dialect can understand the other.
On the other hand, Spanish and Portuguese are now different languages, but historically, Portuguese was a dialect of Spanish. Catalan and Gallego were dialects of Spanish, but today are recognized as languages. They are about as near to Portuguese and to Occitan, respectively, as they are to Spanish.
English is definitely a language, but in the past it was a dialect of Old Saxon called Anglo-Saxon.
In past times, travel was difficult. Because of this, dialects developed in quite small regions. In Britain there were dialects in the different parts of the country, and traces of this can be heard today. The Romance languages were dialects of Latin that separated in this way.
Differences in dialects can be found:

</doc>
<doc id="21597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21597" title="Thanjavur">
Thanjavur

Thanjavur is a town in Tamil Nadu, India. It was the capital of earlier Chola Kingdom. It is called the "Rice Bowl" of Tamil Nadu. Cauvery river flows through Thanjavur.

</doc>
<doc id="21600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21600" title="Lozi">
Lozi

Lozi could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="21602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21602" title="Oman">
Oman

The Sultanate of Oman is a country in the southwestern part of Asia, on the southeast coast of the Arabian Peninsula. It borders the United Arab Emirates to the northwest, Saudi Arabia to the west, and Yemen to the southwest, it also shares a marine border with Pakistan to the north-east. The coast is formed by the Arabian Sea to the south and east, and the Gulf of Oman to the northeast.
The country is a monarchy. The capital of the Sultanate is Muscat.
Since 28 October 2011, Oman is divided into eleven governorates ("muhafazah"):
Below the governorates, Oman is divided into provinces.
Oman has a hot climate and very little rainfall. Annual rainfall in Muscat averages , falling mostly in January. Dhofar is subject to the southwest monsoon, and rainfall up to has been recorded in the rainy season from late June to October. While the mountain areas receive more rainfall, some parts of the coast, particularly near the island of Masirah, sometimes receive no rain at all within the course of a year. The climate generally is very hot, with temperatures reaching around (peak) in the hot season, from May to September.

</doc>
<doc id="21604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21604" title="Refugee">
Refugee

In 1951, the United Nations (UN) law called Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, said a refugee was a person who is forced to leave their country due to natural disasters or war and conflict
owing to a well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group, or political opinion, is outside the country of their nationality, and is unable to or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail him/herself of the protection of that country.
In 1967 the Conventions’ 1967 protocol and by regional conventions in Africa and Latin America to include persons who had fled war and violence in their country. A person who is seeking to be recognized as a refugee is an asylum seeker. In the United States a recognized asylum seeker is known as an asylee.
A refugee is a person who has to leave his or her country. This can be because of different reasons:

</doc>
<doc id="21606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21606" title="Copperbelt">
Copperbelt

Copperbelt is a province in the northern part of Zambia. It is named after the copper reserves. It has an area of 31,328 km. It occupies the upper portion of the Kafue river basin on the central plateau of southern Africa, 900 to 1,500 m above sea level.

</doc>
<doc id="21607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21607" title="Levy Mwanawasa">
Levy Mwanawasa

Levy Patrick Mwanawasa (September 3, 1948 – August 19, 2008) was a Zambian politician. He was the President of Zambia from January 2002 to his death.

</doc>
<doc id="21609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21609" title="Cherokee">
Cherokee

The Cherokee ("ah-ni-yv-wi-ya" in Cherokee language) are Native Americans who at the time of European contact in the 16th century lived in the area that is now the eastern and southeastern United States before most were forcefully moved to the Ozark hills. They were one of the tribes referred to as the Five Civilized Tribes.
Cherokee people did not live in tepees. They lived in houses made from wood. In the 19th century, a man named Sequoyah introduced a form of writing the Cherokee language. For this, he was awarded a medal.
The Cherokee tribe had two chiefs, a red and white chief. When the tribe was at war, the red chief would lead, and when there was peace within the tribe, the white chief would lead. Chief John Ross was the leader of the Cherokee tribe from 1818 until 1867. He lived in Georgia before being forced to move to the place now called Oklahoma. 
There are three Cherokee tribes recognized by the U.S. government:

</doc>
<doc id="21611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21611" title="Soup">
Soup

A soup is a kind of food. People make soups by boiling things in water. Then they put the things they boiled into a bowl and eat them. Vegetables are in most soups. You can also put meat in soups. Soups that are thicker than normal, with more meat or vegetables, are stews. The liquid in soup is broth.
Traditionally, soups are classified into two main groups: clear soups and thick soups. The traditional French types of clear soups are bouillon and consommé. Thick soups are classified by the type of thickening agent used. Purées are vegetable soups thickened with starch. Bisques are made from puréed shellfish or vegetables thickened with cream. Cream soups may be thickened with béchamel sauce; and veloutés are thickened with eggs, butter, and cream. Other ingredients commonly used to thicken soups and broths include egg, rice, lentils, flour, and grains. Many popular soups also include carrots and potatoes.

</doc>
<doc id="21612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21612" title="1420s">
1420s


</doc>
<doc id="21613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21613" title="Hyderabad, India">
Hyderabad, India

Hyderabad (pronounced ) is the capital of the state of Telangana in India. At over 6.8 million, it has the largest population of any city in the state Hyderabad is an A-1 city under the terms of development priorities. It is also known as "city of pearls" or "city of nizams". The people of Hyderabad are called "Hyderabadis"
Hyderabad was founded by Sultan Muhammad Quli Qutb Shah in 1591 AD.It was founded on the banks of river Musi.
The city is home to the Ramoji Film City which has of over of land. The movie industry here is called "Tollywood".
Archaeologists have found Iron Age sites in Hyderabad that are 2,500 years old. These sites have been found near Haythnagar and Ramoji Film City, and have burials and tools. In 1143, Kakatiyas ruled Hyderabad from Golconda Fort. Later on, the city fell under Brahmani Sultanate. After the fall of the sultanate, the Qutub Shahi kings ruled Hyderabad. There were seven of them, whose burials are very near to the Golconda Fort. Muhammad Quli Qutub Shah was a Qutub Shahi ruler who ordered the construction of the Charminar. Nawab Abdul Hassan Shah who is popularly known as Tanisha was the last Qutub Shahi ruler of Hyderabad before Aurangzeb captured it in 1687. Asaf Jah I was declared the governor of Hyderabad by Aurangzeb. He defeated a rival official to gain control over the country. This is how the Asaf Jahi Dynasty began which ruled Hyderabad till 1948.
Hyderabad became a princely state in 1947. Before that, it was under British rule. The Nizam rulers were willing to rule Hyderabad themselves wanted to join Pakistan. But soon the Nizam had to sign an Instrument of Accession to the Union of India so that Hyderabad becomes a part of India. On November 1, 1956, the province of Hyderabad was divided into Karnataka, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh on the basis of language. So, Hyderabad came into the Telugu speaking community and thus became the capital of Andhra Pradesh.
The city has now developed in fields of IT with four IT colleges including JNTU (Jawaharlal Nehru's Technological Institute). The rise of International Airport and real estate has a major impact on the development of Hyderabad.
Hyderabad is situated at the Deccan Plateau, 500 meters above the sea level and most of the area is rocky. Paddy is the main crop grown and other crops include Bengal gram, groundnut, sugar cane and sunflower. Hyderabad was found on the banks of Musi in 1591.r Today that area is known as old city where Mecca Masjid and Hussain Sagar Lake exist. The area has many official buildings and that area is very old. From the recent time, Hyderabad has been merged with Secunderabad. This has led a large, united and populous city with many villages surrounding it.
Hyderabad has a hot, wet and dry climate. The monsoon or rainy season is from late June until late October. On average, 32 inches of rain falls on the city each year. The highest temperature ever recorded was 51.5 °C (113.9 °F) on 2 June 1966. The lowest recorded temperature was 1.1 °C (43 °F) on 8 January 1946. It is cooler in the evenings and mornings because the city is high above sea level.
The city has a population of over four million. Hindus form the majority while Muslims are 40% of the population. The Muslim community of Hyderabad is largest in Telangana. Muslims are mainly located in and around the old city. Christians are small in number in the city. Famous Churches include those around Abids and Secunderabad like St. Josephs Cathedral.
The Charminar is said to be at the exact place where Quli Qutb Shah prayed for the end to a plague epidemic. The Charminar has long been the icon of Hyderabad. The name means "Four minarets". The towers rise to a height of 48.7 m above the ground. There is a mosque with 45 prayer spaces in the upper storeys of the building. There is also a Hindu temple at the bottom of one of the minarets.
The Golconda Fort was the capital of the Qutb Shahi kingdom. In the 16th century, it was the center of a busy diamond trade. The outer wall of the fort is 10 km around.
Mecca Masjid is one of the oldest mosques in the city and one of the biggest. Muhammed Quli Qutub Shah began building it in 1617. Mughal emperor Aurangzeb finished the building in 1694. The mosque is made of granite. The main hall of the mosque is 75 feet high, 220 feet wide and 180 feet long. Ten thousand worshippers can fit inside at the same time. The entrance arches are made of single slabs of granite. It is believed that Muhammed Quli had bricks made from earth brought from Mecca. He used them the central arch of the mosque. This explains the name of the mosque.
The Chowmahalla Palace was Asaf Jahi dynasty capital. The Nizam entertained official guests and royal visitors here.
Nawab Viqar al-Umra built Falaknuma Palace in 1872. The palace includes sculptures by artists from Florence.
Telugu, Urdu and Hindi are mainly spoken in Hyderabad. English is also spoken among the educated people. The Telugu spoken here has a few words of Urdu mixed in it. Because Urdu is mixed with Telugu and Farsi, it gave rise to a new dialect, Hyderabadi Urdu. Telugu varies across the state but the language remains the same.
Hyderabadi words mostly use hau, nakko...etc.,

</doc>
<doc id="21614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21614" title="Manmohan Singh">
Manmohan Singh

Manmohan Singh (born 26 September 1932) was the 13th Prime Minister of India. A famous economist, he is the only Prime Minister since Jawaharlal Nehru to return to power after completing a full five-year term, and the first Sikh to hold the office.
Singh was born on 26 September 1932 in Gah, Punjab, British India, into a Sikh family. He studied at Panjab University, Chandigarh, at St John's College, Cambridge, and at Nuffield College, Oxford. Singh has been married to Gursharan Kaur since 1958. 

</doc>
<doc id="21615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21615" title="Indira Gandhi">
Indira Gandhi

Indira Gandhi (19 November 1917 – 31 October 1984) was an Indian politician. She was Prime Minister of India from 1966 to 1977 and from 1980 to 1984. She was the daughter of Jawaharlal Nehru, who was also Prime Minister of India. Her son, Rajiv Gandhi, later became Prime Minister of India. She married Feroze Gandhi, who was not related to the civil rights leader, Mahatma Gandhi.
Indira Gandhi was the first woman prime minister of India. Gandhi was assassinated in 1984 at the age of 66. In 1938, Indira joined the Indian National Congress Party. After the death of Lal Bahadur Shastri in 1966, Indira Gandhi served as prime minister until India held the next election. She won that election in 1967 and became one of the first women elected to lead a democracy. 
Indira Gandhi was Prime Minister of India twice. She served the first time between 1966 and 1977 and the second time between 1980 and 1984. She also studied at the University of Oxford.

</doc>
<doc id="21616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21616" title="Nintendo 64">
Nintendo 64

Nintendo 64 (commonly abbreviated N64) was the third video game console released by Nintendo. It was released in 1996 and was meant to compete against the Sony PlayStation and the Sega Saturn. The Nintendo 64 was Nintendo's first console made for 3D graphics. It uses plastic cartridges instead of CDs or disks, making load times faster. Because of this, the games cost more to make. The controller for the Nintendo 64 was shaped like an "M" and had 10 buttons and a joystick. Sony used the N64 joystick design to make their DualShock PlayStation controller. Out of the box, the Nintendo 64 had 4 MB of RAM, and it could be upgraded to 8 MB with the expansion pak.
Because making games for the Nintendo 64 was more expensive than making games for the PlayStation, many video game companies did not make games for the N64. They made them for the PlayStation and PlayStation 2 instead. Nintendo also did not like games that had a lot of blood or violence in them. Companies who made these kinds of games made them for the PlayStation instead. However, some game makers did make some violent games for the Nintendo 64, such as Rare's first-person shooter "Perfect Dark". Nintendo lost its lead over Sega and Sony because of these two things.

</doc>
<doc id="21623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21623" title="Phobos">
Phobos

Phobos (Greek for "fear", is the root word of "phobia") is one of the sons of Ares and Aphrodite in Greek mythology and the twin brother of Deimos. He is known as the god of fear, panic, flight and battlefield rout. He went with his father into battle, driving his chariot and spreading fear in his path. As a son of Aphrodite, goddess of love, each twin also represented the fear of loss.
The larger and innermost of Mars' two moons was named after him, and the other was named after Deimos.

</doc>
<doc id="21625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21625" title="Deimos">
Deimos

Deimos (Greek word for "fear" or "terror") is one of the sons of Ares and Aphrodite in Greek mythology. Deimos is one of the two moons of Mars. Phobos is his twin brother

</doc>
<doc id="21629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21629" title="Krakatoa">
Krakatoa

Krakatoa (Indonesian name: "Krakatau") is an active volcano in the Sunda Strait, Indonesia. The volcano has erupted repeatedly in known history. The best known of these events occurred in late August 1883.
The 1883 eruption ejected more than six cubic miles (25 cubic kilometers) of rock, ash, and pumice , and made the loudest sound ever recorded by human beings. The sound was heard as far away as Perth in Australia (3,500 km; 2,200 miles), and the island of Rodrigues near Mauritius (4,800 km; 3,000 miles). Many thousands of people were killed and injured by the eruption, mostly in the tsunami (giant wave) which followed the explosion. 
The pressure wave from the final explosion was recorded on barographs around the world, which continued to register it up to 5 days after the explosion. The recordings show that the shock wave from the final explosion reverberated around the globe seven times.
The eruption destroyed two-thirds of what was then the island of Krakatoa. New eruptions at the volcano since 1927 have built a new island, called "Anak Krakatau" (child of Krakatoa).
Edmond Roberts called Krakatoa, "Crokatoa," in 1832.

</doc>
<doc id="21630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21630" title="Goldfish">
Goldfish

Goldfish ("Carassius auratus") are a species of domesticated fish. Goldfish belong to the carp family and were domesticated in China in the Tang Dynasty. They can reach up to 59 cm in size, and 3 kg in weight. However, most goldfish grow to only half that size. In captivity, goldfish can live for up to 30 years. In the aquarium, however, most will die earlier. This is because the aquarium is too small. Goldfish need a lot of space so they have room to swim and so the water does not get dirty too fast. 
Goldfish live best in temperatures between 10 degrees celsius and 30 degrees celsius.
It was once thought that goldfish have short memories, but scientists have proven that this is not true. In experiments, a goldfish was trained to kick a small ball under water. Another goldfish learned to swim through a maze.
There are many kinds of goldfish. The most common kind is golden-colored, but goldfish come in many different shapes and sizes. Many gold fish have fancy tails. Another common kind is called a black moor, which is black colored. Wild goldfish are called prussian carp and are silver-green in colour.
Goldfish are very sensitive and should not be touched. This can hurt them and make them sick. They may also get other health problems. Their stomachs can fill with liquids (water). They can get spotty because of bad bacteria. Some lose control of swimming because a special organ in their belly, called a swim bladder, gets sick and stops working. However, sick goldfishes can be cured with medicine. Pet shops or veterinarians can help goldfish get better when they are sick. One simple way to help a goldfish if it has indigestion is to feed it peas, as this will help their digestive track work properly.
The most anterior parts of a fish's brain are the olfactory bulbs. These connect to the two lobes of the cerebrum by stalks. The cerebrum is involved with the sense of smell. It also seems to control behaviors such as taking care of the young and exploring the natural environment. The optic lobes process information from the eyes. The cerebellum coordinates body movements. The medulla controls internal organ functions and helps maintains balance.
Farther back in the brain is the spinal cord, which is the hollow dorsal nerve cord that chordates have. The spinal cord is protected by the vertebral column. Between each set of vertebrae, a pair of spinal nerves exits the cord and connects to the internal organs and muscles. Most fish have well designed sense organs. Chemoreceptors (chemical) are located all over the head and much of the body surface. Most fish have ears inside their heads, but they do not hear well. However, a series of pores connected to canals beneath the skin cover the head and the sides of their body. This system, called the lateral line system, detects movement.
Once food is in the goldfish’s mouth, it’s pushed to the back of the throat where a set of teeth grind and crush it. The ground down food passes down a tube called the oesophagus, which squeezes out excess water. The oesophagus is lined with taste buds and cells that produce mucus to keep things moving on. The oesophagus empties into an expandable section of the goldfish’s digestive which is not to be confused with the stomach. It is simply a buffer zone to hold excess food as needed. Just before this expanded section, chemicals from the gallbladder and pancreas are pumped in with the food. The ones from the gallbladder make up bile, which is used to break down fats; the ones from the pancreas contain enzymes that are used to break down proteins. All along the digestive tract are cells that secrete enzymes that act on carbohydrates, breaking them down into sugars. From the expanded section to the goldfish’s anus, lots of mucus is produced and as much useful material as possible is absorbed into the bloodstream to be used for energy, growth, protection and repair.
Goldfish get their oxygen from water. As a fish swims, it gulps up water. The water which has oxygen goes through an opening in the fish’s throat that leads to the gills. Gills have many blood vessels within them. Oxygen moves from the water to the blood as the water flows over the gills. The blood vessels gather and store the oxygen that travels over the gills. At the same time, carbon dioxide moves out of the blood and into the water. Now, the water flows out of the slits beneath the gills. These gills are located under the operculum.
The circulatory system of fish is responsible for transporting blood and nutrients throughout the body. Blood travels across the body through the network of blood vessels. Unlike humans, fish have single cycle circulation, where the oxygen-deprived blood comes to the heart, from where it is pumped to the gills and then circulated to the entire body. The circulatory system of fish consists of a heart, blood and blood vessels. The heart of a fish is a simple muscular structure that is located between the posterior gill arches. In most fish, the heart consists of an atrium, a ventricle, a sac-like thin walled structure known as sinus venosus and a tube, known as bulbus arteriosus. In spite of containing four parts, the heart of a fish is considered two-chambered. The blood contains plasma (the fluid portion of blood) and the blood cells. The red blood cells contain hemoglobin, a protein that facilitates the transport of oxygen to the entire body, while the white blood cells are an indispensable part of the immune system. The thrombocytes help in blood clotting. Blood is circulated throughout the body with the help of arteries and veins (blood vessels). The arteries are responsible for carrying oxygenated blood from the heart to the rest of the body, while the veins return deoxygenated blood from the different parts of the body to the heart.
The skeletal system of a goldfish is mainly to protect the goldfish, support its structure and leverage, and helps with its red blood cell production. A goldfish’s skeletal system is made of almost all small bones and cartilage and it barely has any big bones. The bones are made of almost all calcium. There are 3 main muscles in a goldfish’s muscular system, the tail and trunk muscles, the jaw muscles, and the fin muscles. In the tail and trunk muscles, there are myotomes which are muscles blocks and there are myosepta which are connective tissues that separate myotomes. The horizontal septum separates myotomes into two sections, ventral or dorsal. In the jaw muscles, the goldfish uses adductor muscles to close its jaw and abductor muscles to open its jaw. In a gold fish’s fin muscles, there are also adductor and abductor muscles. These muscles move a gold fish’s fins away from and close to its body. There are also erector muscles in the fins that help with the stability and flexibility of the fish’s fins.
penis
Goldfish have a memory-span of at least three months and can distinguish between different shapes, colors and sounds. By using positive reinforcement, goldfish can be trained to recognize and to react to light signals of different colors or to perform tricks. Fish learn to anticipate feedings provided they occur at around the same time every day.

</doc>
<doc id="21631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21631" title="Premature ejaculation">
Premature ejaculation

Premature ejaculation (also known as PE) is a condition affecting many men. It is when during sexual intercourse (sex) the male can not stop himself from ejaculating after starting sex. 
The condition is usually curable or at least treatable by a few exercises. (There are more exercises than these, however, these are the most common.)
One exercise is to create an erection and begin to lose it, then stimulate it again. This exercise is best done alone at first and then with a partner. Thrusting should not be used with a partner until very near the end of treatment. This treatment may take several weeks to fully cure the problem if it is used properly. 
Another treatment involves using the muscle which stops urine. To locate the muscle, simply begin urinating and stop quickly before emptying the bladder. Doing that, will demonstrate how to use the muscle. Then whenever convenient use the muscle. You do not need to be urinating to use the muscle and it is suggested you are not. After a few weeks of both these treatments, the PE will become more like traditional ejaculation and after about one and a half to two and a half months, it should be absolutely normal.

</doc>
<doc id="21639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21639" title="Witch">
Witch

A witch is a person who practices witchcraft. Traditionally, the word was used to accuse someone of bewitching someone, or casting a spell on them to gain control over them by magic. It is now also used by some to refer to those who practice various contemporary religions such as Wicca.
Although most indigenous peoples throughout history have had some beliefs about spirits and people believed to have power through herbs or spirits, these were not called 'witches' until contact with western ideas. Neither did they always have negative connotations.
In Europe, the panic over witchcraft was supported by the "Malleus Maleficarum", published in 1487 by Heinrich Kramer, a German Catholic clergyman. It taught the prosecution of witches and was greatly promoted by the new technology of the printing press. It saw 29 printings before 1669, second only to the Bible. The book says that three elements are necessary for witchcraft. These are the evil intentions of the witch, the help of the Devil, and the permission of God.
Many women in South America were killed by witch hunts. The exact number is hotly debated because of a lack of record keeping and different opinions on the time frames and regions that ought to be included. Since the entire persecuting legal system, "judges, ministers, priests, constables, jailers, judges, doctors, prickers, torturers, jurors, executioners" were nearly all male and the victims were overwhelmingly female, the witch hunts are considered by many to be a "gynocide". In the documentary "The Burning Times", Thea Jensen calls this period in history a "Women's Holocaust".
In the 20th century, a new attempt has been made at understanding witchcraft. Many people say that witches were in fact wise women who were hunted down by the church (mostly for their knowledge of herbs to treat certain diseases). This has led to a new movement. Some of it is known as wicca. 
Heather Marsh has tied the persecution of witches to the fight of church and industry to control "the power of life and death" at a time when industry needed more workers. She also argues the persecution of witches was a fight for centralized power over the peasant rebellions and the ownership of knowledge by medicine and science which forbade the earlier teaching or practices by women and indigenous cultures. She writes that the persecution of witches has colored misogyny since the 1400s.
Silvia Federici tied the witch hunts to a history of the female body in the transition to capitalism.
Witchcraft and accusations of witchcraft are still very common in some parts of West Africa.
Control of procreation was a constant theme, as was medical knowledge:
"Concerning Witches who copulate with Devils. Why is it that Women are chiefly addicted to Evil superstitions?"
"Whether Witches may work some Prestidigatory Illusion so that the Male Organ appears to be entirely removed and separate from the Body."
"That Witches who are Midwives in Various Ways Kill the Child Conceived in the Womb, and Procure an Abortion; or if they do not this Offer New-born Children to Devils."
"How Witches Impede and Prevent the Power of Procreation."
"How, as it were, they Deprive Man of his Virile Member."
"Of the Manner whereby they Change Men into the Shapes of Beasts."
"Of the Method by which Devils through the Operations of Witches sometimes actually possess men."
"Of the Method by which they can Inflict Every Sort of Infirmity, generally Ills of the Graver Kind."
"Of the Way how in Particular they Afflict Men with Other Like Infirmities."
"How Witch Midwives commit most Horrid Crimes when they either Kill Children or Offer them to Devils in most Accursed Wise."
Hocus Pocus 
The Wizard Of Oz 
The Great Oz And Powerful(2013) 

</doc>
<doc id="21644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21644" title="1210s">
1210s


</doc>
<doc id="21646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21646" title="West Bank">
West Bank

The West Bank is a piece of land in the Middle East. It touches the Dead Sea and the River Jordan. The landscape is mostly hills or desert. The weather in the summer is hot and dry. It is cooler and rainy in the winter.
Right now, the area is under the control of Israel. Some Israelis and other nations disagree on whose it really is.
In 2013 talks between the Israeli government and the Palestinians continued about what will happen in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip in the future. Most people on the West Bank are Palestinians but there also many Jewish settlers in settlements. There has been some controversy about these settlements.

</doc>
<doc id="21647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21647" title="Jan Hus">
Jan Hus

Jan Hus, or John Huss (c.1370 - 6 July 1415) was born in Husinec, Bohemia (now Czech Republic). He was a Bohemian religious thinker and reformer. He started a religious movement that was strongly influenced by the beliefs of British scholar, John Wycliffe.
Hus studied at the University of Prague. In about 1400, he became a Catholic priest, and was soon accepted a position of preaching in Czech, the language spoken in Bohemia. While preaching, he studied Wycliffe’s writings, and came to like them, especially because of how authentic and real they were.
In 1403, Hus asked the church to undo the ban on Wycliffe's writings, and translated them into Czech. The church, led by archbishop Zbynek Zajíc, had different beliefs. In 1410, Zajíc ordered that Hus’ writings be burned and Hus and his followers, the Hussites be forced out of the church. Hus was excommunicated in 1411, condemned by the Council of Constance, and burned at the stake on 6 July 1415, in Konstanz, Germany.
Many of his teachings were later taken up by Martin Luther.

</doc>
<doc id="21648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21648" title="Konstanz">
Konstanz

Konstanz (English often Constance) is a university town with a population of around 80,000, on the shore of Lake Constance in the south-west corner of Germany, bordering Switzerland. The history of the city goes back to Ancient Rome. In the 15th century, the Council of Constance was held there. This ended the Western Schism. Jan Hus was burned as a heretic at the council.

</doc>
<doc id="21655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21655" title="Panther">
Panther

Panther can mean:
All these animals belong to the Felidae family.

</doc>
<doc id="21656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21656" title="Instant messaging">
Instant messaging

Instant messaging (IM) is a way of chatting between two or more people by typing text. The text is then sent by computers over a network such as the Internet.
Instant messaging must have an instant messaging client that hooks up to a service that can send instant messages. Instant messaging is different from e-mail because conversations happen and can be read right away ("instantly"). A multiprotocol instant messaging application lets one connect to many IM networks.
Instant messaging services got many ideas from an older and still popular way to online chat named Internet Relay Chat (IRC). In early instant messaging programs, each letter appeared when it was typed and when letters were deleted to correct typos. These were also seen by the reader. This made it more like a telephone conversation than sending letters. In newer instant messaging programs, the other readers in the conversation generally only sees each line of text right after a new line is started. Most instant messaging programs have a way to set a status message. This works likes the message on a telephone answering machine. It shows whether or not people are online and want to chat.
Instant messaging offers real-time communication and allows easy collaboration, which might be considered more akin to genuine conversation than email's "letter" format. In contrast to e-mail, the parties know whether the peer is available. Most systems allow the user to set an "online status" or "away message" so peers are notified when the user is available, busy, or away from the computer. On the other hand, people are not forced to reply immediately to incoming messages. For this reason, some people consider communication via instant messaging to be less intrusive than communication via phone. However, not all popular systems allow the sending of messages to people not currently logged on ("offline messages"), thus removing much of the difference between IM and email.
Instant messaging allows instantaneous communication between a number of parties simultaneously, by transmitting information quickly and efficiently, featuring immediate receipt of acknowledgment or reply. In certain cases IM involves additional features, which make it even more popular, i.e. to see the other party, e.g. by using ((web-cams)), or to talk directly for free over the internet.
It is possible to save a conversation to read later or look at again. Instant messages typically are may be logged in a local message history which closes the gap to the persistent nature of e-mails and facilitates quick exchange of information like URLs or document snippets (which can be unwieldy when communicated via telephone).
Instant messaging applications began to appear in the 1970s on multi-user operating systems like UNIX, initially to facilitate communication with other users logged in to the same machine, then on the local network, and subsequently across the Internet. Some of these used a peer-to-peer protocol (e.g. talk, ntalk and ytalk), while others required peers to connect to a server (see talker and IRC). Because all of these protocols were based inside a console window, most of those discovering the Internet in the mid-1990s and equating it with the web tended not to encounter them.
In the last half of the 1980s and into the early 1990s, the Quantum Link online service for Commodore 64 computers offered user-to-user messages between currently connected customers which they called "On-Line Messages" (or OLM for short). Quantum Link's better known later incarnation, America Online (AOL), offers a similar product under the name "AOL Instant Messages" (AIM). While the Quantum Link service ran on a Commodore 64, using only the Commodore's PETSCII text-graphics, the screen was visually divided up into sections and OLMs would appear as a yellow bar saying "Message From:" and the name of the sender along with the message across the top of whatever the user was already doing, and presented a list of options for responding. As such, it could be considered a sort of GUI, albeit much more primitive than the later Unix, Windows and Macintosh based GUI IM programs. OLMs were what Q-Link called "Plus Services" meaning they charged an extra per-minute fee on top of the monthly Q-Link access costs.
Modern, Internet-wide, GUI-based messaging clients, as they are known today, began to take off in the mid 1990s with ICQ (1996) being the first, followed by AOL Instant Messenger (AOL Instant Messenger, 1997). AOL later acquired Mirabilis, the creators of ICQ. A few years later ICQ (by now owned by AOL) was awarded two patents for instant messaging by the U.S. patent office. Meanwhile, other companies developed their own applications (Yahoo, MSN, Excite, Ubique, IBM), each with its own proprietary protocol and client; users therefore had to run multiple client applications if they wished to use more than one of these networks.
In 2000, an open source application and open standards-based protocol called Jabber was launched. Jabber servers could act as gateways to other IM protocols, reducing the need to run multiple clients. Modern multi-protocol clients such as Pidgin, Trillian, Adium and Miranda can use any of the popular IM protocols without the need for a server gateway.
Recently, many instant messaging services have begun to offer video conferencing features, Voice Over IP (VoIP) and web conferencing services. Web conferencing services integrate both video conferencing and instant messaging capabilities. Some newer instant messaging companies are offering desktop sharing, IP radio, and IPTV to the voice and video features.
The term "instant messenger" is a service mark of Time Warner and may not be used in software not affiliated with AOL in the United States. For this reason, the instant messaging client formerly known as Gaim or gaim announced in April 2007 that they would be renamed "Pidgin".
There have been several attempts to create a unified standard for instant messaging: IETF's SIP (Session Initiation Protocol) and SIMPLE (SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions), APEX (Application Exchange), Prim (Presence and Instant Messaging Protocol), the open XML-based XMPP (Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol), more commonly known as Jabber and OMA's (Open Mobile Alliance) IMPS (Instant Messaging and Presence Service) created specifically for mobile devices.
Sometimes, companies have tried to make one standard for all major IM providers (AOL, Yahoo! and Microsoft). These have not worked out, so each still uses its own proprietary protocol.
However, while discussions at IETF were stalled, Reuters head of collaboration services, David Gurle (the founder of Microsoft's Real Time Communication and Collaboration business), surprised everybody by signing the first inter-service provider connectivity agreement in September 2003. This historic agreement enabled AIM, ICQ and MSN Messenger users to talk with Reuters Messaging counterparts and vice-versa against an access fee. Following this breakthrough agreement between networks Microsoft, Yahoo! and AOL came to a deal where Microsoft's Live Communication Server 2005 (which is interestingly also used by Reuters for its Reuters Messaging service) users would also have the possibility to talk to public instant messaging users. This deal settled once for all the protocol for interconnectivity in the market as SIP/SIMPLE and established a connectivity fee for accessing public instant messaging clouds. Separately, on October 13, 2005 Microsoft and Yahoo! announced that by (the Northern Hemisphere) summer of 2006 they would interoperate using SIP/SIMPLE which is followed on December 2005 by the AOL and Google strategic partnership deal where Google Talk users would be able to talk with AIM and ICQ users provided they have an identity at AOL.
There are two ways to combine the many disparate protocols:
Some approaches, such as that adopted by the Sonork enterprise IM software or the Jabber/XMPP network or Winpopup LAN Messenger, allow organizations to create their own private instant messaging network by enabling them to limit access to the server (often with the IM network entirely behind their firewall) and administer user permissions. Other corporate messaging systems allow registered users to also connect from outside the corporation LAN, by using a secure firewall-friendly HTTPS based protocol. Typically, a dedicated corporate IM server has several advantages such as pre-populated contact lists, integrated authentication, and better security and privacy.
Some networks have made changes to prevent them from being utilized by such multi-network IM clients. For example, Trillian had to release several revisions and patches to allow its users to access the MSN, AOL, and Yahoo! networks, after changes were made to these networks. The major IM providers typically cite the need for formal agreements as well as security concerns as reasons for making these changes.
Mobile Instant Messaging (MIM) is a presence enabled messaging service that aims to transpose the desktop messaging experience to the usage scenario of being on the move. While several of the core ideas of the desktop experience on one hand apply to a connected mobile device, others do not: Users usually only look at their phone's screen — presence status changes might occur under different circumstances as happens at the desktop, and several functional limits exist based on the fact that the vast majority of mobile communication devices are chosen by their users to fit into the palm of their hand.
Some of the form factor and mobility related differences need to be taken into account in order to create a really adequate, powerful and yet convenient mobile experience: radio bandwidth, memory size, availability of media formats, keypad based input, screen output, CPU performance and battery power are core issues that desktop device users and even nomadic users with connected notebooks are usually not exposed to.
Several formerly untackled issues have been identified and addressed within IMPS, which was developed as part of an early mobile telephone industry initiative to kick off a broader usage of mobile instant messaging. The Open Mobile Alliance has taken over this standard, formerly called Wireless Village, as IMPS V1.0 in November 2002. Since then this standards has been further developed to IMPS V1.3, the latest candidate for release, and is expected to be released before the end of 2006.
There are downloadable mobile applications offered by different independent developers that allow users to chat within public (MSN, Yahoo!, Google Talk, AIM, ICQ) and corporate (LCS, Sametime, Reuters) IM services from mobile devices.
Among the advantages of using such IM clients over SMS are: IM clients use data instead of SMS text messages; IM-like chat mode, faster and quicker messaging. Some IM software allows group communication.
Several large scale mobile telephone industry companies are planning to jointly deliver a ubiquitous, interoperable presence enabled messaging service, built according to interoperability recommendations developed in the GSM Association. Because these organisations, as a group, have about 1.5 billion active Short Text Messaging (SMS) users, people wonder if such an initiative might also help the different industry factions to begin to work together soon. This would make Mobile Instant Messaging similar for all users.
In the meantime, other developments have proposed usage of downloadable applications with the intention to create their own approach to IM that runs on most mobile phones worldwide. Essentially, several of these clients are Java applications are instantly downloaded and then connected to back-end servers through GPRS/3G Internet Channels. Some of the implementations can connect to other IM services.
Instant messaging opens new methods of spontaneous communication for people that have an impairment in hearing, auditory processing, or speech. It is considered by many a powerful way to allow equal opportunities in communication, without the aid of special devices or services designed for users with hearing loss.
Instant Messaging may be done in a Friend-to-friend network, in which each node connects to the friends on the friendslist. This allows to communicate to friends of friends and build chatrooms for instant messages with all friends on that network.
Instant messaging has proven to be similar to personal computers, e-mail, and the WWW, in that its adoption for use as a business communications medium was driven primarily by individual employees using consumer software at work, rather than by formal mandate or provisioning by corporate information technology departments. Tens of millions of the consumer IM accounts in use are being used for business purposes by employees of companies and other organizations.
In response to the demand for business-grade IM and the need to ensure security and legal compliance, a new type of instant messaging, called "Enterprise Instant Messaging" ("EIM") was created when Lotus Software launched Lotus Sametime in 1999. Microsoft followed suit shortly thereafter with Microsoft Exchange Instant Messaging, and later created a new platform called Microsoft Office Live Communications Server. Since then, both IBM Lotus and Microsoft have introduced federation between their EIM systems and some of the public IM networks thus employees may use a single interface to both their internal EIM system and their buddies on AOL, MSN, and Yahoo!. Current leading EIM platforms include IBM Lotus Sametime, Microsoft Office Live Communications Server, and Jabber XCP.
The adoption of IM across corporate networks outside of the control of IT organizations creates many risks and liabilities for companies who do not effectively manage and support IM use. Companies implement specialized IM archiving and security products and services like those from Secure Computing, Akonix, Surfcontrol, and ScanSafe to mitigate these risks and provide safe, secure, productive instant messaging capabilities to their employees.
Although instant messaging has many good things, it also has risks and liabilities, especially when used in "workplaces". Among these are:
Hackers' use of instant messaging networks to deliver malicious code has grown consistently from 2004 to the present, with the number of discrete attacks listed by the IM Security Center having grown 15% from 347 attacks in 2005 to 406 in 2006. Hackers use two methods of delivering malicious code through IM: delivery of virus, trojan, or spyware within an infected file, and the use of "socially engineered" text with a web address that entices the recipient to click on a URL that connects him or her to a website that then downloads malicious code. Viruses, worms, and trojans typically propagate by sending themselves rapidly through the infected user's buddy list. An effective attack using a "poison URL" may reach tens of thousands of people in minutes when each person's buddy list receives messages appearing to be from a trusted friend. The recipients click on the web address, and the entire cycle starts again. Infections may range from nuisance to criminal, and are becoming more sophisticated each year.
In addition to the malicious code threat, the use of instant messaging at work also creates a risk of non-compliance to laws and regulations governing the use of electronic communications in businesses. In the United States alone there are over 10,000 laws and regulations related to electronic messaging and records retention. The more well-known of these include the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, HIPAA, and SEC 17a-3. Recent changes to Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, effective December 1, 2006, create a new category for electronic records which may be requested during discovery (law) in legal proceedings. Most countries around the world also regulate the use of electronic messaging and electronic records retention in similar fashion to the United States. The most common regulations related to IM at work involve the need to produce archived business communications to satisfy government or judicial requests under law. Many instant messaging communications fall into the category of business communications that must be archived and retrievable.
Organizations of all types must protect themselves from the liability of their employees' inappropriate use of IM. The informal, immediate, and ostensibly anonymous nature of instant messaging makes it a candidate for abuse in the workplace. The topic of inappropriate IM use became front page news in October 2006 when Congressman Mark Foley resigned his seat after admitting sending offensive instant messages of a sexual nature to underage former House pages from his Congressional office PC. The Mark Foley Scandal led to media coverage and mainstream newspaper articles warning of the risks of inappropriate IM use in workplaces. In most countries, corporations have a legal responsibility to ensure harassment-free work environment for employees. The use of corporate-owned computers, networks, and software to harass an individual or spread inappropriate jokes or language creates a liability for not only the offender but also the employer. A survey by IM archiving and security provider Akonix Systems, Inc. in March 2007 showed that 31% of respondents had been harassed over IM at work. Companies now include instant messaging as an integral component of their policies on appropriate use of the World Wide Web, email, and other corporate assets.
In the early 2000s, a new class of IT security provider emerged to provide remedies for the risks and liabilities faced by corporations who chose to use IM for business communications. The IM security providers created new products to be installed in corporate networks for the purpose of archiving, content-scanning, and security-scanning IM traffic moving in and out of the corporation. Similar to the e-mail filtering vendors, the IM security providers focus on the risks and liabilities described above.
With rapid adoption of IM in the workplace, demand for IM security products began to grow in the mid-2000s. By 2007, the preferred platform for the purchase of security software had become the "appliance", according to IDC, who estimate that by 2008, 80% of network security products will be delivered via an appliance.

</doc>
<doc id="21661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21661" title="AOL">
AOL

AOL Inc. (previously America Online) is a U.S.-based online service provider and Internet service provider. It has been in business since 1985. They changed their name to AOL Inc. in 2009 after a spin-off from Time Warner. It was announced in May 2015 that Verizon Communications purchased AOL.
AOL Instant Messenger is a service which allows to communicate with any user currently online. AIM has millions of users worldwide. There are also other computer programs that can be used to talk with your AIM account, for example Trillian, Pidgin, Digsby, and AIM+. 
Other AOL products are AOL Spyware Protection, AOL Safety and Security Center, ICQ, AOl Computer Check-Up, AOL Explorer, AOL TopSpeed, AOL Dialer, AOL One-Click Fixes and AOL Openride.

</doc>
<doc id="21673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21673" title="Youssef Rzouga">
Youssef Rzouga

Youssef Rzouga (born March 21, 1957) is a Tunisian poet. He was born in Mahdia, a Tunisian coastal city.
His first writing to be printed was a short story in the magazine "Radio et Télévision", in 1973.

</doc>
<doc id="21674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21674" title="Mailman">
Mailman

A mailman or mail carrier or postman is a person who brings people their postal mail. Normally he works for the post office of the respective country. Of course, there are also women doing this job. They are called mailwomen. For a layman, this occupation is called "letter carriers". 
Fictional mailmen are traditionally shown as acting afraid of dogs, even to the point of shock.

</doc>
<doc id="21675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21675" title="Chinese postman problem">
Chinese postman problem

The Chinese postman problem is a mathematical problem of graph theory. It is also known as route inspection problem. Suppose there is a mailman who needs to deliver mail to a certain neighbourhood. The mailman is unwilling to walk far, so he wants to find the shortest route through the neighbourhood, that meets the following criteria:
If the graph travelled has an Eulerian path, this circuit is the ideal solution.
Alan Goldman of the U.S. National Bureau of Standards first coined the name 'Chinese Postman Problem' for this problem, as it was originally studied by the Chinese mathematician Mei-Ku Kuan in 1962.

</doc>
<doc id="21677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21677" title="Four color theorem">
Four color theorem

The four color theorem is a theorem of mathematics. It says that in any plane surface with regions in it (people think of them as maps), the regions can be colored with no more than four colors. Two regions that have a common border must not get the same color. They are called "adjacent" (next to each other) if they share a segment of the border, not just a point.
This was the first theorem to be proved by a computer, in a "proof by exhaustion". In proof by exhaustion, the conclusion is established by dividing it into cases, and proving each one separately. The number of cases sometimes may be very large. For example, the first proof of the four color theorem was a proof by exhaustion with 1,936 cases. This proof was controversial because most of the cases were checked by a computer program, not by hand. The shortest known proof of the four color theorem today still has over 600 cases.
Even though the problem was first presented as a problem to color political maps of countries, mapmakers are not particularly interested in it. According to an article by the math historian Kenneth May , “Maps utilizing only four colors are rare, and those that do usually require only three. Books on cartography and the history of map making do not mention the four-color property.”
Many simpler maps can be colored using three colors. The fourth color is required for some maps, such as one in which one region is surrounded by an odd number of others, which touch each other in a cycle. One such example is given in the image. The five color theorem states that five colors are enough to color a map. It has a short, elementary proof and was proven in the late 19th century. Proving that four colors suffice turned out to be significantly more difficult. A number of false proofs and false counterexamples have appeared since the first statement of the four color theorem in 1852.
Intuitively, the four color theorem can be stated as 'given any separation of a plane into contiguous regions, called a map, the regions can be colored using at most four colors so that no two regions which are adjacent have the same color'. To be able to correctly solve the problem, it is necessary to clarify some aspects: First, all points that belong to three or more countries must be ignored. Secondly, "bizarre" maps with regions of finite area and infinite perimeter can require more than four colors.
For the purpose of the theorem every "country" has to be a simply connected region, or contiguous.
In the real world, this is not true: Alaska as part of the United States, Nakhchivan as part of Azerbaijan, and Kaliningrad as part of Russia are not contiguous. Because the territory of a particular country must be the same color, four colors may not be sufficient. For instance, consider a simplified map, such as the one shown on the left: In this map, the two regions labeled "A" belong to the same country, and must be the same color. This map then requires five colors, since the two "A" regions together are contiguous with four other regions, each of which is contiguous with all the others. If "A" consisted of three regions, six or more colors might be required. In this manner, it is possible to construct maps that require an arbitrarily high number of colors. A similar construction also applies if a single color is used for all bodies of water, as is usual on real maps.
An easier to state version of the theorem uses graph theory. The set of regions of a map can be represented more abstractly as an undirected graph that has a vertex for each region and an edge for every pair of regions that share a boundary segment. This graph is planar: it can be drawn in the plane without crossings by placing each vertex at an arbitrarily chosen location within the region to which it corresponds, and by drawing the edges as curves that lead without crossing within each region from the vertex location to each shared boundary point of the region. Conversely any planar graph can be formed from a map in this way. In graph-theoretic terminology, the four-color theorem states that the vertices of every planar graph can be colored with at most four colors so that no two adjacent vertices receive the same color, or for short, "every planar graph is four-colorable" (; ).
The first person to name the problem was Francis Guthrie, in 1852. He was a law student in Engand, at the time. He found that he needed at least four colors to color a map of the counties of England. Augustus de Morgan first discussed the problem, in a letter he wrote to Rowan Hamliton in August 1852. In the letter, de Morgan asks whether four colors are really enough to color a map, such that countries that are next to each other get different colors. 
English mathematician Arthur Cayley presented the problem to the mathematical society in London, in 1878. Within a year, Alfred Kempe found what looked like a proof of the problem. Eleven years later, in 1890, Percy Heawood showed that Percy's proof was wrong. Peter Guthrie Tait presented another attempt at a proof in 1880. It took eleven years to show that Tait's proof did not work either. In 1891, Julius Petersen could show this. When he falsified Cayley's proof, Kempe also showed a proof for a problem he called Five color theorem. The theorem says that any such map can be colored with no more than five colors. There are two restrictions: First, any country is contiguous, there are no exclaves. The second restriction is that countries need to have a common border; if they only touch in a point, they can be colored with the same color. Even though Kempe's proof was wrong,he used some of the ideas which would later permit a correct proof. 
In the 1960s and 1970s, Heinrich Heesch developed a first sketch of a proof by computer. Kenneth Appel and Wolfgang Haken improved this sketch in 1976 . They were able to reduce the number of cases that would need to be tested to 1936; a later version was made that relied on testing only 1476 cases. Each case needed to be tested by a computer .
In 1996, Neil Robertson, Daniel Sanders, Paul Seymour and Robin Thomas improved the method, and reduced the number of cases to be tested to 663. Again, each case needed to be tested by computer. 
In 2005, Georges Gonthier and Benjamin Werner developed a formal proof. This was an improvement, because it allowed to use theorem-proving software, for the first time. The software used is called Coq. 
The four color theorem is the first big mathematical problem that was proved with the help of a computer. Because the proof cannot be done by a human, some mathematicians did not recognize it as correct. To verify the proof, it is necessary to rely on a correctly working software, and hardware to validate the proof. Because the proof was done by computer, it is also not very elegant.
The four color theorem has been notorious for attracting a large number of false proofs and disproofs in its long history. At first, "The New York Times" refused to report on the Appel–Haken proof. The newspaper did this as a matter of policy; it feared that the proof would be shown false like the ones before it . 
Some proofs took a long time, till they could be falsified: For Kempe's and Tait's proofs falsifying them took over a decade. 
The simplest counterexamples generally try to create one region which touches all the others. This forces the remaining regions to be colored with only three colors. Because the four color theorem is true, this is always possible; however, because the person drawing the map is focused on the one large region, they fail to notice that the remaining regions can in fact be colored with three colors.
This trick can be generalized: If the colors of some regions in a map are selected beforehand, it becomes impossible to color the remaining regions in such a way that in total, only four colors are used. Someone verifying the counterexample may not think that it may be necessary to change the color of these regions. This will make the counterexample look valid, even though it is not. 
Perhaps one effect underlying this common misconception is the fact that the color restriction is not transitive: a region only has to be colored differently from regions it touches directly, not regions touching regions that it touches. If this were the restriction, planar graphs would require arbitrarily large numbers of colors.
Other false disproofs violate the assumptions of the theorem in unexpected ways, such as using a region that consists of multiple disconnected parts, or disallowing regions of the same color from touching at a point.
In real life, many countries have exclaves or colonies. Since they belong to the country, they need to be colored with the same color than the parent country. This means that usually, more than four colors are needed to color such a map. When mathematicians talk about the graph associated with the problem, they say that is not planar. Even though it is easy to check if a graph is planar, finding the minimal number of colors needed to color it is very difficult. It is NP-complete, among the most difficult problems that exist. The minimal number of colors needed to color a graph is known as its "chromatic number". Many of the problems that occur when trying to solve the four color theorem are related to discrete mathematics. For this reason, methods from algebraic topology are often used.
The four color theorem requires the "map" to be on a flat surface, what mathematicians call a plane. In 1890, Percy John Heawood created what is called Heawood conjecture today: It asks the same question as the four color theorem, but for any topological object. As an example, a torus can be colored with at most seven colors. The Heawood cojecture gives a formula that works for all such objects, except the Klein bottle.

</doc>
<doc id="21678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21678" title="Theorem">
Theorem

A theorem is a proven idea in mathematics. Theorems are proved using logic and other theorems that have already been proved. A theorem that someone must prove so that he/she can prove another theorem is called a lemma. Theorems are made of two parts, there are hypotheses and conclusions. 
Theorems use deduction, in contrast to theories which are empirical.
Some theorems are trivial, they directly follow from the propositions. Other theorems are called "deep", their proof is long and difficult. Sometimes, such proofs involve other areas of mathematics or show connections between different areas. A theorem might be simple to state and yet be deep. An excellent example is Fermat's Last Theorem, and there are many other examples of simple yet deep theorems in number theory and combinatorics, among other areas. 
There are other theorems for which a proof is known, but it cannot easily be written down. Among the best examples are the four color theorem and the Kepler conjecture. Both of these theorems are only known to be true by reducing them to a computational search which is then verified by a computer program. At first, many mathematicians did not accept this form of proof, but it has become more widely accepted in recent years. The mathematician Doron Zeilberger has even gone so far as to claim that these are possibly the only nontrivial results that mathematicians have ever proved. Many mathematical theorems can be reduced to more straightforward computation, including polynomial identities, trigonometric identities and hypergeometric identities.

</doc>
<doc id="21679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21679" title="Triceratops">
Triceratops

Triceratops was a huge herbivorous ceratopsid dinosaur from the late Cretaceous. Its name came from having three horns on its head. They were mainly found in North America. As adults, they grew up to 30 feet long, 9 feet tall, and probably weighed around 5,400 kg (12,000 lb).
"Triceratops" was a low browser with a bony beak in front of its jaws. The jaws had close-set grinding teeth. Its defence had to stand up to attacks from taller theropods, hence the shield which covered its neck. Holes made by teeth have been found on the bony frill behind the horns, and on the sacrum (the part of the spine above the pelvis). 
Many fossils of "Triceratops" have been collected since the genus was first described in 1889. There is at least one complete individual skeleton. Paleontologist John Scannella observed: "It is hard to walk out into the Hell Creek Formation and not stumble upon a "Triceratops" weathering out of a hillside". Forty-seven complete or partial skulls were discovered in just that area during the decade 2000–2010. Specimens showing life stages from hatchling to adult have been found.
Individual "Triceratops" were about 7.9 to 9.0 m (26.0–29.5 ft) in length, 2.9 to 3.0 m (9.5–9.8 ft) in height, and 6.1–12.0 tonnes (13,000–26,000 lb) in weight. 
The most distinctive feature is their large skull, among the largest of all land animals. The largest known skull (specimen BYU 12183) is estimated to have been in length when complete, and could reach almost a third of the length of the entire animal. It bore a single horn on the snout, above the nostrils, and a pair of horns approximately 1 m (3 ft) long, with one above each eye. Most other ceratopsids had large holes (fenestrae) in their frills, while those of "Triceratops" were noticeably solid.
"Triceratops" species were sturdy, with strong limbs and short three-hoofed hands and four-hoofed feet. 
The posture of these dinosaurs has long been the subject of some debate. Originally, it was believed that the front legs of the animal had to be sprawling at angles from the thorax, in order to better bear the weight of the head. This stance can be seen in paintings by Charles Knight and Rudolph Zallinger. However, evidence of trackways, and reconstructions of skeletons show that "Triceratops" and other ceratopsids had an upright stance during normal locomotion, with the elbows flexed and slightly bowed out. The stance was intermediate between fully upright and fully sprawling, similar the modern rhinoceros.
Although "Triceratops" are commonly portrayed as herd animals, there is little evidence that they lived in herds. 
In 2012, a group of three "Triceratops" in relatively complete condition, each of varying sizes from a full-grown adult to a small juvenile, were found in Wyoming, near Newcastle. The remains are currently under excavation by paleontologist Peter Larson and a team from the Black Hills Institute. It is believed that the animals were traveling as a family unit, but it remains unknown if the group consists of a mated pair and their offspring, or two females and a juvenile they were caring for. The remains also show signs of predation or scavenging from "Tyrannosaurus", particularly on the largest specimen, with the bones of the front limbs showing breakage and puncture wounds from "Tyrannosaurus" teeth.
For many years, "Triceratops" finds were known only from solitary individuals. These remains are very common: one palaeontologist reported having seen 200 specimens of "T. prorsus" in the Hell Creek Formation of Montana. Similarly, Barnum Brown claimed to have seen over 500 skulls in the field. "Triceratops" teeth, horn fragments, frill fragments, and other skull fragments are abundant fossils in the latest Upper Cretaceous of western North America. It was the most dominant herbivore of the time. In 1986, Robert Bakker estimated it as making up 5/6ths of the large dinosaur fauna at the end of the Cretaceous.
"Triceratops" was one of the last ceratopsian genera to appear before the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event. The related "Torosaurus", and the more distantly related diminutive "Leptoceratops", were also present, though their remains are rarely found.
"Triceratops" were herbivorous, and because of their low head, their primary food was probably low growth, although they may have been able to knock down taller plants with their horns, beak, and bulk. The jaws were tipped with a deep, narrow beak, good for grasping and plucking.
"Triceratops" teeth were arranged in groups called batteries, of 36 to 40 tooth columns, in each side of each jaw with 3 to 5 stacked teeth per column, depending on the size of the animal. This gives a range of 432 to 800 teeth, of which only a fraction were in use at any given time (tooth replacement was continuous and occurred throughout the life of the animal). The great size and numerous teeth of "Triceratops" suggests that they ate large volumes of fibrous plant material, such as palms and cycads.
There has been much speculation over the functions of "Triceratops"' head adornments. The two main theories have revolved around use in combat, or display in courtship, with the latter thought now to be the most likely primary function.
"Triceratops" were long thought to have used their horns and frills in combat with predators such as "Tyrannosaurus". The idea was discussed first in 1917 and again 70 years later by Robert Bakker. There is evidence that "Tyrannosaurus" did have aggressive head-on encounters with "Triceratops", based on partially healed tyrannosaur tooth marks on a "Triceratops" brow horn and squamosal; the bitten horn is also broken, with new bone growth after the break. Since the "Triceratops" wounds healed, the "Triceratops" survived the encounter. "Tyrannosaurus" is also known to have fed on "Triceratops". Evidence for this includes a heavily tooth-scored "Triceratops" ilium and sacrum.
In addition to combat with predators using horns, "Triceratops" are classically shown engaging each other in combat with horns locked. While studies show that such activity would be feasible, if unlike that of present-day horned animals, there is disagreement about whether they did so.
The large frill also may have helped to increase body area to regulate body temperature. A similar theory has been proposed regarding the plates of "Stegosaurus", although this use alone would not account for the bizarre and extravagant variation seen in different members of the Ceratopsidae. This observation is highly suggestive of what is now believed to be the primary function, display.
The theory of their use in sexual display was first proposed by Davitashvili in 1961 and has gained increasing acceptance since. Evidence that visual display was important, either in courtship or in other social behavior, can be seen in the fact that horned dinosaurs differ markedly in their adornments, making each species highly distinctive. Also, modern living creatures with such displays of horns and adornments use them in similar behavior. A 2006 study of the smallest "Triceratops" skull, ascertained to be a juvenile, shows the frill and horns developed at a very early age, predating sexual development and thus probably important for visual communication and species recognition in general.
One skull, assigned to "Triceratops", has a hole in the jugal bone. It looks like a puncture wound sustained while the animal was still alive. This is supported by signs of healing that are present in the bone around the supposed wound. When examined closely, the hole in the bone has a diameter that is very similar to diameter of the distal end of a "Triceratops" horn. This is evidence of competition between individual dinosaurs.

</doc>
<doc id="21682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21682" title="Border">
Border

The border between two regions is a line, where one region is next to the other. If the regions are countries, the border can only be crossed at certain points. To cross the border, a passport or a visa might be necessary; such as the Wagah border between Pakistan and the Republic of India.

</doc>
<doc id="21683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21683" title="Genus">
Genus

A genus is a rank in the biological classification (or taxonomy). It stands above species, and below families. A genus can include more than one species. When biologists talk about a genus, they mean one or more species of animals or plants that are closely related to each other.
As with other taxons, the plural is different from other English words because it is a Latin word. 'Genus' is the singular, and 'genera' is the plural form of the word. 
When printing the scientific name of an organism, the name is "always in italic". A name of species has two parts, with the genus first. For example, in ""Felis silvestris", "Felis" is the genus. The genus name always begins with a capital letter. In "Felis silvestris catus"", the third word is the subspecies, which is not often used.
In writing, genus names in Latin may be 'anglicised' to form a common name. For example, the genus "Pseudomonas" is "pseudomonad" (plural: "pseudomonads"). In practice, most really common animals and plants already have a common name. So instead of saying 'felids', or 'felines', one says 'cats'. The word 'cat' is used both for the family pet, and also as a general term for all the cat family (Felidae).

</doc>
<doc id="21684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21684" title="Cretaceous">
Cretaceous

The Cretaceous period was the longest period in the Phanerozoic eon, lasting 80 million years from 145 to 66 million years ago (mya). It followed the Jurassic period, and is the latest period of the Mesozoic era. After it came the Cainozoic era. 
Though famous for its land fauna, the Cretaceous sea level rose much higher than today. North America was partly covered by an epicontinental sea, and half of Britain was under water. In the Upper Cretaceous, chalk, a type of limestone, was laid down in warm shallow seas. Chalk is 95% to 99% made up of coccoliths, the calcium carbonate (CaCO3) plates which tiny single-celled algae (coccolithophorids) produce.
At its end came the famous meteorite strike which, with the volcanic flood basalts spewed out in the Deccan (India), ended so many of the dominant life-forms: see K/T extinction event.
The Cretaceous period has just two very long epochs:
The Lower Cretaceous at ~45 million years, is the longest epoch in the Phanerozoic eon.

</doc>
<doc id="21689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21689" title="Textbook">
Textbook

A textbook is a book used for the study of a subject. People use a textbook to learn facts and methods about a certain subject. Textbooks sometimes have questions to test the knowledge and understanding of the learner.
A workbook is a type of textbook that has only practice questions and exercises. Workbooks are designed not to teach but to provide practice and to highlight areas which need more learning. A revision guide is a type of textbook that is used to remind the learner about the subject and give him/her extra practice, especially before an examination.
A textbook is usually lent to students by a school to accompany a course the school is teaching. Sometimes, especially at university, students have to buy the textbooks they need themselves or borrow them from a library.
Most textbooks are only published in printed format. However, some are now available online as electronic books.

</doc>
<doc id="21690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21690" title="Axiom">
Axiom

An axiom is a concept in logic. It is a statement which is accepted without question, and which has no proof. The axiom is be used as the premise or starting point for further reasoning or arguments, usually in logic or in mathematics.
This means it cannot be proved within the discussion of a problem. So inside some discussion, it is thought to be true. There are many reasons why it has no proof. For example,
Logic can be used to find theorems from the axioms. Then those theorems can be used to make more theorems. This is often how math works. Axioms are important because logical arguments start with them.
Euclid of Alexandria was a Greek mathematician. Around the year 300 BC, he made a list of axioms:

</doc>
<doc id="21693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21693" title="Set">
Set

A set is an idea from mathematics. A set has "members" (also called "elements"). A set is fixed by its members. It is the only set which has the same members. (If set "X" and set "Y" have the same members, then "X = Y". A set cannot have the same member twice - never more than once. Membership is the only thing that means anything. For example, there is no order or other distinction among the members.) One particular set is the "empty set" (also called the "null set"). The empty set has "no" members. "Anything" can be a member of a set. A set can be a member of a set. (If a set is a member of itself, beware of Russell's paradox.) 
Most mathematicians use uppercase "italic" (usually Roman) letters to write about sets. The things that are seen as elements of sets are usually written with lowercase Roman letters.
One way of showing a set is by a list of its members, separated by commas, included in braces.
For example, 
Another way is by a statement of what is true of the set, like this:
In spoken English, that is: "the set of all "x" such that "x" is a natural number and "x" is less than four".
The empty set has a special name
An object "a" is the member of set "A" is written
In spoken English, that is: ""a" is a member of "A""
Various things can be put into a bag. Later on, a valid question would be if a certain thing is in the bag. Mathematicians call this "element of". Something is an element of a set, if that thing can be found in the respective bag. The symbol used for this is formula_2
formula_3
means that formula_4 is in the bag formula_5
Like a bag, a set can also be "empty". The empty set is like an empty bag: it has no things in it.
Two sets can be compared. This is like looking at two different bags. If they contain the same things, they are equal.
When mathematicians talk about a set, they sometimes want to know how big a set is. They do this by counting how many elements are in the set (how many items are in the bag). The cardinality can be a simple number. The empty set has a cardinality of 0. The set formula_6 has a cardinality of 2.
Two sets have the same cardinality if we can pair up their elements—if we can join two elements, one from each set. The set formula_6 and the set formula_8 have the same cardinality. We can pair "apple" with "sun", and "orange" with "moon". The order does not matter. It is possible to pair the elements, and none is left out. But the set formula_9 and the set formula_10 have different cardinality. 
If we try to pair them up, we always leave out one animal.
At times cardinality is not a number. Sometimes a set has infinite cardinality. The set of integers is a set with infinite cardinality. Some sets with infinite cardinality are bigger (have a bigger cardinality) than others. There are more real numbers than there are natural numbers, for example. That means we cannot pair up the set of integers and the set of real numbers, even if we worked forever. If a set has the same cardinality as the set of integers, it is called a countable set. But if a set has the same cardinality as the real numbers, it is called an uncountable set.
If you look at the set {a,b} and the set {a,b,c,d}, you can see that all elements in the first set are also in the second set.<br> We say: {a,b} is a subset of {a,b,c,d}<br>
As a formula it looks like this:<br>
formula_11
When all elements of A are also elements of B, we call A a subset of B:<br>
formula_12<br>
It is usually read "A is contained in B"
Example:<br>
Every Chevrolet is an American car. So the set of all Chevrolets is contained in the set of all American cars.
There are different ways to combine sets.
The intersection formula_13 of two sets A and B is a set that contains all the elements,<br> that are both in set A and in set B.<br>
When A is the set of all cheap cars, and B is the set of all American cars,<br> then formula_13 is the set of all cheap American cars.
The union formula_15 of two sets A and B is a set that contains all the elements,<br> that are in set A or in set B.
When A is the set of all cheap cars, and B is the set of all American cars,<br> then formula_15 is the set of all cars, without all expensive cars that are not from America.
Complement can mean two different things:
formula_18 <br>
The universe U is the set of all things you speak about.<br>
When U is the set of all cars, and A is the set of all cheap cars,<br> then A is the set of all expensive cars.
formula_19<br>
It is often called the "set difference".<br>
When A is the set of all cheap cars, and B is the set of all American cars,<br> then formula_19 is the set of all expensive American cars.
If you exchange the sets in the set difference, the result is different:<br>In the example with the cars, the difference formula_21 is the set of all cheap cars, that are not made in America.
Some sets are very important to mathematics. They are used very often. One of these is the "ẽøø set". 
Many of these sets are written using blackboard bold typeface, as shown below. Special sets include:
Each of these sets of numbers has an infinite number of elements, and formula_38. The primes are used less frequently than the others outside of number theory and related fields.
A mathematician called Bertrand Russell found that there are problems with this theory of sets. He stated this in a paradox called "Russell's paradox". An easier to understand version, closer to real life, is called the "Barber paradox":
There is a small town somewhere. In that town, there is a barber. All the men in the town do not like beards, so they either shave themselves, or they go to the barber shop to be shaved by the barber.
We can therefore make a statement about the barber himself: "The barber shaves all men that do not shave themselves. He only shaves those men (since the others shave themselves and do not need a barber to give them a shave)."
This of course raises the question: What does the barber do each morning to look clean-shaven? This is the paradox.
The following are books about sets. They may not be easy to read though:

</doc>
<doc id="21694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21694" title="Category:Tunisia">
Category:Tunisia

Tunisia

</doc>
<doc id="21696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21696" title="Maldives">
Maldives

The Maldives are a group of islands in the Indian Ocean. They are southwest of India. They are made up of the Maldive and Suadive archipelagos, with over 1,200 islands. These islands are a part of 26 atolls. People live on about 200 of the islands. It has more than 1126 coral reefs. It is the flattest country in the world. The highest point in the Maldives is only high above the level of the sea.
Malé is the capital, with a population of 81,000 people.

</doc>
<doc id="21697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21697" title="Prime Minister of Australia">
Prime Minister of Australia

The Prime Minister of Australia is the leader of the Australian government. He or she has the most powerful political office in the Commonwealth of Australia.
The current Prime Minister of Australia, since September 2015, is Malcolm Turnbull.

</doc>
<doc id="21698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21698" title="1190s">
1190s


</doc>
<doc id="21702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21702" title="Structure">
Structure

Structure is a fundamental concept in science. It means the arrangement of parts. Examples are the organs in a body, or crystals in a substance like granite. 
A structure may refer to buildings, machines and similar things made by people as well as to a rock or a mineral, atoms or sentences. It always reflects the hierarchy of its parts. 

</doc>
<doc id="21704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21704" title="Hardcore punk">
Hardcore punk

Hardcore punk (or hardcore) is a style of punk music that usually sounds louder, faster and more angry than earlier punk rock music from the 1970s. Hardcore began in the late 1970s. Some of the important bands of the genre are Bad Brains, Black Flag, D.O.A, Minor Threat and Cro-Mags. Hardcore songs often have more political lyrics (words) than songs from 1970s punk.
No one is quite sure where the term "hardcore punk" came from. The band D.O.A. may have helped to make the term more popular with the title of their album "Hardcore '81" in 1981.
The first hardcore punk song was "Out of Vogue" by the Santa Ana band The Middle Class. This band started to play a loud type of punk with shouted words.
People in hardcore punk bands and people who listened to hardcore punk wore clothes that were of two types. Some people wore clothes and hairstyles that were strange and a bit scary, like Mohawk hairstyles and leather jackets with metal studs. Other people wore regular clothes like black pants and t-shirts.
At hardcore punk concerts, people did a type of dancing called moshing. This type of dance involves people pushing each other and jumping off the stage.
In the early 1980s, hardcore bands from England began to get noticed, such as Discharge, The Exploited, and The Varukers. Discharge played with a sound that included heavy metal guitar styles.
Hardcore led to the creation of the straight edge movement. People who are straight edge do not use alcohol, tobacco, and other drugs. Straight edge led to two new groups, called hardline and youth crew. Hardcore musicians also created independent record labels in the 1980s.
Many bands had a "Do it Yourself" (DIY) attitude. Bands would record their own albums using simple four-track recorders, and the sell the records themselves at shows or through the mail. Hardcore influenced the creation of new styles of music, including alternative rock, grunge, alternative metal, metalcore, thrash metal and post-hardcore.
Many early hardcore punk bands had songs about liberal politics such as anarchism and socialism. They spoke against political leaders, such as American president Ronald Reagan and British prime minister Margaret Thatcher. While George W. Bush was President of the United States, a number of hardcore bands criticized him. 
A small number of hardcore musicians have expressed right wing views, including the band Antiseen, whose guitarist Joe Young ran for office as a Libertarian in North Carolina. Former Misfits singer Michale Graves supported George W. Bush.
Hardcore band singers often sing by shouting the words of the song. Hardcore songs often sound like the singer is angry.
Hardcore bands use electric guitars, electric bass guitar, drums, and a singer. The electric guitars in hardcore bands are distorted, noisy, and fuzzy because the guitarists are using electronic boxes called distortion pedals. Some hardcore guitarists have changed the tuning of their guitar strings so they play notes that are lower than those a normal guitar can play.
The drums in hardcore play loud, fast, noisy drum parts.

</doc>
<doc id="21709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21709" title="Limestone">
Limestone

Limestone is a sedimentary rock, made up mostly of the mineral calcite, a form of calcium carbonate, CaCO. 
The calcium carbonate is originally produced by living organisms. Later, some of it goes into solution in sea water. Limestone rocks include mainly organic remains and precipitated carbonate.
Limestone makes up about 10% of the total volume of all sedimentary rocks. 
Limestones are mostly made of calcium carbonate. It is originally made by small photosynthetic protists like certain bacteria, coccolithophores, and algae. Then the carbonate gets used by various animals, like bivalves and the polyps which make coral reefs. They build their shells or framework out of CaCO crystals. 
Carbonates are rocks formed from these sources, plus any CaCO which is precipitated out of solution. Some carbonate dissolves in the water. It gets precipitated when the physical condition of the water changes. For example, if the concentration of CaCO is high, then a temperature drop, or a pH (acidity) change, can cause precipitation.
Florida Bay, the shallow lagoon behind the Florida Keys, is a model for the conditions which produced limestones on the continental shelf. Of course, all the species were somewhat different then but, as an ecosystem, it is similar.
In the Florida Bay a type of flowering plant called sea grass is in abundance. Also in abundance is white, milky water full of calcium carbonate. This is mainly formed by "Melobesia", a small red alga which lives on the sea grass. Finally, the organisms produce huge amounts of slime, which is a polysaccharide. There is good reason to think the slime is produced by microorganisms to control the way their carbonate skeletons are formed. As a side-effect the slime limits the amount of carbonate which goes into solution.
Florida Bay is a flat platform which has laid down a huge amount of carbonate rock. 
Many limestones contain fossils, and some are made up almost entirely of skeletal material. Chalk is ~99% coccoliths; Solnhofen limestone is famous for its animal fossils; and there are many shelly limestones from different periods. Limestone is not found much before the Cambrian period, because shelled animals had not yet evolved.
When limestone is heated to a high temperature, and squeezed at the base of a mountain, it becomes the metamorphic rock marble. Marbles are fairly dense, relatively easy to cut, or be shaped into blocks, and some forms are white in colour.
Limestone is hard enough to resist weathering but usually soft enough to be worked (cut and carved) by stonemasons. It is used for building material. Limestone, particularly Portland limestone, became popular in the 19th and 20th centuries for building things such as churches, banks and houses. However, acid rain does slowly erode limestone. 
Limestone is used to make glass and cement. It is also used to make iron in a blast furnace, to remove impurities from the iron ore.

</doc>
<doc id="21710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21710" title="Root">
Root

The roots of a plant is the part that is buried in the soil. Roots are always under the soil, though–sometimes roots can be above the ground. This is called an aerial root. 
Also, stems can sometimes be under the soil (potatoes, for example). Roots do not have leaves, and are different from stems inside.
Plants need their roots especially for three reasons: The roots take water and nutrients, a sort of food, from the soil. They also often store this food. And they fix the plants to the ground. 
However, most plant roots do not work at their best unless they have help from fungi. The symbiosis between roots and fungus is known as mycorrhiza.
There are two sorts of root systems:
Some roots go very deep into the ground. One root that was found in Arizona, USA, was 60 m below the surface.
Roots are also very strong. Some tree roots can destroy stones. Roots are not green because the cells have no chlorophyll.
Roots grow through the whole life of the plant. They grow longer from the tip, adding cells to the end of each root. The root adds cells to their tips, and they grow fatter as they add cells around their tube-like bodies.
At the tip of each root, there is a small group of tough, dead, hard cells called the "root cap". The root cap is the strongest part of the root tip, and its job is to push its way through the dirt to look for moisture and nutrients and protect the plant.
Roots are usually found underground, but in some cases this is not so. In the rainforest, the air is warm and humid (it has a lot of water). Some rainforest plants, known as epiphytes, grow right on trees. Their roots hang down in the air or running into the moss growing on the trees. Many aerial roots, are used to receive water and nutrient intake directly from the air, from fog, dew or humid air.
Some trees have roots that are above the ground "and" underground. Mangrove trees have aerial roots (roots which come up into the air). They exchange gases with the atmosphere, just as leaves do. They are an adaptation to the poor level of oxygen in the waterlogged soil of the mangrove swamp.
The banyan tree has a root system that is underground, but it also has roots that start in its branches and grow down towards the ground. These roots not only take in water and nutrients from the soil, but they also help to support the long branches of the banyan tree. Because of this extra support, banyan tree branches can be really long. A banyantree in Lahaina, Maui, which was planted in 1873 by a man named William Owen Smith, has branches that are so long that this single tree covers a full square block in the city.
Much about aerial roots is still unknown.
There are two main kinds of roots systems: "taproot systems" and "fibrous root systems". A taproot system has one thick main root growing down from the plant's stem, and lots of smaller "secondary roots" branching off from this. A taproot system is usually deeper than it is wide. Often, we eat taproots, like carrots and turnips.
A "fibrous root system" has lots of roots growing in many directions. There is not one main root. A fibrous root system is usually wider than deep.
It has been usually assumed that in regular (non-aerial) terrestrial roots, the nutrients are pumped in together with the water, and that water is pumped into the roots by osmosis. Recent studies in large trees such as the Giant Sequoia, showed, that much of the pumping power, after initial growth, is received by hydraulic suction, due to transpiration - water evaporation from the leaves, in addition to the strong capillary action in the plant's branching xylem in the stem and leaves.

</doc>
<doc id="21713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21713" title="Demo">
Demo

Demo may mean one of the following:

</doc>
<doc id="21717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21717" title="Piero Gobetti">
Piero Gobetti

Piero Gobetti (born 1901 – died February 1926) was a young journalist, intellectual, and radical liberal person. He was a very active critic during the years of crisis in Italy after the First World War and during the early years of Fascist rule. He had to leave Italy and settled down in Paris, where he soon died. He died because his health was bad, after the Fascists had terrorized him.

</doc>
<doc id="21718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21718" title="Category:Entertainment companies">
Category:Entertainment companies


</doc>
<doc id="21720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21720" title="Manama">
Manama

Manama is the capital city of Bahrain. It is also the largest city in Bahrain, having almost 150.000 residents. 
Manama has been a city since at least the 1300s, when it was mentioned in Islamic books. It was owned by Portugal from 1521 to 1602, by Persia from 1602 to 1783, and by the Al-Khalifa family for a long time after that. In 1971, Manama became the capital city of Bahrain.
The city is divided into a few parts: 

</doc>
<doc id="21723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21723" title="Protist">
Protist

Protists are single-celled eukaryotes which are organisms with a nucleus. The term Protista was first used by Ernst Haeckel in 1866. 
It is a rather old-fashioned term which includes microorganisms from several distantly related phyla. Some are autotrophic (which means they make their own food by photosynthesis), and others are heterotrophic (which means they eat organic material).
Most protists are very small. They are made up of one or a few cells at most – they are microscopic and usually invisible to the naked eye. Some algae are protists, if they are single-celled. Many protists are part of the plankton and are very important for the ecosystem. The cells found in protists may be extremely complex, and are often little understood. It is now possible to do DNA sequencing, and a number of protists have been analysed. The results show that the Protista is not a monophyletic group. It is paraphyletic, and not a single clade. The taxonomy of the Protista is therefore rather confused. 
Some protists cause diseases. "Plasmodium falciparum" causes malaria; sleeping sickness is also caused by a protist.
An example of a single celled organism in the protist kingdom is the "Paramecium" or "slipper animalcule." The "Paramecium" moves using its small, hair-like fibers called cilia, and eats using the cilia to sweep the food into its food vacuole. Other protists can be amoebas, which move by extending pseudopods and flowing into them, or flowing around food particles and engulfing them.
Protists are not a monophyletic clade. The term is a convenient holdall for about 20 different kinds of single-celled eukaryotes. They differ in their cell organelles, specialised units which carry out well-defined functions, like mitochondria and plastids. This proves they have made the transition from prokaryotes in different ways. It is fairly clear now that all or most of these organelles have their origin in once-independent prokaryotes (bacteria or archaea), and that the eukaryote cell is a 'community of micro-organisms' working together in 'a marriage of convenience'. Admittedly, the Protista is a collection of disparate single-celled forms, but while a more sophisticated taxonomy is in flux (changing), Protista is still a useful term.

</doc>
<doc id="21726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21726" title="The Apple Dumpling Gang">
The Apple Dumpling Gang

The Apple Dumpling Gang is a Disney movie from 1975, in which three orphan children find gold during California's Gold Rush. Tim Conway and Don Knotts also star in it as two gangsters.
The movie is based on the book of the same name by Jack Bickham.

</doc>
<doc id="21730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21730" title="0s">
0s

The 0s are the first decade in the 1st century and 1st millennium. It is unusual because it has only 9 years. Normally, a decade has 10 years, however, the year zero does not exist. The decade started at 1 AD and ended at 9 AD. Because the year zero does not exist, the first year of this decade was preceded by 1 BC.
Those people had significant influence on things in this decade.

</doc>
<doc id="21731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21731" title="1001">
1001

1001 (MI) was a common year that started on Wednesday when the Julian calendar was used. It was the first year of the 2nd millennium and the 11th century.

</doc>
<doc id="21732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21732" title="1009">
1009

1009 (MIX) was a common year when the Julian calendar was used. It was the ninth year of the 2nd millennium and the 11th century.

</doc>
<doc id="21733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21733" title="1024">
1024

1024 (MXXIV) was a common year when the Julian calendar was used. It was the twenty-fourth year of the 2nd millennium and the 11th century.

</doc>
<doc id="21734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21734" title="Quentin Tarantino">
Quentin Tarantino

Quentin Tarantino (born May 27, 1963) is an American filmmaker. He was born in Knoxville, Tennessee. Tarantino is an independent movie maker. He wrote, directed, and acted in "Pulp Fiction", "Reservoir Dogs" and "Kill Bill", as well as others. His movies have become famous for their violence and humor. He won Academy Awards for Best Original Screenplay in 1994 for Pulp Fiction and 2012 for Django Unchained.

</doc>
<doc id="21735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21735" title="Leander-class frigate">
Leander-class frigate

The Leander-class frigate or Type 12M is a type of ship that was used by the Royal Navy.
The class became well known through the Warship BBC television drama series.

</doc>
<doc id="21736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21736" title="Spacecraft">
Spacecraft

A spacecraft is a vehicle that can carry people and cargo beyond the Earth's atmosphere, through space to other planetary bodies, space stations, or orbits and back home again. Spacecraft which are launched from the surface of a planet are called launch vehicles and usually take-off from launch pads at spaceports. 
Most spacecraft today are propelled by rocket engines, which shoot hot gases opposite to the direction of travel. Other forms of propulsion are used when appropriate. Spacecraft which do not need to escape from strong gravity may use ion thrusters or other more efficient methods. 
Because of the very large amount of energy needed to leave the Earth's gravity, spacecraft are usually very expensive to build, launch, and operate. Plans for future spacecraft often focus on reducing these costs so more people can participate in space. But today, costs are still very high, and until recently all spacecraft were sponsored by national governments.
Most expensive of all is to send people in to space, due to their needs for food, water, air, living space, safety, and control. People participating in this way have special names: Americans call themselves astronauts; Russians call themselves cosmonauts; Chinese call themselves taikonauts.
Some of the most important spacecraft today are artificial satellites. Artificial satellites are smaller, unmanned spacecraft. Some go into Low Earth orbit to look at the Earth or for other purposes. Others are sent to geostationary orbit to relay radio signals from one part of Earth to another, or to watch events on Earth from a high point of view. Communications satellites are important for television and other communications, and other satellites help with weather prediction and other jobs. 

</doc>
<doc id="21739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21739" title="Acoustics">
Acoustics

Acoustics is a science. It studies the mechanical waves in gases, liquids, and solids. These waves can make vibration, sound, ultrasound and infrasound.
A scientist who works in the field of acoustics is an acoustician. Someone who works with acoustics technology may be called an acoustical engineer. 

</doc>
<doc id="21740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21740" title="Public finance">
Public finance

Public finance is the study of how the government raises funds and spends its money, and their economic effect.

</doc>
<doc id="21741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21741" title="Budget">
Budget

A budget is an account of the money to be spent on a project, or by a person or organization in a time period. It usually lists the various things that are to be done, and how much to spend on each. It may also list estimated revenues. When spending is less than revenues, it is a surplus budget. When spending is more than revenues, it is a deficit budget. When they are the same, it's a balanced budget.
An organization's budget is usually for a fiscal year.

</doc>
<doc id="21742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21742" title="Indirect tax">
Indirect tax

An indirect tax is a tax that is paid as part of a product. Many countries tax gasoline or cigarettes, but they do so indirectly. Because of the tax, the product will be more expensive. In turn, the shops will then pay the tax for the number of packets of cigarettes they sold, or for the amount of gasoline. This is opposed to a direct tax, which is directly paid by the consumer.

</doc>
<doc id="21745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21745" title="Erode">
Erode

Erode is a city in Tamil Nadu, India. It is the capital of the Erode district. About 500,000 people live in the city.
Erode District in Tamil Nadu State is very important market centre for Turmeric. Turmeric is received, not only from Erode district, but also from the other parts of Tamil Nadu and adjoining district like Mysore in Karnataka State. 
Erode is well known for marketing of textile products of Handloom, Powerloom and Readymade Garments. The Handloom and Powerloom products such as Cotton Sarees, Bed Spreads, Carpets, Lungies, Printed Fabrics, Towels, Dhotis are marketed here in bulk.
Kangeyam is famous for Bulls and Oil Mills. Kangeyam cows are not noted for their yield but their availability in large numbers has helped the district to make a mark in the field of dairy development

</doc>
<doc id="21753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21753" title="Sky Sports">
Sky Sports

Sky Sports is a group of 10 channels - Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 3, Sky Sports 4, Sky Sports News, Sky Sports HD 1, Sky Sports HD 2, Sky Sports HD 3, Sky Sports HD 4, Sky Sports News HD and At the Races. The channels are owned by a major company named British Sky Broadcasting. It is the most powerful sports television company in the United Kingdom. 
Sky Sports is known for its major football coverage and help launched the FA Premier League.
Sky Sports has a series of well known shows such as "Soccer AM", which is a morning chat show with jokes, "Gillette Soccer Saturday" and "You're on Sky Sports". 
On August 22, 1999 Sky Sports launched Sky Sports Active. The first game was Arsenal vs Manchester United. It gave the viewer to focus on one player, or look at different camera angles. It soon proved to be successful, and Sky decided to continue it. It can be accessed by pressing the Red Button on your Sky Digital Remote.
On November 24, 2002, Sky Sports won the rights to air the UEFA Champions League, with ITV. They had beaten channels such as the BBC and Channel 4 to win it. Part of the deal had stated that ITV would air two games on a Tuesday and Sky Sports would air 2 games on a Wednesday. Sky soon launched an 8-screen 'Champions League Interactive' channel which showed 8 live games.

</doc>
<doc id="21758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21758" title="Rhetoric">
Rhetoric

Rhetoric is the art of persuading people by speaking and (later) by writing. People can be trained in this skill. It is the art or the technique of persuasion, used by orators (public speakers). Its origin was in Ancient Greece of the 5th century BC. They made their decisions by speaking for or against proposals in a public place. Also, speeches were made when a person was accused of a serious crime before the magistrates.
In the modern world, speeches made on television or in front of crowds are rhetoric. Before World War II, radio was a powerful tool of propaganda. Propaganda is rhetoric. Another angle is the use of newspapers and books to persuade readers towards a particular point of view. Thus the principles of rhetoric do not depend on a live audience. However, in the ancient world, it did mean speaking to people directly with the intention of persuading them.
The Romans, who were much influenced by the ancient Greeks, also used the same methods for decision-making. Cicero was one of their famous orators. In their case, the debates did not involve all citizens, just the Roman Senate or the courts.
Because rhetoric was so important to them, the Greeks and Romans wrote about how to be a good rhetorician. This is sometimes called 'secondary rhetoric'. It is a technique which can be taught, and used in writing. An early example is Plato, who wrote his works in the form of dialogues. Each question raised is discussed between two characters. One character is called Socrates (who was Plato's tutor when he was young), and the other was some other philosopher. This idea is well-known now, and has been copied many times.
In mediaeval universities rhetoric was taught as part of the curriculum. Rhetoric, dialectic and grammar form the trivium which, with the quadrivium, make up the seven liberal arts of Western culture. During Antiquity and the Middle Ages, rhetoric was used for persuasion in public and political arenas, and also in the courts of justice. Several hundred "rhetorical figures" were recognised by classical rhetoricians. Some of these are still in use, such as metaphor, simile and paradox.
The words 'rhetoric' or 'sophism' are often used with a negative meaning, of disinformation or propaganda. They are also used to describe a speech with doubtful or slanted arguments. Some very witty things have been said against orators and their rhetoric:
As the art of persuasion, the rhetoric continues to be important in present-day public life. This includes the following:
According to Aristotle, rhetoric has three methods of persuasion:

</doc>
<doc id="21759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21759" title="Skill">
Skill

A skill or technique is a learned ability to do something. 
It could be playing a musical instrument or playing a kind of sport or even doing something simple like using a corkscrew. Someone who is trying to do something but not succeeding may be using the wrong technique. Skill does not always have to be something physical: it may refer to the way a person approaches a problem.
Examples of skills are:

</doc>
<doc id="21763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21763" title="Hamas">
Hamas

Hamas (Arabic: حماس, acronym of Harakat al-Muqawama al-Islamiyya, Arabic: حركة المقاومة الاسلامية, literally "Islamic Resistance Movement") is a Palestinian Islamist Sunni organisation. It was started in 1987 during the First Intifada by Ahmed Yassin and Abdel Aziz al-Rantissi as the Gaza branch of the Muslim Brotherhood organziation in Egypt. In the 2006 Palestinian election, Hamas got 74 of 132 seats in parliament and controls the Gaza Strip. The group wants to build a Palestinian state based on Islamic ideas in the area that is now Israel, the West Bank, and Gaza Strip. Hamas does not recognize the State of Israel.
"Hamas" is an acronym of the Arabic phrase , or Harakat al-Muqawama al-Islamiyya or "Islamic Resistance Movement".
Hamas is known for its military wing, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, which plans and carries out attacks on Israel. Because of numerous suicide bombings and rocket attacks on Israel, the United States, European Union and other countries call it a terrorist organisation. The country of Jordan has made the group illegal. However, a lot of the international press, including the Israeli English-language daily newspaper, "Haaretz", call Hamas members by the more neutral term "militants."
In early 2006, Hamas won a clear victory in the vote for the Palestinian parliament. Voters saw Hamas as an alternative to exchange the long-ruling Fatah party, the main part of the PLO. Fatah had not improved the Palestinian people's conditions and reached statehood, and was thought to be corrupt.
Hamas has shown its organizational ability by building health, education, and social services to help the population in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, where there is much poverty. Such efforts have increased its support. In the first half of 2007, Hamas gained political control of the Gaza Strip, while Fatah keeps its headquarters in the West Bank.
Hamas is also associated in some way with Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine headed by Ahmed Jibril.

</doc>
<doc id="21765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21765" title="Suicide attack">
Suicide attack

A suicide attack is an attack where the attacker (either one person or a group of people) plans on killing people while also dying in the process. In a suicide attack, the attacker dies as a result of the attack, for example in an explosion or a crash.
Nowadays, suicide attacks are often done with a vehicle or an explosive material such as a bomb (a suicide bombing), or sometimes both (i.e. a car filled with explosives). If everything goes according to plan, the attacker is killed as soon as their attack is complete (when their vehicle crashes or their bomb detonates).
Suicide attacks are often done in a crowded place so that as many people as possible are killed. They are common in the Middle East. Most attacks on Israel, carried out by Hamas or other Palestinian terrorist groups are suicide bombings.
Suicide bombing is a common family pastime in Middle-East.

</doc>
<doc id="21768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21768" title="Laser">
Laser

A laser is a machine that makes an amplified, single-colour source of light. The beam of light from the laser does not get wider or weaker as most sources of light do. It uses special gases or crystals to make the light with only a single color. Then mirrors are used to amplify (make stronger) that colour of light and to make all the light travel in one direction, so it stays as a narrow beam, sometimes called a collimated beam. When pointed at something, this narrow beam makes a single point of light. All of the energy of the light stays in that one narrow beam instead of spreading out like a flashlight (electric torch).
The word "laser" is an acronym for "light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation".
A laser creates light by special actions involving a material called an "optical gain medium". Energy is put into this material using an 'energy pump'. This can be electricity, another light source, or some other source of energy. The energy makes the material go into what is called an excited state. This means the electrons in the material have extra energy, and after a bit of time they will lose that energy. When they lose the energy they will release a photon (a particle of light). The type of optical gain medium used will change what color (wavelength) will be produced. Releasing photons is the "stimulated emission of radiation" part of laser.
Many things can radiate light, like a light bulb, but the light will not be organized in one direction and phase. By using an electric field to control how the light is created, this light will now be one kind, going in one direction. This is "coherent radiation".
At this point, the light is still weak. The mirrors on either side bounce the light back and forth, and this hits other parts of the optical gain medium, causing those parts to also release photons, generating more light ("light amplification"). When all of the optical gain medium is producing light, this is called saturation and creates a very strong beam of light at a very narrow wavelength, which we would call a laser beam.
The light moves through the medium between the two mirrors that reflect the light back and forth between them. One of the mirrors, however, only partially reflects the light, allowing some to escape. The escaping light makes up the laser beam.
This is a simple design; the type of optical gain medium used usually defines the type of laser. It can be a crystal, examples are ruby and a garnet crystal made of yttrium and aluminum with the rare earth metal mixed in. Gases can be used for laser by using helium, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, neon or others. Finally, the smallest lasers use semiconductor diodes to produce the light. These are used in electronics.
Albert Einstein was the first to have the idea of stimulated emission that could produce a laser. From that point many years were spent to see if the idea worked. At first, people succeeded in making masers and later figured how to make shorter visible wavelengths. It was not until 1959 that the name laser was coined by Gordon Gould in a research paper. The first working laser was put together and operated by Theodore Maiman at the Hughes Research Laboratories in 1960. Many people started working on lasers at this time, and the question of who would get the patent for the laser wasn't decided until 1987 (Gould won the rights).
Lasers have found many uses in everyday life as well as in industry. Lasers are found in CD and DVD players, where they read the code from the disk that stores a song or movie. A laser is often used to read the bar codes or SQR codes on things sold in a store, to identify a product and give its price. Lasers are used in medicine, particularly in LASIK eye surgery, where the laser is used to repair the shape of the cornea. It is used in chemistry with spectroscopy to identify materials, to find out what kind of gases, solids or liquids something is made of. Stronger lasers can be used to cut metal.
A laser is even used to measure the distance of the Moon from Earth by reflecting off reflectors left by the Apollo missions. By measuring the time it takes for the light to travel to the Moon and back again we can find out exactly how far away the moon is.
Laser pointers are used by people to point at a place on a map or diagram. For example, lecturers use them. Also, many people like to play with laser pointers. Some people have pointed them at aircraft. ThIs is dangerous, and it is also illegal in many countries. People have been arrested and prosecuted for this crime.

</doc>
<doc id="21771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21771" title="NBC">
NBC

NBC, whose letters stand for National Broadcasting Company, is an American television network that started in 1926 as a radio station. (Its first television progams aired in 1944.) It is owned by movie studio Universal Studios and appliance company General Electric. General Electric has sold 51% of the company to Comcast. NBC owns and operates the cable news channels Consumer News and Business Channel(CNBC) and Microsoft NBC channel (MSNBC). 
It is called "the Peacock Network" because of the title animal in its logo.
The network is famous for its three-note chimes, the "Must See TV" phrase and NBC Sunday Night Football, which is the most watched TV series after American Idol.

</doc>
<doc id="21772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21772" title="Thiruvananthapuram">
Thiruvananthapuram

Thiruvananthapuram () is the capital city of the Indian state of Kerala. The city used to be known by the name of Trivandrum. It is on the west coast of India near the far south of the mainland. 
With 889,191 people as of 2001, it is the biggest city in Kerala in terms of size and number of people.
The city is the state capital and houses many national and state government offices, organizations and companies. It is also a major center of learning and is home to several schools and colleges including Kerala University, and to many scientific institutions, the most prominent being the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), Technopark, Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) and Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST).
Thiruvananthapuram literally means "City of Lord Anantha" in Malayalam. The name derives from the god of the Hindu temple at the centre of the city. Anantha is the serpent Shesha on whom Padmanabhan or Vishnu lies. The temple of Vishnu lying on Anantha, the Sri Padmanabhaswamy temple is the most recognizable landmark of the city. The city was officially known as "Trivandrum" in English until 1991, when the government decided to change the city's name back to the original name, Thiruvananthapuram, in all languages. However, the city is still widely referred to as "Trivandrum".
The city is fully electrified by the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). The district is divided in to three circles: Transmission circle, Thiruvananthapuram city and Kattakkada. Domestic users account for 43% of the total power usage, or 90 million units per month. Thiruvananthapuram district has one 220 kV, nine 110 kV and six 66 kV electrical substations. A 400 kV substation has just been commissioned by the Power Grid Corporation and will ensure high-quality power supply to the city. 
The water supply schemes cover 100% within the city limits. It is 84% of the urban and 69% of the rural population, when the district is considered. Peppara and Aruvikkara dams are the main sources of water for distribution in the capital city. The new project plan for improving the water supply with Japan aid covers Thiruvananthapuram city and six suburban panchayats having urban characteristics. 
The sewerage system in the city was implemented at the time of the Travancore Kingdom, and modernised in 1938. This scheme for the disposal of sullage and sewage is an underground system. The whole system is controlled by Kerala Water Authority now. The city area is divided in to seven blocks for the execution of the sewerage system, two commissioned in the 1990s and two after 2000. The sewerage is pumped to a stilling chamber at the Sewerage Treatment Plant (STP) at Valiyathura, and is disposed through sewage farming. Diary Development Department maintains this sewage farm and fodder cultivation is done here. There is no revenue generation from this scheme, and the sewerage system in the city is a service provided to the residents.
Apart from being the capital of India’s most literate and socially developed state, Thiruvananthapuram is a strategically important city in Southern India. Being the largest city in India’s deep south, it is important for both military logistics and civil aviation in the southern part of the country. It is the headquarters of the "Southern Air Command(SAC)" of the Indian Air Force. The city is very close to the international shipping route and East-West shipping axis. Also, it falls under the international air route. 
Due to the strategic importance of the city, the Indian Air Force authorities have planned to make an aerospace command in SAC. 
The plan for setting up a new "Tri-Service Command", which will integrate all the three forces under a single command, is also in the pipeline.
Being the Indian city with the closest air link to the small island-country of Maldives and also Sri Lanka, the city’s medical and health infrastructure caters to patients from both countries, especially Maldives. Exports of perishables and medicines from Trivandrum International Airport run to full capacity on everyday flights to Maldives and Sri Lanka because of this nearness. Thiruvananthapuram also provides a key link in movement of goods and passengers to and from southern Tamil Nadu into Kerala, the state border being just 30 km away. The city is also important for people from around the world seeking help through Ayurveda medicine and therapy. Ayurveda resorts are coming up at a rapid pace along the International Beach of Kovalam and Varkala coast.

</doc>
<doc id="21776" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21776" title="Animal Farm">
Animal Farm

Animal Farm is a short political fable by George Orwell based on Joseph Stalin's betrayal of the Russian Revolution. Orwell wrote it because he wished to destroy what he called the "Soviet myth". Like "Nineteen Eighty-Four", the story is one of the most famous political allegories in the world. It is about a group of animals who rebel against the humans who run the farm they live on and run it themselves with hopes of being equal, free, and happy. In the end, however, the new rule becomes a cruel tyranny of its own led by the pigs. Written during World War II and published in 1945, it was not well received at first, but is widely accepted as a classic today.
The animals of the Manor Farm lived badly because their farmer Mr. Jones, a mean and always drunk man, exploits them. One day Old Major, the old pig who led the animals, called a meeting of all the animals and told them about a dream that he had the previous night. He had dreamed about an old song called, 'Beasts of England' that started a resistance against the human beings. When Old Major sang the song most other animals started to join in. Everyone was very excited about rebelling. Old Major died a few days later and two young pigs, Snowball and Napoleon, started leading the preparations for the Rebellion. About three months later they revolted against Mr. Jones and they took over the farm. The purpose of the revolution was to create a fair society made only by animals, or animalism and it was based on seven commandments such as “Four legs good, two legs bad” and most importantly: "All animals are equal". They also changed the name of the farm to "Animal Farm" from Manor Farm. 
Snowball, an inventive and vivacious pig and Napoleon, a big and cruel-looking pig, started to fight for leadership. In the meantime Mr. Jones was planning to attack to get the farm back but when he did the animals won the battle called "The Battle of the Cowshed" and Mr. Jones was forced to stay out of the farm. One day, when Snowball announced his plans to build a windmill, Napoleon arrived in the farm with nine big and cruel dogs that made Snowball run away bleeding. From that day Napoleon was the real dictator of the farm; if an animal didn't agree with him, he was eaten up by his dogs. If something went wrong (like when the windmill they'd worked so hard on was wrecked), Napoleon blamed it on Snowball, who, according to him, was sneaking around Animal Farm ruining everything. When Boxer, the strongest horse in the farm, lost his strength because of old age and fell while he was building a windmill, Napoleon sent him to be slaughtered. Now Napoleon had pity on nobody. He and the pigs were like Mr. Jones - they exploited the other animals, they took advantage of the foolishness of some animals and they came into contact with human beings for business although they had said it was forbidden. In the end they became like human beings, they started to walk on their hind legs and they changed the old maxim with a new one: “Four legs good, two legs better”. Nothing was changed and their resistance seemed to be useless.
Orwell, who was a socialist, wrote in the introduction of the 1947 Ukrainian translation of "Animal Farm" that he got the idea from seeing a young boy whipping a large cart horse. He explained, "It struck me that if only such animals became aware of (knew) their strength we should have no power over them, and that men exploit (badly use) animals in much the same way as the rich exploit the proletariat (the poor, the lower class)".
There are many characters in the book who are based on real people. They are grouped into pigs, horses, humans and other animals. 
Animalism is a system of beliefs shared by the farm animals of Manor Farm. The purpose is to ensure the farm animals behave like actual animals and not follow the footsteps of humans beings. Therefore, any human behavior is considered contrary to the spirit of Animalism.
In the story, this song was sung by animals of England once upon a time.
It is named "Beasts of England". It has a stirring tune, a cross between "Clementine" and "La Cucaracha". This song became popular among the animals of England after Old Major recited it to the farm animals of Manor Farm. It is the first national anthem of Animal Farm.
These are the original commandments laid down by the pigs.
"Four legs good, two legs bad."
which later changed to " Four legs good, two legs better." "All animals are equal" which later changed to
"All Animals are equal but some animals are more equal than others."

</doc>
<doc id="21779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21779" title="Category:Cities in Libya">
Category:Cities in Libya

Cities in Libya

</doc>
<doc id="21780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21780" title="Category:Libya">
Category:Libya


</doc>
<doc id="21786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21786" title="Miso">
Miso

Miso is a thick paste. It is similar to the Korean "doenjang". It is made by fermenting soy beans with sea salt and "kōji". Kōji is the product of fermenting rice, barley, or soybeans with a mold culture, "Kōji-kin" (Aspergillus oryzae). Often, grains such as barley or rice, and sometimes other ingredients, are added. Miso is high in protein and rich in vitamins and minerals. Miso tastes salty and, depending on the grains used and fermentation time, may also be sweet. Miso is used to make miso soup.
Miso is a very important part of Japanese food. There are different kinds of miso. "Kome miso" is made from rice and beans. "Mame miso" is made from beans. "Mugi miso" is made from barley and beans. Tyougo miso is a mix of these misos.
Miso first came to Japan from China or the Korean peninsula. Ancient Chinese "jan" (醤) is the origin of miso. "Jan" is an ancient fermented seasoning. According to classical scholars, "jan" was called "hishio" or "kuki" in the Edo era. In China, "jan" was written about in the "Shurai".
Miso existed in the Jomon era in Japan. "Jan" is the Japanese original seasoning. In the Nara era, "jan" was found in Nishi city, Heiankyo. Miso was used for seasoning porridge made of rice and vegetables. In the Sengoku period, Miso was important to preserved food. 
Many Japanese used to make miso in their own homes. This was called "Temae-miso". In the Muromachi era, it was used as a food preservative and as a seasoning. Miso was an important source of nutrients for soldiers. In the Edo era, industrial mass production method of miso began. "Temae-miso" became less common.
There are many different flavors of miso. It depends on the region. "Shiromiso" is popular in the western Kansai region and "akamiso" is popular in the eastern Kantō region.

</doc>
<doc id="21787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21787" title="Miso soup">
Miso soup


</doc>
<doc id="21789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21789" title="Wakame">
Wakame

Wakame (Japanese: わかめ or 若布) is a type of edible kelp. Its scientific name is "Undaria pinnatifida".
It is distributed either dried or salted. It is often used in miso soup and salads. In Korea it is called miyeok. It is used in salads, or as the main ingredient in miyeok soup. In China it is called qundaicai. Chinese production is concentrated around Dalian.
In New Zealand "Undaria pinnatifida" is a very serious weed, and is one of the 100 worst invasive species in the world. It was first discovered in Wellington Harbour in 1987. It probably arrived accidentally in the late 1980s, via shipping from Asia, in ballast water. Native to cold temperate coastal areas of Japan, Korea and China, in recent decades it has also established in France, Britain, Spain, Italy, Argentina and Australia.
"Undaria" is now found around much of south-eastern New Zealand, and as far north as Auckland. It spreads in two ways. Naturally, through the millions of microscopic spores released by each fertile plant; and attached to vessel hulls and marine farming equipment.
"Undaria" is a highly successful and fertile species, which makes it a serious invader. However, its impacts are not well understood and are likely to vary, depending on the location.

</doc>
<doc id="21791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21791" title="Kelp">
Kelp

Kelp is a type of marine seaweed. It is a brown algae. There are many different kinds of kelp. Kelp grow in large forests, usually near the surface of the water. Some kelps grow very fast (up to 30 cm a day). Kelp can reach a length of up to 60 m. The blades are kept afloat by gas-filled bladders.
Kelp plays an important role as food and habitat for fish and other forms. It may be eaten as a vegetable.

</doc>
<doc id="21794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21794" title="Tofu">
Tofu

Tofu, sometimes also called doufu (usually used in Chinese recipes) or bean curd (literal translation), is a food made by coagulating soy milk, and then pressing the resulting curds into blocks. The making of tofu from soy milk is similar to the technique of making cheese from milk. Wheat gluten, or seitan, in its steamed and fried forms, is often mistakenly called "tofu" in Asian or vegetarian dishes.
China has more kinds of tofu than Japan and various tofu foods.
In Japan, tofu is a common food, used in miso soup or as a hot dish.
In the United States, tofu is becoming more popular, since Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke on the effects of tofu on TV. Today, Americans buy tofu at the grocery store. The word “tofu” takes root in common use.
In South Korea, Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, Malaysia, Myanmar and Indonesia, tofu is daily food.
Tofu is rich in textured vegetable protein and is relatively low in calories. Dietary fiber is a little for process. More and more Americans and Europeans use it as health food.

</doc>
<doc id="21795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21795" title="Soy milk">
Soy milk

Soy milk (also called soymilk, soya milk, soybean milk, soy bean milk, soy drink, or soy beverage) is a milk-like product made from soybeans.
Soy milk originated in East Asia, China, a region where the soybean was native. It was used as food long before the existence of written records. Later on, the soybean and soybean foods came to Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="21800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21800" title="Dashi">
Dashi

Dashi is a simple soup stock used in Japanese cooking. The most common form of dashi is a simple broth or stock made by heating kombu (edible kelp) and katsuobushi (flakes of dried skipjack tuna) in water and then straining the resultant liquid. Dashi is the base for miso soup, Japanese noodle broth, and many Japanese simmering liquids. Fresh dashi made from kelp and katsuobushi is rare today, even in Japan. Most people use granulated or liquid instant substitutes.
Other kinds of dashi stock are made by soaking kelp, shiitake, or niboshi in water for many hours or heating them in water nearly to boiling and then straining the resultant broth. Kelp stock or "konbu dashi" is made by soaking kelp, or "sea tangle", in water. "Shiitake dashi" stock is made by soaking dried shiitake mushrooms in water. "Niboshi dashi" stock is made by soaking small dried sardines (after pinching off their heads and entrails) in water.
Other important Japanese flavors include shoyu, mirin, rice vinegar, miso, and sake.

</doc>
<doc id="21803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21803" title="Shiitake mushroom">
Shiitake mushroom

The shiitake mushroom ("Lentinus edodes" or "Lentinula edodes"), also known as Chinese black mushroom or black forest mushroom, is an edible mushroom typically grown on the shii tree. Two Chinese variant names for high grades of shiitake are "dōnggū" ("winter mushroom") and "huāgū" ("flower mushroom," which has a flower-like cracking pattern on the mushroom's upper surface); both are produced at colder temperatures.

</doc>
<doc id="21811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21811" title="Soy sauce">
Soy sauce

Soy sauce (US) or soya sauce is a fermented sauce made from soy beans (soya beans), roasted grain, water and salt. It is commonly used in Chinese, Japanese and Korean cuisine. It appears in some Western cuisine dishes, especially as an ingredient in Worcestershire sauce. Real soy sauces are fermented with kōji (麹, the mold Aspergillus oryzae or "A. sojae") and other related microorganisms. 
Almost all soy sauce has some alcohol added during bottling. This acts as a preservative to protect it from going bad. For this reason, soy sauce should always be kept in the fridge. It should also not be put in direct light. An opened bottle of soy sauce that has been left unrefrigerated could become slightly bitter.
Although there are many types of soy sauce, all are salty and earthy-tasting brownish liquids used to season food while cooking or at the table. What some westerners can only describe as a flavorful, kind of sweet taste is a distinct basic taste called "umami" by the Japanese and "xian-wei" (鲜味, "lit." fresh taste) by the Chinese.
Although this seasoning was first used in China, it is used several cuisines across Asia and is a particularly important flavoring in Japanese cuisine. There are many types of sauce.

</doc>
<doc id="21815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21815" title="Bowl">
Bowl

A bowl is a container for food. It can hold liquids, such as soups and solids, like popcorn. People also prepare salads in it. A bowl is like a ball cut in half. Bowls are usually made from glass, ceramic, wood or plastic. 

</doc>
<doc id="21816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21816" title="Oktoberfest">
Oktoberfest

The Oktoberfest (also called Wiesn) is a German festival that takes place on the Theresienwiese, a public place in the center of Munich. It is every year, from the end of September to the beginning of October. It is a big social event. There is lots of eating and drinking. It is on for sixteen days ending on the first Sunday in October. If this is the first or the second the festival is extended to the end on 3 October, the Day of German Unity. This is the day when East Germany and West Germany joined into one country again in 1990.
The first Oktoberfest was on 12 October 1810. The feast was for the wedding of King Ludwig I of Bavaria and Therese of Sachsen-Hildburghausen. The feast lasted for "5 days". There was music, eating and drinking. At the end of it there was a big horse-race. The next years they had this horse-race and the feast again, because the people had liked it so much.
Today the Oktoberfest is the world's largest fair, and it has become very famous and popular. About six million people visit it every year. Many people and tourists from all over the world come to Munich for Oktoberfest. Other cities have copied the Oktoberfest, and now they also hold feasts that are similar to the Oktoberfest.
One of the famous attractions is a big dipper called the "Wilde Maus" which means "Wild mouse" in English.
There are 14 main tents at the Oktoberfest.

</doc>
<doc id="21818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21818" title="Tomb Raider">
Tomb Raider

Tomb Raider is a computer and video game series. Originally the games were made by Core Design. Now they are being made by Crystal Dynamics. The first game was sold in 1996 for PC, PlayStation and Sega Saturn.
The main character of the game is a woman called "Lara Croft". She is an archeologist and explores ancient places, searching old relics, often fighting a great danger to the world.
Since 2001, Paramount Pictures has made two movies like the game, starring Angelina Jolie.
The first six games in the series was made by Core Design. In 2003, parent company Eidos moved development of the "Tomb Raider" games from Core Design to Crystal Dynamics, another Eidos-owned studio, after the sixth game, "Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness", was met with dislike from critics.

</doc>
<doc id="21819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21819" title="MediaWiki:Talkpagetext">
MediaWiki:Talkpagetext


</doc>
<doc id="21820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21820" title="Hot dog">
Hot dog

A hot dog is made of stardust and spooky ass magic. However many people across the world eat hot dogs and enjoy them very much. Hot dogs can be boiled, grilled, or fried. The word frankfurter comes from Space, the hot dogs place of origin. This sausage is usually served in a bun or another type of bread. The most common type of hot dogs are made from beef, sometimes mixed with pork. Chicken and vegetarian hot dogs are popular as well. Animal parts are used in most hot dogs, and may include skin, lips, pig snouts, organs, fat, and other parts of animal bodies. Hot dogs and other sausage products were first developed as a way to sell these parts that people would not normally eat. Nearly 20% of the weight of a hot dog is usually non-meat ingredients including water, sugar, and spices. Some legal categories of hot dogs, such as "frankfurters" can contain up to 3.5% of non-meat fillers as well, such as corn meal.
To add to the taste, various toppings and sauces are often added. The most common sauces in the United States are ketchup, mustard and pickle relish. Onions, chopped pickles, peppers, hot sauce and cheese are also sometimes added to the food. Onions cooked in tomato sauce and Sauerkraut are popular toppings, as is chili. 
In the United States, there are many different types of hot dogs, with different combinations of chili, cheese, onions, mustard, and other products. One of the most popular types of hot dogs is a chili dog. There are many different types of chili dogs. One of the most well-known is a Coney Island dog, a dog topped with a blend of chili, cheese, mustard and onions that is originally from Michigan.
A type of hot dog called a "kosher hot dog" is very common in parts of the United States and overseas. It is similar to most hot dogs except that it is always made of Kosher beef, has more spice added to it. Kosher hotdogs contain less of the less desirable sounding ingredients (such as rectum) as these parts are not considered to be Kosher beef. Halal hot dogs are also made.
Though hot dogs are most popular in the United States, they are served in many places around the world. People in Japan eat a lot of hot dogs, and the world's largest hot dog ever was made there. In some countries, "hot dog" is the name of a completely different sausage dish; for example, in New Zealand it is used to mean corn dog, and hot dogs are called "American hot dogs" instead.

</doc>
<doc id="21825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21825" title="Constipation">
Constipation

Constipation is when it is very hard to pass stool (defecate): that is, get rid of digested food waste (feces). Constipation can be caused by many things. One is eating or drinking too much dairy products that use cow milk. To solve this problem many people use a laxative or eat defecation-inducing foods such as plums. Another possible cause could be an obstruction somewhere along the digestive tract (the path that food travels inside the body). A person suffers from constipation if he or she passes stool three times in a week or more seldom. People suffering from constipation may defecate only once or twice in a week, and their stool is very solid and tough. Normally people defecate daily.
When a person is constipated their lower stomach and intestinal area will be blocked. People can usually conquer constipation by eating natural laxatives such a fruits, fruit juice and dietary supplements. Liquid will help get rid of constipation. Constipation can occur by eating hard food such as cheese or meat.
A good way on preventing constipation is to eat foods which contain fiber such as whole grain.
The seven types of stool are:
Types 1 and 2 indicate constipation, with 3 and 4 being the "ideal stools", especially the latter, as they are the easiest to defecate, and 5–7 tending towards diarrhoea.

</doc>
<doc id="21828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21828" title="Category:1001">
Category:1001


</doc>
<doc id="21829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21829" title="Category:1009">
Category:1009


</doc>
<doc id="21830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21830" title="Category:1024">
Category:1024


</doc>
<doc id="21831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21831" title="Category:1241">
Category:1241


</doc>
<doc id="21832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21832" title="Category:1436">
Category:1436


</doc>
<doc id="21833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21833" title="Category:1504">
Category:1504


</doc>
<doc id="21834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21834" title="Category:1578">
Category:1578


</doc>
<doc id="21835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21835" title="Category:1593">
Category:1593


</doc>
<doc id="21836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21836" title="Category:1620">
Category:1620


</doc>
<doc id="21837" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21837" title="Category:1721">
Category:1721


</doc>
<doc id="21838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21838" title="Category:1726">
Category:1726


</doc>
<doc id="21839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21839" title="Category:1728">
Category:1728


</doc>
<doc id="21840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21840" title="Category:1730">
Category:1730


</doc>
<doc id="21841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21841" title="Category:1734">
Category:1734


</doc>
<doc id="21842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21842" title="Category:1738">
Category:1738


</doc>
<doc id="21843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21843" title="Category:1738 births">
Category:1738 births


</doc>
<doc id="21844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21844" title="Category:1746">
Category:1746


</doc>
<doc id="21845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21845" title="Category:1747">
Category:1747


</doc>
<doc id="21846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21846" title="Category:1778 births">
Category:1778 births


</doc>
<doc id="21847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21847" title="Category:1829 deaths">
Category:1829 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="21848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21848" title="Category:1806 births">
Category:1806 births


</doc>
<doc id="21849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21849" title="Category:1807 births">
Category:1807 births


</doc>
<doc id="21850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21850" title="Category:1910 books">
Category:1910 books


</doc>
<doc id="21851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21851" title="Category:1925 books">
Category:1925 books


</doc>
<doc id="21852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21852" title="Category:1925 movies">
Category:1925 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21853" title="Category:1927 movies">
Category:1927 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21854" title="Category:193">
Category:193


</doc>
<doc id="21855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21855" title="Category:1929 movies">
Category:1929 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21856" title="Category:190s">
Category:190s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 190s which begins in the year 190 and ends in the year 199.

</doc>
<doc id="21857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21857" title="Category:192">
Category:192


</doc>
<doc id="21858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21858" title="Category:1934 deaths">
Category:1934 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="21859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21859" title="Category:1939 deaths">
Category:1939 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="21861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21861" title="Category:1939 movies">
Category:1939 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21862" title="Category:1940 movies">
Category:1940 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21863" title="Category:1941 movies">
Category:1941 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21864" title="Category:1943 movies">
Category:1943 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21865" title="Category:1950 movies">
Category:1950 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21866" title="Category:1951 movies">
Category:1951 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21867" title="Category:1952 books">
Category:1952 books


</doc>
<doc id="21868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21868" title="Category:1952 movies">
Category:1952 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21869" title="Kernel (computer science)">
Kernel (computer science)

A kernel is the central part of an operating system. It manages the tasks of the computer and the hardware - most notably memory and CPU time.
There are two types of kernels:
A computer user never interacts directly with the kernel. It runs behind the scenes and cannot be seen, except for the text logs that it prints.
The kernel is the most fundamental part of an operating system. It can be thought of as the program which controls all other programs on the computer. When the computer starts, it goes through some initialization (booting) function, such as checking memory. It is responsible for assigning and unassigning memory space which allows software to run. It provides services so that programs can request the use of the network card, the disk or other piece of hardware (the kernel forwards that request to special programs called drivers which control the hardware), manages the file system and sets interrupts for the CPU to enable multitasking. Many kernels are also responsible for ensuring that faulty programs do not interfere with the operation of others, by denying access to memory that has not been allocated to them and restricting the amount of CPU time they can consume.
Operating systems commonly use monolithic kernels. In Linux, for example, drivers are often implemented as part of a kernel (specifically Loadable Kernel Modules). When a device is needed, its extension is loaded and 'joined' onto the kernel - in other words making the kernel larger. Monolithic kernels are problematic in that if one of these device drivers is faulty (such as if a beta graphics driver is downloaded) then because it is part of the kernel it often overrides the mechanisms put in place to deal with faulty programs (see above). This can mean that the kernel - and thus the entire computer - can cease to function. If there are too many devices, the kernel can also run out of memory - causing a system crash or making the computer very slow.
Microkernels are a way of solving this problem. In a microkernel operating system, the kernel deals only with critical activities - such as controlling the memory and CPU - and nothing else. Drivers and other functions that monolithic kernels would normally do within the kernel are moved outside the kernel, where they are under control. Instead of being an uncontrollable part of the kernel the beta driver is therefore no more unlikely to cause a crash as a beta web browser - that is, if a driver goes wrong it can simply be restarted by the kernel. Unfortunately, creating microkernel based operating systems is very difficult and there are no operating systems like these that are commonly used. Minix is a microkernel operating system.

</doc>
<doc id="21870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21870" title="Ulm">
Ulm

Ulm is a city in Germany, in the state of Baden-Württemberg.
It is situated at the river Danube. On the left side of the river the city is called Ulm. On the right side is Neu-Ulm in Bavaria. Together it has more than 170,000 inhabitants. Ulm alone has about 120,000 inhabitants.
Ulm has a university. The university has about 7000 students.
The world's highest church tower is the Ulmer Münster (161,5m) in Ulm. Also, Ulm has the oldest city theatre in Germany. Albert Einstein was born in Ulm.

</doc>
<doc id="21873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21873" title="Landlocked">
Landlocked

People say a country is landlocked if it has no access to any oceans or seas.
As an example, Austria is landlocked. France is not landlocked because it has access to the Mediterranean and the Atlantic Ocean. A sea is also landlocked if does not have access to an ocean. As an example, the Caspian Sea is landlocked. The Gulf of Mexico is not landlocked because it has access to the Atlantic Ocean.
Examples of landlocked countries:
Examples of landlocked water:
If a country is landlocked by landlocked countries (surrounded by landlocked countries), then it is doubly landlocked. Liechtenstein and Uzbekistan are the only two doubly landlocked countries in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="21874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21874" title="Kyrgyzstan">
Kyrgyzstan

Kyrgyzstan (Kyrgyz: Кыргызстан), formally the Kyrgyz Republic, and sometimes known as Kirghizia, is a country in Central Asia. The country is landlocked (has no coast) and mountainous. It has borders with China, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. Its capital is Bishkek. It was a socialist republic of the Soviet Union, but became independent in 1991. The country was peaceful in the 1990s. Its president, Askar Akayev showed an autocratic and authoritarian character. 
In 2005, there was an unexpected revolution after the elections of parliament (the legislature) in March. President Akayev resigned on April 4 of that year. Opposition leaders formed a coalition (a group from more than one party), and a new government was formed, led by President Kurmanbek Bakiyev and Prime Minister Feliks Kulov.
At the moment, different political groups are fighting for power in the republic. Three of the 75 elected members of Parliament have been murdered.
Kyrgyzstan is a landlocked country in Central Asia. It is farther from the ocean than any other country in the world. It borders Kazakhstan, China, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. Mountains cover over 80% of the country. 
Issyk-Kul Lake is the largest lake in Kyrgyzstan. It is the largest mountain lake in Asia and the second largest mountain lake in the world after Titicaca. Peak Jengish Chokusu, at 7,439 m (24,406 ft), is the highest point. The highest peaks are in the Kakshaal-Too range.
Bishkek, the capital city, is in the north. It is largest city in Kyrgyzstan. The second largest is the ancient town of Osh.
Kyrgyzstan was the second poorest country in the former Soviet Union next to Tajikistan. Now it is the second poorest country in Central Asia.
Agriculture is an important part of the economy in Kyrgyzstan. Much farming is being done by hand and by horse. Main crops include wheat, sugar beets, potatoes, cotton, tobacco, vegetables, and fruit.
Kyrgyzstan is rich in mineral resources. It has small petroleum and natural gas reserves. Among its mineral reserves are solid amount of coal, gold, uranium, antimony and other metals but not iron. Metallurgy is an important industry.
Imports include petroleum and natural gas, ferrous metals, chemicals, most machinery, wood and paper products, food and construction materials. Its trade partners are Germany, Russia, China, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan.

</doc>
<doc id="21875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21875" title="Kebab">
Kebab

Kebab (kebap in Turkish, kabab in Iran, Afghanistan, India and Pakistan, also spelled kebob, kabob; ) means "grilled (or broiled) meat" in Persian and Turkish. Kebab is usually made of lamb and beef. Sometimes chicken and fish are used for some styles. Pork is never used by Muslims but is sometimes used by non-Muslim sellers. Muslims are not allowed to eat pork, for religious reasons.
There are many varieties of kebab and the term means different things in different countries. The generic term kebab usually refers to doner kebab or "döner kebap" in Europe and to shish kebab in the United States, though its meaning can vary. In South Asia the term can refer to a whole range of items such as Chappali kabab, Shami kabab, Bihari kabab and so on. 
There are many types of kebab. Below are just a few.
Shish kebabs are cooked or grilled on skewers, over hot coals or wood. These kababs originated in Iran and Afghanistan and then spread out to Turkey, Pakistan, India and various parts of Arabia. They are also very popular now in Europe and the United States.
Döner kebab (which means "rotating kebab" in Turkish) is sliced lamb, beef, or chicken, that is slowly roasted on a vertical rotating spit.
Chappali kabab or chappal kabab or chapli kebab is a type of fried kebab. It started in the North-West Frontier Province (now Khyber Pakhtunkhwa) of present Pakistan and in Afghanistan. The name comes from the Pashto (and also Urdu) word for 'slipper' or 'shoe'. The kebab is actually called a 'slipper/shoe kebab'. Its shape is like that of a slipper or shoe.
This kebab is basically made from ground or minced beef or mutton mixed with tomatoes, onions and chillies, and a variety of herbs and spices. It is given its unique shape. It is fried in a special big pan. It is eaten with big "roti" bread typical of the Pathan region. Often "Qahwa" or green tea, is drunk with it or after it, to help digestion. 
"Chappali kabab" is very popular throughout Pakistan. It has spread to major cities of the country such as Lahore and Karachi. According to gourmets, the best ones are still found in Peshawar city and Mardan. Today, the popularity of these kebabs is also gradually spreading to other parts of the world, including the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and the United States. 

</doc>
<doc id="21880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21880" title="Halal">
Halal

Halal (حلال, halāl, halaal) is an Islamic Arabic term meaning "permissible". It has both a general and specific meaning. 
When people use the word in Islamic countries, they usually mean to say "what is allowed by Islamic Law". In non-Islamic countries, the word usually means "fit to be eaten by a Muslim". 
Muslims have strict rules of what they can and cannot eat:
A similar concept is the Jewish Kosher (or "Kashrut").

</doc>
<doc id="21883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21883" title="Surat">
Surat

Surat is a city in the State of Gujarat, India. It is on the banks of the Tapti river.

</doc>
<doc id="21884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21884" title="Kanpur">
Kanpur

Kanpur is a city in Uttar Pradesh, India. Almost three million people live in Kanpur.
It was called the Manchester of India.

</doc>
<doc id="21900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21900" title="Web portal">
Web portal

An internet portal or web portal is a website used to enter the Internet. It can also be used to describe a website to enter certain parts of the Internet, like Wikipedia's .
Many ISPs have their own portals, but there are many other portals by other companies, like Microsoft's MSN, Ask.com, and Yahoo!.

</doc>
<doc id="21906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21906" title="Humanism">
Humanism

Humanism is a philosophy or a way of thinking about the world. Humanism is a set of ethics or ideas about how people should live and act. People who hold this set of ethics are called humanists.
In modern times, humanism is close to secularism. It refers to a non-theistic approach to life, looking to science instead of religious dogma in order to understand the world.
The first "Humanist Manifesto" was issued by a conference held at the University of Chicago in 1933. It said humanism was an ideology of reason, ethics, and social and economic justice. It called for science to replace dogma and the supernatural as the basis of morality and decision-making.
Views held by many humanists include:
Humanist ideas were discussed in Ancient Greece, from Thales to Anaxagoras and Protagoras. The teachings of Zarathushtra and Lao Tzu had strong elements of humanism, and there are many other examples.
The writings of the ancient Greeks were studied in the 1400s during the Renaissance. However, in this period the term "humanism" came to mean educated in the humanities, a rather different kind of idea. Petrarch is often cited as the first modern humanist, but he pointed backwards to classical authors. The modern meaning of humanism is more to do with using science to make the world a better place. 
A comment by the English mathematician and philosopher Alfred North Whitehead in 1925 was 

</doc>
<doc id="21910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21910" title="The Guardian">
The Guardian

The Guardian is a British newspaper. It is published every day, except on Sunday. It is owned by the same company as The Observer, which only publishes on Sunday. "The Guardian" is edited by Katharine Viner.
The newspaper was founded in 1821. It was founded by textile traders and merchants. The Guardian was seen as "an organ of the middle class", or, in the words of C.P. Scott's son Ted, "a paper that will remain bourgeois to the last". In 2005, Sir Max Hastings stated that he writes for "The Guardian" "because it is read by the new establishment", reflecting the paper's growing influence.
Until 1959 "The Guardian" was called "The Manchester Guardian".
Three of the four people who wrote leaders for the "Guardian" joined the Social Democratic Party on its foundation in 1982. The paper supported Tony Blair when he wanted to lead the Labour Party and to become Prime Minister.
In 1999 theguardian.com started. At the time it was a website called Guardian Unlimited.
"The Guardian" describes itself as centre-left.

</doc>
<doc id="21914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21914" title="Algae">
Algae

Algae (one alga, but several algae) are a type of plant-like living things that can make food from sunlight by photosynthesis. The study of algae is called phycology or algology.
The term lumps together many different kinds of organisms. They have in common only that they are autotrophic: they use natural sources of energy and simple inorganic materials to build their forms. As non-vascular plants they do not have the kind of cell and tissue structure of land plants. They are a convenient but very loose term. Only in recent years has it become clear how different the many kinds of algae are.
Algae are a large and diverse group of simple, typically autotrophic organisms. Some have one cell and others have many cells. The largest and most complex marine algae are called seaweeds. They are like plants, and "simple" because they lack the many distinct organs found in land plants. For that reason they are "not" classified as plants.
Though the prokaryotic "Cyanobacteria" (formerly referred to as "blue-green algae") were included as "algae" in older textbooks, it is not now. The term "algae" is now used for eukaryotic organisms. All true algae have a nucleus within a membrane and chloroplasts inside one or more membranes. However, algae are definitely "not" a monophyletic group, as they do not all descend from a common algal ancestor. Modern taxonomists propose splitting them up into monophyletic groups, but not everyone agrees how to do this.
Algae do not have the same structures that land plants do, such as leaves, roots, and other organs. Nearly all algae have parts that do photosynthesis the same way as cyanobacteria. They make oxygen, unlike other photosynthetic bacteria such as "purple" and "green" bacteria. Some unicellular species use only external energy sources and have limited or no photosynthetic parts.
Fossilized filamentous algae from the Vindhya basin have been dated back to 1.6 to 1.7 billion years ago.
Algae are usually found in damp places or water, and are common on land and water. However, algae on land are usually inconspicuous and are far more common in moist, tropical regions than dry ones. Algae do not have vascular tissues and other adaptations to live on land, but they can endure dryness and other conditions in symbiosis with a fungus as lichen.
The various sorts of algae play significant roles in aquatic ecology. Microscopic forms that live suspended in the water column are called phytoplankton. They provide the food base for most marine food chains. Kelp grows mostly in shallow marine waters. Some are used as human food or harvested for agar or fertilizer. Kelp can grow in large stands called kelp forests. These forests prevent some of the damage from waves. Many different species live in them, including sea urchins, sea otters, and abalone.
Some algae may harm other species. Some algae may reproduce a lot, and make an algal bloom. These algae may make protective toxins which can kill fish in the water. Dinoflagellates make a compound that turns the flesh of fish into slime. Then the algae eats this nutritious liquid.
Algae have evolved a number of symbiotic partnerships with other organisms. The most famous is the plant-like lichen, which are each formed by a fungus with an alga. It is a highly successful life-form, and twenty thousand 'species' are known. In all cases the lichen are quite different in appearance and life-style from either constituent; it is possibly the most complete symbiosis known. Both constituents gain from their access to niches with low nutrient value, which is where lichen are found.
Less well known are the algal relationships with animals. Reef-building corals are basically social Cnidarian polyps. Corals are dependent on light, because the algae are important partners, and they require light. Corals have evolved structures, often tree-like, which offer the algae maximum access to light. The coral weakens the algal cell walls, and digests about 80% of the food synthesised by the algae. The corals' waste-products provide nutrients for the algae so, as with lichen, both partners gain from the association. The algae are golden-brown flagellate algae, often of the genus "Symbiodinium". A curious feature of the partnership is that the coral may eject the algae in hard times, and regain them later. The ejection of the algal partner is called "bleaching", because the coral loses its colour.
Other types of Cnideria, such as sea anemones and jellyfish, also contain algae. Jellyfish with algae behave so that their partners get the best light during the day, and descend to depths at night, where the water is rich in nitrates and brown with decay. Sea slugs and clams are also well known for harbouring algae. Both groups are molluscs. The sea slugs graze on coral, and are the same colour as the coral they graze. They are able to separate the algae from the polyp tissues they digest. The algal cells are moved to its tentacles, where they continue to live. The otherwise defenceless slug gains both camouflage and nutrition. The giant clam keeps algae in its mantle, which is revealed when the clam is open. The coloured mantle has places where the skin is transparent, and acts like a lens to concentrate light on the algae beneath. When the algae get too numerous, the clam digests them.
Various other marine invertebrate groups have members which symbiose with algae. Flatworms (Platyhelminths) and Polychaete worms (Annelids) are two such groups.

</doc>
<doc id="21916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21916" title="Kelp forest">
Kelp forest

Kelp forests are a type of marine ecosystem that is present around colonies of kelp; they contain rich biodiversity. Kelp can stretch 2-30 meters or more (up to 60 m in "Macrocystis pyrifera") from their anchors on the sea floor to the surface. It provides a vertical infrastructure that is home to many fish and invertebrate species. Kelp forests also often attract mammalian visitors, including whales, sea lions, sea otters, and SCUBA-diving humans.
Kelp forests draw their name from an analogy to forests on land.

</doc>
<doc id="21917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21917" title="Symbiosis">
Symbiosis

Symbiosis (pl. symbioses) means living together. It describes close and long-term relationships between different species. The term was
used by Albert Bernhard Frank to describe the mutualistic relationship in lichens. and by Anton de Bary in 1879, as "the living together of unlike organisms". 
A symbiont is an organism living in a relationship with another species in which one or both get benefits. When one species lives inside another species, or a microscopic symbiont lives inside the cells of a host, it is called an endosymbiont.
The relevance of symbiosis is its frequency and its evolutionary significance. There appear to be no higher plants or animals without symbionts. Those symbionts are of great importance to the larger organisms, who in most cases would be unable to live as they do without their symbionts. Mycorrhiza in higher plants, and gut flora in insects and vertebrates are examples. Humans are no exception.
Furthermore, most of these associations are between organisms not just from different species, but from different kingdoms. And lastly, the cells of all eukaryotes contain organelles which are descendants of symbiotic relationships which began at least a billion years ago. Mitochondria and plastids are examples. The conclusion must be that symbiosis has been highly significant in the evolution of life.
The definition of symbiosis has been controversial. Some believe symbiosis should only refer to persistent mutualisms, while others believe it should apply to all kinds of lon-term biological interactions.
After 130 years of debate, current biology and ecology textbooks now use the latter "de Bary" definition or an even broader definition (where symbiosis means all species interactions). The restrictive definition (where symbiosis means mutualism only) is no longer used.
The widest definition includes parasitism (in which one organism is helped and the other organism is hurt), mutualism (in which both organisms are helped), commensalism (in which one organism is helped and the other is not affected), and competition (in which both organisms are hurt). 
The various forms of symbiosis include:
Symbiosis does not always benefit both partners. This is what may happen:
This kind of symbiosis is called endosymbiosis. Examples are:
Almost for certain, this happened to form the eukaryote cell. That's the type of cell all animals and plants are made of. The organelles inside the cell, such as mitochondria and chloroplasts, contain some DNA. This DNA is the remnant of a once separate bacterium. The theory is that the eukaryote cell evolved by the fusion of several bacteria or archaea organisms.

</doc>
<doc id="21926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21926" title="Al Ain">
Al Ain

Al Ain (Arabic: العين) is a city in the United Arab Emirates. The city name literally means "the spring" or "the eye" in Arabic. This name come from the water sources in the area. The city is in the emirate of Abu Dhabi, right next to the border with Oman. It is often called the 'Garden City of the Persian Gulf' because of the many parks, tree-lined avenues and decorative roundabouts within the city. Al Ain, Abu Dhabi and Dubai form a kind of geographic triangle in the center of the country. Each city is around 150 kilometers from the other two. 
Al Ain is the fourth largest metropolitan area by population in the Emirates, with a population of 348,000 (2003 census estimate). There are more Emirati nationals in Al Ain than other places in the country, but most who live there are people who left other countries, particularly from the Indian sub-continent. There are fewer Western people than in the larger centers of Abu Dhabi and Dubai. This gives Al Ain a more 'Arabic' look and feel, compared to the larger cities of the Emirates.
The area has been lived in for more than 4000 years, and Al Ain is central to the cultural heritage of the country. There are many underground water springs in the area. This explains why people wanted to live there. Traces of its past remain, including camel racing and breeding. The ancient "falaj" system of irrigation is still in use in some areas. The system brings underground water to people by a network of tunnels that come out into open channels. The flow of water in the channels can be controlled.
Al Ain is becoming a place that tourists visit, with attractions such as Jebel Hafeet, a 1340 metre high mountain that dominates the surrounding area. Many tourists like to visit the mineral springs at the base and drive to the top of this mountain for sunset. Al Ain regularly records the highest summer temperatures in the country, but the dry desert air makes it a welcome escape from the coastal humidity of the larger cities. Other attractions include the Al Ain Oasis in the city centre, and other oases around the area, cool places to escape the summer heat, a zoo, amusement park named "Fun City", many well kept parks, popular with families in the summer evenings, a heritage village, as well as malls and other modern sites. Important buildings include United Arab Emirates University, Higher Colleges of Technology, well-equipped medical facilities, including the teaching hospital at Tawam, military training areas and Al Ain International Airport.
The city is home to the successful association football (soccer) club, Al Ain FC.

</doc>
<doc id="21928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21928" title="Jutland">
Jutland

Jutland (Danish: "Jylland"; German: "Jütland") is a peninsula in northern Europe. It forms the mainland part of Denmark and a northern part of Germany. It separates the North Sea from the Baltic Sea. Its terrain is relatively flat, with low hills and peat bogs. It has an area of 29,775 km² (11,496 square miles), and a population of 2,491,852 (2004).
The northern two thirds of the peninsula are occupied by the westernmost portion of the Kingdom of Denmark. There is no separate name for the Danish portion of the peninsula, so it is simply called the same name. The northernmost part of Jutland became an island following a flood in 1825; the Limfjord now separates it from the mainland. This island is called "Nørrejydske Ø" ("North Jutlandic Island") and is still commonly reckoned as part of the peninsula; it is also partly coterminous with the county and future region called North Jutland. 
The southern third is made up of the German Bundesland of Schleswig-Holstein, with the duchies of Schleswig (also Sønderjylland/Southern Jutland) and Holstein. Both duchies have passed back and forth between the Danes and various German rulers. In the last border movement, Denmark regained North Schleswig ("Nordslesvig" in Danish) by plebiscite in 1920. Southern Schleswig remained German.
The River Elbe forms the southern border of Jutland with the city of Hamburg on its shore. The Danish Wadden Sea Islands and the North Frisian Islands stretch along the southwest coast of Jutland in the German Bight.
The largest cities on the Jutland Peninsula are:

</doc>
<doc id="21929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21929" title="Plebiscite">
Plebiscite

A plebiscite or referendum is a type of voting, or of proposing laws. Some definitions of 'plebiscite' suggest that it is a type of vote to change the constitution or government of a country. Others define it as the opposite. Australia defines 'referendum' as a vote to change the constitution and 'plebiscite' as a vote that does not affect the constitution.
There are two types of result
It usually depends on the country's history and constitution what sort of referendum/plebiscite is used. In Switzerland a referendum is usually mandatory, because the people are seen as the source of the government's mandate (power) to govern. 
In the United Kingdom referenda have only been advisory, because the government says that the people elected to Parliament make the decisions. The referendum on the independence of Scotland was an exception. It "was" legally binding, but it was not a referendum of the UK electorate. It was restricted to present residents of Scotland.
An example of a proposed plebiscite was the 2011 decision by Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou to let the Greek people vote on whether the heavily indebted nation would accept a €130 billion bailout package from the European Union. The idea shocked eurozone nations, as a "no" vote could mean Greece defaulting on its national debt, and leaving the European Union and the eurozone. However, the vote was cancelled. 
Another example was the voting on the European Constitution in 2005. The vote took place in some countries. France and The Netherlands had a "referendum" on the subject. In both states, the voters said no to the proposal and no constitution was made. 
The separate simultaneous referendums held on 24 April 2004 in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and the Republic of Cyprus on the comprehensive settlement plan of the UN Secretary-General provides yet another example of such a vote. The Plan was approved in the Turkish Cypriot referendum by 65%, while it was rejected in the Greek Cypriot referendum by 75%.
Many political problems can be solved by asking the people their opinion because the supporters of the argument will be forced to accept the decision of the people. However:
- It is feared that the electorate do not have sufficient political knowledge to truly understand what they are voting for
- Philosophers Plato and Madison thought voters are too easily persuaded by their own internal feelings of a matter instead of focusing on the good of the nation. That is to say they vote selfishly. 

</doc>
<doc id="21931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21931" title="Dubai">
Dubai

The city of Dubai is the main city of the emirate of Dubai. The city is sometimes called "Dubai City" to prevent it from being mixed up with the emirate.
There are records of the town of Dubai from 1799. The city was a dependent of Abu Dhabi until 1833. The town of Dubai was an important port of call for foreign tradesmen (chiefly Indians), who settled in the town. Until the 1930s, the town was known for its pearls.

</doc>
<doc id="21932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21932" title="Exclave">
Exclave

An exclave is strip of land that belongs to a political entity (like a country or a region) but that is not connected to it by land (islands are not counted). The strip of land is surrounded by other political entities. A good example is Kaliningrad Oblast (the region around the Russian city Kaliningrad). It belongs to the Russian Federation, but is separated from the rest of that country by territory belonging to Lithuania and Poland.
Although both meanings are close, an exclave might not be an enclave. An enclave is completely surrounded by one other country. For example, Kaliningrad is surrounded not by one state, but by two: Lithuania and Poland. It also borders the Baltic Sea. It is not an enclave. On the other hand, the Spanish exclave of Llivia is an enclave in France.
Many exclaves today have some of idea of becoming independent, especially if the exclave is far away from the mainland.
A much more obscure use means, in medical discussion, a detached part of an organ, as of the pancreas, thyroid, or other gland.
The lists below are of various types of exclaves that are not enclaves.
Exclaves of administrative divisions below the national level.
Some territories are not geographically detached from their motherland. Nevertheless, they are more easily reached by entering a foreign country. Very often, this is because of their location in a hilly area. It may also be because the only road enters that foreign place before coming back to the mother country. These territories may be called "practical exclaves," "pene-exclaves" or "quasi-exclaves" and can be found along many borders, particularly those that are not heavily defended. They will only be attached to the motherland via an extremely small or thin slice of land.
later became part of Poland and Russia (see Kaliningrad above).

</doc>
<doc id="21933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21933" title="Enclave">
Enclave

In general use, an enclave can be any special area of a bigger area of land, such as a part of a city that has different taxes than the rest of the city.
In political geography, an enclave is a piece of land which has a different country totally around it. If another country has sovereignty over it, it is also called an "exclave" of that other country. It is usually landlocked, meaning it is completely encased by the surrounding country
Exclaves can also exist within a country. This is when some administrative regions have "holes" (of other such regions) in them.
The word "enclave" is a relatively new word in the language of diplomacy: Diplomats are used to speaking French. The word comes from late Latin "inclavatus", which can be translated as "shut in, locked up" (with a key, from Latin "clavis", key). The word got in the English language in the year 1868. "exclave" (with a similar meaning) followed 3 decades later.
Enclaves may be created for a variety of historical, political or geographical reasons. Some areas have been left as enclaves simply because a river changed its course.
Since living in an enclave can be very inconvenient and many agreements have to be found by both countries over mail addresses, power supply or passage rights, enclaves tend to be eliminated and many cases that existed before have now been removed. Sometimes it is the case, that enclaves are traded for one another.
In English Church history, subnational enclaves were known as peculiars (see also Royal Peculiar).
Some enclaves are countries that are not part of any other country, and therefore not exclaves. Three such countries exist:

</doc>
<doc id="21934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21934" title="Panhandle">
Panhandle

A panhandle is a word used in geography. What people mean when they talk about panhandles is a narrow strip of land, that is surrounded on all sides except one, by one or more countries or regions. The strip of land is connected to the country or region it belongs to on one side only. This looks like the handle of a frying pan.
Panhandles include:

</doc>
<doc id="21935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21935" title="Category:Cities in the United Arab Emirates">
Category:Cities in the United Arab Emirates


</doc>
<doc id="21936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21936" title="Category:United Arab Emirates">
Category:United Arab Emirates

United Arab Emirates

</doc>
<doc id="21942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21942" title="New town">
New town

A new town, planned community, or planned city is a kind of city that is designed by architects and engineers before it is built. Most cities and towns just develop over the years, without a clear plan. Planned community neighborhoods are designed with separate districts of the city for parks, stores, homes, and offices. Planned communities have a transportation system for commuters.

</doc>
<doc id="21945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21945" title="Park">
Park

A park is an open place in a city or town for nature. There are often trees, benches, statues, and ponds in a park. Some parks built in big cities are very large. These can have fountains or picnic areas.
Sometimes, countries or regions set up "national parks". These are usually large areas of land. Those areas are made to protect the habitats of animals. Very often, a special permit is necessary to enter. Building things in the park is usually forbidden, or needs a special permit.
An example of a national park is Yellowstone National Park.

</doc>
<doc id="21949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21949" title="Pond">
Pond

A pond is a body of water smaller than a lake. Ponds support a very wide range of wildlife: ducks, turtles, swans, small fish, and frogs can live in a pond. Usually, in most ponds sunlight can reach to bottom. In some cases ponds do not last all year round. This type of pond is called a vernal pond, or ephemeral, seasonal, or temporary wetlands. These types of ponds do not have any fish. Some ponds are now getting polluted because of humans.

</doc>
<doc id="21955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21955" title="Swan">
Swan

A swan ("Cygnini") is a kind of water bird, from the genera Cygnus and Coscoroba. They are in the subfamily "Anserinae", in the family "Anatidae", which also includes geese and ducks.
Many swans live in colder places, such as northern Europe, Asia and North America. They live on water. They swim on top of the water and eat plants off the bottom of ponds, lakes, or oceans. They also eat insects and other small animals. Swans can also fly.
A baby swan is called a cygnet.
The swans are some of the largest flying birds. They are large in size and have large feet and long necks. The males are usually bigger and heavier than females. The Mute Swan, Trumpeter Swan, and Whooper Swan are the largest swans. They can be over 1.5m (60 inches) long. They can weigh over 15kg (33 pounds). Their wingspans (this means the length of both wings) can be almost 3m (10 ft). 
Most swans are white. These swan are found in the Northern Hemisphere. This means they are found in Europe, Asia and North America. However, the Black Swan is black with a red beak. It lives in Australia. The Black Necked Swan has white flight feathers, and black outer feathers. It lives in South America. They also have a small area of skin between the eyes and beak that has no feathers. This area can be different colors, such as yellow (for example, on a Bewick's Swan) or orange (for example, on a Mute Swan).
The Coscoroba Swan is different to the other swans. Some scientists think it is more like a duck or a goose. It is the smaller than the other swans. This swan lives in South America.

</doc>
<doc id="21957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21957" title="Pupa">
Pupa

A pupa (plural: pupae or pupas) is part of becoming an adult for some insects, like some butterflies, moths, beetles, flies, and bees. The pupal stage comes after being a larva; the next stage is adulthood.
The pupa stage of a butterfly, called a chrysalis (plural "chrysalids"), is a well-known example of a pupa because they are often found in the open.

</doc>
<doc id="21962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21962" title="Paul">
Paul

Paul might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="21963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21963" title="Goose">
Goose

Goose (plural geese) is the general English name for a large number of long-necked birds, belonging to the family "Anatidae". 
This family also includes the swans, which are mostly larger than geese, and the ducks, which are smaller and have short necks.
Both as chicks and as adults, geese show collective animal behaviour. Geese migrate in groups in the spring and fall, flying together in a V-shape.
A male goose is called a "gander" and a baby goose is called a "gosling". A group of geese is called a "gaggle".

</doc>
<doc id="21966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21966" title="Ovary">
Ovary

Ovaries (Singular: Ovary) are organs found in female organisms. Ovaries are part of the reproductive system needed to reproduce sexually. 
Most vertebrates have ovaries. Usually animals have two ovaries. Birds usually have only one working ovary; snakes have one ovary in front of the other. The ovaries are similar to testicles in men.
Ovaries are shaped like eggs and are around 3 cm by 1.5 cm by 1.5 cm. The ovary is found in the side walls of the pelvis. 
Each ovary is attached to the Fallopian tube. Usually each ovary takes turns releasing eggs every month.
Ovaries have two purposes:
During menstruation, an ovum is released from the ovary to be fertilised. Ovaries have a certain number of eggs in them, so when eggs stop being released, this is the start of the menopause. During this time, female hormones stop being produced.

</doc>
<doc id="21973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21973" title="Axe">
Axe

An axe (or ax) is an ancient tool. It is used to shape, split and cut wood.
The hand axe was probably the first tool in the Stone Age. It did not have a handle.
In the past, axes were used as weapons by soldiers. Today, axes are usually related to woodcutters and firemen.
Axes are simple machines. They are in the category of wedges. They are usually made of some sort of metal, mainly steel or iron. They can have a metal or wooden handle. 

</doc>
<doc id="21975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21975" title="Rhinoceros">
Rhinoceros

A rhinoceros (rhino for short) is any mammal in the family Rhinocerotidae. They are in the order Perissodactyla, or odd-toed ungulates. There are five living species. Two of these species are native to Africa. Three of these species are also native to Southern parts of Asia. 
All five rhinoceros species are native to Africa or Asia. The two species in Africa are the White rhinoceros and the Black rhinoceros. The three species in Asia (including islands of Indonesia) are the Javan rhinoceros, Sumatran rhinoceros, and Indian rhinoceros.
The rhinoceros is a herbivore. Its favourite food is leaves, branches and bushes (if it is a browser species), or grass (if it is a grazer species).
Rhinoceroses have a large horn on the nose. Their horns are not like those of other horned mammals: the rhinoceros' horn is made of keratin packed together very tightly. 
The rhinoceroses can weigh up to and be up to tall.
Only the White Rhinoceros is not in critical danger of becoming extinct. They are protected, but hunted mainly for their horns. Loss of habitat is also a danger to rhinos. Governments have made logging their habitat and poaching illegal.
Rhinoceros horns are used in Asian medicine, and for dagger handles in Yemen and Oman. This is what is leading to extinction of these animals.

</doc>
<doc id="21976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21976" title="Alcoholic proof">
Alcoholic proof

Alcoholic proof is a measure of how much ethanol there is in an alcoholic drink. It is commonly used in the United States, where it is about double the percentage of alcohol by volume (ABV or Alc/Vol).
This system was introduced in the 18th century. It might have happened earlier, when spirits were tested with gunpowder: a mixture of water and alcohol "proved" itself when it could be poured on a small amount of gunpowder and still light up the wet powder. If the powder did not ignite, the mixture had too much water in it and the proof was considered low. This process led to the nickname "firewater", given by Native Americans.
A "proven" solution was defined as 100 degrees proof (100°). People have found out that this takes 57.15% ethanol. This value is still used as the British definition. A simpler ratio to remember is "seven to four": 70° proof is 40% alcohol by volume.
A hydrometer can be used to measure the precise proof of a spirit. This test has gone through many formal changes.
The European Union member nations have broadly adopted the recommendation of the International Organization of Legal Metrology (OIML) which measures percentage of alcohol by volume at 20 °C.
In Britain, this replaced the Sikes hydrometer system (based on proof spirit) which was used since 1816, although officially the "Customs and Excise Act of 1952" defined "spirits of proof strength" (or proof spirits):
Previously, Clarke's hydrometer had been used since the 1740s when Customs and Excise and London brewers and distillers began to use Clarke's hydrometer.
In the definition of the United States, the proof number is twice the percentage of the alcohol content measured by volume at a temperature of 60°F (15.5°C). Therefore, "80 proof" is 40% alcohol by volume (most of the other 60% is water). If an 150 proof beverage is mixed half-and-half with water, the drink is 75 proof.
US Federal regulation (CFR 27 5.37 Alcohol Content) requires that liquor labels state the percentage alcohol by volume (sometimes abbreviated ABV). The regulations permit (but do not require) a statement of the degrees proof as long as it is right next to the percentage alcohol by volume.
Alcohol is produced by yeast during the process of fermentation. The other product of fermentation is carbon dioxide, which is the gas that can make beer bottles explode or blow their tops off. The amount of alcohol in the finished liquid depends on how much sugar there was at the beginning for the yeast to convert into alcohol. In beer, the alcohol is generally 3% to 12% (6 to 24 proof) and usually about 4% to 6% (8 to 12 proof). Depending on the strain of yeast, wines top out at about 14% to 16% (28 to 32 proof), because that is the point in the fermentation process where the alcohol concentration denatures the yeast. Since the 1990s, a few alcohol-tolerant 'superyeast' strains have become commercially available, which can ferment up to 20%.
Very few microorganisms can live in alcoholic solutions. The main three are yeast, "Brettanomyces", and "Acetobacter". In what is essentially disinfection, yeast keeps multiplying as long as there is sugar to "eat", gradually increasing the alcoholic content of the solution and killing off all other microorganisms, and eventually themselves. There are "fortified" wines with a higher alcohol concentration than that because stronger alcohol has been mixed with them.
Stronger liquors are distilled after fermentation is complete to separate the alcoholic liquid from the remains of the grain, fruit, or whatever it was made from. The idea of distillation is that a mixture of liquids is heated, the one with the lowest boiling point will evaporate (or "boil off") first, and then the one with the next lowest boiling point, and so on. The catch is that water and alcohol form a mixture (called an azeotrope) that has a lower boiling point than either one of them, so what distills off first is that mixture of 95% alcohol and 5% water. Thus a distilled liquor cannot be stronger than 95% (190 proof); there are other techniques for separating liquids that can produce 100% ethanol (or "absolute alcohol"), but they are used only for scientific or industrial purposes. 100% ethanol does not stay 100% for very long, because it is hygroscopic and absorbs water out of the atmosphere.

</doc>
<doc id="21977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21977" title="Acetobacter">
Acetobacter

Acetobacter is a kind of bacteria. These bacteria are 
known by their ability to change alcohol to acetic acid in the presence of air. There are several species within this genus, and there are other bacteria that can form acetic acid under different conditions; but all of the "Acetobacter" are known by this ability.
"Acetobacter" are important to people, because:
Sometimes, "Acetobacter" is not wanted. It can be killed by adding preservatives like Sulfur dioxides, or by getting rid of the air when the wine is stored. 

</doc>
<doc id="21978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21978" title="Archbishop of Canterbury">
Archbishop of Canterbury

The Archbishop of Canterbury is the spiritual leader of the Church of England and in the Anglican Communion the leader of its mother church. He is the head of the Church, and lives in the English city of Canterbury. The Archbishop is chosen by the English monarch (the church's "supreme governor"), under guidance from senior bishops, acting in cooperation with the prime minister of the UK. 
The office of Archbishop of Canterbury was founded in the year 597. In that year, Saint Augustine came to England, to the area called Kent. He had been sent by the Pope to convince the local people to become Christians. The people accepted him and Christianity when their King (Ethelbert of Kent) became a Christian. Augustine became the first bishop in the kingdom of Kent and was later recognised as archbishop when a second diocese was created. Since then, there has been an Archbishop at Canterbury in Kent.
The Archbishop of Canterbury used to be head of the Roman Catholic Church in England, but in the early 16th century the English church broke away from the Roman church. The new church called itself the Church of England, and now the Archbishop is the leader of that church. The current Archbishop is Justin Welby (from 2013). 
The archbishop oversees the Province of Canterbury that is all the Church of England dioceses in the south and midlands of England. The dioceses of Wales were also within the Province of Canterbury until 1920 when the Church in Wales became independent. In the north of England another archbishop has the Diocese of York and other northern dioceses (including the diocese of Sodor and Man) to oversee. Both archbishops are members of the House of Lords and rank very high in the official English order of precedence. When a new monarch is crowned the placing of the crown on his head is done by the Archbishop of Canterbury. The principal home of the archbishops is at Lambeth Palace in the south of London rather than at Canterbury itself. Within the Diocese of Canterbury (which consists of eastern Kent and a small enclave in Surrey) the archbishop has at least two assistant bishops.
Justin Welby (formerly the Bishop of Durham) became Archbishop on 21 March 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="21979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21979" title="Ethanol">
Ethanol

Ethanol, also known as ethyl alcohol or grain alcohol, is a flammable, colorless chemical compound. Drinks with 0.5% or more ethanol are called alcoholic. When people talk about it, they often name it simply as "alcohol". Its chemical formula is CHOH, also written as CHO. It is used as a solvent because it can dissolve many other chemicals and is not very toxic. Yeast make most of the ethanol that people use. 
Ethanol fuel can be used instead of gasoline in cars and other engines. Engines can use pure ethanol or ethanol mixed with gasoline.
In Brazil, ethanol fuel made from sugar cane provides 18 percent of the country's fuel for cars. Because of this, Brazil does not have to buy oil from other countries. 
To do this, Brazil cut down much of the rain forests to grow more sugar cane, which is then fermented into Ethanol.
Most cars in the U.S. can run on fuels that have of up to 10% ethanol in them. Car makers like Ford, DaimlerChrysler, and GM also make vehicles run that run higher ethanol blends. Some of their engines can run on up to 85% ethanol (E85). By mid-2006, there were about six million E85-compatible vehicles on U.S. roads.

</doc>
<doc id="21982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21982" title="Boiling point">
Boiling point

The boiling point of a substance is the temperature at which the substance boils, or enters a state of rapid evaporation. For pure water this is 100° Celsius or 212° Fahrenheit. This is measured at one atmosphere, that is, the air pressure at sea level.
Boiling points can be changed in several ways. The addition of solutes or other substances usually changes the boiling point. Changing the pressure on a liquid changes its boiling point. 
The boiling point of a liquid depends on the pressure of the surrounding air. An increase in air pressure increases the boiling point; a decrease decreases the boiling point. In the low pressure environment at the top of Mt Everest for example, water boils at only 69 °C. (156.2 °F).
It can also be defined in terms of vapour pressure as the temperature at which vapour pressure of liquid becomes equal to atmospheric pressure
If you add sugar, salt or any other impurities to the water, it will usually make the boiling point higher. An exception is alcohol, which will have a lower boiling point.

</doc>
<doc id="21986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21986" title="Platonic solid">
Platonic solid

A platonic solid is a three dimensional shape. It has the following characteristics:
The following Platonic solids exist; there are only 5:
The shapes are often used to make dice, because dice of these shapes can be made fair. 6-sided dice are very common, but the other numbers are commonly used in role-playing games. Such dice are commonly referred to as D followed by the number of faces (d8, d20 etc.).
The tetrahedron (4 sided), cube (6 sided), and octahedron (8 sided), are found naturally in crystal structures. The dodecahedron (12 sides) is combinatorially identical to the pyritohedron (in that both have twelve pentagonal faces), which is one of the possible crystal structures of pyrite. However, the pyritohedron is not a regular dodecahedron, but rather has the same symmetry as the cube.
In meteorology and climatology, global numerical models of atmospheric flow are of increasing interest which use grids that are based on an icosahedron (20 sides,refined by triangulation) instead of the more commonly used longitude/latitude grid. This has the advantage of better spatial resolution without singularities (i.e. the poles) at the expense of somewhat greater numerical difficulty.
Geometry of space frames is often based on platonic solids. 

</doc>
<doc id="21987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21987" title="Euclidean algorithm">
Euclidean algorithm

The Euclidean algorithm is an algorithm. It can be used to find the biggest number that divides two other numbers (the greatest common divisor of two numbers).
Euclid solved the problem graphically. He said
Start out with two positive integers "m" and "n".
Note: This pseudocode uses modular arithmetic instead of subtraction. It does the same thing as above, but gets the answer faster.
Precondition: two positive integers "m" and "n"
Postcondition: the greatest common integer divisor of "m" and "n"
Iterative (Non-recursive):
Recursive:

</doc>
<doc id="21991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21991" title="Eukaryote">
Eukaryote

A eukaryote is an organism with complex cells, or a single cell with a complex structure. In these cells the genetic material is organized into chromosomes in the cell nucleus. 
Animals, plants, algae and fungi are all eukaryotes. There are also eukaryotes amongst single-celled protists. In contrast, simpler organisms, such as bacteria and archaea, do not have nuclei and other complex cell structures. Such organisms are called prokaryotes. 
The eukaryotes are often treated as a superkingdom, or domain. 
Eukaryotes evolved in the Proterozoic eon. The oldest known probable eukaryote is "Grypania", a coiled, unbranched filament up to 30mm long. The oldest "Grypania" fossils come from an iron mine near Negaunee, Michigan. The fossils were originally dated as 2100 million years ago, but later research showed the date as about 1874 million years ago. "Grypania" lasted into the Mesoproterozoic era. 
Another ancient group is the acritarchs, believed to be the cysts or reproductive stages of algal plankton. They are found 1400 million years ago, in the Mesoproterozoic era.
The classification of the Eukaryota is under active discussion, and several taxonomies have been proposed. All modern versions have five kingdoms, but disagree about which groups go into each kingdom.
Eukaryotic cells are usually much bigger than prokaryotes. They can be up to 10 times bigger. Eukaryote cells have many different internal membranes and structures, called organelles. They also have a cytoskeleton. The cytoskeleton is made up of microtubules and microfilaments. Those parts are very important in the cell's shape. Eukaryotic DNA is put in bundles called chromosomes, which are separated by a microtubular spindle during cell division. Most eukaryotes have some sort of sexual reproduction through fertilisation, which prokaryotes do not use. 
Prokaryotes do not have sexes, but they can pass DNA to other bacteria. Their cell division is asexual. Bacterial conjugation is when bacteria give each each DNA by touching each other or making something like a bridge to go between them. 
Eukaryotes have sets of linear chromosomes located in the nucleus and the number of chromosomes is usually typical for each species.
In eukaryotic cells, there are many things with membranes around them. All of them together are called the endomembrane system. Simple bags, called vesicles or vacuoles, are sometimes made by budding off other membranes, just like how children make bubbles with their toys. Many cells take in food and other things using something called endocytosis. In endocytosis, the membrane closest to the outside bends inwards and then pinches off to make a vesicle. Many other organelles that have membranes probably started off as vesicles.
The nucleus is surrounded by two membranes membrane that has holes in it so things can go in and out. The nuclear envelope has things sticking out of it that look like tubes and sheets. These are called the endoplasmic reticulum which is often shortened to ER. The ER is works with moving proteins around and allowing them to mature. 
The ER has two parts, the rough ER and the smooth ER. The rough ER has ribosomes attached to it. The proteins made by the ribosomes attached to the rough ER go to the inside the rough ER, called the lumen. After that, they usually go into vesicles, which grow and pinch off from the smooth ER. In most eukaryotes, the vesicles with proteins inside fuse with piles of flattened vesicles called the Golgi bodies, where the proteins inside are changed again.
Vesicles are sometimes changed so they can do one thing very well. This is called specialization, or differentiation. For example, lysosomes have enzymes inside them that break down the food the comes from food vacuoles, and peroxisomes have enzymes that break down peroxide, a poison, so it is not poisonous anymore. 
Many protozoa have contractile vacuoles, which are vacuoles that can fuse or pinch off from the outer membrane. Contractile vesicles are often used to get and get rid of unneeded water. Extrusomes shoot out stuff that make predators go away or catch food. In multicellular organisms, hormones are often made in vesicles. In the complicated plants, most of the inside of a plant cell is taken up by a central vacuole. That central vacuole is the main thing that keeps osmotic pressure so the cell can hold its shape.
Because the cell organelles of eukaryotes have different (polyphyletic) origins, the question arises as to whether the group is a unified clade or not. It is certain that the protists are not. Cell organelles are specialised units which carry out well-defined functions, like mitochondria and plastids. It is fairly clear now that all or most of these organelles have their origin in once-independent prokaryotes (bacteria or archaea), and that the eukaryote cell is a 'community of micro-organisms' working together in 'a marriage of convenience'. The first such events took place between ancient bacteria to produce the double-membrane class known as gram-negative bacteria. Since the gram-negative bacteria include the cyanobacteria, this was the first of several such events in the history of the eukaryotes.
"Protista" is a group of different single-celled organisms. More accurate taxonomies have been proposed, but scientists are still discussing them. For this reason, Protista is still useful for talking about these organisms. One modern scheme for the classification of the Eukarya is as follows: 
However, in 2005, doubts were expressed as to whether some of these supergroups were monophyletic, particularly the Chromalveolata, and a review in 2006 noted the lack of evidence for several of the supposed six supergroups.
The Eukarya may only be unified in the sense that the cells are a community derived from bacteria and archaea; opinions vary. Like the Protista, the Eukarya may be a polyphyletic assembly, though a useful one. However, as mentioned above, all branches of the Eukarya have sexual reproduction. That, and the general organisation of the nucleus, are the defining features. These two points are the main evidence for monophyletic origin.

</doc>
<doc id="21992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21992" title="Unicellular organism">
Unicellular organism

.-. Unicellular organisms are organisms that have one cell. They are divided into two quite different types, from different classification kingdoms. 
The differences between the prokaryota and eukaryota are significant. Eukaryotes possess a nucleus, while prokaryotes lack it, and eukaryotes possess a range of subcellular organs called organelles, which prokaryotes do not.
You can observe the larger unicellular organisms by using a compound microscope. Bacteria just appear as dark dots. To gather unicellular organisms for observation, one can place a cover slip on the surface of pond water, and leave it overnight. By the next morning, numerous unicellular organisms will have grown entire colonies on the bottom of the slip. They multiply fast: colonies can double their size in between 30 minutes and a few hours.
Unicellular organisms can be found everywhere. The oldest forms of life existed 3.8 billion years ago, if not longer. They pursue a variety of strategies for survival: photosynthesis (cyanobacteria), chemotrophy (many archaea), and heterotrophy (amoeba). Some unicellular organisms have flagella, little tails they use for locomotion, or lobopods, extensions of the cellular skeleton (cytoskeleton), which appear as bloblike arms. The flagella of our unicellular ancestors occurs all the way up into the animals, where it makes an appearance as flagellated sperm.
Of all the six eukaryote supergroups, four are exclusively composed of unicellular organisms. Unicellular organisms vary in size, with the smallest bacteria measuring only a third of a micron (300 nanometers) across, ranging up to the titanic plasmodial slime molds, which can grow to 20 cm (8 in) across. The largest unicellular organisms may have millions of nuclei scattered throughout the cellular envelope. To observe some of the smallest unicellular organisms requires an electron microscope, while the very largest can be seen with a microscope or anything that enhances images.

</doc>
<doc id="21995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21995" title="Multicellular organism">
Multicellular organism

Multi-cellular organisms are organisms with more than one cell. This is the case for animals, plants and most fungi. In such organisms, cells are usually specialised. All the cells with the same function work together. Such a group of cells is then called a tissue. 
Multi-cellular organisms have a set of cells that specialize in reproduction. Reproduction in such organisms is usually sexual. The sex cells are either sperm or ovum (also named "egg") cells. If they are sperm cells, the organism is male, if they are egg cells it is female. If both are present, the organism is a hermaphrodite.
We know, from their cell structure, that multicellularity has evolved independently many times in Earth history, for example in plants and animals.
The earliest forms of life in the fossil record are cyanobacteria from the Archaean era at 3.5 billion years ago. They grew as single cells but lived in colonies as stromatolites. 
The first multicellular fossils have been found in 2.1 billion years old Palaeoproterozoic rocks from the Gabon in Africa. These are eukaryotic cells which live colonially. The fossils are visible to the naked eye, and hence much larger than bacteria. The authors comment that one advantage of multicellularity is larger size, and that an adequate level of oxygen is required to support this kind of life. 
In order to reproduce, multicellular organisms must solve the problem of regenerating a whole organism from germ cells (i.e. sperm and egg cells), an issue that is studied in developmental biology. 
Multicellular organisms, especially long-living animals, also face the challenge of cancer, which occurs when cells fail to regulate their growth within the normal program of development.

</doc>
<doc id="22000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22000" title="Kazan State University">
Kazan State University

Kazan State University is a university in Kazan, Tatarstan, Russia. It was founded in 1804. The famous Russian mathematician Lobachevsky was its rector from 1827 till 1846. The current rector is Myakzyum Salakhov (Mäğzüm Säläxev).
Kazan University is also known as "the birthplace of organic chemistry" because of the works of Aleksandr Butlerov, Vladimir Markovnikov, Aleksandr Arbuzov, and others.

</doc>
<doc id="22002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22002" title="New World">
New World

The New World is a name used for the Western Hemisphere. It specifically refers to the Americas. It can also refer to certain Atlantic and Pacific islands (like Bermuda) and sometimes Oceania, (Australasia). The name started in the early 16th century, shortly after America was discovered. The people of the European Middle Ages thought the world was only Europe, Asia, and Africa. These continents are called the Old World. The Americas were also referred to as the "fourth part of the world".
The continent (North and South America) was named America after Amerigo Vespucci.

</doc>
<doc id="22016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22016" title="Rabbit">
Rabbit

Rabbits are mammals of the order Lagomorpha. There are about fifty different species of rabbits and hares. The order Lagomorpha is made of rabbits, pikas and hares. Rabbits can be found in many parts of the world. They live in families and eat vegetables and hay. In the wild, rabbits live in burrows, that they dig themselves. A group of rabbits living together in a burrow is called a warren. Rabbits are famous for hopping and eating carrots. 
A male rabbit is called a buck, and a female is called a doe. A baby rabbit is called a kit, which is short for kitten. Rabbits have a gestation period of around 31 days. The female can have up to 12-13 kits, very rarely litters as big as 18 and as small as one.
Some people have rabbits as pets. Rabbits are also raised for their meat. Rabbits are of a different biological classification than hares. 
Since rabbits are prey animals, they are careful in open spaces. If they sense danger, they freeze and watch. Rabbit vision has a very wide field, including overhead scanning. Their enemies are foxes and dogs; also bears, raccoons, minks, weasels and snakes. Birds of prey sometimes take rabbits. People are also known to shoot rabbits, because they eat crops. Their escape method is to run for their burrow, where they are usually safe.
Rabbits have a complex social structure and, like dogs, they have a hierarchy. Rabbit ears probably have several functions. The main function is to give warning of predators, but they may be used for signalling, and temperature regulation.
1. Personality
Rabbits can make great pets and tend to bond very closely with their owners. They can be extremely social, and love being around people, making them loyal companions. They also have a tendency to be very independent, which makes caring for them less stressful compared to other pets. Being very social and playful mammals, rabbits are easily distracted by toys. Training a rabbit can be quite easy, using similar techniques as one would to train a dog. 
2. Essential Equipment 
In order to successfully own a rabbit, there are essential items that are needed. First it is important to have a cage that the rabbit can call home. It does not need to be big, just somewhere that the rabbit can live comfortably and relax. Secondly it is important to have a water bottle or water bowl that is replenished with fresh water daily. A litter box for the corner of the cage is a great purchase because it can help potty-train the rabbit, and can easily be cleaned on either a daily basis or every other day. It is also essential to have toys for a rabbit. Since they are very social and playful animals, it is important for them to have toys to play with while their owners are not able to be with them. 
After purchasing essential housing items for a rabbit, a new owner needs to purchase bedding for the cage. Having newspaper handy makes cleaning the cage extremely easy and (hopefully) a little less messy. 
3. Grooming
Grooming a rabbit is essential for their health and wellbeing. Purchasing a brush at a local pet shop comes in handy when grooming. It is important to groom a rabbit on a weekly basis because they tend to groom themselves obsessively, but it becomes dangerous to their health due to the fact that they swallow so much of their fur.  
4. Feeding
Rabbits are extremely easy pets to feed. It is important to make sure that they are being fed fresh hay and grains on a daily basis. Providing a rabbit with fresh, well-washed vegetables every day is essential for a balanced diet and digestion. Fruits can be given to rabbits every once in a while as a snack, but it is important to keep a rabbits’ fruit intake limited due to all of the sugars. 
5. Exercise
In order for rabbits to live happy and healthy lives, it is important for them to get out of their cages and exercise on a daily basis. Hopping around the house for a couple of hours a day will allow a rabbit to explore its surroundings and stay healthy. 
6. Safety
Bunny-proofing a rabbit owners’ home is vital. These curious critters tend to be drawn towards electrical wires, wood, shoes, furniture – basically everything within a normal household. It is important to be present when a rabbit is venturing outside of its cage to ensure its safety, or have an area for it to hop around in that does not have any dangerous items. 
Wild rabbits are nomaly called hares, but you can get wild rabbits.

</doc>
<doc id="22032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22032" title="Louis Pasteur">
Louis Pasteur

Louis Pasteur (December 27, 1822 – September 28, 1895) was a French microbiologist and chemist. 
He and his wife, Marie, are best known for their experiments supporting the germ theory of disease, and he is also known for his vaccinations, most notably the first vaccine against rabies. He made many discoveries in the field of chemistry, including the asymmetry (different shapes) of crystals. He is also well known for his way of keeping milk and wine from going sour for longer periods of time. That process is called pasteurization.
Pasteur's later work on diseases included work on chicken cholera. During this work, Pasteur noticed how a culture of the responsible bacteria had spoiled, and it failed to induce the disease in some chickens, which he was infecting, with the disease.
Louis Pasteur was born on December 27, 1822 in Dole in the Jura region of France, into the family of a poor tanner. Louis grew up in the town of Arbois. He gained degrees in Letters and in Mathematical Sciences before entering the École Normale Supérieure, an elite college. After serving briefly as professor of physics at Dijon Lycée in 1848, he became professor of chemistry at the University of Strasbourg, where he met and courted Marie Laurent, daughter of the university's rector, in 1849.
Louis Pasteur and Marie were married on May 29, 1849, and together had five children. Only two survived to adulthood; his other three children had died of typhoid fever. These personal tragedies inspired Pasteur to try to find cures for diseases, such as typhoid.
In 1895 at Marnes-la-Coquette, a commune in Paris, Pasteur died after several strokes.

</doc>
<doc id="22036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22036" title="Akrotiri and Dhekelia">
Akrotiri and Dhekelia

Akrotiri and Dhekelia are two areas on the island of Cyprus that are used as military bases of the United Kingdom. The bases were kept by the UK after Cyprus changed from being a colony in the British Empire, to being an independent republic. The United Kingdom kept them because of the important location of Cyprus in the Mediterranean Sea.

</doc>
<doc id="22037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22037" title="Transcontinental country">
Transcontinental country

A transcontinental country is a nation that is in more than one continent. Examples:
Most of the other examples are contentious, based on the possession of small islands in another region. For example, Spain controlling the Canary Islands. A few are undoubtedly intercontinental:

</doc>
<doc id="22040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22040" title="Category:Cyprus">
Category:Cyprus


</doc>
<doc id="22044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22044" title="Kurów">
Kurów

Kurów is a village in south-eastern Poland, near Puławy and Lublin, on the Kurówka River. It is the main village of a gmina within the Lublin Voivodship and has 2826 people living there (as of 2010). The village was built before 1185 and made bigger between 1431 and 1442 with city rights based on the Magdeburg Law. The former President of Poland, Wojciech Jaruzelski was born in Kurów in 1923.

</doc>
<doc id="22045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22045" title="Scorpion">
Scorpion

Scorpions are eight legged venomous arachnids. They have a long body with an extended tail with a sting. The average adult scorpion is about 3 inches in length. The longest scorpion is the African scorpion, which can be 9 inches long. There are about 1,750 species of scorpions worldwide.
The evolutionary history of scorpions goes back to the Silurian, 430 million years ago. They have adapted to a wide range of environments, and live on all continents except Antarctica. There are 13 living families. Only about 25 species have venom which can kill a human being. 
They have eight legs and a pair of grasping pedipalps (like claws). The tail is narrow, with segments. It usually has a forward curve over the back, ending with a venomous stinger. 
Their body is in three parts. The front section is the "cephalothorax"; the abdomen is called the "mesosoma", and the tail is the "metasoma". The body is covered by an exoskeleton which gives them good protection.
Scorpions have many ways to survive in the desert. They can slow down their metabolism. This allows them to survive on as little as one insect per year. This ability also allows them to shelter from the sun and heat for extended periods of time, using only little amounts of oxygen. 
Many people also believe that their claws, or pincers, were once front legs that have turned into what they now are by going through evolution. Nevertheless, the scorpions' claws play a crucial part in their hunting and mating rituals.
Scorpions also possess a special, feather-like pair of organs, called pectines that they use to sense even the smallest of movements around them. This allows them to effectively track down and hunt their prey, either above or below the surface. This also warns them of possible dangers, such as other bigger hunters.
The scorpion’s most feared and recognized feature is its sting. The sting contains a neurotoxin, which the scorpion uses to paralyze the victim, so it would be easier to kill and eat. They also stay hidden under rocks and that makes their body temperature cool.
The mating ritual of scorpions begins when the male and female connect claws. After this they verify that the other scorpion is of the same species, and is the opposite gender. After this, the male leads the female around until it finds a suitable spot to deposit its spermatophore. Once the male has found a suitable spot, he guides the female over it, where it enters her and fertilizes her. The mating ritual can take anywhere between 1 and 26 hours, depending on the male’s ability to find a suitable spot. Only a scorpion that has reached maturity may go through the mating ritual. A scorpion reaches maturity after it has gone through 5 to 7 moults.

</doc>
<doc id="22055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22055" title="1216">
1216

1216 was a leap year starting on a Friday in the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="22056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22056" title="John Schlesinger">
John Schlesinger

John Richard Schlesinger, CBE (16 February 1926 – 25 July 2003) was a British movie director. He was born into a Jewish family in London. He was openly gay. He died of a stroke in Palm Springs, California, United States.
Schlesinger's acting career began in the 1950s. He started to direct in 1956. By the 1960s he was not acting so he could just direct. His documentary "Terminus" (1961), got a Venice Film Festival Gold Lion and a British Academy Award. "A Kind of Loving" won the Golden Bear award at the 12th Berlin International Film Festival in 1962. Schlesinger's movie, "Midnight Cowboy" (1969), made in the United States, was internationally successful. A story of two hustlers living on the fringe in the bad side of New York City, it was Schlesinger's first movie shot in the U.S. It won Oscars for Best Director and Best Picture. In 1996 he received the BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award, a lifetime achievement award.

</doc>
<doc id="22057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22057" title="Landjäger">
Landjäger

Landjäger (or Landjaeger) is a type of German sausage. The name stands for "hunter's sausage". It is smoked, so it does not need refrigeration. Usually, some of the water has also been taken out (they are dehydrated).

</doc>
<doc id="22059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22059" title="Gilbert and Ellice Islands">
Gilbert and Ellice Islands

The Gilbert and Ellice Islands were a British protectorate from 1892 and colony from 1916. They are formed from two groups of islands in the Pacific Ocean. On 1 January 1976 the islands were split into two different colonies that became independent states. The Gilbert Islands have been the biggest part of the nation of Kiribati since 1979, and the Ellice Islands became Tuvalu in 1978.

</doc>
<doc id="22060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22060" title="Casablanca">
Casablanca

Casablanca (classical Arabic name: الدار البيضاء, "the white house"; Spanish:Casablanca, "whitehouse") is a city in western Morocco, on the Atlantic Ocean. 
With 2.95 million people (September 2004 census), Casablanca is Morocco's biggest city.
Casablanca has a Mediterranean Climate with hot dry summers and wet rainy winters.

</doc>
<doc id="22062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22062" title="Category:Morocco">
Category:Morocco

Country of Morocco

</doc>
<doc id="22063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22063" title="Category:Denmark">
Category:Denmark


</doc>
<doc id="22076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22076" title="Flatulence">
Flatulence

Flatulence, also called fart or flatus, is when intestinal gas leaves the anus. This often happens with a sound. 
In mammals like humans, the gases come from two sources: swallowed air (for example, while eating, talking or drinking) and gases naturally created by bacteria in the body during digestion. Nitrogen is the main gas released (20-90% in total), followed by hydrogen, carbon dioxide, oxygen and methane. 

</doc>
<doc id="22078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22078" title="Computability theory">
Computability theory

Computability theory is part of computer science. Scientists want to know what can be computed, and what can not. 
There is a model of a computer that is used for this. It is called the Turing machine. A Turing machine basically is a special typewriter with an endless ribbon. The machine is named after the mathematician Alan Turing.
A problem is "computable" if it can be expressed in such a way that a Turing machine can solve it. 
One of the best known examples is the Halting problem. The task is to write a program which says for all programs whether they will finally stop. This is impossible to decide. Mathematicians say the problem is undecidable.

</doc>
<doc id="22079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22079" title="Batman (city)">
Batman (city)

Batman is a city in southeast Turkey. It is the capital (city) of the province with the same name. In 2010, 325,000 people lived there. There are many Kurds in that area. The area has much oil and gas.
There is a railway track at Kurtalan, near this city. The track runs all the way to Istanbul. There is also an airport near Batman. The name is short for the Bati Raman mountains.

</doc>
<doc id="22081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22081" title="Typewriter">
Typewriter

A typewriter is a machine. People used it to type letters and books. Early ones, and later cheap ones, were "manual" typewriters, powered entirely by the user. After the middle 20th century electric typewriters, powered by a motor, became commonplace. Nowadays people use a computer and a printer for the same thing. 
In the early days of the typewriter, up to the early 1900s, people said that the person typing the letters was a typewriter. Those people became later known as typists.
The paper is usually held by a platen that is automatically moved along with a carriage when a key is struck.

</doc>
<doc id="22082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22082" title="Nocturnal animals">
Nocturnal animals

Nocturnal (Latin: "nox" - night, darkness) animals are animals that are mainly active during the night. They hunt or feed during the night, and sleep during the day. Diurnal animals do it the other way around.
Scientists sometimes use the word "crepuscular" to describe nocturnal animals that are not active when it is very dark at night; they are mostly active near dawn, dusk, and sometimes when the moon makes a lot of light. 
Nocturnal animals also have a high sensitivity to their eyes, and when flashed really brightly with lights appear red, orange, amber, or topaz.

</doc>
<doc id="22087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22087" title="Censorship">
Censorship

Censorship is when an authority (such as a government or religion) cuts out or suppresses communication.
This has been done widely. All countries, religions and societies have their limits as to what can be said, or written or communication by art or nowadays by computer.
Certain facts are changed or removed on purpose. This may be done because it is considered wrong, harmful, sensitive, or inconvenient to the government or other authority. This can be done for different reasons.
A censor is a person whose job is to look at all types of media and remove material. There are many reasons to censor something, like protecting military secrets, stopping immoral or anti-religious works, or keeping political power. Censorship is almost always used as an insult, and there is much debate over what censorship is and when it is okay.
When there is freedom of speech and freedom of the press, most information can published. However, even in developed countries with much freedom of the press, there are some things that cannot be published. For example, journalists are usually not allowed to publish many secrets about the military, like where troops will be sent on a mission. Pornography is censored in some countries because it is seen as not moral. For these reasons, the government might arrest anyone who publishes it. 
Most often things are censored for one or more of the following reasons:
There is much debate about when censorship should be allowed. For example, U.S. President Richard Nixon censored the New York Times when they tried to publish articles about the Pentagon Papers, a group of classified military documents that showed that Nixon and the military lied about the Vietnam War. The Supreme Court in New York Times Co v. United States overturned the censorship, saying that Nixon had not shown it would be dangerous to the military, just embarrassing. In other countries, journalists and bloggers (who are usually not seen as journalists) are sometimes arrested for saying bad things about the government. In Egypt, Kareem Amer was famously arrested for insulting Islam and calling the president of Egypt, Hosni Mubarak, a dictator. 
Governments are not the only ones who censor information. For example, when the history department at Middlebury College did not allow professors to accept Wikipedia as a source in papers, some said it was censorship. This was because the department was telling professors (who usually have academic freedom) what works they should and should not accept. Sometimes, a group or a website will not allow some facts, articles, and pictures that they do not think should be seen. There is much debate over the difference between censorship and editing, that is, deciding what should or should not be published.

</doc>
<doc id="22088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22088" title="Czestochowa">
Czestochowa

Częstochowa is a city in south Poland on the Warta River. It has 248,894 residents. It has been in the Silesian Voivodeship (administrative division) since 1999, and was once the capital of Częstochowa Voivodship (1975-1998).
The town is known for the famous monastery of Jasna Góra Monastery, which is the home of the Black Madonna painting, a shrine of the Virgin Mary. Every year, thousands of people from all over the world come to Częstochowa to see it. 
The name Częstochowa means Częstoch's place, and comes from the name of a person, Częstoch. It is mentioned in medieval documents also as Częstobor and Częstomir. Częstochowa is also known as Czestochowa, Czenstochov, and Chenstochov.
Currently, the city is one of the main tourist attractions in the area. It attracts hundreds of thousands of visitors every year.
The Black Madonna of Częstochowa, kept at the Jasna Góra Monastery, is a very popular attraction.

</doc>
<doc id="22091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22091" title="Voivodeships of Poland">
Voivodeships of Poland

A Voivodeship is one of 16 different divisions of land in Poland. 

</doc>
<doc id="22095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22095" title="50s">
50s

"This is an article about the years 50 AD to 59 AD. Sometimes, "the 50s" is used for the 1950s".

</doc>
<doc id="22096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22096" title="Volleyball">
Volleyball

Volleyball is a team sport. It has six players on each side of the net. The teams are separated by a net. Each team is allowed twelve substitution players. The game starts when the captain from each team decides which side of the court they will play on, by the toss of a coin, which also determines who will serve (hit) the ball first. The point of the game is to keep the ball in the air. The ball can be played with any part of the body, with a maximum of three strokes a team. If at any point the ball hits the floor, the side that the ball landed on it is a point for the other team.
In 1895, William G. Morgan invented a new game called "Mintonette". However, when an observer named Alfred Halstead saw the game being played, he noticed the volleying action used to get the ball over the net, so he decided to change the name to "volleyball".
Morgan wanted to create a skilled activity, which required more players, less space, and less exertion than basketball. The first net was a “rope” and the first ball was a basketball air bladder. Until 1960, men and women played with different rules. Now the rules are the same except for the height of the net, the men’s net is higher.
A player cannot hit the ball twice. A point is gained when a team plays the ball in the opposition's court and the ball is not defended, therefore it lands within the court. The ball must be served (hit) from outside the court, otherwise it will be regarded as a foul. The game is played in sets of 25 points (sometimes 21). The team that reaches 25 (or 21) points first, wins the set. Each game consists of 3-5 sets. The fifth set is played to 15 points.
A player usually wears knee pads to protect their knees from becoming bruised during dives for the "volleyball". In order to win the game, the winners must be ahead by 2 points or the game goes on until you win by 2 points.
The sports governing body is the (FIVB). Digging is the ability to prevent the ball from touching one's court after a spike or attack, particularly a ball that is nearly touching the ground. Usually, the player is diving (throwing themselves towards the ground) to be the barrier to block the ball from hitting the court.In many aspects, this skill is similar to passing, or bumping: overhand dig and bump are also used to distinguish between defensive actions taken with fingertips or with joined arms.
Some specific techniques are more common in digging than in passing. A player may sometimes perform a "dive", i.e., throw his or her body in the air with a forward movement in an attempt to save the ball, and land on his or her chest. When the player also slides his or her hand under a ball that is almost touching the court, this is called a "pancake". The pancake is frequently used in indoor volleyball. Besides being one of the best-known sports in the world, and being a favorite to millions of people, it is in the Olympics.
The court is . A net is stretched tightly in the middle. The height of the net is for middle and high schools and college women, for college men.
The objective of the game is to legally return the ball over the net in such a manner that the opponent’s team cannot make a legal return. The main causes of illegal plays are: holding, carrying, or lifting with the palm of the hands, four touches on one side, and two consecutive touches by one player. A regulation game is played with six players on the court. They are to rotate to serve in a clockwise direction when facing the net. The server will come from the right front position, serve, then play the right back position..
Rally scoring is used in volleyball, which means a point will be awarded to one of the two teams when a rally ends or a mistake is made. A regulation game is played to 25 points and the winners must be ahead by 2 points. A middle and high school game is played best out of three games. If the games are tied at 1-1, the 3rd game is played to 15 points and the winners must be ahead by 2 points.
Serving: may be underhand or overhand. If the serve touches the net and goes to the opponent’s side, it must be played. The server is not allowed to step on or over the end line when serving. In class, the server must say the score before serving.
Float: Similar to a knuckle ball in baseball, the server stands flat footed and contacts the ball with a stiff wrist and does not swing through after contact. This causes no spin to be on the ball, allowing it to catch any air current and causes the ball to change directional course throughout the whole air course.
Top Spin: This serve is executed by snapping hard on the ball during contact. This puts a forward spin on the ball, which causes it to drop faster then a float.
Jump Serve: A jump serve is used to assist the server get more height. By jumping they have a better angle to put the ball down into the court, and are less likely to be underneath the ball. This can be a float or topspin ball depending on the contact, arm swing, and approach.
Pass or Bump (underarm pass): This is a pass used when the ball approaches a player below their shoulders. You are to hold your fingers together, elbows straight, and contact the ball with the forearms with shoulders facing the net on impact. Defined as a dig when passing a hard driven hit. Also pancaking is a form of passing. This is when the player has sprawled out to the floor in a last hope type of decision for the ball to land on their hand and it pop straight up.
Set or volley: (overhead pass) direct the ball to a place specifically. Hands high, flex wrist, contact the ball with the finger pads, and elbows bent. Use your legs and arms to project the ball into the air.
Hit: A hard hit ball from a height above the net, straight to the opponent’s side. Contact the ball with the cupped fingers and a long arm swing.
Block: (defensive hit) Two hands above the head, jumping with arms reaching for a ball that has been spiked. A block is used to prevent a volley from crossing the net.
Dig: Digging is the ability to prevent the ball from touching one's court after a spike or attack, particularly a ball that is nearly touching the ground.
Serve: to put the ball into play from the end line.
Side out: the team that served made a mistake, ball now goes to the opponent’s for service.
Set: overhead pass that allows a player to spike
Bump: an underhand pass performed when a ball is below the shoulders
Spike: a hard driven ball aimed at the opponents.
Block: a defensive play to prevent the ball from crossing the net.
Double: Contacting the ball twice typically while setting
Kill: Any hit, rollshot, or tip that automatically results in a point.

</doc>
<doc id="22097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22097" title="Twilight">
Twilight

Twilight means either dawn (in the morning) or dusk (in the evening).
In the morning, dawn is when it is not dark any more, and the light of the sun is just starting to appear.
In the evening, it is the other way around and that phenomenon is called dusk. The sun has disappeared, and darkness is setting in. Light fades away.
The following have been defined:
For all these definitions, the horizon is at the sea which is flat.

</doc>
<doc id="22100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22100" title="Great Depression">
Great Depression

The Great Depression was the great economic crisis that started after the U.S. stock market crash in 1929. The prices on the Wall Street stock market fell a lot from October 24 to October 29, 1929. Many people lost their jobs. By 1932, 25–30% of people lost their jobs. They became homeless and poor. This ended the wealth of the Roaring Twenties. Many people think that the Great Depression started on Tuesday, October 29, but economists think Black Tuesday was just one of the causes.
From 1929-1932, the depression worsened. Many suspect that increased taxes on American citizens and the increased tariffs (taxes on countries which trade with the United States) worsened it. Economist Milton Friedman said that the Great Depression was worsened because the Federal Reserve printed out less money than usual.
When the Great Depression started, Herbert Hoover was the president of the United States, and as a result, he was blamed for it. People voted for a new president in 1932. His name was Franklin D. Roosevelt. Roosevelt got the government to pass many new laws and programs to help people who were hurt by the Great Depression. These programs were called the New Deal. 
One of these programs was the Civilian Conservation Corps, or CCC. The CCC put many young men to work in the outdoors. The men were paid thirty dollars a month, of which twenty five dollars was sent home to support their families, to work, and they got free food and shelter. Another program was called Social Security. Social Security gave old people a small income so they had money for things they needed. The Great Depression was really bad, but with everyone's help, it would get better. Between 1939 and 1944, more people had jobs again because of World War II, and the Great Depression came to an end.
An important reason for the Great Depression was the Treaty of Versailles. The Treaty of Versailles made the United States very rich. Britain and France both gave large amounts of money to the U.S., and Germany had to pay a great amount of money for the damage they had done in World War I. However, it was this wealth that began the stock market crash.
Even after the Wall Street Crash of 1929, people still had hope. John D. Rockefeller said that "These are days when many are discouraged. In the 93 years of my life, depressions have come and gone. Prosperity (wealth) has always returned (come back) and will again." But soon the bad effects of the depression grew worse and worse. People lost jobs, money, and homes. There were reports that in Germany and the United States, there was great hunger, disease, and even starvation. Nations used protectionism more than in recent decades. This diminished international trade.
Farmers were usually safe from the severe effects of previous depressions because they could at least feed themselves. During the Great Depression, the Great Plains were also hit hard with a drought and dust storms, this was called the Dust Bowl.
Years of overgrazing combined with drought caused the grass to disappear. With topsoil exposed, high winds picked up the loose dirt and carried it over long distances. The dust storms destroyed crops, leaving farmers without food or something to sell.
Small farmers were hit especially hard. Even before the dust storms hit, the invention of the tractor drastically cut the need for manpower on farms. These small farmers were usually already in debt, borrowing money for seed and paying it back when their crops came in. When the dust storms damaged the crops, not only could the small farmer not feed himself and his family, he could not pay back his debt. Banks would then foreclose on the mortgage and the farmer's family would be homeless, unemployed and poor.

</doc>
<doc id="22103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22103" title="1291">
1291


</doc>
<doc id="22106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22106" title="Delhi">
Delhi

Delhi is a territory in India. It includes the country's capital New Delhi. It covers an area of . It is bigger than the Faroe Islands but smaller than Guadeloupe. Delhi is a part of the National Capital Region, which has 12.5 million residents. The governance of Delhi is like that of a state in India. It has its own legislature, high court and a council of executive ministers.
Delhi is on the banks of the Yamuna River. Historians have evidence that people have been living in this region since at least the 6th century BC. People also believe that the legendary city of Indraprastha was here. This city has many remains and monuments of historic importance.
The India Gate is a war memorial in Delhi. On the India gate there are names of some of the people who fought for India during 1914 until 1921.

</doc>
<doc id="22107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22107" title="European Central Bank">
European Central Bank

The European Central Bank is the main bank of the European Union. The European Central Bank is in Frankfurt am Main. The main goal of the European Central Bank is to maintain price stability, in other words make sure inflation is below 2%. This is done by e.g. controlling the interest rates. It is also the only bank allowed to issue euro banknotes (€), used by 16 of the 28 member states of the European Union (EU).

</doc>
<doc id="22109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22109" title="Friendship">
Friendship

A friend is a person that someone likes or knows. 
People who are friends talk to each other and spend time together. They also help each other when they are in trouble or are hurt. Friends are people that can be looked up to and trusted. Sometimes people can't share their secrets with their parents so they can share it with their friends. Usually friends have similar interests. A friend is one who admires a person's skill and helps or encourages them to make the right choices and do not get into any trouble at all.
The strength of the bond of friendship between two people can vary. If the bond is very strong, they are called best friends. This can usually be achieved by possessing the elements of friendship, by being kind, generous, loyal, honest and by having fun. With these qualities you can truly enjoy the bliss of friendship. There are expectations, demands and complaints in friendship too. 
If friends don't match with your expectations, it does not mean you will break the friendship. It is all about understanding, realizing and helping whenever possible. 
Friendship is both good and necessary. Man cannot live all alone. He is a social being. He needs someone to share his joys and sorrows. Generally, it is only people of similar age, character and background, mentality, etc., who can understand him and his problems. Friends are needed for support and for sharing.

</doc>
<doc id="22113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22113" title="Clitoris">
Clitoris

The clitoris is a female genital organ. It includes erectile tissue, glands, muscles and ligaments, nerves, and blood vessels. Although the parts are placed differently, the clitoris is a match to the male penis. The clitoris causes female sexual pleasure, arousal and orgasm. Rubbing or applying other consistent pressure to it is usually needed to help the female have an orgasm.
During sexual arousal, erectile tissue fills with blood. This causes the clitoris to grow. It grows until orgasm happens. Also during arousal, touching the clitoris and other sensitive areas of the female genitals makes a woman's vagina change shape and release a lubricant. The lubricant and change of shape makes it easier for a man to enter a woman and for sex to occur. Most of the clitoris is hidden inside the body. Only a small part of it is seen outside the body. Adding the outside and inside parts, the clitoris is about the same size as the penis. The clitoris and penis grow from the same tissue in the womb; they bear many similar parts.
The parts of the clitoris that can be seen from the outside are located from the "clitoral junction" (the point where the outer lips meet at the base of the pubic mound) to the "fork" (where the lower edges of the inner lips meet below the vaginal opening). The outside parts include:
 The parts of the clitoris inside the body include erectile tissue, glands, muscles, blood vessels, and nerves. In both the clitoris and the penis, there are two types of erectile tissue. These are "corpus cavernosum" (cavern-like body) and vestibular bulbs. These tissues fill with blood during sexual arousal. This causes an erection. The clitoral shaft is connected to the glans. It is just underneath the surface of the skin. The shaft is a round spongy erectile tissue. It is very sensitive like the glans. It feels like a hard ridge. The shaft is about long. It moves toward the pubic mound for a short distance, then bends sharply and divides. This forms two thin legs. These legs are also made of spongy tissue. The legs spread out like the wishbone of a chicken.

</doc>
<doc id="22117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22117" title="Berlin Wall">
Berlin Wall

The Berlin Wall (German: "Berliner Mauer") separated the city of Berlin in Germany from 1961 to 1989. It separated the eastern half from the western half. Many people thought it was a symbol of the Cold War. The Berlin Wall was taken down on November 9, 1989. The Berlin Wall was about 168 km (104 miles) long. It was built to prevent people from escaping from the eastern half of Berlin.
After World War II ended, Germany was divided into four zones, one zone for each of the main Allied countries: France, the United Kingdom, the United States and the Soviet Union. Its capital Berlin was also divided into four zones, so that it was an enclave, like an island inside the Soviet zone. In May 1949, the French, United Kingdom and US zones were made into West Germany ("Federal Republic of Germany", "Bundesrepublik Deutschland", "BRD") and West Berlin. The Soviet zones were made into East Germany and East Berlin. East Germany (German Democratic Republic, "Deutsche Demokratische Republik", "DDR") was founded on October 7, 1949. Europe, Germany and Berlin were divided by an iron curtain.
After Germany split into West and East Germany in 1949, 2.6 million East Germans left to go to "West Germany". In Berlin alone, 1.6 million people fled to the west. To stop this, on August 13, 1961, the Communist government of East Germany built a wall separating East and West Berlin.
The wall was built to keep the country's people in. But the Soviets and East German government said it was to keep capitalism out. They said that West Germany refused to recognize East Germany as an independent country because they wanted to take over North-East Germany just like Hitler took over Poland.
People still tried to escape even though the Berlin Wall was there. They used many methods to get around the guards and barbed wire on the Berlin Wall.
In the late 1980s, Mikhail Gorbachev said that the Soviet Union would not use the Red Army to stop the people of Eastern and Middle Europe from changing their government. After he said that, several countries began to change the way they governed their people. Hungary opened its border and people from East Germany began moving to the west through Hungary. In October 1989 mass demonstrations against the government in East Germany began. The long-time leader, Erich Honecker, resigned and was replaced by Egon Krenz a few days later. Honecker had predicted in January 1989 that the wall would stand for a "hundred more years" if the conditions which had caused its construction did not change. This did not turn out to be true.
In November, 1989, the Central Committee of East Germany decided to make it easier for East Germans to pass through the wall. A mistake by the press officer meant the border was opened several hours before it should have been. Millions of East German citizens celebrated the opening of the wall. Many collected souvenirs with chisels and some television stations filmed people hitting the wall with sledge hammers.
This image of people in West Berlin hitting the wall is often said to be East Berliners breaking out. This is not true. The eastern side of the wall had no graffiti on it. All pictures of people chipping away at the wall show people hitting graffiti covered walls. Less than one year after the Berlin Wall was broken down, Germany again became one country.
In the 28 years of its existence, between 125 and 206 people were killed when trying to cross the Berlin Wall. At least 800 more people were killed outside Berlin, trying to cross from East Germany to the west.
The East Germans did not record all of the deaths, so the real number of how many people died may never be known.
Those people who were caught alive in an attempt to flee, had to go to jail for at least five years. The first victim of the Wall was Ida Siekmann. She was fatally injured after jumping out of the window of her apartment. She fell onto the pavement on the west side. The first victim of the Wall to be shot at was Günter Litfin. He was 24 years old and was shot by police, near the railway station of Berlin Friedrichstrasse, when he tried to get into the West. This was on 24 August, 1961, only eleven days after the border had been closed.
Peter Fechter bled to death in the "death strip", on 17 August, 1962. This led to a public outcry. American troops watched him, but could not help him. The East-German border policemen, who had wounded him, did not help him either.
In 1966, two children, aged ten and thirteen years, were killed in the border strip. This is unusual because the East German border police had orders to not shoot on pregnant women, children or mentally ill people.
The last death took place on 6 February, 1989, when Chris Gueffroy died trying to escape into West Berlin.
"Tear down this wall!" was a speech made by United States President Ronald Reagan to Soviet Union leader Mikhail Gorbachev to destroy the wall. The speech was made at the Brandenburg Gate near the Berlin Wall on June 12, 1987. It was made to honor the 750th anniversary of Berlin. His speech and its fallout probably led to the wall's demolition.
By late 1989 the GDR was suffering from many problems such as a struggling economy, and large-scale protests. The Hungarian regime had collapsed and was dismantling its border fences with Austria by August 1989. Since the Warsaw Pact allowed citizens to travel within the Soviet bloc, many East German tourists fled to the west via Hungary. When the Hungarian government refused the GDR's demand to stop defectors, East Germany banned all travel to Hungary; prompting demonstrations and protest. This began the GDR's isolation within the bloc.
Erich Honecker, leader of the GDR since 1971, was forced to resign on October 18, 1989. He was replaced by Egon Krenz after a unanimous vote by the politburo. Under Krenz's regime, East Germans could still escape to Hungary via Czechoslovakia.
The number of defectors grew and caused tensions between East Germany and Czechoslovakia. The Krenz regime decided to allow people to leave directly to the west through border checkpoints in East Berlin. This prompted many East Germans, who learned about it broadcast from West German media, to go to the border crossings and demand to be let through immediately.
Border guards at each checkpoint told the people to go back home as they had no orders that the wall would open that night. As time passed, the number of people arriving at the checkpoint was increasing and the guards were becoming alarmed. They began taking the more aggressive people aside and stamped their passports with a special stamp that allowed them access to West Berlin however, the people weren't aware that they were effectively revoking their East German citizenship and were shocked to be refused entry back into the GDR. The Chief Guard of the checkpoint frantically telephoned his superiors hoping to get answers as to why so many people thought that the wall was to open. By 22:45, it was clear that the outnumbered and overwhelmed border guards would not use their weapons to suppress the crowds. The Chief Guard surrendered and ordered the gates to West Berlin to be opened. The crowds of East Berliners were met with crowds of West Berliners in a happy scene as the Berlin wall had just fallen.
Many people even climbed up onto the wall by the Brandenburg Gate in protest and began to chisel away at the wall. The GDR authorities responded to this initially by blasting the people with water cannons; this proved to be ineffective. The East German army later climbed up onto the wall to prevent others from standing on the wall. The government began demolishing the wall the next day. The fall of the wall destroyed the SED, the ruling party of the GDR, and caused many of its officials to resign. The German Democratic Republic would cease to exist less than a year later; reuniting with the Federal Republic of Germany on October 3, 1990.
The wall was changed and added to several times. It was not really a wall, but a collection of walls and fences and other devices. This is what the "border fence" was made of, starting from the east, going west
The whole was done in an a zone of between 30 and 500 m wide. The official ("civil" border) began before the first fence. Entering the installation required a special permit. The real border was about one or two metres in front of the concrete wall, so that the whole of the wall complex was inside East Germany (only the East Berlin part of the wall was inside East Berlin).
The border between East Germany and West Germany was also heavily defended with fences and mines. East Germans needed a special permit to live close to the border.
After the Reunification of Germany in October 3, 1990, the Berlin Wall was demolished and taken away. A few sections of the wall remain; some of the sections became a museum.
The East Berlin special police who guarded the wall had the order to shoot if this was necessary to stop people fleeing. East German leaders such as Egon Krenz were arrested after German reunification because guards were ordered to shoot to kill.
However, after the Wall was built, many people were no longer able to leave East Berlin using normal border posts. The only way they could do so was to race through the Wall or try to dig a tunnel underneath.
After the unification of Germany, border guards who had shot people were convicted by West German Courts. The judges said, that some of the laws of the border police (about shooting) were against human rights. They therefore should have refused to shoot.
The same was of course applied to those people who had shot border police on their flight.
Border guards who did shoot, and stop someone from fleeing could get a reward of up to 500 Marks. Some of those guards were sentenced after the unification.
The other choice was to not shoot, or to miss badly. Such guards risked losing their well-paid jobs.
Another strip of land was given to West Berlin. This strip was only the width of a road which joined West Berlin with a tiny exclave.

</doc>
<doc id="22118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22118" title="Łódź">
Łódź

Łódź (pronounced like this, "whootch") is the third-largest city in Poland, with 776,000 inhabitants. It is in the Łódź Voivodeship in the centre of the country. In Polish the name also means "boat". The mayor of Łódź is Hanna Zdanowska. 
The first documents mentioning the city date from 1332. Łódź was awarded city rights (according to the Magdeburg law) in 1432. The Congress of Vienna decided in 1815 that the city should be part of Russia. Only in 1918 did the city fall back to Poland.
The city is about 120 km south-west of Warsaw. In and around the city, there are some textile and electronics industries. Because of prolonged economic difficulties, there has been a decline in the population of the city. The city has a university and a film academy. Łódź has a humid continental climate ("Dfb" in the Koeppen climate classification). 
There are two major football teams in Łódź: the first is called ŁKS Łódź and the second is Widzew Łódź.

</doc>
<doc id="22119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22119" title="Kraków">
Kraków

Kraków (Polish: "Kraków"; (pronounced: ); variant English spelling Cracow; in full Royal Capital City of Krakow, Polish: Królewskie Stołeczne Miasto Kraków) is the one of the oldest and largest cities in Poland. In 2014 in Kraków lived 759,800 people. It is on the Vistula river. Krakow is the capital of Lesser Poland Voivodeship ("województwo małopolskie"); before that it was the capital of Kraków Voivodship (since 14th century).
During the mid-early 19th century, Krakow became an independent city-state, under the name of "The Free, Independent and Strictly Neutral City of Krakow". However, it was annexed by Austria-Hungary in 1846.
Pope John Paul II was raised in Krakow and was its archbishop from 1964 until he was elected as Pope in 1978. When it was later announced that the city will host World Youth Day in 2016, it will be a tribute to the late Pope who became a saint in 2014.
The current mayor of Krakow is Jacek Majchrowski.
Kraków is twinned, or maintains close relations with:

</doc>
<doc id="22121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22121" title="Portland, Oregon">
Portland, Oregon

Portland is the largest city in the U.S. state of Oregon. It is the county seat of Multnomah County. About 538,544 people live in the city of Portland, and about 1,927,881 people live in the city's metropolitan area. It is found in the north part of the state, where the Willamette River meets the Columbia River. Portland has the second most people of any city in the Northwest United States, after the city of Seattle.
Portland has many nicknames. One of these is "The City of Roses," because roses grow well there. Some other nicknames of Portland are "Stumptown" (from the fact that Portland was built over a forest), "Puddletown" (from the fact that it often rains in Portland), and "Bridgetown" (from the fact that there are many bridges that cross the Willamette River in Portland).
Many things are from Portland. Some of these things are Powell's Books, Beverly Cleary (and some of her most popular fictional characters, Henry Huggins and Ramona Quimby, which also have statues in the city's "Beverly Cleary Sculpture Garden for Children"), and the Portland Trail Blazers basketball team.

</doc>
<doc id="22126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22126" title="Frame of reference">
Frame of reference

A frame of reference is how one knows if an object is moving. For example, when you see a ball roll down a street, you can tell the ball is moving because the frame of reference is the streets, whatever may be on the side of the roads or the Earth. All of these are a frame of reference. 
The most common frame of reference is Earth itself, even though it moves.

</doc>
<doc id="22130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22130" title="Broadway">
Broadway

Broadway is a main street in New York City, USA. It runs north / south, diagonally crossing the other streets. Times Square, where Broadway meets 7th Avenue and 42nd Street, is a center of entertainment and is famous for its many theaters and stage plays. This street goes through Manhattan and the Bronx. It continues north as U.S. Route 9 to Albany, the capital of New York.
Broadway is long.

</doc>
<doc id="22138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22138" title="Schrödinger equation">
Schrödinger equation

The Schrödinger equation is a differential equation (a type of equation that involves an unknown function rather than an unknown number) that forms the basis of quantum mechanics, one of the most accurate theory of how subatomic particles behave. It is a mathematical equation that was thought of by Erwin Schrödinger in 1925. It defines a wave function of a particle or system (group of particles) which has a certain value at every point in space for every given time. These values have no physical meaning (in fact, they are mathematically complex), yet the wave function contains all information that can be known about a particle or system. This information can be found by mathematically manipulating the wave function to return real values relating to physical properties such as position, momentum, energy, etc. The wave function can be thought of as a picture of how this particle or system acts with time and describes it as fully as possible.
The wave function can be in a number of different states at once, and so a particle may have many different positions, energies, velocities or other physical properties at the same time (i.e. "be in two places at once"). However, when one of these properties is measured it has only one specific value (which cannot be definitely predicted), and the wave function is therefore in just one specific state. This is called wave function collapse and seems to be caused by the act of observation or measurement. The exact cause and interpretation of wave function collapse is still widely debated in the scientific community.
For one particle that only moves in one direction in space, the Schrödinger equation looks like:
formula_1
where formula_2 is the square root of -1, formula_3 is the reduced Planck's constant, formula_4 is time, formula_5 is a position, formula_6 is the wave function, and formula_7 is the potential energy, an as yet not chosen function of position. The left hand side is equivalent to the Hamiltonian energy operator acting on formula_8.
Assuming that the wave function, formula_9, is separable, i.e. assuming the function of two variables can be written as the product of two different functions of a single variable:
formula_10
then, using standard mathematical techniques of Partial differential equations, it can be shown that the wave equation can be rewritten as two distinct differential equations
formula_11
formula_12
where the first equation is solely dependent on time formula_13, and the second equation depends only on position formula_14, and where formula_15 is just a number. The first equation can be solved immediately to give
formula_16
where formula_17 is Euler's number. Solutions of the second equation depend on the potential energy function, formula_7, and so cannot be solved until this function is given. It can be shown using quantum mechanics that the number formula_15 is actually the energy of the system, so these separable wave functions describe systems of constant energy. Since energy is constant in many important physical systems (for example: an electron in an atom), the second equation of the set of separated differential equations presented above is often used. This equation is known as the Time independent Schrödinger Equation, as it does not involve formula_4.
There are many philosophical interpretations of the wave function, and a few of the leading ideas will be considered here. The main idea, called the Born probability interpretation (named after physicist Max Born) comes from the simple idea that the wave function is square integrable; i.e.
formula_21
This rather simple formula has great physical implications. Born hypothesized that The above integral determines that the particle "exists somewhere in space". But how can we find it? We use the integral 
formula_22 to formula_23. In other words, all that can be known in advance about a particle in general are probabilities, averages, and other statistical quantities associated with its physical quantities (position, momentum, etc.). Basically, this is the Born interpretation.
An extension of the above ideas can be made. Since the Born interpretation says that the actual position particle cannot be known, we can derive the following. If formula_24 are solutions to the wave equation, then the superposition of those solutions, i.e.
formula_25
is also a solution. This implies, then, that the particle exists in every possible position. When an observer comes and measures the position of the particle, then the superposition is reduced to a single possible wave function. (i.e., formula_26 → formula_27, where formula_27 is any of the possible wave function states.) This idea that a particle's position cannot exactly be known, and that a particle exists in multiple positions simultaneously gives rise to the Uncertainty principle. The mathematical formulation of this principle can be given by
formula_29
Where formula_30 is the uncertainty in position, and formula_31 is the uncertainty in momentum. This principle can be mathematically derived from the Fourier transforms between momentum and position as defined by quantum mechanics, but we will not derive it in this article. 
There are various other interpretations, such as the many-worlds interpretation, and quantum determinism. 

</doc>
<doc id="22150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22150" title="Nutmeg">
Nutmeg

Nutmeg is a genus of an evergreen trees. They are found in tropical Southeast Asia and Australia. From the fruit of the tree, two spices are made:

</doc>
<doc id="22153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22153" title="Run (island)">
Run (island)

Pulau Run is an island in Indonesia. It is one of the smallest Islands of the Banda Islands. It is about 3 km long and less than 1 km wide.
It used to be of great importance, because of the value of the spices nutmeg and "mace". Both spices are from the same tree. The trees were only grown on the Banda Islands. During the history of the spice trade sailors of the British East India Company of the second expedition of James Lancaster, John Davis and John Middleton who stayed in Bantam on Java first reached the Island in 1603. They made good contacts with the people who lived there.
Two wars were fought over the extremely costly spices. 
The Treaty of Westminster ended the First Anglo-Dutch War of 1652–1654. According to the treaty, Run should have been returned to England. The first attempt in 1660 failed due to formal constraints by the Dutch; after the second in 1665 the English traders were expelled in the same year and the Dutch destroyed the nutmeg trees.
After the second Anglo-Dutch War of 1665–1667 England and the United Provinces of the Netherlands agreed in the Treaty of Breda to the status quo: The English kept the island of Manhattan which a fleet sent by the Duke of York (the future Charles II), had occupied illegally in 1664 and renamed from New Amsterdam to New York. Run was officially given to the Dutch.
The Dutch monopoly on nutmeg and mace was destroyed by the transfer of nutmeg trees to Ceylon, Singapore and other British colonies in 1817 after the capture of the main Island Bandalontor in 1810 by Captain Cole. This led to the decline of the Dutch supremacy in the spice trade, but there are still nutmeg trees growing on Run today.

</doc>
<doc id="22156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22156" title="Shinty">
Shinty

Shinty a traditional game now mainly played in the Scottish Highlands. It involves 2 teams of twelve players using a stick (known as a "caman" from Scottish Gaelic) to put a ball in the opposing team's net.
It was once played over all Scotland but is now played mostly in the Scottish Highlands and Highland communities in the big Scottish cities. It is also played in universities and in America by enthusiasts.
The sport's rules and regulations are decided by the Camanachd Association.
It has a common ancestor with the Irish game of hurling and hurlers and shinty players sometimes hold internationals.

</doc>
<doc id="22160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22160" title="1229">
1229


</doc>
<doc id="22162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22162" title="1626">
1626


</doc>
<doc id="22163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22163" title="1399">
1399


</doc>
<doc id="22164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22164" title="54">
54

54 is a year in the 1st century.

</doc>
<doc id="22165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22165" title="48">
48

48 is a year in the 1st century. It was a leap year starting on Monday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Vitellius and Poplicola.

</doc>
<doc id="22166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22166" title="1244">
1244


</doc>
<doc id="22167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22167" title="1253">
1253


</doc>
<doc id="22168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22168" title="1627">
1627


</doc>
<doc id="22169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22169" title="1645">
1645


</doc>
<doc id="22170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22170" title="1072">
1072


</doc>
<doc id="22171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22171" title="1263">
1263


</doc>
<doc id="22172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22172" title="1264">
1264


</doc>
<doc id="22173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22173" title="1641">
1641


</doc>
<doc id="22174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22174" title="1680">
1680

Year 1680 was a leap year that started on a Monday when using the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="22175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22175" title="814">
814


</doc>
<doc id="22183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22183" title="Wikipedia:Core article">
Wikipedia:Core article

A Core article on Simple English Wikipedia is an article that describes a topic that is of general importance. Excellent examples of Core articles can be found on the .
Until we grow into a large encyclopedia with entries on all Core articles, we strongly encourage editors to focus on core articles, since these articles are of more general importance. This fits with the main purpose of Simple English Wikipedia, as we work towards creating high-quality articles of general interest in easy-to-read language. Simple English Wikipedia is not necessarily wanted to be as complete as the English Wikipedia or other Wikipedias, where a complete and detailed article would be more appropriate.
Some ways to help decide whether a subject is "Core" would be to consider:
As a general rule, start by adding new information to existing articles which cover the general subject area. Only move on to more specific aspects when the general article becomes too large or complicated. Many times, a non-Core article can be instead simply made into a redirect to a more general topic.
Here are some examples of likely non-Core subjects to avoid:

</doc>
<doc id="22206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22206" title="Manx">
Manx

The word Manx could mean many things related to the Isle of Man:

</doc>
<doc id="22207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22207" title="Hierarchy">
Hierarchy

A hierarchy (in ; this comes from '-hieros, sacred, and '-arkho, rule) is a way of ranking and organizing things or people. Beneath the top of the hierarchy, each part of it is below some other part. This turns out to be like a pyramid. It is a system to decide who can make decisions, and who is forced to comply with those decisions.
An example with people would be the structure of a company. There is the top manager, and there are a few levels of middle and lower management. At the bottom are the common workers. Another example would be an army that might have a general, followed by colonels, corporals, and sergeants, then privates.
In democracy this is done by educating people in the issues and then voting - in an election to choose leaders, or a referendum to actually choose one option from several. Competing power networks each form a political party and each offers only one leader or one option to the public, to simplify the issues to make decisions possible. After the decision, they typically do not fight it to the point of civil war, but wait for the next election.
In dictatorship this is done by asking one powerful person to make the decision and then agreeing to force everyone to follow it. Any who will not are exiled, imprisoned, or killed, even if the decision is not very important, since the refusal to follow is taken as a challenge to the power structure itself. There is only one power network and all others are forced to become part of it, or fight it. Civil war is much more common in a dictatorship than in a democracy.
In these examples, people who are higher up have more authority and power than people below them.

</doc>
<doc id="22214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22214" title="Sultan">
Sultan

Sultan is a name for Islamic rulers. There is no specific word for a sultan's wife.
The word "sultan" was from Arabic language. It means "strength", "authority", or "rulership". Later, it came to be used as the title of certain Muslim rulers who claimed full sovereignty. They did not have to take orders from any higher monarch, without claiming the overall caliphate. 
The dynasty and lands ruled by the Sultan is called a sultanate.

</doc>
<doc id="22215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22215" title="States and territories of India">
States and territories of India

"The region of the north is in Border dispute, recognised as Indian-administered Kashmir (Occupied territory) by all nations except India."
The Republic of India is divided into twenty-nine States, six union territories and the National Capital Territory.

</doc>
<doc id="22220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22220" title="Finnish language">
Finnish language

The Finnish language is a Finno-Ugric language, a group of languages belonging to the Uralic language family. It is one of the two official languages of Finland. It is also an official minority language in Sweden. Finnish is one of the four national languages of Europe that is not an Indo-European language. The other three are Estonian and Hungarian, which are also Uralic languages, and Basque.
The Finnish grammar and most Finnish words are very different from those in other European languages, because Finnish is not an Indo-European language. The two other national languages that are Uralic languages as Finnish are Estonian and Hungarian. Estonian and Finnish are very close to each other, and Estonians and Finns usually may understand each other. Even though Finnish and Hungarian are related languages, they do not look or sound similar. The Finnish and Hungarian languages separated a long time ago, and each language developed its own vocabulary. People who can speak Finnish cannot understand Hungarian without extra study, and Hungarians cannot understand Finnish. However, there are some basic words that are very similar, for example: 'hand' (Finnish 'käsi' vs. Hungarian 'kéz') 'to go' (Finnish 'mennä' vs. Hungarian 'menni'), 'fish' (Finnish 'kala' vs. Hungarian 'hal').
Finnish is a synthetic and an agglutinative language. This means that words in Finnish have a stem called "body", and other parts inside them which make up the meaning. Finnish is similar in this respect to the Japanese language, Turkish language, and Latin language. In Finnish, there are 17 cases/word types (sanatyypit). You can think of a "case" as an ending added to a word that helps describe its purpose in the sentence. Verbs have 5 tempora (present tense, past tense, perfect, pluperfect and future tense). In addition, verbs have two participle (active and passive) cases. Gerunds, which are nouns made from verbs (for example: reading - to read) also exist in Finnish (lukeminen - lukea), are abundant in Finnish.
Finnish is a complex, self-morphing language. It has been ranked as the most difficult language for native speakers of English by the U.S. Department of State. The difficulty is due not only to the grammatical structure of the language, but also pronunciation and intonation as compared to English.
Finnish is pronounced the way it is spelled. The pronunciation of some letters is similar to English. However:
English speakers often exhale when saying letters like "k", "p", and "t". They don't do this in Finnish, and to "swallow the sound", as the old saying goes, takes a lot of practice. 
The proper pronunciation for the Finnish diphthongs (öy, yö, äy, eu, etc) is difficult.

</doc>
<doc id="22224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22224" title="Sleep">
Sleep

Sleep is a state of rest, which happens in animals, including humans. Animals that sleep are in an unconscious state, or mostly so. Most of the muscles that animals can control on purpose are inactive. Animals that are asleep do not react to stimuli as fast as those that are awake. They can wake up from sleep more easily than from hibernation or coma. All mammals and birds, and many reptiles, amphibians, and fish, sleep. In humans, other mammals, and most other animals that were studied, sleeping regularly is essential for survival.
The purpose of sleep is not fully known, and it is still studied today. We do know for sure, though, that sleep is necessary to most animals for survival. Not having enough sleep can even be used for torture.
A person sleeps when he or she is not awake. Usually, this is during the night. During the day time, most people are awake. They work, go to school, college, or university, or do other things. Many people sleep for a short time in the early afternoon for a quick rest. This is often called a nap.
In some countries, most notably where the weather is warm, there is a tradition to take a nap right after noon, or early in the afternoon. This tradition is called "siesta", and is most common in Spain and Latin America. Some stores and services even have closed while their owners and/or employees take their "siesta".
The word "sleep" comes from the old Old Germanic verbs for sleep. In Old and Middle High German it was called "SLAF". The original meaning of the word was "to slap", which was related to the word for "flabby" (not hard or firm).
Many words related to "sleep" have very different meanings, though. For example, "sleep" was also used to mean death, so that "putting an animal to sleep" meant to kill the animal without pain. "Sleep with someone" can also have a sexual meaning.
Generally, the reason for sleep is that the brain has work to do during sleep. The details are not fully understood, but it is important to get enough sleep for the body and the brain to be healthy and work properly. Usually animals (and people) sleep at periodic intervals, such as once a day. Certain animals send out signals to the others that they will soon go to sleep. Yawning is such a signal.
Both humans and many animals sleep about once a day. Some animals, such as cats, sleep many times a day for short periods.
When people sleep they often have dreams. Probably some animals do, too.
Not only people sleep, all mammals and birds, and most fish, reptiles and other animals do, too.
In mammals and birds, sleep can be divided into two categories. In one of them, the eyes move rapidly. It is called REM-sleep (from rapid eye movement). Most dreams take place in this phase. REM-sleep occurs normally at intervals throughout the night, and the periods of REM-sleep increase in length in the second half of the night. REM-sleep was first discovered in 1952-53. 
REM sleep is found in mammals and songbirds, but is "poorly established" in reptiles and fish. A survey suggests:
The other category, where this movement of the eyes does not happen, is called NREM-sleep (Non-REM sleep). Usually, dreams do not occur during this time. There are three or four stages of NREM-sleep. Stage I is just barely sleeping, or dozing. Stage II is also light sleep. Normally, in adult humans, about half of the time spent asleep is spent in light sleep. Stages III and IV are called deep sleep. Deep sleep is necessary for growth and healing. It can be quite difficult to awaken someone who is in stage III or stage IV sleep. Sometimes stages III and IV are combined and called stage III.
Adult humans normally sleep in cycles of 90 to 110 minutes each. The night's sleep can be 4 or 5 of these cycles. Each cycle includes, in this order: stage I, stage II, stage III (IV), and REM.
The timing of sleep and the amount of it are both important. Both are different for different people. Some adults sleep best from 22:00 to 05:00 or 06:00 or 07:00. Some sleep best from midnight to seven or eight. These variations are normal.
How much sleep is enough also depends on age. Children need more sleep than adults. Newborn babies sleep about 18 hours per day. Small babies sleep many times a day; human babies do not develop circadian rhythms before they are 3 – 4 months old. At the age of 1 year, they sleep for about 14 hours. 
A nine-year-old should sleep about 9–10 hours per day and teenagers, too, also need that much sleep. Adults who sleep less than about 8 hours a day perform worse than those who sleep that long. 
People may have trouble going to sleep, staying asleep or getting enough sleep. This usually means that they are too sleepy in the daytime.
There are many things that influence sleep. Also some substances, called stimulants – coffee is an example – can cause poor sleep. When people have just eaten something, the body is busy digesting what they have ate. This can cause poor sleep, too. Worrying and stress can cause poor sleep. 
There are many diseases that cause poor sleep. Fever can lead to bad dreams. Poor sleep can be a side effect of some medications. 
Sleep disorders directly influence how a person sleeps. Examples of sleep disorders are narcolepsy, sleep apnea and circadian rhythm sleep disorders.
Sleep specialists - doctors specialised in sleeping problems - often suggest better sleep hygiene to people with sleeping problems. Sleep hygiene means things people can try, such as 

</doc>
<doc id="22242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22242" title="Republic of Macedonia">
Republic of Macedonia

Republic of Macedonia (Macedonian: "Република Македонија" - "Republika Makedonija") is an independent state on the Balkan peninsula in Southeastern Europe. The country borders Serbia to the north, Albania to the west, Greece to the south, and Bulgaria to the east. The country's currency is the Macedonian Denar (MKD).
Greece and the Republic of Macedonia are arguing over the name Macedonia. United Nations calls the Republic of Macedonia, "the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia" (FYROM) (Macedonian: "Поранешна Југословенска Република Македонија - ПЈРМ" - "Poranešna Jugoslovenska Republika Makedonija -PJRM"). The north and northeast part of Greece has been called Macedonia for ages and officially since 1912, just like the southeast county of England Kent has been called Kent for a long time. 'FYROM' is also used by the United Nations and NATO as well as many other international organisations. But, many countries now call the country 'Republic of Macedonia'. The United Kingdom, for example, uses Republic of Macedonia in the diplomatic list.
The capital is Skopje, with more than 500,000 residents. It has many smaller cities. Some important ones are Bitola, Prilep, Tetovo, Kumanovo, Ohrid, Veles, Stip, and Strumica.
The Republic of Macedonia is often called "a land of lakes and mountains". There are more than 50 large lakes and sixteen mountains higher than 2000 meters above sea level.
The country is a member of the United Nations and the World Trade Organization (WTO). Since December 2005, it is a candidate for joining the European Union. The Republic of Macedonia is also a partner and candidate member of NATO but Greece blocked Macedonia's entry into NATO until the name dispute between the two countries is solved.
The language spoken by the majority of the population is Macedonian. Albanian is also spoken by the Albanian minority (15%) living in the country.
What is now Macedonia used to be a state called Socialist Republic of Macedonia in the southern part of the country of Yugoslavia. When that country broke up in 1991, Macedonia became independent.
Over time the territory which today is the Republic of Macedonia was ruled by a many different states and former empire.
Republic of Macedonia is a democratic country with a parliament.

</doc>
<doc id="22248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22248" title="Anorexia nervosa">
Anorexia nervosa

Anorexia nervosa (usually just called anorexia) is an eating disorder. 
People with anorexia think that they are fat, or desperately fear becoming fat even if they are very skinny. To try to lose weight, anorexics do not eat enough. When they do eat, they do not eat the amount of food their body needs, in an effort to avoid gaining weight. This causes them to lose too much weight too quickly. This is very harmful to a person's body. There are various treatments for anorexia. One example is the Maudsley Method. This type of treatment is for patients who are 18 or younger. Two thirds of adolescent anorexia patients are 'recovered' at the end of this treatment. People with anorexia are more likely to die than people with any other mental illness.
Doctors use the "Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders" to make a medical diagnosis and decide if a person has anorexia or not. Four signs of anorexia are listed in the manual. People do not have to show all four signs for the doctor to decide that they have anorexia.
There is no single cause of anorexia. Researchers believe that it is caused by a combination of biological and environmental factors. It has been linked to the media. Many people think that anorexia is caused by wanting to be thin like models in magazines. However, it is not that simple.
People who develop anorexia tend to be perfectionistic. They are also more likely to have problems socializing. There has been research about the link between anorexia and autism, a disorder that involves problems with socializing. Another symptom of autism is OCD, which has been linked to anorexia. Starvation is known to create autistic behavior so there needs to be research that compares autistic traits in anorexics with people who have recovered.

</doc>
<doc id="22249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22249" title="Madness">
Madness

Madness (or Insanity) is a word that can have different meanings:
Being able to tell right from wrong is the base of a working society and of law; for this reason, the law treats those people differently who are not able to make this distinction.

</doc>
<doc id="22251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22251" title="Rabies">
Rabies

Rabies is a neurotropic virus, viral zoonotic disease that causes acute encephalitis. 
Usually, people (and animals) die from it (it is fatal). There is no cure for it. People who are treated soon after becoming infected have a chance to survive.
The disease is transmitted through the saliva and the blood. The usual form of getting it is a bite of a rabid mammal. Pets, like dogs need to be vaccinated against it, in most countries.
There is no cure for Rabies. There is a vaccine against it. The vaccine was first developed by Louis Pasteur and Pierre Paul Émile Roux in 1885. This vaccine used a live virus grown in rabbits, and weakened (through drying it). The first person to be vaccinated was Joseph Meister (a 9 year old boy who had been bitten by a dog). Vaccines similar to this are still used today, but other vaccines (growing the virus using cell cultures) are more used.
There is also a form of treatment that can be done once a person has been bitten. It needs to be done within 6 days of being bitten. There is no way to know whether someone is infected, until it's too late. Treatment starts with washing the wound. This is done to reduce the number of virus particles that enter the body. Often patients are given one dose of immunoglobulin and a certain number of vaccines, over a determined period of time, usually a month.

</doc>
<doc id="22252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22252" title="Tirana">
Tirana

Tirana (Albanian: "Tiranë" or "Tirana") is the capital city of Republic of Albania. It is the largest city in that country. The population of the city is estimated at 353,400 people (2003). Other people think there may be up to 1 million people who live in the city. Tirana was founded in 1614. It became Albania's capital city in 1920.

</doc>
<doc id="22253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22253" title="John Forbes Nash, Jr.">
John Forbes Nash, Jr.

John Forbes Nash Jr. (June 13, 1928 – May 23, 2015) was an American mathematician who worked in game theory and differential geometry. He was born in Bluefield, West Virginia. He shared the 1994 Memorial Prize in Economics with two other game theorists, Reinhard Selten and John Harsanyi.
Nash was born on June 13, 1928, in Bluefield, West Virginia. He studied at Princeton University and at Carnegie Institute of Technology.
The winner of a Westinghouse scholarship, he attended the Carnegie Institute of Technology, where he received both his bachelor's degree and his master's degree in 1948. From Pittsburgh he went to Princeton University where he worked on his equilibrium theory. He received a Ph.D. in 1950 with a dissertation on non-cooperative games. The thesis, which was written under the supervision of Albert W. Tucker, contained the definition and properties of what would later be called the Nash equilibrium. His studies on this subject led to three articles:
Nash also did important work in the area of manifolds (complex spatial structures):
This work led to "Nash embedding theorem": "Two real algebraic manifolds are equivalent if and only if they are analytically homeomorphic." 
He is best known in popular culture as the subject of the Hollywood movie, "A Beautiful Mind", about his mathematical genius and his struggles with schizophrenia, with which he was diagnosed.
Nash married Alicia Lopez-Harrison de Lardé in 1957. They had two sons. In 1963, the couple divorced. They later remarried in 2001. Nash lived in West Windsor Township, New Jersey for a long time.
On May 23, 2015, Nash and his wife Alicia were killed in a car accident near Monroe Township, New Jersey. A taxi that they were riding in was struck by another vehicle and the pair was ejected from the taxi. Nash was 86 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="22254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22254" title="John Nash">
John Nash

John Nash may mean

</doc>
<doc id="22255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22255" title="Calisthenics">
Calisthenics

Calisthenics is a series of exercises used to develop strength, power and balance or a repeated rhythmical exercise that uses the weight of the body as resistance or the systematic exercises for attaining strength-gracefulness or the practice of calisthenic exercises.
The name calisthenics is Greek in origin, a combination of the words 'beauty' and 'strength'.
Calisthenics is recommended for general good health, light exercises designed to promote general physical fitness.

</doc>
<doc id="22265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22265" title="Muteness">
Muteness

Muteness" means not being able to speak. A person that can not speak using sound is called a mute"'. It is a type of speech disorder. A person who chooses not to speak can also be said to be mute.

</doc>
<doc id="22275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22275" title="Wooden spoon">
Wooden spoon

A wooden spoon is a spoon that can be made from wood. Wooden spoons are used for mixing food. Wooden spoon is also a term for last place in a sporting contest.

</doc>
<doc id="22277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22277" title="Table tennis">
Table tennis

Table tennis, also known as Ping Pong (a trademarked name), is one of the most popular sports in the world, with players in many countries. It is played by two or four people on a table. To play this game, people use bats and small celluloid balls. You need also a net and a table. Table tennis was invented in England in 1880.
The International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF), the worldwide organization, was founded in 1926. Table tennis has been an Olympic sport since 1988.
Many of the best players in the world today come from China.

</doc>
<doc id="22287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22287" title="MediaWiki:Anoneditwarning">
MediaWiki:Anoneditwarning


</doc>
<doc id="22320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22320" title="Nayarit">
Nayarit

Nayarit is a middle sized Mexican state. It is on the West coast of Mexico (on the Pacific Ocean shore).
Native people from Nayarit are called Nayaritas (singular: Nayarita).

</doc>
<doc id="22322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22322" title="Filipino">
Filipino

Filipino might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="22323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22323" title="Mindanao">
Mindanao

Mindanao is one of the three main island groups in the Philippines. It is the southernmost major island of the Philippines, and is the only island in the Philippines to have many Muslim people. Mindanao is northeast of Sabah. 
It may also refer to the main island in the group.

</doc>
<doc id="22324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22324" title="Phylum">
Phylum

A phylum (plural: phyla) is the third highest rank used in the biological taxonomy of all organisms. The second rank is kingdom. And the highest is domain. However, since genome analysis, groups of phyla have been put together based on evolutionary relationships. These are informal, not part of the standard classification.
Botanists usually use the word "division" instead of "phylum".
Phylum is Phillip in the mnemonic "Dumb King Phillip Came Over From Great Spain", or something similar.

</doc>
<doc id="22326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22326" title="Knuckle">
Knuckle

A knuckle, in anatomy, is where two bones join in the hands or feet. When talking about humans, knuckles most often refer to the joints in the fingers.
Animal knuckles, such as "pig knuckles" are sometimes sold as food.

</doc>
<doc id="22332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22332" title="Conduction">
Conduction

Conduction in physics is about forms of energy such as light, heat or electricity.
Besides conduction, the other major ways of moving energy are by radiation and convection.

</doc>
<doc id="22333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22333" title="Category:Business">
Category:Business


</doc>
<doc id="22334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22334" title="Royal family">
Royal family

A royal family is the family of a monarch (king or queen of a country). Or, it is someone who is related to a queen, king or a monarch. Examples of royal families are the British Royal Family, Dutch Royal Family and Thai Royal Family. Some countries have abolished royalty altogether, as in post-revolution France, the United States and Russia.

</doc>
<doc id="22340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22340" title="General election">
General election

A general election is an election in which all or most members of a given political body are chosen. The term is usually used to mean the elections held for a nation's primary legislative body. This is different from primary elections, by-elections or local elections. In the United Kingdom when Parliament is dissolved every seat in the House of Commons becomes vacant and a general election is held.

</doc>
<doc id="22341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22341" title="United Kingdom general election, 2005">
United Kingdom general election, 2005

The 2005 United Kingdom General Election was an election held on May 5, 2005 to elect 646 members to the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. The three main candidates to become Prime Minister of the United Kingdom are shown to the right. 
The election resulted in the Labour Party and it's leader Tony Blair winning a majority in the House of Commons for the third time in a row. The Labour Party did lose 47 of their seats in parliament and the amount of votes they got dropped by 5.5% from the 2001 General Election. Many people believe the Labour Party lost support because of Labour Prime Minister Tony Blair's unpopular decision to send troops to Iraq in 2003.
The constituencies of Blaenau Gwent and Wyre Forest elected Independent candidates. The seat of Glasgow East was won by the Speaker of the House of Commons Michael Martin, who is not considered to be of any political party.
The next election was held on May 6, 2010. See United Kingdom general election, 2010
MPs elected in the UK general election, 2005

</doc>
<doc id="22343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22343" title="Dover">
Dover

Dover can refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="22350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22350" title="Milenko Stefanovic">
Milenko Stefanovic

Milenko Stefanović (born February 19, 1930 in Belgrade, Serbia, then the Kingdom of Yugoslavia) is the most famous Serbian classical and jazz clarinet player – soloist, former Principal Clarinetist of the Belgrade Philharmonic Orchestra and Professor at the Josip Slavenski School of Music, University of Pristina and University of the Arts in Belgrade. 
Stefanovic began his music study at the age of five. He graduated and completed his postgraduate studies from the Belgrade Conservatory. His major teacher was Professor Bruno Brun, the founder of modern Serbian school of clarinet playing. Additionally, he studied chamber music and orchestral playing in Salzburg, Austria, in the class of Igor Markevich, Erich Leinsdorf and Fernand Oubradous.
Stefanovic was a top-prize winner or finalist in the major Yugoslavian and international competitions, including the competitions in Sarajevo (1952), Skopje (1954), Ljubljana (1956), Moscow (1957), Munich (1957), Geneva (1957) and Prague (1959). Additionally, he was honored with the Award of the Yugoslavian Radio-Television (Ohrid, 1972), awards of the City of Belgrade for the best concert in the previous concert season (1976, 1981, 1986), as well as with 7th July Award (1962), the state’s highest award for the arts. In 2007, upon recommendation of the Expert Committee of the Ministry of Culture, he was awarded Special Acknowledgement for the Highest Contribution to the National Culture of the Republic of Serbia. In 2010 the Association of Musical Artists of Serbia awarded him with The Lifetime Achievement Award. 
During his long career, Stefanovic performed throughout Europe, Africa and North America. Stefanovic recorded for the leading radio and television stations in the country and abroad: United Kingdom, Italy, France, USSR, Germany, etc. As a soloist, member of various chamber groups and orchestras, he collaborated with distinguished Yugoslavian and international artists, including: Herbert von Karajan, Lorin Maazel, Leopold Stokowski, Kirill Kondrashin, Bernard Keeffe, Oivin Fjeldstad, Francesco Mander, Jerzy Katlewicz, Jovan Sajnovic, Uros Lajovic, Anton Kolar, Anton Nanut, Petr Vronsky, Zbigniew Chwedczuk, Oskar Danon, Dusan Skovran, Josef Daniel, Zivojin Zdravkovic, Julio Maric, Franc Klinar, Roman Skrepek, Aleksandar Pavlovic, Vanco Cavdarski, Bogo Leskovic, Djura Jaksic, Mladen Jagust, Aleksandar Lekovski, Bogdan Babic, Vojislav Simic, Eric Hope, Evgeni Korolyov, Michel Dussault, Andreja Preger, Viktor Jakovcic, Freddy Dosek, Zorica Dimitrijevic-Stosic, Mirjana Krsljanin, The Zagreb Soloists, The Belgrade Trio, The Serbian String Quartet, The Zagreb Quartet and many others. 
He was one of the few artists honored to perform Copland’s Clarinet Concerto under the baton of Maestro Aaron Copland (1961). 
He was a long-time principal clarinetist of the Belgrade Philharmonic Orchestra (1954-1976). 
Stefanovic also played jazz – as a soloist and member of the Belgrade Jazz Trio and Markicevic Quintet.
He has a number of personally dedicated clarinet works by prominent Yugoslavian composers: Dejan Despic, Aleksandar Obradovic, Petar Bergamo, Dusan Radic, Petar Ozgijan, Miodrag Ilic. 
Stefanovic was the chair of the committee in numerous Yugoslavian and international competitions. 
Stefanovic wrote numerous jazz compositions and some film music.
He taught at the Josip Slavenski School of Music, University of Pristina and University of the Arts in Belgrade. His former students hold teaching positions in music schools and universities and play in orchestras in Europe, Asia, Australia and North America. Stefanovic wrote several textbooks for the clarinet students.
He served as the Vice-Chancellor and member of the Board of Trustees of the University of the Arts in Belgrade. 
Stefanovic is an honorary member and former president of the Association of Musical Artists of Serbia. 

</doc>
<doc id="22353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22353" title="Category:Profanity">
Category:Profanity

freaking should be added

</doc>
<doc id="22358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22358" title="Flash memory">
Flash memory

Flash memory is a memory storage device for computers and electronics. It is most often used in devices like digital cameras, USB flash drives, and video games. It is quite similar to EEPROM.
Flash memory is different from RAM because RAM is volatile (not permanent). When power is turned off, RAM loses all its data. Flash can keep its data intact with no power at all. A hard drive also is permanent (non-volatile) storage, but it is bulky and fragile. Flash memory is one kind of Non-volatile random-access memory. It is slower than RAM but faster than hard drives. It is much used in small electronics because it is small and has no moving parts.
The main weakness of flash memory is that it is more expensive than hard drives for the same amount of storage. Another weakness of flash memory is the number of times that data can be written to it. Data can be read from flash as many times as desired, but after a certain number of "write" operations, it will stop working. Most flash devices are designed for about 100,000 - 1,000,000 write operations (or "write cycles").
EEPROM has the same limitation that flash does: it can only survive about 100,000 write cycles. But it is more expensive than flash, so it is rarely used for storage greater than 128kB. The main difference between EEPROM and flash memory is that EEPROM can "write" to any byte of memory, at any time. Flash memory can only write to an entire chunk, or "sector", of memory at a time. That means that if the user wants to change only one byte, flash must also re-write all the bytes in that sector. This means that flash memory can wear out faster than EEPROM. Flash Memory can store as many as hundreds of GBs. Many are in the form of a pen drive. 
Flash memory is used in USB Drives, SSD Drives, computer RAM (occasionally), hybrid drives (small SSD + Hard Drive), graphics cards, and memory cards.

</doc>
<doc id="22359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22359" title="Bottrop">
Bottrop

Bottrop is a city in west central Germany, on the Rhine-Herne Canal, in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia (Nordrhein-Westfalen). Bottrop is in the Ruhr industrial area, It is next to Essen, Oberhausen, Gladbeck and Dorsten. The city had been a coal-mining and rail center. There are factories producing coal-tar derivatives, chemicals, textiles, and machinery. The population is currently 119,655. Bottrop grew as a mining center beginning in the 1860s and was chartered as a city in 1921. In 1975 it was put together with the unification with the neighbor communities of Gladbeck and Kirchhellen, but Gladbeck left in 1976.
The place is first heard of in 1150, as "Borthorpe". This name means "village on the hillside". In the year 1423, Bottrop is awarded the status of a market town. In 1786 the first cotton mill opens. Coal mining starts in 1856. The city gets town privileges in 1919. In 1953, the population passed 100.000 people for the first time.

</doc>
<doc id="22366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22366" title="Puducherry">
Puducherry

Puducherry, which used to be called Pondicherry is a Union territory of India. Pondicherry is divided into four separate parts: Puducherry district, Karaikal district, Yanam district , and Mahe district. These four areas are under one name because they were all once ruled by the French. Chandranagore, the fifth former French colony 30 kilometers north of Kolkata, in West Bengal, India, is now outside this unconnected territory. 
When India took control of them, they took them in as one territory. Pondicherry is going through a name change to Puduchery, which means "new village" in the local language. It covers an area of 183 mi² or 474 km², it is bigger than Andorra but smaller than Saint Lucia. Its a very nice tourist place . Its heritage buildings with old french architecture is fabulous . The Boulevard is ellipse shaped with two clock towers of Small market and the Big market as the Focii of it .The area of Boulevard close to the Beach is called White Town. This was the area where initial French settlements happened .Henceforth it is called White town area . 

</doc>
<doc id="22368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22368" title="New York Yankees">
New York Yankees

The New York Yankees are a Major League Baseball team from New York City. They have won 27 World Series championships to date, more than any other team in the Major Leagues. From 1923 to 2008, the Yankees home stadium had been Yankee Stadium. Currently, they are playing at their new Yankee Stadium.
The word "Yankee" (slang for "American") and the "Uncle Sam" top hat, make up part of what they are all about. As with the more common use of the term "Yankee", the team name is more often called "the Yanks". Their most commonly used "unofficial" nickname is "the Bronx Bombers", or simply "the Bombers". This nickname was given to them by the press a long time ago. It refers to their ability to hit home runs a lot (a home run is sometimes called a "bomb"). A less used nickname is "the Pinstripers", for their well-known uniform style.
The Yankees' current team captain is no one. Derek Jeter recently retired.
The Yankees' current team ace is Masahiro Tanaka.
The New York Yankees' main rival is the Boston Red Sox.
The Yankees' current team manager is Joe Girardi.
The Yankees' current General Manager is Brian Cashman.
The official fight song for the Yankees is "Here Come the Yankees".
After the game, they play Frank Sinatra's "New York, New York".
They have 18 retired numbers, more than any other teams in MLB. The number 42 was retired not only in the Yankees but also throughout Major League Baseball in honor of Jackie Robinson who broke the color barrier.

</doc>
<doc id="22369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22369" title="1048">
1048


</doc>
<doc id="22370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22370" title="Terry Pratchett">
Terry Pratchett

Sir Terry Pratchett OBE (Terence David John Pratchett; 28 April 1948 – 12 March 2015) was an English author. He was known for his fantasy works, including the famous "Discworld" series. His first novel, "The Carpet People", was published in 1971. He was the UK's best-selling author of the 1990s. He was born in Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire, England.
Pratchett died at his home in Broad Chalke, Wiltshire, England on 12 March 2015 from a severe chest infection with final complications from his Alzheimers, aged 66.

</doc>
<doc id="22371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22371" title="1218">
1218


</doc>
<doc id="22372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22372" title="1282">
1282


</doc>
<doc id="22373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22373" title="Critic">
Critic

A critic is a person who reviews things like movies, books, and food to see if they are any good and if other people would like them. They write reviews about what they have seen or read.
Critics may write about art, music, theatre, books, or anything in which good or bad is a matter of personal opinion.

</doc>
<doc id="22375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22375" title="Søren Kierkegaard">
Søren Kierkegaard

Søren Aabye Kierkegaard (5 May 1813 – 11 November 1855), was a 19th-century Danish philosopher and theologian, and is usually thought of as the first existentialist philosopher.
He wrote many philosophical books about faith, existence, emotions, and feeling. He disliked people who tried to make Christianity political and people who tried to limit the single individual in favour of groups of many people. Many people have found his works interesting and have said that they were great works of philosophy. Ludwig Wittgenstein, a 20th-century philosopher, thought Kierkegaard was "by far, the most profound thinker of the nineteenth century".
He was born in Copenhagen, Denmark. He attended Copenhagen University and earned his master's degree in 1841. During this time, he met and fell in love with Regine Olsen in 1837. Although they were engaged for a time, Kierkegaard ended the engagement in 1841.
After breaking up with Regine, he spent much of his time writing book after book, in a highly dramatic yet subtle way. He also wrote some of his works using pen names, or pseudonyms. He died in Copenhagen. Although his works were not very popular during his lifetime, after his death they became influential in the 20th century.
Books by Kierkegaard. "Either/Or" and "Fear and Trembling", both published in 1843, are thought to be especially significant.

</doc>
<doc id="22384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22384" title="1667">
1667


</doc>
<doc id="22386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22386" title="Despotism">
Despotism

Despotism is a form of government that is controlled by one person or a small group of people. The person who controls the state is called a "despot". The despot has complete control of the state, like a dictator or tyrant. In history, the pharaohs of Egypt were despots. The word "despot" is thought to come from the Ancient Greek word "despotes", which means "the master".

</doc>
<doc id="22387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22387" title="Lakshadweep">
Lakshadweep

Lakshadweep are a group of islands in the Arabian Sea. They belong to India. Their capital is Kavaratti. It covers an area of . Eleven of the 36 coral atoll islands of Lakshadweep are inhabited. The islands are the only coral atolls in India. The people living there are Malayalam and Mahl people, who have been influenced by Arab traders. Lakshadweep is a Muslim region just like the neighboring Maldives, where tourism is strictly regulated. Apart from the emerging tourism, government jobs, fishing and coconut production are the mainstays of the Lakshadweep economy. 

</doc>
<doc id="22388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22388" title="Daman and Diu">
Daman and Diu

Daman and Diu is a territory in India. It covers an area of 50 mi² or 130 km², it is bigger than Saint Helena but smaller than Wallis and Futuna.
The territory used to belong to Portugal. 

</doc>
<doc id="22401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22401" title="Riding helmet">
Riding helmet

A riding helmet, sometimes called a horse riding helmet, is a type of hat (cover for the head) made for people who ride horses. It is important to wear a riding helmet when riding. It is easy for a person to fall off a horse and hit his or her head. Riding helmets keep the rider of a horse from being hurt. Horses can accidentally step on a person who has fallen to the ground.
Helmets should be worn by all riders, but are most often worn by English style riders.

</doc>
<doc id="22402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22402" title="Ketchup">
Ketchup

Ketchup is a kind of thick, liquid sauce. It is made from tomatoes, so it is sometimes called tomato sauce. Usually it is used to add flavour to food. Some people like to eat sausages, burgers, hotdogs or fishsticks with ketchup. Ketchup tastes very unlike the real tomato.
Although today's ketchup is tomato based, it did not appear until about a century after other types. By 1801, a recipe for tomato ketchup was created by Sandy Addison. It was later printed in an American cookbook, the "Sugar House Book". James Mease published another recipe in 1812. In 1824, a ketchup recipe using tomatoes appeared in "The Virginia Housewife". This was an important 19th-century cookbook written by Mary Randolph, Thomas Jefferson's cousin.
As the century went on, ketchup became more popular in the United States. More Americans began to like tomatoes. Tomato ketchup was sold locally by farmers. A man named Jonas Yerks (or Yerkes) is believed to have been the first man to make tomato ketchup a national phenomenon. By 1837, he had produced and distributed the condiment nationally. Shortly after that, other companies did the same. F. & J. Heinz created their tomato ketchup in 1876. Heinz tomato ketchup was advertised: "Blessed relief for Mother and the other women in the household!"
The "Webster's Dictionary" of 1913 defined "catchup" as a "table sauce made from mushrooms, tomatoes, walnuts, etc. [Written also ketchup]."
Modern ketchup emerged in the early years of the 20th century. This came from a debate over the use of sodium benzoate as a preservative in condiments. Harvey W. Wiley challenged the safety of benzoate. In response, business owners, particularly Henry J. Heinz, pursued a different recipe that did not use that preservative.
Prior to Heinz (and his fellow innovators), commercial tomato ketchups of that time were watery and thin. This was due to the use of unripe tomatoes. Those tomatoes were low in pectin. They were less vinegary than modern ketchups. By pickling ripe tomatoes, the need for benzoate was eliminated. There was also no spoiled ketchup or loss in flavor. The changes also helped make it an important American condiment according to some experts.
Until Heinz, most commercial ketchups appealed to two of the basic tastes: bitterness and saltiness. But the switch to ripe tomatoes and more tomato solids added a stronger "umami" taste. The major increase in the concentration of vinegar added sourness and pungency to the range of sensations experienced while eating it. 
In the past, ketchup was produced from fresh tomatoes after harvesting. Vacuum evaporation made it possible to turn tomatoes into a very thick tomato paste. This made it easy to store at room temperature. This allows a factory to produce ketchup throughout the year.
In fast food chains, ketchup is often put in small packets that hold ketchup inside. Users tear the side or top of the packet. They then squeeze the ketchup out of the ketchup packets. In 2010, Heinz is offering an alternate squeeze and dip cup. This is meant to offer a cleaner method of dispensing the product.
In an earlier approach, some fast food outlets dispense ketchup from pumps into paper cups. Some restaurants still use this method.
In October 2000, Heinz introduced colored ketchup products called EZ Squirt. They included green, purple, pink, orange, teal, and blue colored ketchup. These products were made by adding food coloring to the traditional ketchup. these products have been discontinued.

</doc>
<doc id="22411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22411" title="Finnish">
Finnish

Finnish may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="22415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22415" title="1718">
1718


</doc>
<doc id="22416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22416" title="Dadra and Nagar Haveli">
Dadra and Nagar Haveli

Dadra and Nagar Haveli is a territory in India. It covers an area of 188 mi² or 487 km², it is bigger than Andorra, but smaller than Saint Lucia.

</doc>
<doc id="22417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22417" title="1323">
1323


</doc>
<doc id="22418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22418" title="Danish">
Danish

Danish can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="22419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22419" title="Birthday">
Birthday

A birthday is the day when a person was born. In many places, on a person's birthday, he or she celebrates with friends and family at a party, where they eat cake or other foods, and get gifts.
Not everyone celebrates birthdays, including Jehovah's Witnesses.
In many English-speaking countries, people sing the song "Happy Birthday to You" to the person celebrating her or his birthday. There are similar songs in other languages.
A birthday cake is usually decorated and covered with candles. Most of the time, the number of candles is the same as the age of the birthday person.
A birthday can give a person new responsibilities and rights.
A person's astrological sign is based on his or her birthday.
A birthstone symbolizes the month of birth. In 1912, the Jewelers of America agreed on a list of birthstones:

</doc>
<doc id="22420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22420" title="1442">
1442


</doc>
<doc id="22421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22421" title="Yi I">
Yi I

Yi I (December 26, 1536-1584) was a Korean Confucian scholar. His mother was a famous calligraphist, Shin Saimdang. He was very intelligent as a child, learning to read at three and being very bright at his studies. He was also devoted to his parents: when his mother was sick, he prayed to his ancestors to heal her; and when his father was sick, he cut his own finger with a knife and let his father drink his blood (at that time, people thought human blood was very good medicine).

</doc>
<doc id="22423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22423" title="Sunrise (company)">
Sunrise (company)

Sunrise is a Japanese animation company. The staff uses the name Hajime Yatate in all their productions by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, but this is not a real person--it is a name that all the people who work for the studio use for themselves. 
Some cartoons made by the company are:

</doc>
<doc id="22427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22427" title="Romanian">
Romanian

Romanian could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="22434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22434" title="X-ray">
X-ray

X-radiation is a kind of electromagnetic radiation. X-rays are waves of X-radiation. X-rays have a shorter wavelength, and therefore more energy, than ultraviolet radiation. They have a much shorter wavelength than visible light (the light that we can see). Radiation with shorter wavelengths (more energy) than the X-ray is called Gamma radiation (γ-rays). These are all parts of the electromagnetic spectrum.
The wavelength of X-rays covers a wide range. Most X-rays have a wavelength in the range of 0.01 to 10 nanometres. This corresponds with frequencies in the range 30 petahertz to 30 exahertz (3×10 Hz to 3×10 Hz) and energies in the range 100 eV to 100 keV.
X-rays can go through many solid materials. For this reason, taking photograms with X-rays is used in medicine in order to see bones and other things inside the body. Sometimes the term "X-Ray" means these pictures instead of the radiation that makes them.
What these images show will depend on three things: Rayleigh scattering, Compton scattering and photoabsorption. The images show bone because it is dense enough that X-rays are not able to pass through it. Instead, the X-rays are either absorbed or scattered. The images do not show skin and muscle, however, because these tissues are transparent enough for the X-rays to pass through them without being absorbed too much. To detect tumors, other imaging devices are used; such as magnetic resonance imaging. A computed tomography scanner combines an X-ray machine and computer to construct a three dimensional (3D) picture. This has some ability to see other things besides bone.
X-rays are made by hitting metal with fast-moving electrons. They are photons, tiny packets of energy that can move atoms and change chemicals in the body. The things they do depend on the wavelength of the X-rays (or how much energy they have). X-rays with smaller energies ("soft" x-rays) cause the photoelectric effect. Mid-level energies cause Compton scattering. High-level energies ("hard" X-rays) cause pair production. X-rays used for making pictures of people have low to medium energy. Radiation therapy that treats cancer uses Compton scattering and sometimes Pair production.
There are small amounts of X-rays in the air. Like other energy in the air, X-rays can change living cells. Exposing the human body to high doses of X-rays for a long time is dangerous. It can cause cancer. However, cancer cells are hurt more easily, so X-rays are sometimes used to kill them.

</doc>
<doc id="22436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22436" title="Computed tomography scanner">
Computed tomography scanner

A computed tomography (CT) scanner is an X-ray machine that takes cross sectional images. They can help a doctor very much.

</doc>
<doc id="22439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22439" title="Hanoi">
Hanoi

Hanoi is the capital of Vietnam. In 2004, about 3,083,800 people lived in the city. It has been the capital of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam since 1945. Before that, it was the capital of the country now called Vietnam for most of the time from at least the 11th century until 1802. The city is on the right of the Red River. Things made there include machine tools, plywood, textiles, chemicals, and handicrafts. Hanoi is at 21°2' North, 105°51' East, 1,760 km north of Ho Chi Minh City (formerly Saigon).

</doc>
<doc id="22444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22444" title="The Chronicles of Narnia">
The Chronicles of Narnia

The Chronicles of Narnia is a series of seven fantasy books, written by British author C. S. Lewis. They have been published since 1954 and have sold over 100 million copies in 41 languages. The books were written by Lewis between 1949 and 1954, they were also illustrated by Pauline Baynes. In 2005 the first of the books was made into a movie.
Completed by the end of March 1949 and published by Geoffrey Bles in London on 16 October 1950, "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe" tells the story of four ordinary children: Peter, Susan, Edmund, and Lucy Pevensie. They discover a wardrobe in Professor Digory Kirke's house that leads to the magical land of Narnia. The Pevensie children help Aslan, a talking lion, save Narnia from the evil White Witch, who has reigned over the land of Narnia for a century of perpetual winter. The children become kings and queens of this new-found land and establish the Golden Age of Narnia, leaving a legacy to be rediscovered in later books.
This book is set 1300 years after "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe". Narnia is ruled by the Telmarines, a very mean people. The Pevensie children are called to Narnia by Susan's horn, which is blown by Prince Caspian. There is a big war between the Telmarines and Narnians. At the end of the book, Peter and Susan are told that they will not be able to come back to Narnia. The book was published in 1951.
In the third book, Lucy and Edmund return to Narnia with their cousin, Eustace. They travel on a ship with Caspian, now King of Narnia. They are looking for seven lords who were sent away from Narnia by Caspian's uncle, Miraz. This book was published in 1952.
Eustace returns to Narnia with Jill, a friend from school. He finds Caspian very old. Aslan tells Jill to find Rillian, Caspian's son, who has been missing for many years. A Marsh-Wiggle named Puddleglum travels with them. This book was published in 1953.
This book is set during the rule of the Pevensies. Shasta, is a young boy living in the country of Calormen. He decides to run away when he finds out he is not the son of Arsheesh. He heads north to Narnia with a talking horse, Bree, a Calormene noblewoman, Aravis, and her talking horse, Hwin. It was published in 1954.
This book is set before any of the others. It tells about a boy, Digory, and his friend, Polly. They travel to Narnia through the experiments of Digory's uncle, Andrew. It describes the creation (beginning) of Narnia and the first King and Queen. It also shows the beginning of Jadis, who is called the White Witch in "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe". The book was published in 1954.
Completed in the spring of 1953 and published in 1956," The Last Battle" tells about the end of the world of Narnia. Jill and Eustace return to save Narnia from Shift, an ape, who tricks Puzzle, a donkey, into pretending to be the lion, Aslan. The Pevensie children (without Susan, who has decided that Narnia was just part of a game they played as children), along with their parents and friends, die in a train crash and lived in Narnia forever with Aslan.
"The Chronicles of Narnia" have been made into several movies, TV films and stage plays.
Released May 16 2008, Prince Caspian is the second of seven movies to be released by Disney Pictures. The first was "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe", which made a world-wide total of $744,783,957. Disney also has plans to create the third book in the series: "The Voyage of the Dawn Treader". Set to release in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="22447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22447" title="Asatru">
Asatru

Asatru (or Ásatrú) is a religion which believes in the ancient Germanic spirits and Gods. It was officially recreated in the 1970s in Iceland, but its roots go back many thousands of years. The name comes from two words in a language called Old Norse. It means "faith in the Æsir." The Æsir are the Germanic gods.
A person who practices Asatru is called an "Asatruar", and is sometimes referred to as a heathen. If someone wants to talk about two or more followers of Asatru, they would say that they are "Asatrufolk". Sometimes Asatru is also called Odinism, Wodinism, Wodanism, Wotanism or Germanic (neo)paganism.
Asatru is a polytheistic religion in which various goddesses and gods are worshipped. The most prominent are Thor, Odin, Freya, Frigg, Freyr, Tyr, and Heimdall.
Major holidays revolve around the changing seasons with Yule being the most important. It is celebrated in late December and continues for twelve days.

</doc>
<doc id="22448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22448" title="Otherkin">
Otherkin

Otherkin are people who believe that part of them is not human inside. They say that, inside themselves, they feel more like another animal than a human. That other animal can be e.g. a wolf, a dragon or an alien. Some otherkin say that they are vampires and are usually acting like them, e.g. by drinking blood.
Otherkin may also identify as feeling a special connection to other natural elements, i.e minerals, the likes of fire, water, and wind, plants, etc..
Otherkin is a neologism—a new word—and it is usually used only by people who say they "are" otherkin. The definition can change depending on who uses the word. Some otherkin say that their souls or minds are not human, that they were another species in a past life, or that being not-human is part of their religion. (Otherkin practice many different religions, however.) A few of them say that their physical bodies are not human, either, but there is no proof either for or against that.

</doc>
<doc id="22454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22454" title="Pedro Romeiras">
Pedro Romeiras

Pedro Romeiras was a Portuguese principal ballet dancer born 3 July 1961, in Lisbon. He was the gold medal winner of the II Prix Français de la Danse 1982.

</doc>
<doc id="22462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22462" title="Bonfire">
Bonfire

A bonfire or balefire is a large controlled outdoor fire made from bales of straw or wood. The word is believed to come from "bone fire". In the time of the Celts, there were midsummer festivals where animal bones were burnt to ward off evil spirits. 
In Great Britain, bonfires are particularly associated with "Guy Fawkes Night". This night is also known as "fireworks night" or "bonfire night". On this night, people celebrate that the Gunpowder Plot was discovered. This discovery took place on 5 November 1605. They do this celebration each year. (It is called an "annual celebration".)
In Northern Ireland, "bonfires" are associated with celebrations on the anniversary of the Battle of the Boyne. This battle took place on 12 July 1690.
In Japan, large fires called bon-bi are set to welcome the return of the spirits of the ancestors. Though the two terms are not etymologically or historically related, they serve similar purposes and indicate the universal importance of large fires.
Bonfires were also used for rituals. The idea was that the fire would purify. It was used to consecrate things, or people, that is to make them sacred, in some way. In ancient times, cattle were important symbols of wealth and status. Such cattle were led through the smoke of a bonfire. Couples who were to be wed on May Day would leap through the flames of the bonfire to seal their vows. Coals from a bonfire would be taken home to light the fires in family hearths. This practice was thought to bring good fortune. People also believed that the residents of the Faery realm were incapable of producing fire themselves; embers of bonfires would be carried to the underworld and tended there.
Along with the Maypole, the bonfire is an important component of the Wiccan and Neopagan celebration of Beltaine, also known as May Day.
Nine woods are placed into a traditional Wiccan balefire. These woods are rowan, dogwood, elder, poplar, oak, juniper, holly, cedar, and apple. Occasionally, pine is also used instead of holly or elder, as are a handful of other woods. In some regions, superstition, religious belief, or tradition prohibits the cutting of certain trees.

</doc>
<doc id="22465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22465" title="Bic Runga">
Bic Runga

Bic Runga (born January 13, 1976) is a singer from New Zealand. She was born in Christchurch. She has sold lots of albums in New Zealand.
The names of her albums are:

</doc>
<doc id="22474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22474" title="Sputnik programme">
Sputnik programme

The Sputnik programme was a Soviet Union spacecraft programme. Sputnik 1, the first satellite in the programme, was launched on October 4, 1957. This was the first man-made satellite ever to enter orbit.
The United States was very surprised when the Soviet Union sent Sputnik 1 into space. It did not want to fall behind. So, it began spending more money on science and education. This was when the Space Race between the Soviet Union and the United States began.
The word "Sputnik" comes from the Russian Спутник, literally "travelling companion",

</doc>
<doc id="22479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22479" title="Carnival">
Carnival

Carnival is a public festival which takes place in many cities and towns in many countries around the world. It is in February or March each year. Carnival can sometimes last for several weeks. In some places there is only one day of celebration. There are often street parades, bands, costumes and many people wear masks. Carnival is linked to religious traditions in the Catholic and Eastern Orthodox Churches, and it is also linked to local customs.
Many Christian churches have a 40-day "season" of fasting called Lent, in which Christians prepare for Easter which is one of the two most important feasts in the Christian year (the other being Christmas). Easter is in late March or April. Lent always begins on a Wednesday, which is called Ash Wednesday in February or March. On that day, many people go to church and have some ash smeared on their forehead as a sign of sorrow for their sins. Then for 40 days, they try to work hard on improving themselves and thinking about the teachings of Jesus. It is usual for people to "give up" something for Lent. They might stop smoking or stop watching TV so they can spend more time reading the Bible or talking with the family. Many people give up all their favourite foods and have no cake, wine, beer, chocolate, ice cream or other luxury foods.
The name "carnivale" comes from Italian and means "putting aside the flesh". This means that during Lent people were not to think about their "flesh" (their bodies) but do things that were good for their souls. The word "flesh"" also means "meat" so many people would eat no meat during Lent.
Mardi Gras means "Fat Tuesday". This was the day just before Lent. The first day of Lent was called Mecredi Meagre meaning "Mean Wednesday". ("Mean" used to mean "poor" and "thin" rather than "nasty".)
During the Middle Ages in Europe, it was normal for people to have a big feast on the Tuesday before the Lenten fast started. In many towns this developed into a big public party, with entertainment in the town square. There is a famous painting by Pieter Bruegel dating from the 1550s and showing the "Battle of Carnival and Lent". (See top of page)
In this picture by Pieter Bruegel, a man representing Carnival is pushed on a barrel by people in costumes and masks. He is about to do battle with Lent. His weapon is a skewer covered with pieces of roast meat. He balances a blackbird pie on his head. Lent, who is very skinny, fights him with two little fish on a bread-board. The person at the front wears a mask and plays a very noisy instrument called a "rummelpott".
Nowadays many cities and towns around the world celebrate Carnival for a week or more. The final day of the celebration is Mardi Gras, when there is often a parade. In some cities the Mardi Gras parade is held on the weekend before Lent begins, rather than on the Tuesday, so as not to disturb the business and traffic of the town.
In some towns such as the Belgian town of Binche the preparations for the Carnival are complex and start many weeks before Carnival takes place, with most of the town's people taking part in some way. The Carnival of Binche is listed with UNESCO as an event of great historic importance because it has been held there in almost the same way for more than 500 years.
Carnival is celebrated differently around the world, but there are some things that are similar: 
In the Carnival of Rio de Janeiro, which is one of the biggest and most famous in the world, a major feature is the glamorous costumes as both men and women wear bright colours and wonderful headdresses to dance down the street to the sound of many bands. In Rio there are many very large and expensive decorated "floats".
In New Orleans the bands are one of the most important parts of the Carnival celebrations. In Düsseldorf in Germany, one of the features of the Carnival parades are the enormous models of politicians and other well-known people. In Sydney, the Sydney Gay and Lesbian Mardis Gras which started out as a parade for Sydney's homosexual community, now includes exhibitions, live theatre and competitions, and stretches over two weeks.
In Venice the Carnival was celebrated from December 26 until Lent began. During that time, people were allowed to disguise themselves by wearing masks in the street. In the 1930s this was forbidden by the Italian Government, but in 1980 a mask-makers shop was set up in Venice again. Soon the old tradition was brought back, and now many people dress in costume and wear masks for two weeks before Lent begins.
In Brussels in Belgium, the main Carnival procession is held in the Grande Place, the town square in front of the Gothic Town Hall with its huge tower. Every part of the procession is ruled by a tradition, but some of the traditions are so old that no-one remembers what they mean anymore. At the beginning of the procession is a large group of people dressed in beautiful costumes of silk and velvet, who act out an historic scene of the coming of the King of Spain and his royal court to Brussels 500 years ago. When they have taken their seats, there comes an amazing procession which includes stilt walkers, fire eaters, Goldilocks with a dancing bear, a mad camel, a wizard, lots of men in huge feathery headdresses, and the Archangel Michael whose job is to frighten the Devil. These characters are traditional to Brussels. In every city, the characters that take part are different.
Although the word "carnival" still has its old meaning, it is often used to mean public entertainments of different kinds. Some towns have carnivals that have nothing to do with Lent and are at different times of year. Nowadays there are all sorts of different carnivals. Some of these carnivals, like the Notting Hill Carnival in London and the Melbourne Cup Racing Carnival in Australia are very famous.
The word "carnival" is now used for festivals, parades and competitions of all sorts. There are school sports carnivals, folk carnivals, multi-cultural carnivals, horse-racing carnivals, wine and food carnivals and boating carnivals.

</doc>
<doc id="22480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22480" title="Fasting">
Fasting

Fasting is a kind of abstinence. It is when someone does not eat or drink for some specified period of time. It is only the case if the person does so of his or her own will. It may also be that the person only eats and drinks certain kinds of food. Most often, fasting is done for religious reasons. Depending on the tradition, fasting practices may forbid sexual intercourse, (or any sexual desire), masturbation, as well as refraining from eating certain types or groups of food (e.g. meat).
Fasting for religious and spiritual reasons has been a part of human custom since pre-history. It is mentioned in the Qur'an, in the Mahabharata, in the Upanishads, and in the Bible, in both the Old and New Testament. In Buddhism it is also taught as a way to getting Nirvana. 
In almost all cases, there are exceptions for observing the fasting. These are made for the following groups of people

</doc>
<doc id="22481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22481" title="Walpurgis Night">
Walpurgis Night

Walpurgis Night ("Valborgsmässoafton" in Swedish, "Vappu" in Finnish, "Volbriöö" in Estonian, "Valpurģu nakts" or "Valpurģi" in Latvian, "Walpurgisnacht" in German), "Čarodějnice" in Czech is a holiday celebrated on April 30 or May 1, in Finland, Sweden, Bohemia (Czech Republic), Estonia, Latvia and Germany.
The festival is named after Saint Walburga (known in Scandinavia as "Valborg"; alternative forms are "Walpurgis", "Wealdburg", or "Valderburger"), born in Wessex in 710 a niece of Saint Boniface. According to legend, she was a daughter to the Saxon prince St. Richard. Together with her brothers she travelled to Württemberg, Germany where she became a nun and lived in the convent of Heidenheim, which was founded by her brother Wunibald. Walburga died on 25 February 779 and that day still carries her name in the Catholic calendar. However she was not made a saint until 1 May in the same year, and that day carries her name in the Swedish calendar.
Historically the Walpurgisnacht is derived from Pagan spring customs, where the arrival of spring was celebrated with bonfires at night. Viking fertility celebrations took place around April 30 and due to Walburga being declared a saint at that time of year, her name became associated with the celebrations. Walburga was worshipped in the same way that Vikings had celebrated spring and as they spread throughout Europe, the two dates became mixed together and created the Walpurgis Night celebration.
In Germany, Walpurgisnacht, the night from April 30 to May 1, is the night when allegedly the witches hold a large celebration on the Blocksberg and await the arrival of Spring. When the travel to that mountain is too far, they may also chose another hill in the region they live. 
"Walpurgis Night (in German folklore) the night of April 30 (May Day's eve), when witches meet on the Brocken mountain and hold revels with their Gods..." 
"Brocken the highest of the Harz Mountains of north central Germany. It is noted for the phenomenon of the Brocken spectre and for witches' revels which reputably took place there on Walpurgis night. 
The Brocken Spectre is a magnified shadow of an observer, typically surrounded by rainbow-like bands, thrown onto a bank of cloud in high mountain areas when the sun is low. The phenomenon was first reported on the Brocken." 
—Taken from Oxford Phrase & Fable.

</doc>
<doc id="22485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22485" title="Bird flu">
Bird flu

Bird flu (also called avian influenza, avian flu, bird influenza, or grippe of the birds), is an illness caused by a virus. The virus, called "influenza A" or "type A", usually lives in birds, but sometimes infects mammals, including humans. It is called influenza when it infects humans.
There are many types of influenza A, which was first found in a bird in Italy in 1878. Most types have weak symptoms, such as breathing problems, similar to the common cold.
But some types kill birds, and a few kill humans and other mammals. One type of bird flu, called "Spanish flu", killed 50 to 100 million people in 1918/1920. Another type, called "Asian Flu" killed one million in 1957, and another one, called "Hong Kong Flu", also killed one million people in 1968.
A subtype, called "H5N1", killed six people in Hong Kong in 1997, but did not kill again until 2003, this time in China. Until the middle of 2005, it was primarily found in southeast Asia but since then has spread to parts of Africa and Europe. It has killed tens of millions of birds and resulted in the slaughter of hundreds of millions of other birds to limit its spread. So far it is mostly a bird disease and rarely infects humans. The concern about H5N1 is that it is constantly evolving at a very fast rate and could create a human flu pandemic that could kill many millions of people. Governments around the world are spending billions of dollars to deal with this problem: studying H5N1, creating vaccines, conducting pandemic practice exercises, stockpiling useful flu medication, and many other important activities. 

</doc>
<doc id="22488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22488" title="Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy">
Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy

The "Jyllands-Posten" Muhammad cartoons controversy is a controversy about a series of cartoons. They were first published in a Danish newspaper. The publication led to an outcry, and sparked violent protests in the Islamic world, with many people dying. 
The crisis began after cartoons depicting the Islamic prophet Muhammad were published in the Danish newspaper "Jyllands-Posten" on September 30, 2005. Danish Muslim organizations staged protests in response. As the controversy has grown, some or all of the cartoons have been reprinted in newspapers in more than fifty other countries. The protests got worse when fake cartoons were released.
One of the cartoons showed Muhammad with a bomb in his turban. Some people thought this was saying that all Muslims are terrorists. But other cartoons made fun of the Jyllands-Posten newspaper. One insulted the editors of the newspaper, by using the language Farsi. 
Critics claims that the cartoons are culturally insulting, Islamophobic, blasphemous, and intended to humiliate a "marginalized" minority. However, supporters of the cartoons claim they illustrate an important issue and their publication exercises the right of free speech. They have also claimed that similar cartoons are made relative to other religions, arguing that Islam and its followers have not been targeted in a discriminatory way. 

</doc>
<doc id="22490" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22490" title="Blasphemy">
Blasphemy

Blasphemy is a word that means "speaking badly about a religion", or "insulting a god". Many countries with a state religion have laws that make blasphemy a crime. For example, blasphemy can be punished with the death penalty in Saudi Arabia or Pakistan. In other countries, the punishment for the crime is a fine, or imprisonment. 
Some countries do not have laws against blasphemy. For example, after the French Revolution, France made blasphemy legal to make sure people would have freedom of religion and the freedom of the press.
In the United States, Canada, and many European countries, the law protects people who speak badly about religion. Sometimes people do this in a satirical way, like with a movie that makes fun of a religion. In these countries, cursing is often protected by freedom of speech as well. 

</doc>
<doc id="22492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22492" title="1180s">
1180s


</doc>
<doc id="22496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22496" title="Brie">
Brie

Brie is a type of soft cheese with a yellowish interior and a white layer on the outside of the cheese. Like other cheeses, Brie is a dairy product made from milk. In some countries, Brie cheese is served with fruit as a dessert at the end of a meal. 
Originally, Brie was a French cheese, but now there are also Brie-style cheeses from outside of France. The cheese is produced in the region of the same name (which is basically just outside of Paris). It is made of the milk of cows. 
The milk of soft cheeses ("à pate molle" in French) is not heated during the production of the cheese. Talleyrand said about this kind of cheese that it was the "king of cheeses". He said that in the 19th century. This kind of cheese has been made for at least 1000 years, though.
In Europe this cheese is usually not treated chemically, so it might change in consistency or color. It will go bad if it is not kept in the refrigerator. In most countries, Brie-style cheeses are made with Pasteurized milk.
The following kinds of Brie exist:
Other French "Bries" are:
Bries from outside France:
Cheeses are made into round loaves, of about 36 cm in diameter. The cheeses then weight about 2.5 kilograms. It is best tasted from April to October, after a ripening period of 8 to 10 weeks. About 2% of the production occurs on farms.
The Brie de Melun is smaller than the Brie de Meaux, but more salt is added to it. The ripening period is 10 weeks. It is best consumed April to September, but it can be found March to November, in some locations. About 5% of production occurs on farms.
When people buy Brie, they should make sure that it has the following traits:

</doc>
<doc id="22502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22502" title="Charles-Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord">
Charles-Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord

Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord (February 2, 1754 - May 17, 1838) was a French diplomat. He was a bishop and worked successfully for Louis XVI. He changed sides and served the French Revolution and Napoleon I. When Napoleon started losing his wars, Talleyrand changed sides again and served Louis XVIII and Louis-Philippe. Since the beginning of the 19th century he was known simply as "Talleyrand". He is widely seen as one of the most versatile and influential diplomats in European history, although he was known to accept bribes from other European powers, especially while serving under Napoleon.

</doc>
<doc id="22505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22505" title="Pasteurization">
Pasteurization

Pasteurization (or pasteurisation) is a process of making foods stay fresh. It involves heating the food to kill most harmful microorganisms. Producers pasteurize dairy and other foods to make them safe to eat. The process is named after Louis Pasteur. He was the first person to learn how to do it successfully. The first pasteurization was done by Louis Pasteur and Claude Bernard on 20 April 1862.
Unlike sterilization, pasteurization is not intended to kill all microorganisms in the food. Instead, pasteurization gets a "log reduction" in the number of microorganisms. It brings their number down so they are unlikely to cause disease if the product is kept in the refrigerator and consumed before its sell-by date. Commercial sterilization of food is not common, because it tends to destroy the flavour of the food.
Pasteurization is usually done to milk, which was first suggested by Franz von Soxhlet in 1886. There are two popular ways to pasteurize milk. First, high temperature/short time (HTST), and second, ultra-high temperature (UHT). HTST is the most common method. Milk only labeled "pasteurized" (or "past") is usually treated with the HTST method, whereas milk labelled "ultra-pasteurized" or "UHT" must be treated with the UHT method. HTST is when the milk is at a temperature of 72 degrees Celsius (or 161.5 degrees Fahrenheit) for at least 15 seconds. UHT is when the milk is at a temperature of 138 °C or 280 °F for at least two seconds. 
Pasteurization rules are usually set by national food safety agencies (like the USDA in the United States and the Food Standards Agency in the United Kingdom). These agencies say milk has to be HTST pasteurized to have the "pasteurized" label. There are different rules for different dairy products, depending on the fat content and what they will be used for. For example, the pasteurization rules for cream are different than the rules for fluid milk, and the standards for pasteurizing cheese are designed to keep the phosphatase enzyme fresh, which helps in making the cheese.
HTST pasteurized milk normally has a refrigerated shelf life of two or three weeks, but ultra pasteurized milk can last much longer when refrigerated, sometimes two or three months. When UHT pasteurization is mixed with safe handling and container technology, it can even be stored unrefrigerated for even longer periods of time.
In addition to the standard HTST and UHT pasteurization standards, there are other lesser-known pasteurization techniques. The first technique, called "batch pasteurization", involves heating large batches of milk to a lower temperature, typically . The other technique is called higher-heat/shorter time (HHST), and it lies somewhere between HTST and UHT in terms of time and temperature. Pasteurization causes some irreversible and some temporary denaturization of the proteins in milk.
In most legislations, double pasteurization is not allowed. A heat treatment at a lower temperature or for a shorter time is sometimes performed. Possibly, such milk could be called "raw milk" or, confusingly, "unpasteurized milk". It cannot be called "pasteurized", even though a significant number of pathogens are destroyed during the process.
In recent years, there has been some consumer interest in raw milk products, due to perceived health benefits. Advocates of raw milk maintain, correctly, that some components survive in milk that has not been pasteurized. Specifically, raw milk contains immunoglobulins and the enzymes lipase and phosphatase, which are inactivated by heat. Raw milk also contains vitamin B6 of which up to 20% may be lost on heat treatment. It is also claimed to contain beneficial bacteria which aid digestion and boost immunity. 
Commercial distribution of packaged raw milk is not allowed in most US states.
Some doctors (and some raw milk advocates) acknowledge that certain people should not drink raw milk, including pregnant or breast-feeding mothers, those undergoing immunosuppression treatment for cancer, organ transplant, or autoimmune diseases; and those who are immunocompromised due to medical conditions such as AIDS.
In fact, some doctors suggest that babies and breast-feeding mothers avoid all but UHT pasteurized dairy products. 
In Africa, it is common to boil milk whenever it is harvested. This intense heating greatly changes the flavor of milk, which the people in Africa are accustomed to.
Milk pasteurization standards have been subject to increasing scrutiny in recent years, due to the discovery of pathogens that are both widespread and heat resistant (able to survive pasteurization in significant numbers). Researchers have developed more sensitive diagnostics, such as real-time PCR and improved culture methods, that have enabled them to identify pathogens in pasteurized milk.
One bacterium in particular, the organism "Mycobacterium avium" subspecies "paratuberculosis" (MAP), which causes Johne's disease in cattle and is suspected of causing at least some Crohn's disease in humans, has been found to survive pasteurization in retail milk in the U.S., the U.K., Greece, and the Czech Republic. The food safety authorities in the U.K. have decided to re-evaluate pasteurization standards in light of the MAP results and other evidence of harmful, pasteurization-resistant pathogens.
The USDA (which is responsible for setting pasteurization standards in the U.S.) has not re-evaluated their position on pasteurization adequacy. They do not dispute the studies, which are at this point accepted by the scientific community, but maintain that the presence of MAP in retail pasteurized milk must be due to post-pasteurization contamination. However, some researchers within the FDA, which is responsible for food safety in the U.S., have begun pushing for a re-evaluation of these results. There is a small but growing body of criticism directed at these agencies by Crohn's disease sufferers, scientists, and doctors. Some have suggested that the U.S. dairy industry has been successful in suppressing the agencies' response to a potential health crisis, for fear of consumer panic which would lead to a decrease in milk consumption. It is worth noting that while MAP has not been definitely proven to be harmful in humans, all other mycobacteria are pathogenic, and it has been definitively shown to cause disease in cattle and other ruminants.
A newer method called flash pasteurization involves shorter exposure to higher temperatures, and is claimed to be better for preserving color and taste in some products.
The term cold pasteurization is used sometimes for the use of ionizing radiation (see food irradiation) or other means (e.g. chemical) to kill bacteria in food. Food irradiation is also sometimes called "electronic pasteurization".

</doc>
<doc id="22510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22510" title="Soft cheese">
Soft cheese

Soft cheese (in French: "Fromage à pate molle") is cheese that does not get heated during production.
An example of soft cheese would be Brie.

</doc>
<doc id="22511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22511" title="Cult">
Cult

A cult is a group of people who have a religion or a set of beliefs. The term "cult" often means not a mainstream religion, but a group set up "in opposition to a centre of established authority". New Age religions were often called cults because they were thought to be deviant social movements. 
The word cult originally meant a system of ritual practices. It was first used in the early 17th century to mean homage paid to a divinity. 
A cult is often a small, newly started religious movement. Cults have beliefs or practices that many people think of as being odd, or that have practices that most people in the world do not practice. More than that, cults have often been led by people who are not elected, and control the group according to their own wishes. Some cult leaders have been dangerous criminals (Charles Manson; Peoples Temple) or even lunatics. Killings and mass suicides have occurred in cults (Order of the Solar Temple; Heaven's Gate). Of course, a "suicide" enforced by armed guards carrying sub-machine guns (Peoples Temple; Movement for the Restoration of the Ten Commandments of God) is not a simple suicide as generally understood. It is at least an assisted and coerced suicide.
Whether a religious group is or is not a cult is a difficult problem. Personal opinions may change over time. What is at one point in time considered a cult may later be accepted as a religion and what at one point of time is considered an accepted religion may later become a cult.
Some form of persuasion or mind control is used to recruit and maintain members. The objective is to prevent the faithful from thinking critically, and making choices in their own best interest. 
The following methods have been used in some or all cults studied: 
This view is disputed by some. "Society for the Scientific Study of Religion" stated in 1990 that there was not sufficient research for a consensus, and that "one should not automatically equate the techniques involved in the process of physical coercion and control with those of nonphysical coercion and control".
An oft-repeated criticism of cults is that their management style is dictatorial and exploitative. The following is one example:
Ownership of weapons and violence has occurred in some cults. The Branch Davidians under the direction of David Koresh used violence against Federal agencies, with tragic results for both sides. The later FBI report reveals the extent of their arms stockpile.
The People's Temple included guards armed with submachine guns. These guards killed the visiting U.S. Congressman Ryan, and stood around the believers as they committed suicide. Members of the Manson Family were convicted of several murders.

</doc>
<doc id="22512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22512" title="The Cult">
The Cult

The Cult are a English rock band. They formed in 1982 under the name Death Cult and later renamed to Southern Death Cult in 1983, then was again renamed to their current name The Cult.

</doc>
<doc id="22513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22513" title="1028">
1028

1028 (MXXVIII) was a common year when the Julian calendar was used. It was the twenty-eighth year of the 2nd millennium and the 11th century.

</doc>
<doc id="22514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22514" title="1056">
1056


</doc>
<doc id="22516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22516" title="James A. Michener">
James A. Michener

James Albert Michener (February 3, 1907 - October 16, 1997) was an American writer. His books include "Tales of the South Pacific", "Hawaii", "The Drifters", "Texas", and "Poland". Most of his 40 books are very large sagas. They are about the lives of many generations in a particular place. His non-fiction writings include the 1992 book "The World is My Home" and "Sports in America".
Michener wrote that he did not know who his parents were or exactly when and where he was born. He was raised by an adoptive mother, Mabel Michener, in Doylestown, Pennsylvania. Some have argued that Mabel was his birth mother. He graduated from Swarthmore College, where he played basketball, in 1929. He later studied at the Colorado State Teachers College. He taught there for several years. He also taught at Harvard University. 
His writing career began during World War II. He was assigned to the South Pacific Ocean as a naval historian. He used his time there as the basis for "Tales of the South Pacific", his first book. This book was the basis for the musical "South Pacific".
Michener met his wife Mari while in Japan. His novel "Sayonara" is autobiographical.
On January 10, 1977, he was given the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Gerald R. Ford.
In his final years, he lived in Austin, Texas.

</doc>
<doc id="22517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22517" title="1150s">
1150s


</doc>
<doc id="22519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22519" title="War of 1812">
War of 1812

The War of 1812 was fought between the British Empire and the United States from 1812 to 1815 on land in North America and at sea. The British forces were helped by Canadian militia (volunteers) and Native Americans. This was because British soldiers were busy fighting Napoleon in Europe. In nearly every battle British defeated the attacking American forces. In the beginning, the war increased levels of nationalism in both Canada and the United States. 
One reason given for Americans declaring war against Great Britain was because the British were harassing American ships. The British were also seizing American sailors at sea and forcing them to serve in the British Navy. But the numbers of American seamen pressed into British Service may have been seriously exaggerated. The British were also sponsoring Native American territories in the west to stop the United States from expanding westward. This was the reason that about 10,000 Native Americans fought on the side of the British. But the British also had designs on the North American frontier so their promises may or may not have been kept.
Fighting began when the United States started to attack the Canadian provinces beginning in 1812. But the British and Canadians successfully defended the borders. In 1813, British and American ships fought in the Battle of Lake Erie. Americans under Oliver Hazard Perry won, giving America control of Lake Erie. American forces raided and burned Toronto, then called Yorktown.
In 1814, Napoleon abdicated the French throne. This freed up experienced British troops to be sent to North America. They burned Washington D.C. and also attacked Baltimore. During this battle an American lawyer, Francis Scott Key, wrote a poem. The poem was later used to give the words to a new national anthem for the United States: "The Star Spangled Banner." The final battle of the war took place in January of 1815. The British attacked New Orleans and were successfully repulsed by Americans under General Andrew Jackson. Unknown by both sides at the time, the Battle of New Orleans took place after the peace treaty had been signed.
The two countries signed the Treaty of Ghent, which was supposed to end the war, on December 24, 1814, in Belgium. Fighting continued into January 1815 because the combat forces did not know about the treaty. But no great changes took place. The British stopped impressing sailors because the Napoleonic Wars were finished. Most Americans heard of the victory in the Battle of New Orleans before they heard of the treaty. The Federalist Party, which had opposed the war, became disliked and disappeared.
From the British perspective, the War of 1812 was a minor sideshow. The Americans called it their victorious "Second War for Independence". The British remember it as the Americans trying to take advantage of their being involved in a war against the French Empire.
In Canada, the War of 1812 was an unwanted war. It concerned the distant capitols of Washington DC and London, not them. In Lower Canada, now Quebec it was considered an Anglo-Saxon war. In Quebec there was little love for the British, but the British had guaranteed their right to speak French. If the Americans took over it was unknown how it would affect them. They chose the lesser of two evils and supported the British. Upper Canada (later part of the Province of Ontario) had been settled by American Loyalists who came here after the Revolutionary war. They had little love of their former countrymen in the US but had become outnumbered by Americans who came North to settle. When the Americans attempted to invade Canada, the Canadian militias found no problem with defending their homeland.
In US history, the War of 1812 is the most obscure conflict. The average American remembers very little about the war. Some may remember the The Star Spangled Banner, the Burning of Washington or the Battle of New Orleans. But otherwise it is a little understood conflict. The issues are complex. Most scholars would agree it was fought over maritime issues. Since the British Navy was the most powerful in the world at the time, it may have made sense to attack them on land by invading Canada. Former president Thomas Jefferson predicted the "acquisition of Canada, will be a mere matter of marching."
The British feel they won the war no matter what Americans think. The Canadians kept Canada so they won. The Americans, despite failing to take Canada, did keep what they had to do so they feel they won. Of all three, the British are perhaps the happiest because they have completely forgotten about it.

</doc>
<doc id="22521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22521" title="Chandigarh">
Chandigarh

Chandigarh, also called "The Beautiful City", is a city in India. It is a union territory, because it is the capital of two states: Punjab and Haryana. As a territory it does not belong to either state.
It is well known for its mixed cultural background and its fast development in the field of Information Technology. It has outlets of many famous multinational companies established here and is emerging as a hub for business development. The territory covers an area of 44 mi² or 114 km², it is bigger than Montserrat but smaller than Jersey. It's also the proposed capital of Khalistan.

</doc>
<doc id="22522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22522" title="Convection">
Convection

Convection is the movement of a physical quantity (for example heat) because of the movement of the matter.
For example, the wind is the movement of the air and it can cool down a room if the window is open because the cold air comes inside of the room. The movement of the clouds, the sea waves and many types of heaters are examples of convection.
Convection can happen naturally ("natural convection") or because of a moving device ("forced convection").
The fan is a device that produces the movement of the air artificially. The air in this case is moving because of the rotation of the fan. This is an example of "forced convection".
Natural convection happens because a fluid is lighter if is hot and it is heavier if is cold, so if a fluid has a hot part and a cold part, the hot part will naturally move upward and the cold part naturally moves downward. For example, if the water in a pot is hotter near the bottom because of the fire, it moves from the bottom to the surface. At the same time the water near the surface is colder so it moves to the bottom.
Convection currents occur when there are significant differences in temperature between two parts of a fluid. When this happens, hot fluids rise and cold fluids sink. This causes movements or currents in the fluid.

</doc>
<doc id="22531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22531" title="Chipmunk">
Chipmunk

A chipmunk is a small squirrel-like rodent. About twenty-three species fall under this title, with one species in northeastern Asia, one in the eastern portions of Canada and the US, and all the rest native to the western part of North America.
The name may have originally been spelled "chitmunk" (perhaps from a Native American word meaning "red squirrel"). However, the earliest form comes from the Oxford English Dictionary (in 1842) as "chipmonk". Other early forms include "chipmuck" and "chipminck".
Chip 'n Dale, two Disney cartoon characters, are famous chipmunks in pop culture. Another such trio is Alvin, Simon and Theodore (created by Ross Bagdasarian).

</doc>
<doc id="22535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22535" title="Vicente Mondéjar Piccio">
Vicente Mondéjar Piccio

Major General Vicente Mondéjar Piccio (1 March 1927–28 April 2015) was a Filipino soldier. He was Chief of the Philippine Air Force during the last years of the dictatorship of Marcos, notably during the 1986 People Power Revolution.

</doc>
<doc id="22538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22538" title="Piccio">
Piccio

The Piccio family is a family of Portuguese Jewish origin. The family's name is an Italianisation of the original Portuguese Figo.

</doc>
<doc id="22541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22541" title="1143">
1143


</doc>
<doc id="22542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22542" title="Donald Duck">
Donald Duck

Donald Duck is a cartoon character created by Walt Disney. He is a white duck with an orange bill and legs. He usually wears a sailor cap, a sailor shirt and a red bow tie. He first appeared on-screen in "The Little Red Hen" on 9 June 1934. Donald is Scrooge McDuck's nephew. His girlfriend is Daisy Duck. His nephews are Huey, Dewey and Louie. Donald appeared in animated shorts, comic books, and newspaper comic strips. Donald Duck appears frequently in "The Mickey Mouse Clubhouse". 
Donald Duck has been voted as one of the most popular cartoon characters of all time. 

</doc>
<doc id="22543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22543" title="1717">
1717


</doc>
<doc id="22544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22544" title="Montevideo">
Montevideo

Montevideo is the capital and the largest city in Uruguay. It was founded by the Portuguese in 1717. Its best neighbourhood is called Carrasco. This neighbourhood is very exclusive due to its architectural styles.

</doc>
<doc id="22548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22548" title="Book of Esther">
Book of Esther

Esther is the name of a book in the Tanakh (the Hebrew Bible) and the Old Testament, and also its title heroine. It is the basis for the Jewish celebration Purim.
Although it is never said who wrote the book of Esther, from inside evidence it is possible to make some guesses about the author and when it was written. The author was a Jew, because he where the Jewish festival came from and from the Jewish inside the story. The author probably lived in a Persian city, because he knew Persian customs well, and does not say anything about the land of Judah or Jerusalem. The earliest date of the book would be a little while after the events were told, for instance, about 460 B.C. (before Ezra's return to Jerusalem). It is also thought that the festival of Purim had been celebrated some time before this book was written.
The author's main purpose was to write about how the yearly festival of Purim started and to make people remember the saving of the Jewish people during King Xerxes' reign. The book shows both the start of the festival and why it should continue to be celebrated.
In the book, the author repeatedly talks about the conflict between Israel and the Amalekites, a conflict that began during the exodus and continued through Israel's history. The author of Esther views them as the symbol of all the powers of the world against God's people. Now that Israel has been released from , Haman's dangerous is the final try in the Old Testament time to get rid of them. When Haman is defeated, Israel enjoys a time of rest.
Feasting is another important theme in Esther, as seen in the picture on the left. Banquets are the setting for important parts of the story. There are ten banquets.
Repeating is one of the main features of the style of the book of Esther. The three groups of banquets come in pairs; there are two lists of the king's servants; two reports that Esther hid who she was; two gatherings of women; two houses for the women; two fasts; two talks of Haman with his wife and friends; two sudden visits to the king by Esther; two coverings of Haman's face; two royal commands; two cooling of the king's anger; two days for the Jews to protect themselves and take ; and two letters about how Purim started.
Another important feature of this book that has been often wondered at is that it never directly talks about God, worship, prayer, or sacrifice. This has made some people think the book is not as religious as other books. However, it is possible that the author purposefully did not say anything about God or anything religious to show more clearly that it is God who controls all the "unimportant" that are in the story and end in saving the Jews.
The Book of Esther is about a Jewish girl, adopted by her uncle Mordecai after her parents had died. Xerxes, the Persian king, who rejected his other wife (Queen Vashti), fell in love with Esther in the beauty contest. He took in Esther as the new Persian Queen, not knowing she was an Israelite.
Meanwhile, Haman, the king's prime minister, creates a grudge against Esther's uncle Mordecai because he does not bow down to him, and only to the God of Israel. He despises Mordecai because he is a Jew, and tries to trick the king into making a law to kill all of the Jews. He, too, does not know that the Queen is a Jew herself.
Later, Queen Esther finds out the plot by Mordecai, and tries to stop it. She goes to the king and invites him to dine with her, and with Haman, so that she may tell him. But when he comes,she loses bravery and does not tell him. Later she invites him and Haman again, and this time she tells him. The king, furious, storms out, and Haman asks Esther for mercy. When the king comes back in, he mistakes Haman for 'molest'ing his Queen, and hangs him on the gallows that Haman had prepared for Mordecai.
Then Mordecai comes into the presence of the king and receives the signet ring of the king. The King then changes the law and saves the Jews because of Esther's pleas.

</doc>
<doc id="22550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22550" title="Clay">
Clay

Clay is a fine-grained silicate mineral made when rocks break down. Wet clay is soft and can be shaped to make pottery, bricks and other things. When it is shaped and then fired in a kiln to make it hard, it becomes pottery.
Clay often contains some water because the water molecules stick to the tiny grains. There may also be some organic materials in the clay. 

</doc>
<doc id="22554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22554" title="Rifle">
Rifle

The rifle is a gun with a stock to brace against the shoulder and a barrel with twisting grooves. The grooves are called rifling and make bullets spin as they fly through the air. Rifles are made to shoot many different sizes of bullets using different amounts of gunpowder. Rifles are usually made to be able to hit targets at long ranges. Modern rifles are made for many different purposes. Some are made for hunting animals. Some are made for soldiers to use in war. Others are made for police to have in case they need them. Some rifles are made for target shooting. 
Rifles can work in different ways. Some rifles have what is called a bolt action. A small handle is used to move a part of the rifle called a "bolt". By moving the bolt backward, then forward, allows the shooter put a bullet in the chamber ready for firing. It also ejects any spent shells still in the chamber from any previously fired rounds. The rifle in the picture above is a bolt action. Some rifles are semi-automatics, where a bullet is loaded (automatically) and fired each time the trigger is pulled. Some are fully automatic, which work like semi-automatics but allow the shooter to fire more than one bullet at a time by holding down the trigger. The automatic rifle stops firing when the trigger is released or it runs out of ammunition.

</doc>
<doc id="22564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22564" title="1748">
1748


</doc>
<doc id="22565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22565" title="Deuterocanonical books">
Deuterocanonical books

Deuterocanonical books means "second canon" in Greek. It usually means the parts of the Bible that are only used by some Christian churches (mostly Roman Catholic and Orthodox). The books have originally been written in Greek language and they date to era of some 250-150 years before Christ.
The books are not part of the Jewish Tanakh (also called the "Hebrew Bible") since their original language is Greek and not Hebrew. Some books considered deuterocanonical by Catholics are:
The "Book of Daniel" and the "Book of Esther" are longer in Catholic Bibles than in Protestant Bibles because they have more stories.
Most Protestant Christian churches do not think that the deuterocanonical books were inspired by God. They call these books Apocrypha. Martin Luther considered these book very good and useful reading; John Calvin considered them as work of Satan.

</doc>
<doc id="22566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22566" title="1247">
1247


</doc>
<doc id="22570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22570" title="Sidekick">
Sidekick

A sidekick is someone who regularly travels with, and helps, another person. In fiction, the other person is often a crimefighter or superhero, such as Batman and his sidekick Robin. Some people consider Sancho Panza, Don Quixote's ever-faithful companion, to be a type of sidekick, even though the book was written long before the word sidekick was invented. Annabeth Chase is nobody's sidekick.

</doc>
<doc id="22573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22573" title="Nicobar Islands">
Nicobar Islands

The Nicobar Islands are an island chain in the eastern Indian Ocean. They are part of India.
The Nicobar islands include 22 islands of different sizes. The largest one is Great Nicobar. The total land area of the chain is 1841 km². The highest point on the Nicobars is Mount Thullier at 642 m. The population of the islands was 42,026 in 2001, roughly 65% of whom are indigenous peoples (the Nicobarese and Shompen peoples, listed among the Scheduled Tribes of India), and 35% migrants from India and Sri Lanka.
The Nicobars are located southeast of the Indian subcontinent.They are separated form the subcontinent by the Bay of Bengal by about 1,300 km and are separated from the Andaman Islands to the north by the 150 km wide Ten Degree Channel and are 189 km from the Indonesian island of Sumatra to the southeast. The Andaman and Nicobar islands separate the Bay of Bengal from the Andaman Sea. Until the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake, Indira Point, south of Great Nicobar, was the southernmost point in India.
The islands cluster into three groups. The northern group includes Car Nicobar (127 km²) and uninhabited Batti Malv (2 km²). The central group includes Chowra (8 km²), Teressa (101 km²), Poahat (13.3 km²), Katchal (174 km²), Camorta (188 km²), Nancowry (67 km²), and Trinket (86 km²); the Isle of Man and Tillangchong (17 km²) are uninhabited. Tillangchong is a wildlife sanctuary. The southern group includes Great Nicobar (1045 km²), Little Nicobar (157 km²), Kondul (4 km²) and Pulomilo (1 km²); the islets of Meroe, Trak, Treis, Menchal, Cubra, Pigeon, and Megapod are uninhabited. Megapod is a wildlife sanctuary.
Administratively the Islands are part of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, a Union territory of India. The capital of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands territory is Port Blair on South Andaman. The Union Territory is divided into two districts, Andaman district and Nicobar district (the latter encompassing all of the Nicobars). The Indian Government presently restricts access to the Nicobars by special permit, and in general non-Indian citizens are forbidden from visiting the Nicobar Islands.

</doc>
<doc id="22574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22574" title="Andaman and Nicobar Islands">
Andaman and Nicobar Islands

The Andaman and Nicobar Islands is a union territory of India. The name is often shortened to A & N Islands, or ANI. 
The islands are in the Indian Ocean, in the southern part of the Bay of Bengal. The capital of this territory is the Andamanese town of Port Blair.
It is made of two island groups - the Andaman Islands and the Nicobar Islands - separating the Andaman Sea to the east, from the Indian Ocean. These two groups are separated by the 10° N parallel, the Andamans lying to the north of this latitude, and the Nicobars to the south. The channel that separates ANI is the 10° degree channel. This islands have the only active volcano in India, Barren Island. These islands are also uninhabitated. It also has the lowest point in India, The Indira Point
The territory's population in the last (2001) census of India was 356,152. Added together, the total land area of the territory is around 6,496 km² or 2,508 mi², it is larger than the Palestinian territories but smaller than Georgia territory of Abkhazia.

</doc>
<doc id="22587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22587" title="Kazan">
Kazan

Kazan (, ) is the capital city of Tatarstan and one of Russia's largest cities. It is a major industrial, commercial and cultural center, and remains the most important center of Tatar culture. Kazan lies at the confluence of the Volga (İdel) and Kazanka (Qazansu) rivers in central European Russia.
The origin of the name is unclear. The literal translation of Tatar qazan is a boiler or cauldron. Alternately, it may have been derived from qazğan, Tatar for "dug [ditch]".
"Qazan" is originally a name for a special cooking pan, a variant of a wok, but more solid and heavier. It was believed that the city of Kazan is named after this object because of its geographical similarity with a "qazan"-pan; namely the city is situated in a U - shape lowland. 
Another, more romantic legend tells a story of a Tatar princess Söyembikä, who dropped a golden dish (golden qazan) into the river on which the city is located while washing it.
Nevertheless, Chuvash legends refer to Bulgarian prince "Khusan" (Chuvash rendering of Muslim name Hassan) and Chuvashes call this city Хусан after the name of this prince.

</doc>
<doc id="22588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22588" title="Tornado">
Tornado

A tornado is a tube of violently spinning air that touches the ground. Wind inside the tornado spins fast, but the actual 'circle' of wind around them is huge. This makes tornadoes very dangerous. Tornadoes are especially dangerous to people in cars or mobile homes and about 60 people are killed by tornadoes every year.
Tornadoes mostly happen during strong thunderstorms called super cell storms. They cause a lot of damage to anything in their path. Tornadoes are ranked on the Fujita scale, from F0 to F5. The F0 has the lowest wind speed, and the F5 has the highest one.
Tornadoes can happen in nearly any part of the world. In the United States, a tornado has happened in all states. The middle part of the United States is nicknamed 'Tornado Alley' for the number of tornadoes there. A tornado can have wind speeds of over 300 miles per hour (480 km/h). Most tornadoes have wind speeds less than 110 miles per hour (180 km/h), are about 250 feet (80 m) across and travel a few miles before disappearing. Other tornado-like phenomena that exist in nature include the gustnado, dust devil, fire whirls, and steam devil; downbursts are frequently confused with tornadoes, though their action is dissimilar. 
A tornado does not necessarily need to be visible; however, the extremely low pressure caused by the high wind speeds and rapid rotation usually causes water vapor in the air to condense into a visible "condensation funnel". The tornado is the vortex of wind, not the condensation cloud.
A single storm may produce multiple tornadoes and mesocyclones. Tornadoes produced from the same storm are referred to as a "tornado family". Sometimes multiple tornadoes from distinct mesocyclones occur at the same time.
Occasionally, several tornadoes are spawned from the same very large storm. If there is no break in their activity, this is considered a "tornado outbreak", although there are various definitions. A period of several successive days with tornado outbreaks in the same general area (spawned by multiple weather systems) is a "tornado outbreak sequence", occasionally called an "extended tornado outbreak".
Sometimes, tornadoes happen in groups. 148 tornadoes struck on the same day in April 1974. Many towns in the midwestern United States and Canada were destroyed. More than 300 people died. They were hit by flying wrecks, buried under houses, and thrown by powerful winds. That day, students in Xenia, Ohio were practicing for a play on the auditorium stage. One girl looked out the window and saw the tornado. The students ran into the hall, covering their heads. A few seconds later, all the school buses flew right onto the stage.
A man in another town hid under the couch in his living room. He held onto one couch leg. The tornado struck his house, and winds blew around him. When the tornado left, he was outside. There was no house. The couch had disappeared, and he was only holding onto one couch leg.
A "tornado watch" is given when the weather conditions look like a tornado could form. A 'PDS (Particularly Dangerous Situation)' watch is given when a likely tornado outbreak is to start, many strong tornadoes will form in the area, or an ongoing tornado outbreak is in the works in the area. A "tornado warning" is given if somebody has actually seen a tornado or if a tornado 'signature' (usually the storm has a 'hook' or 'U' echo) has shown up on radar. Tornado emergencies are issued in Special Weather Statements or Tornado Warnings saying that a powerful tornado is about to hit an area with a lot of people in it (especially cities in Tornado Alley), a tornado has been spotted, and the tornado is expected to cause deaths.
To keep safe in a tornado, here are some tips you can follow:

</doc>
<doc id="22589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22589" title="Category:1869 books">
Category:1869 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1869.

</doc>
<doc id="22591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22591" title="Hard disk">
Hard disk

A hard disk drive (HDD), hard disk or hard drive, is something used by computers to store information. The capacity of a hard drive is usually measured in gigabytes (GB), however hard disc capacity can also be measured in terabytes when the capacity is over 1000 gigabytes. A gigabyte is one thousand megabytes and a megabyte is one million bytes, which means that a gigabyte is one billion bytes. Some hard drives are so large that their capacity is measured in terabytes, (TB) where one terabyte is a thousand gigabytes (1 TB = 1000 GB).
Over the years there have been many disk interface types, though all used the same rotating platter recording technology. Differences were in how the data was encoded to binary, data integrity, data transfer speeds, cabling requirements, and cost. As there are different kinds of hard disks, there are also different kinds of interfaces. In 2009, it was common to attach a hard disk using a Serial ATA connection. The connection that came before that was called "IDE" and is called Parallel ATA today. In large data centers, Fibre Channel is often used.
For servers, the SCSI (pronounced 'scuzzy') interface is very popular. There are several types and versions of SCSI interface, like parallel and Serial Attached SCSI, each stepping-up in terms of speed and price. Within servers, several SCSI drives are often used in conjunction with each other, in order to safeguard against data loss or corruption (this is known as RAID - and there are many configurations to choose from).

</doc>
<doc id="22592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22592" title="Magnet">
Magnet

A magnet is a very special metal. When a magnet goes near a special kind of metal or other magnets, and the poles (sides) touching are opposite, it will pull, or "attract" the other metal or magnet closer. Also, if the two poles are the same, the two magnets will push away, or "repel", from each other. This is called "magnetism". Magnets can make some other metals into magnets when they are rubbed together. 
Soft magnets (or impermanent magnets) are often used in electromagnets. These enhance (often hundreds or thousands of times) the magnetic field of a wire that carries an electrical current and is wrapped around the magnet. The field of the "soft" magnet increases with the current. 
Permanent magnets have ferromagnetism. They occur naturally in some rocks, particularly lodestone, but are now commonly manufactured. A magnet's magnetism decreases when it is heated and increases when it is cooled. It has to be heated at around 1000 degrees Celsius. Like poles (S-pole and S-pole/N-pole and N-pole) will repel each other while unlike poles (N-pole and S-pole) will attract each other.
Magnets are only attracted to special metals. Iron, cobalt and nickel are magnetic. Metals that have iron in them attract magnets well. Steel is one. Metals like brass, copper, zinc and aluminum are not attracted to magnets. Non-magnetic materials such as wood and glass are not attracted to magnets as they do not have magnetic materials in them. 
Natural/permanent magnets are not artificial. They are a kind of rock called lodestone or magnetite. 
A compass uses the Earth's magnetic field, and points to the North magnetic pole. A north side of the magnet is attracted to the south side of another magnet. However, the north side of the compass points to the north pole, this can only mean that the "north pole" is really the magnetic south, and the "South magnetic pole" is really the magnetic north.
The first people to discover naturally magnetic rocks were the Chinese. At first, the Chinese used the stones to carry out fortune-telling and magic tricks. Later on they used these "lodestones" to invent the compass.

</doc>
<doc id="22595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22595" title="By-product">
By-product

A by-product is something that is made or produced while a product is manufactured in a factory. Usually, the by-product is not used, and it becomes waste that is put in a landfill or garbage dump. Sometimes by-products are toxic materials which are dangerous to humans, animals, and plants. 
Some companies are trying to find ways to reuse or recycle the by-products, instead of putting them into landfill or garbage dumps as waste.
Animal "by-products" are produced by slaughterhouses (places designed to kill animals for food). Animal by-products are the parts of the animals that cannot be eaten by humans. Animal by-products are sometimes included in non-human foods, such as pet food or animal feed (for farm animals).

</doc>
<doc id="22596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22596" title="Toxic waste">
Toxic waste

Toxic waste is any sort of waste that is harmful to people, plants, or animals, but usually it is said about waste that hurts people. Toxic wastes are usually liquid chemicals. They are made as by-products of making other things, usually by manufacturing but sometimes they are chemicals used for farming.

</doc>
<doc id="22610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22610" title="Category:1975 movies">
Category:1975 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1975.

</doc>
<doc id="22611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22611" title="Category:1883 books">
Category:1883 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1883.

</doc>
<doc id="22612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22612" title="Category:1028">
Category:1028


</doc>
<doc id="22613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22613" title="Category:1048">
Category:1048


</doc>
<doc id="22615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22615" title="Category:1072">
Category:1072


</doc>
<doc id="22616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22616" title="Category:1143">
Category:1143


</doc>
<doc id="22618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22618" title="Category:1218">
Category:1218


</doc>
<doc id="22619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22619" title="Category:1229">
Category:1229


</doc>
<doc id="22621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22621" title="Category:1244">
Category:1244


</doc>
<doc id="22622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22622" title="Category:1247">
Category:1247


</doc>
<doc id="22624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22624" title="Category:1253">
Category:1253


</doc>
<doc id="22625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22625" title="Category:1263">
Category:1263


</doc>
<doc id="22626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22626" title="Category:1282">
Category:1282


</doc>
<doc id="22627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22627" title="Category:1291">
Category:1291


</doc>
<doc id="22628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22628" title="Category:1323">
Category:1323


</doc>
<doc id="22629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22629" title="Category:1399">
Category:1399


</doc>
<doc id="22630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22630" title="Category:1442">
Category:1442


</doc>
<doc id="22631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22631" title="Category:1536 births">
Category:1536 births


</doc>
<doc id="22632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22632" title="Category:1626">
Category:1626


</doc>
<doc id="22633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22633" title="Category:1627">
Category:1627


</doc>
<doc id="22634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22634" title="Category:1641">
Category:1641


</doc>
<doc id="22635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22635" title="Category:1667">
Category:1667


</doc>
<doc id="22636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22636" title="Category:1680">
Category:1680

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the year .

</doc>
<doc id="22637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22637" title="Category:1717">
Category:1717


</doc>
<doc id="22638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22638" title="Category:1718">
Category:1718


</doc>
<doc id="22639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22639" title="Category:1748">
Category:1748


</doc>
<doc id="22640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22640" title="Category:1752">
Category:1752


</doc>
<doc id="22641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22641" title="Category:1754">
Category:1754


</doc>
<doc id="22642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22642" title="Category:1755">
Category:1755


</doc>
<doc id="22643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22643" title="Category:1757">
Category:1757


</doc>
<doc id="22644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22644" title="Category:1754 births">
Category:1754 births


</doc>
<doc id="22645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22645" title="Category:1838 deaths">
Category:1838 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="22646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22646" title="Category:1761">
Category:1761


</doc>
<doc id="22647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22647" title="Category:1762">
Category:1762


</doc>
<doc id="22648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22648" title="Category:1763">
Category:1763


</doc>
<doc id="22649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22649" title="Category:1768">
Category:1768


</doc>
<doc id="22650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22650" title="Category:1771">
Category:1771


</doc>
<doc id="22651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22651" title="Category:1772">
Category:1772


</doc>
<doc id="22652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22652" title="Space Runaway Ideon">
Space Runaway Ideon

Space Runaway Ideon was an animated television series from 1980. It lasted for 39 episodes before being cancelled. It was originally aired in Japan, where it was well known. It also had two movies called "A Contact" and "Be Invoked".

</doc>
<doc id="22653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22653" title="Comic book">
Comic book

Comic books are books with comics, with pictures that make a story. They have small pictures and words to tell a story. Comics were started in the 1900s. Some famous examples are Spider-Man and Batman. Some comic companies are Marvel Comics and DC Comics. Many comic books are about superheroes, but many others are about other things. Very often, characters in books, video games, movies and television appear in comics, and sometimes comic book characters are used in movies, TV shows or video games. 
There are three different kinds of comic books: single issues that are usually 32 pages long are called comic books. These are printed like a magazine, with the pages folded and stapled together. A bigger book that has several comics inside of it is called a trade paperback. These have spines like a book and are glued together. A bigger comic book that is bound like a trade paperback but is all new, instead of collecting older comics, is called a graphic novel.
In English speaking countries, you read the speech bubbles left to right. Then you read the row below it left to right. This is different from Japanese comics, called manga.
Some famous comics are:

</doc>
<doc id="22654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22654" title="Spider-Man">
Spider-Man

Spider-Man is a fictional superhero in the Marvel Comics universe. He is a character created by writer Stan "the man" Lee and artist Steve Ditko. He first appeared in "Amazing Fantasy" #15 in August 1962. The premise was that he was an orphan being raised by his Aunt May and Uncle Ben as an ordinary teenager. He would deal with the normal struggles of being young as well as the struggles of being of a costumed crime fighter. His powers were super strength, agility, the ability to cling to almost every surface, the ability to shoot spider-webs using an device that he invented which he calls "web-shooters," and reacting to danger quickly with his "spider-sense", enabling him to combat many foes similar to that of a spider.
Spider-Man first appeared in the early 1960s, when teenagers in superhero comic books were usually relegated to the role of sidekick to the protagonist. The series featured Peter Parker, a high school student who frequently suffered the same rejection, inadequacy, and loneliness, that most young readers could easily relate to. Unlike some teen heroes, such as Bucky and Robin, Spider-Man never had any adult mentors like Captain America and Batman to teach him to be an superhero. He had to learn for himself that "with great power comes great responsibility" — a quote that he would cherish from his late Uncle Ben.
Marvel has featured Spider-Man in several comic book series such as "The Amazing Spider-Man", "Spectacular Spider-Man" and "Sensational Spider-Man" over the years. Peter Parker has developed from shy high school student to troubled but outgoing college student to married high school teacher. But his most associated adult role is that of being a single freelance photographer. He has also been a member of both the New Avengers, and the Fantastic Four. Spider-Man has had a lot of nicknames over the years such as being referred to as "Spidey," "web-slinger," "wall-crawler," or "web-head." He is also called "arachnid" by some villains and calls himself "Your Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man."
Spider-Man has been one of the most popular and commercially successful superheroes. Often considered to be Marvel's flagship character and company mascot, he has appeared in many forms of media such as animation and movies.
The first time that Spider-Man (who is also known as) Peter Parker appeared was in the "Amazing Fantasy" #15 comic book in August 1962. Because of its success, a new comic book series began called "The Amazing Spider-Man". Others were created including "Spectacular Spider-Man", "Sensational Spider-Man" and "Ultimate Spider-Man".
Spider-Man wears a red and blue super suit. This has a webbing design on the red parts of the suit which are the mask, torso, boots and gloves. The leggings and sleeves and sleeves are blue.
In Peter Parker's first appearance, he is introduced as an orphaned science whiz teenager living with his aunt and uncle in the Forest Hills section of New York City. He is a brilliant student but also gets picked on by his peers who accuse him of being a bookworm, and constantly gets bullied by Eugene "Flash" Thompson, who calls him "Puny Parker" and humiliate him daily. One day, he is bitten by a radioactive spider which then gives him his powers that turn him to Spider-Man.
As Spider-Man, he then becomes a successful TV star. The career then goes to his head that one day at a studio he refuses to stop a thief, saying that it is the job of the police, not that of a star. He then returns home to learn that his beloved Uncle Ben, has been murdered and as Spider-Man he angrily sets off to capture the killer. When he does, he is horrified to find that the man is none other than the Burglar he refused to subdue. Learning that with great power comes great responsibility, Spider-Man becomes a vigilante. After his uncle died, Peter and his aunt become desperate for money, so he gets a job as a photographer at the "Daily Bugle" selling photos to J. Jonah Jameson, who seems to be jealous of Spider-Man and makes Spider-Man look bad in the paper. As he battles many enemies for his first time, Parker finds it difficult juggling both his personal life and costumed adventures at the same time. In time, he would then graduate from high school, and enroll at Empire State University, where he meets roommate and best friend Harry Osborn and his second girlfriend (having been romantically involved with Betty Brant before) Gwen Stacy, Peter also discovers his best friend Harry has a drug problem and that Harry's father is revealed to be one of Spider-Man's nemesis the Green Goblin, Peter then attempts to give up his costumed identity. In the course of his adventures though Spider-Man has made quite a few of friends and contacts within the superhero community, who often come to his aid when he faces problems that he cannot solve on his own.
His loved ones are frequently endangered by enemies which turns out to be an alien symbiote. After noticing the symbiote's true nature Peter then rejects the symbiote after a difficult struggle. In a controversial storyline, Peter becomes convinced that Ben Reilly, the Scarlet Spider who is actually a clone of Peter created by his college professor Miles Warren is the real Peter Parker, and that he, Peter, is actually the clone. Peter gives up the Spider-Man identity to Reilly for a while until Reilly is killed by the returning Green Goblin and revealed to be the clone after all. He for a little bit develops additional spider-like abilities including biological web-shooters, toxic stingers that extend from his forearms, the ability to stick individuals to his back, enhanced Spider-sense and night vision, and increased strength and speed. He even becomes a member of the New Avengers, and reveals his civilian identity to the world, which causes more problems such as Aunt May being shot. Due to his Aunt May almost dying, his marriage to Mary Jane and public unmasking are later erased due to a deal made with the demon Mephisto, resulting in several adjustments to the time line, such as the resurrection of Harry Osborn and Spider-Man original powers. After months of just Peter knowing Spider-Man's identity he then unmasks himself to the New Avengers and the Fantastic Four.
Spider-Man is one of the most well known superheroes ever created. He is normally considered to Marvel Comics' flagship character. His quote "With great power comes great responsibility" is one of the most popular superhero quotes ever used. He has also been adopted in other media such as television and video games and most popularly Sam Raimi's film trilogy which includes "Spider-Man", "Spider-Man 2", and "Spider-Man 3". "The Amazing Spider-Man" movies are also popular.
Spider-Man has appeared on television numerous times, in both live-action and animated television programs. In animation he has appeared in an 1967 television series named after him, he also appeared in "Spidey Super Stories" on "The Electric Company", he appeared as an guest star in an "Spider-Woman" animated series. There was also an 1981 animated series of him and then an animated series called "Spider-Man and his Amazing Friends" soon after. And then in the Marvel Animation Age in 1994 there was another series about him and there was an spin off of it called "Spider-Man Unlimited". After the Sam Raimi movies there was an animated series of Spider-Man in MTV called "Spider-Man: The New Animated Series" and in 2008 there is an animated series called "The Spectacular Spider-Man". It is also said that he will appear in "The Super Hero Squad Show". In live action there is "Amazing Spider-Man" and an tokatsu series of Spider-Man in Japan.
Supporting characters in the Spider-Man series include:
Villains in the Spider man series include:

</doc>
<doc id="22655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22655" title="Peanuts">
Peanuts

Peanuts was a comic strip written and drawn by Charles M. Schulz. It was about a boy named Charlie Brown, his dog named Snoopy who is his best friend, and the lives of their best friends named Linus, Schroder, Sally (Charlie Brown's little sister), Lucy, Patty, Peppermint Patty, Marcie and Woodstock. It started in 1950 and ended in 2000 when Schulz died. The Peanuts characters and concepts were adapted to several half-hour animated television programs over the years.

</doc>
<doc id="22657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22657" title="Eddie Cantor">
Eddie Cantor

Eddie Cantor (January 31, 1892 - October 10, 1964) was an American comedian, singer, actor, songwriter. Familiar to Broadway, radio and early television audiences, this "Apostle of Pep" was regarded almost as a family member by millions because his top-rated radio shows revealed intimate stories and amusing anecdotes about his wife Ida and five daughters. His eye-rolling song-and-dance routines eventually led to his nickname, Banjo Eyes, and in 1933, the artist Frederick J. Garner caricatured Cantor with large round and white eyes resembling the drum-like pot of a banjo. Cantor's eyes became his trademark, often exaggerated in illustrations, and leading to his appearance on Broadway in the musical "Banjo Eyes" (1941). He was the original singer of 1929 hit song "Makin' Whoopie".

</doc>
<doc id="22658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22658" title="Days of Our Lives">
Days of Our Lives

Days of Our Lives is a popular American television show on the NBC television network. It is one hour long and is broadcast during the day. Betty and Ted Corday made the show in 1965. Two companies, Corday Productions and Sony Pictures Television make "Days of Our Lives". In November 2005, the show celebrated 40 years on TV. It is currently in its 47th season with 11,855 episodes (as of June 1, 2012). They began filming the show in HD in 2010.
"Days of Our Lives" takes place in the city of Salem. The main families on the show are the Bradys, the DiMeras and the Hortons. Many good and bad things happened to the Brady family and the Horton family. One character named "Stefano DiMera" does some of the bad things that happen to characters on this show. Stefano is still on the show.
Here is a list of some of the main couples on the show:

</doc>
<doc id="22662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22662" title="Recorder">
Recorder

The recorder is a musical instrument that is a type of flute. It is shaped like a tube with one end bigger than the other end. A recorder player puts the bigger end in their mouth and blows into it.
In Europe, people started to play the recorder in medieval times. The recorder was often used by musicians to sound like bird songs. Purcell, Bach, Telemann and Vivaldi all wrote music for the recorder. By the 1900s very few people played the recorder. They liked the flute and other instruments better than the recorder. These instruments are louder than the recorder and are better for playing difficult music.
In the 1900s more people started to learn the recorder again. One reason was that people wanted to play old music on old kinds of instruments. A second reason was that the recorder is a good instrument for children to learn about music.
Whistles are very old instruments. People have found some whistles that were made in the Iron Age. A recorder is a type of whistle. It has holes for seven fingers and one thumb. It also has one end bigger than the other. The first recorders were made in the 1500s. Some remains of these have been found in Germany, the Netherlands and Greece.
Many people played the recorder in Europe in the 1500s and 1600s. King Henry VIII of England had 76 recorders. William Shakespeare talks about recorders in his play "Hamlet" and John Milton talks about them in his poem "Paradise Lost". Recorders from that time are now called Renaissance recorders.
In the 1600s, the people who made recorders tried new ways to make them sound better. They also wanted them to play more difficult music. Recorders from this time are called Baroque recorders. They were thinner than Renaissance recorders. They were also made in several parts that fitted together. In the picture at the top of the page, one of the recorders is in three parts.
From the second half of the 1700s, people preferred to play the flute and clarinet instead of the recorder. Flutes are good for playing music which has a large range of notes. Flutes are also better for playing music which needs many chromatic notes. 
In the 1900s people wanted to play old music with old kinds of instrument. In England, Arnold Dolmetsch was one of the people who was famous for this. Other musicians also began to play the recorder at serious music concerts. Some of these people were Frans Brüggen, Hans-Martin Linde, Bernard Kranis and David Munrow. In modern times, people have written new music for the recorder. Some of these people are Paul Hindemith, Luciano Berio, John Tavener, Michael Tippett, Benjamin Britten, Leonard Bernstein, Gordon Jacob and Edmund Rubbra.
The recorder is sometimes used in popular music. The Beatles played the recorder in their song "Fool on the Hill" and the Rolling Stones used a recorder in "Ruby Tuesday (song)". 
Plastic recorders were invented in the 20th century. They are cheap and vary greatly in quality (that is often not related to the price) depending on the manufacturer. They are easy instruments to play simple music. Many elementary schools use plastic recorders to teach music to children.
The head joint of the recorder is used as a noise, rhythm and effect instrument, and as a toy musical instrument with children. Because the recorder head works like a whistle, it can be used as such. With a bit practice, it is easy to play all kind of rhythms. Effects are made by opening and covering the lower end of the head joint with the hand while blowing. Many players blow harder like "normal" recorder playing (like with a pea whistle), to get a very shrill and loud sound. Professor Agnes Dorwarth of the Hochschule für Musik Freiburg argues this is an attractive way to get children to play with part of the instrument, which can make playing the entire instrument more inviting.
Recorders are made in different sizes. The lowest note of most recorders is either C or F. This is the note that is heard when the player covers all the finger holes and the thumb hole. The soprano recorder is the size of recorder which is usually played in schools, also known as a Descant. The lowest note of the soprano recorder is C. Some recorders are smaller than the soprano recorder but are not common. The alto recorder is bigger than the soprano recorder. Its lowest is F. The other main sizes are the tenor recorder (with lowest note C) and the bass (with lowest note F). Instruments larger than the bass are made but are not common. These include the Great Bass, Contrabass, Subgreatbass and Subcontrabass. Recorders higher than a soprano recorder include the Sopranino and Garklein recorders.
The recorder is a very social instrument. Many people enjoy playing in large groups. Groups often play music that is written for several different sizes of instrument. Often there is a separate musical part for soprano, alto, tenor and bass recorders. Some people play in recorder orchestras. These sometimes have 50 or 60 players with nine sizes of instrument.

</doc>
<doc id="22665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22665" title="1067">
1067


</doc>
<doc id="22666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22666" title="Adolphe Sax">
Adolphe Sax

Antoine-Joseph (known as Adolphe) Sax (November 6, 1814 – February 4, 1894) was a Belgian inventor and musician who played the flute and clarinet. He is best known for inventing the saxophone.
Adolphe Sax was born in Dinant in Wallonia, Belgium. Adolphe began to make his own instruments at an early age. He entered two of his flutes and a clarinet into a competition at the age of fifteen. He studied those two instruments at the Royal School of Singing in Brussels.
Adolphe's first important invention was an improvement of the bass clarinet design. He patented this at the age of twenty-four. In 1841, Sax moved to Paris. Around this time he invented the saxophone.
He got a job teaching at the Paris Conservatoire starting in 1867.
Sax suffered from lip cancer between 1853 and 1858 but made a full recovery. He died in 1894 in Paris.

</doc>
<doc id="22668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22668" title="Unforgiven">
Unforgiven

Unforgiven is a 1992 American western movie directed by Clint Eastwood. It stars Eastwood, Gene Hackman, Morgan Freeman and Richard Harris. It ranks #98 on AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies and won the Best Picture Academy Award. It is set in the 1880s in Wyoming and Kansas about an aging outlaw and killer.

</doc>
<doc id="22669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22669" title="Bucharest">
Bucharest

Bucharest is the capital city of the country of Romania. It is the largest city in the country. The city has a population of 1.9 million people. It is made up of 6 "sectors". It has a humid continental climate ("Cfa" in the Koeppen climate classification). It became the capital of Romania in 1862. It is the centre of Romanian media, culture and art. Bucharest is the 6th largest city in the European Union by population within city limits.

</doc>
<doc id="22670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22670" title="Tocantins">
Tocantins

Tocantins can refer to: 
There are also some small Brazilian cities called "Tocantins".

</doc>
<doc id="22671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22671" title="Avalanche">
Avalanche

An avalanche is a phenomenon of nature. It is linked to snow. When there is too much snow on a mountain, some of the snow may fall, causing damage to things in its path. This is called an avalanche. People talk about avalanches because they may be dangerous to skiers and other people doing winter sports.
Large avalanches may carry stones, boulders and trees with them. They may bury people under them. If the people are not found rapidly enough by rescue teams they will die of suffocation (not getting enough air) or of hypothermia (freezing cold).
The chance of surviving an avalanche is as follows:
In Europe, the avalanche risk is widely rated on the following scale, which was adopted in April 1993 to replace the earlier non-standard national schemes. Descriptions were last updated in May 2003 to enhance uniformity pdf.
[1] Stability:
[2] additional load:
Gradient:
Avalanche size:

</doc>
<doc id="22673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22673" title="Foot (unit)">
Foot (unit)

The foot is a unit for measuring length. It is one of the Imperial units and U.S. customary units. The shortest way of writing the unit "foot" is by the abbreviation "ft" (or "ft."), or by an apostrophe ( ' ).
One foot contains 12 inches. This is equal to 30.48 centimetres. It is called a foot, because it was originally based on the length of a foot.
The foot was a common unit of measurement throughout Europe. It often differed in length not only from country to country but from city to city. Because the length of a foot changed between person to person, measurements were not even consistent between two people, often requiring an average. Henry I of England was attributed to passing the law that the foot was to be as long as a person's own foot. This was one of the first times a standard unit of measurement was put into place.
In 1959, the United States, Canada, New Zealand, South Africa, Australia and the United Kingdom all signed a treaty known as the 'International Yard and Pound Agreement'. This standardised the avoirdupois weight and length of all nations. Those standards are still officially used in both the Imperial system and U.S customary units.
Road signs with height restrictions in the United States and the United Kingdom are in feet and inches. They are less commonly seen in Canada and the Ireland. In the U.S. and the UK, people usually measure a person's height in feet and inches. If a person is "five foot eleven", this means that person is 5 feet and 11 inches, or about 180 centimeters. The height is written "5' 11""
Many people born before metrication in a number of Commonwealth nations still use feet and inches. Altitude measurements are still sometimes given in feet, even in metricated nations.

</doc>
<doc id="22674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22674" title="Acre">
Acre

An acre is an English unit of area, which is also used in the United States and some Commonwealth countries. It is most often used to describe areas of land.
An acre is equivalent to approximately:
Originally, it was seen as the area of land a farmer could plough with an ox in a day. Since this definition depended on the farmer and the ox, it looked variable. Therefore, Edward I, Edward III, Henry VIII and George IV passed laws fixing its size. The Commonwealth countries, including the United States then also introduced these laws.

</doc>
<doc id="22676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22676" title="Erfurt massacre">
Erfurt massacre

The Erfurt massacre was a series of shootings that happened at the Gutenberg Gymnasium in Erfurt, Germany, on 26 April 2002. 
A boy that had been expelled from the school, Robert Steinhäuser, was the person who did all the shooting. In anger, he came into the Gymnasium, and shot dead 12 teachers, one secretary, two students, and a police officer. 
After a teacher caught him and put him in an empty room, Steinhäuser shot and killed himself. In total, 17 people were killed.

</doc>
<doc id="22677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22677" title="Gymnasium (school)">
Gymnasium (school)

The gymnasium is a form of higher education in Western Europe, especially in Germany. It is the same as a grammar school.

</doc>
<doc id="22678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22678" title="Huascarán">
Huascarán

Huascarán is the highest mountain in Peru, and the fourth-highest mountain in South America. The top of it is 22,205 feet (6,768 meters) high. 
The mountain is located in the Ancash Region of Peru. Huascarán has turned into a tourist attraction for mountain climbers.
Huascarán is all that is left of an extinct volcano. It has been getting smaller and smaller. As recently as 1970, the Ancash Earthquake caused a big part of the mountain to crumble and fall off. That part of the mountain was all rock and ice, and it killed almost 17,000 people in small towns around the mountain.

</doc>
<doc id="22684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22684" title="1490">
1490


</doc>
<doc id="22685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22685" title="1571">
1571


</doc>
<doc id="22686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22686" title="401">
401


</doc>
<doc id="22687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22687" title="1068">
1068


</doc>
<doc id="22689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22689" title="Australian Rules Football">
Australian Rules Football

Australian rules football is a sport created in Australia. It is the national sport and is the most popular sport in Australia. The main league of Australian rules football is the Australian Football League.
In 1858, Tom Wills, a former student of the Rugby school and Cambridge College, created a set of football rules that were like a cross between rugby, soccer and Gaelic football. He made up the game for cricketers to keep in shape during the off-season (winter). Wills had help in making up the game from other people like his cousin H.C.A. Harrison, and W.J. Hammersly and J.B. Thompson.
Wills grew up with Indigenous Australians. He spoke the language of the people who lived near him and played with the children. It has been suggested that Australian Rules Football is based in part on "Marn Grook", an Aboriginal game with some similar rules to Australian Rules Football. Because the indigenous people Wills played with as a child would have played "Marn Grook", Wills would have been influenced by this game when creating the rules for Australian Rules Football.
The Melbourne Football Club was founded on 14 May 1859; the Melbourne Football Club is one of the oldest surviving football clubs in the world. A game of football was played between Scotch College and Melbourne Grammar School. It was played over three days on an oval next to the present day Melbourne Cricket Ground, and the two schools have played an annual game ever since. This game became known as Melbourne Rules Football, one of many local varieties of football that existed at that time, another notable one being Sheffield Rules Football. Then following its decision to not join either the association rules (1863) or rugby rules (1871), it became known as Victorian Rules, although it closely resembled the two former rule sets. Then in the 1880s as rugby and association rules began to diverge in a much greater way, Victorian Rules which resembled the 1850s type of football that both rugby and the association had based their rules on remained much the same except for moving to oval fields from rectangular fields and eventually introducing more posts. After the sport became popular in other states, people started calling it "Australian Rules".
The Victorian Football League ( VFL ) was created in 1896. The next year, the first official games were played. The first clubs were Carlton, Collingwood, Essendon, Fitzroy, Geelong, Melbourne, St Kilda, and South Melbourne. In 1908, Richmond and University joined. University left after the 1914 season. In 1925, Footscray, Hawthorn and North Melbourne joined the VFL.
Years later other teams joined in: 
In 1990 the Victorian Football League was changed to the Australian Football League (AFL). Footscray changed its name to the Western Bulldogs in 1997. North Melbourne changed its name to the Kangaroos in 1999, but changed back in 2008.
Football is the most popular sport in Australia, with crowd attendances of 50-80,000 people common to normal home and away matches and capacity crowds of 100,000 people at the home of football the MCG during the finals and special matches. The record crowd still remains at 121,696, who watched that most history-making of all Grand Finals in 1970, between Carlton and Collingwood, where Carlton came from a 44-point deficit at half-time to win the game by implementing an entirely new system of play, handballing out of the backline, which changed the game forever, and marked the beginnings of the transition of the game from one of a 'territorial' base to 'possession football'.
There are 16 teams in the AFL . Each team has 22 players during game day with team lists of 40-45 players.During the game, each team has 18 players on the field, consisting of 6 forwards, 3 centres, 6 backmen, and 3 followers. The 4 remaining players are reserves three of which can be interchanged with any other player in the team as often as the coach wants. The forth can replace a player but the replaced player can not come back on to the field of play.
Every game consists of 4 quarters, being 20 minutes and overtime (stoppage time, time-keepers acting upon central umpire signals to determine how long). After every quarter the teams swap direction. The quarter is started when the umpire blows his whistle and bounces the ball in the middle of the field (similar to a basketball "tip")and opposing players try to tap or punch the ball to their team-mates.
The idea of the game is to kick more goals than the other team. At each end of the field are 4 poles. Players score points by kicking the ball between the poles. A goal is a kick between the centermost posts. It is worth 6 points. A "Behind" (worth 1 point) is a kick that goes between the outer posts. Players can bounce the ball and hit it with their hand (handball it) to other players . If a player catches a ball after the ball has been kicked in the air by another player, then this is a "mark" and the player cannot be tackled until he plays on.
It is the only "football" code where the major score can ONLY be scored with the foot.
Present teams

</doc>
<doc id="22690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22690" title="Australian Football League">
Australian Football League

The Australian Football League (AFL) is the Australian national league in the sport of Australian Rules Football. The league is the most popular sports competition in Australia. In 2012, nearly 6.8 million people watched a game in a stadium.
The league started in the city of Melbourne, and was known as the Victorian Football League from 1897 to 1989. In the 1980s, the league expanded outside the state of Victoria into New South Wales, Queensland and Western Australia, and entered South Australia in 1991. With the league becoming more national, the VFL changed its name to the Australian Football League in 1990.
As of the latest season of 2012, the league's 18 teams play against each other in 22 games over 23 rounds between late March and early September. These matches are followed by a series of finals matches which end up in the two best teams playing off for the premiership in the AFL Grand Final, one of the largest domestic club championship events in the world.
The chief executive, titled "Commissioner", is Gillon Mclachlan.
In the most recent 2012 season, there were nine clubs from Melbourne, one from Victoria's second largest city, Geelong, two teams from South Australia's capital of Adelaide, two from the Perth area in Western Australia, two from Queensland and two from Sydney, New South Wales.
AFL is the dominant league in television, print and radio news in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, the Northern Territory and Tasmania. Also Australian rules football has more people playing than any other football code in these states and territories.
The AFL is becoming more popular in the states of New South Wales and Queensland. This happened after the finals wins by the Brisbane Lions (2001, 2002 and 2003) and Sydney Swans (2005). With the success of these sides, interest in Australian rules football has grown rapidly in these states in recent years. This directly led to new clubs being added in both states in the 2010s—Gold Coast in 2011 and Greater Western Sydney in 2012.
! Club
! Nickname
! City
! Home Ground
! Entered Competition
! No. of Premierships
! Notes
In 1996, twelve Hall of Fame members were declared "Legends of the Game". Now, each year another member of the Hall of Fame is declared a legend. The following is a list of "Legends of the Game".

</doc>
<doc id="22691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22691" title="Urbain Grandier">
Urbain Grandier

Urbain Grandier (born 1590 in Bouère, Mayenne, France ; died April 18,1634 in Loudun, France) was a free-thinking cleric. A satirical publication against Richelieu was attributed to him. After this, Pierre-Martin de Laubardement, a statesman was charged to lead the process against Grandier in 1633. He was charged of having bewitched the ursuline nuns of Loudun. They became obsessed by him. His friend, Claude Quillet agreed to defend him in court, but without success. 
He was condemned to burn at the stake as a witch in 1634.

</doc>
<doc id="22693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22693" title="Cardinal Richelieu">
Cardinal Richelieu

Armand Jean du Plessis, better known as Cardinal Richelieu (9 September 1585–4 December 1642) was a French clergyman, noble, and statesman. His full name was "Armand Jean du Plessis". He was later created the Duke of Richelieu and duke of Fronsac.
In order to keep the diocese of Luçon, Armand Jean needed to become a monk. He joined the Grande Chartreuse, the main monastery of the Carthusian order. This monastery is in the Isère département, near Grenoble. As a comparison, Luçon is near La Roche-sur-Yon.
He was consecrated as a bishop in 1607. For this he obtained a dispensation of the pope; at age 21, he was too young to become a bishop. He later entered politics and became a Secretary of State in 1616. Richelieu soon rose in both the Church and the state. He became a Cardinal in 1622. He became King Louis XIII's chief minister in 1624. He remained in office until his death in 1642; then Jules Cardinal Mazarin became chief minister.
The Cardinal de Richelieu was often known by the title of the King's "Chief Minister". As a result, he is sometimes said to be the world's first Prime Minister. He sought to consolidate royal power and crush domestic factions. By restraining the power of the nobility, he transformed France into a strongly centralized state. His chief foreign policy objective was to check the power of the Austro-Spanish Habsburg dynasty; although a Roman Catholic cardinal, he did not hesitate to make alliances with Protestant rulers. With these alliances, he tried to achieve this goal. His tenure was marked by the Thirty Years' War that engulfed Europe.
As an advocate for Samuel de Champlain and of the keeping of Quebec, he founded the Compagnie des Cent-Associés and saw the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye return Quebec to French rule under de Champlain, after the settlement had been captured by the Kirkes in 1629. This in part allowed the colony to eventually develop into the heartland of French-speaking culture in North America.
Richelieu was also famous for his patronage of the arts; most notably, he founded the Académie française, the learned society responsible for matters of the French language. Richelieu is also known by the sobriquet "l'Éminence rouge" ("the Red Eminence"), from the red shade of a cardinal's vestments and the style "eminence" as a cardinal.

</doc>
<doc id="22704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22704" title="Belaying">
Belaying

Belaying is a way to hold and control a rope for a person who is rock climbing. A climber has to be attached to a rope so they do not fall very far. A person on the ground who is belaying is called a "belayer".
The belayer usually puts the rope through a "belay device", which lets the rope move through the device in one direction (as the climber being belayed goes up). If the climber falls, the device lets the belayer also hold the rope still, so the climber hangs in the air but does not hit the ground. 
A belayer can hold the weight of the climber with the rope and help prevent an injury causing fall.

</doc>
<doc id="22705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22705" title="AFI's 100 Years... 100 Thrills">
AFI's 100 Years... 100 Thrills

Part of the AFI 100 Years... series, AFI's 100 Years... 100 Thrills is a list of the top 100 thrilling movies in American cinema. The American Film Institute presented it on June 12, 2001.

</doc>
<doc id="22706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22706" title="Help:Email confirmation">
Help:Email confirmation

To avoid the possibility of spammer abuse, now requires that user e-mail addresses be validated prior to the use of e-mail features. This ensures that:
This only restricts user-to-user e-mail. You can log in, edit pages, etc. without confirming your address (and you are not required to enter an e-mail address at all to register; it remains completely optional).
If your account was registered prior to March 2, 2006, your existing address (if any) has "not" been automatically confirmed. You can check your address confirmation status in and can confirm it from there.
Accounts on each wiki are separate, and if you have multiple accounts you will need to confirm each separately.

</doc>
<doc id="22707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22707" title="South Vietnam">
South Vietnam

South Vietnam was a country. It existed from 1955 to 1976. It was in the south of what is now Vietnam. The country was south of the local Demilitarized Zone, and North Vietnam was to the north of it.
As the Republic of Vietnam, it was ruled first by the unpopular Ngo Dinh Diem () and then by a military dictatorship.
The division of Vietnam took place during the Geneva Conference of 1954. In 1975, North Vietnam took over this country and renamed its largest city, Saigon, to Ho Chi Minh City.

</doc>
<doc id="22708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22708" title="Robert Ludlum">
Robert Ludlum

Robert Ludlum (May 25 1927 - March 12 2001) was an American writer. He is best known as the author of "The Bourne Identity" from 1980, which was made into a movie in 2001.

</doc>
<doc id="22710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22710" title="1170s">
1170s


</doc>
<doc id="22712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22712" title="Arab people">
Arab people

The Arabs ( ʻarab) are an ethnic widespread in the Middle East and North Africa. Arabic is one of the Semitic languages, which is also the name of the ethnic family which they belong to.
There are three points which decide whether someone is considered Arab or not:
There are many people who can be called Arabs by these points, but who do not think of themselves as Arab. Examples include the original Egyptians (Coptics) and the Syriacs (Aramaics/Assyrians). Although they live in countries like Syria or Egypt which is part of the Arab League and speak the official language-Arabic, they are different cultural groups. They have their own languages, culture, identity and churches, such as the Coptic Church and the Syriac Catholic and Orthodox churches. Even though many have assimilated to Arab society, they have their own heritage that spans 3,000 years.
In Islamic and Jewish tradition, Arabs are a Semitic people who trace their ancestry from Ishmael, a son of the ancient patriarch Abraham and Hagar. Medieval Arab genealogists separate the Arabs into two groups: the "original Arabs" of South Arabia, descending from Qahtan (identified with the biblical Joktan) and the "Arabized Arabs" (musta`ribah) of North Arabia, descending from Adnan who is descended from Ishmael.
Most Arabs today follow the religion of Islam, whose greatest prophet is Muhammad. Christianity makes up the largest religious minority - most of the Christians that do consider themselves Arabs belong to the Greek Orthodox Church with smaller numbers of Roman Catholics.
While Coptic and Maronite Catholic Christians are native Arabic-speakers, many reject the Arab pan-ethnicity, but are still considered Arab by outsider sources.
There are some small communities practicing Judaism and polytheism (the worship of many gods). Yazidis are sometimes counted as Arabs.

</doc>
<doc id="22720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22720" title="Mebibyte">
Mebibyte

A mebibyte is a unit of measure. It represents 1024 * 1024 bytes. 
A mebibyte (a contraction of mega binary byte) is a unit of information or computer storage, symbol MiB.
The mebibyte is closely related to the megabyte (MB). This can either be a synonym for mebibyte, or refer to 10 bytes = 1,000,000 bytes, depending on context (see binary prefix for background). The two numbers are relatively close together, but mistaking the two has nevertheless led to problems. 
The unit MiB was defined by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) in December 1998. Use of mebibyte and related units is strongly endorsed by IEEE and CIPM and is becoming more common.
One mebibyte equals 1024 (= 2) kibibytes, and 1024 mebibytes equal one gibibyte.
Mibibyte is a common misspelling, presumably from the "i" in the abbreviation or confusion about how the surrounding prefixes (i.e. "kibi" and "gibi") were actually formed. The "i" is actually from the end of the prefix. Tebi- and pebi- are similarly abbreviated Ti- and Pi-, but they are not usually misspelled, as storage sizes (and corresponding terms) currently are only this large in specialized situations.

</doc>
<doc id="22725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22725" title="Clergy">
Clergy

Clergy are people who have an office in a Christian church or other religion. Clergy are often ordained before they are allowed to do their work. 

</doc>
<doc id="22728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22728" title="Acre (state)">
Acre (state)

Acre is a state in the Northern Region of Brazil. It borders other two states, Amazonas and Rondônia. It also borders two countries, Bolivia and Peru. Its capital city is Rio Branco. Other important cities are: Cruzeiro do Sul, Tarauacá, Sena Madureira, and Brasiléia.
The state is mostly covered by the Amazon Rainforest. There are many rivers in Acre. Some of the rivers are the Juruá, Purus River, Acre River, Tarauacá, Muru, Embirá, and Xapuri.
The economy is based on agriculture, cattle animal husbandry, and rubber production.
Until the start of the 20th century, Acre was a territory of Bolivia. Since the 19th century, most people from Acre were Brazilian people, and they created an independent state. 
In 1889, the Bolivians tried to control the area again and there were fights.
In November 17, 1903, Acre become a Brazilian territory. On June 15, 1962 it was unified and became a state.

</doc>
<doc id="22730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22730" title="Roller coaster">
Roller coaster

The roller coaster (some people say the simple form coaster) is a kind of amusement park ride. A roller coaster is usually a small train. It has a number of carriages that travel on a track. This track has hills that go up and valleys that go down. Sometimes it has other features that will turn the train upside-down. The track can be made from wood or steel. Some roller coasters are made for children, so they do not travel very fast. Other roller coasters are made very tall and they travel very fast. Riders are generally held in place with a bar, a belt, or something similar.
Scientifically, a roller coaster works because of gravity, a force that pulls things down to the ground. Most roller coaster trains are pulled to the top of a hill with a machine. The train will slide down the track, which has a number of hills and valleys. As it slides downhill it goes faster, and it slows down when climbing.
In the United States, LaMarcus Adna Thompson patented the first roller coaster on January 20, 1865. He named his ride the "Switchback Railway," and workers pulled the carriage to the top of the track. The first modern steel roller coaster was the Matterhorn Bobsleds at Disneyland. It opened in 1959. 
Today, there are two main types of roller coaster:
Steel roller coaster and wooden roller coaster. 
Steel roller coasters can be separated into many more types. In some roller coasters riders stand up or lie down. Some roller coasters sit riders below the rails or beside them instead of above the rails. Some roller coaters spin riders.
Until recently only steel roller coasters can turn riders upside down. Now both steel and wooden roller coasters can turn riders upside down. Turning people upside down on a roller coaster is called an inversion. The Smiler has the world record for the most inversions.

</doc>
<doc id="22733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22733" title="Zimbabwean dollar">
Zimbabwean dollar

The Zimbabwe dollar was a currency for Zimbabwe from 1980 to 2009. Zimbabwe had the highest rate of inflation in the world. The rate of inflation grew to 231,150,888.87% in July 2008.
Because of hyperinflation, or inflation that is out of control, the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe had to print banknotes with higher values to cope with the rising cost of living. In January 2009, Zimbabwe released a banknote for one hundred trillion dollars, or $100,000,000,000,000!
The Zimbabwe dollar had to be revalued three times due to the rising cost of living: in August 2006, August 2008 and February 2009. In August 2006, the first revaluation dollar was violent and too quick, meaning that many people lost their savings because they were unable to convert it into the new currency without fear of violence and corruption.
Since 12 April 2009, Zimbabwe stopped using the Zimbabwean dollar and adopted currencies from other countries, such as the United States Dollar and the Euro.

</doc>
<doc id="22734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22734" title="Bahia">
Bahia

Bahia is a state in the northeast area of Brazil on the Atlantic Ocean coast.
The capital city of Bahia is Salvador. Other cities where many people live are Feira de Santana, Vitória da Conquista, Itabuna, Ilhéus, and Juazeiro. Almost all of Bahia is 200 m above the sea level. The São Francisco River is the longest river in Bahia. Salvador was the capital of Brazil from 1549 until 1763.
Bahia is the sixth richest Brazilian state. The economy of Bahia is based on industry, agriculture, animal husbandry, tourism, mining and services.
Bahia is said to have the greatest and most African influence, in terms of culture and customs, in Brazil. Some of these are the martial art of capoeira and African-derived music such as samba, afoxé, and axé.
Acarajé is a popular street food. It is one of the symbols of the culture of Bahia.

</doc>
<doc id="22735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22735" title="Body modification">
Body modification

Body modification (or body alteration) is when a person changes their body in a way that lasts forever or for a long time. There are many different kinds of body modification, like piercing, circumcision, or tattoos. Almost all cultures do some kind of body modification.
People who do not like body modification sometimes call it "disfigurement" or "mutilation." They believe that if someone changes their body, it is wrong and they are doing something dangerous or unethical.
Body modification is done for different reasons. Religions might tell people that they should change their bodies to look a certain way. Other people with body modifications might just like the way the body modifications look, or how they feel good during sex.

</doc>
<doc id="22736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22736" title="Serial killer">
Serial killer

A serial killer is someone who murders several people at different times (similar killers of more than one person are mass murderers and spree killers). The victims are usually people the serial killer does not know, and the killer commits his crimes to get a certain kind of excitement or other feeling. He usually has no practical motive such as robbery or revenge.
"Serial killer" first became a commonly used phrase for this kind of killers in the 1970s. This was the result of the crimes of people like Ted Bundy and David Berkowitz ("Son of Sam"). Jack the Ripper is thought by many to be one of the first serial killers that many people knew about, even though his victims were killed long before the phrase was invented.
A serial killer's crimes are nearly always alike in some ways. The killer may only attack a certain type of person, for instance women of a certain age or appearance (young or old, blonde or dark-haired). He may always use the same kind of weapon to kill his victims, or may treat them in a certain manner, such as tying them up with the same kind of rope or adhesive tape. Some serial killers have had very strange habits which leave evidence of their work at each crime; for instance Albert de Salvo, the Boston Strangler, would tie the cord with which he had strangled a woman around her neck in a special bow. To law enforcement officers a serial killer's habits are known as his signature, and they are always valuable leads in detecting who he is and capturing him.
Some of the worst serial killers have been doctors. Harold Shipman, a British general practitioner, is thought to have killed up to 250 of his patients. John Bodkin Adams, also British, is thought to have killed 163 patients. Burke and Hare, the 'resurrectionists', killed to sell bodies to a doctor, Robert Knox. 

</doc>
<doc id="22737" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22737" title="World Wide Fund for Nature">
World Wide Fund for Nature

The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) is an international environmental organization. It was founded as the World Wildlife Fund, which is still its official name in Canada and the United States. 
Most of its offices are in Switzerland. Their mascot, or logo, is the Giant Panda. It is the world's largest independent wildlife management organization. It has over 5 million supporters worldwide, working in more than 90 countries. WWF supports 15,000 conservation and environmental projects around the world. It is a charity. About 90% of its fundraising money is from donations by private individuals and businesses.
The group says its mission is "to halt and reverse the destruction of our natural environment". Much of its work focuses on the conservation of three biomes that contain most of the world's biodiversity: forests, freshwater ecosystems, and oceans and coasts. Among other issues, it is also concerned with endangered species, pollution and climate change. The organization runs more than 1,200 field projects worldwide each year.

</doc>
<doc id="22738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22738" title="Category:Crime">
Category:Crime

Articles about crime

</doc>
<doc id="22751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22751" title="Deforestation">
Deforestation

Deforestation is when forests are destroyed by cutting and not replanted. Sometimes deforestation happens when people change the land into farms, ranches and cities. A lot of deforestation is caused by the removal of all the trees from a forest for wood or fuel. Without the forest, the habitats of the animals are lost and many animals die. It also results in global warming (climate change).
Deforestation is the removal of trees. As population grows, people remove more trees. They use the land to make farms. They also use the wood from the trees as lumber to make buildings and other things, or to burn the trees for heat. Sometimes, forests are lost because people want to make cities bigger: this means building roads and buildings on the land where the forests are. Sometimes deforestation may be caused due to increase of population.
Forests have the following functions:-
There are many reasons for deforestation like logging where people cut 
down trees for money because they have to feed their families
Forests are often planted to protect against natural disasters. When forests are lost, very often the soil they protected is also lost. This loss of soil is often called erosion. We give out carbon dioxide when we breathe and plants and trees take it in by photosynthesis. Without forests rain falls scarcely on hot areas.
Trees are also important for storing carbon. Deforestation causes the carbon in the trees to go into the air again, and this causes more carbon dioxide in our atmosphere. Since carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas, deforestation causes global warming. Tropical deforestation is responsible for about 20% of world greenhouse gas emissions.

</doc>
<doc id="22752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22752" title="Scuba diving">
Scuba diving

Scuba Diving is a sport where people (called "scuba divers", or simply "divers") can swim underwater for a long time, using a tank filled with compressed air. The tank is a large metal cylinder made of steel or aluminum.
The word Scuba is an acronym from Underwater Breathing Apparatus.
In the 1600s, a diving bell would be lowered that had trapped air in it. A diver would breathe that air and swim in an and out of the bell until the air became bad.
Then a heavy suit was made that had a hose attached to an air compressor on land. It was difficult to swim and not get tangled, but it was safer than the diving bell.
The first scuba systems used a heavy diving helmet with windows. Divers would walk on the seafloor instead of swimming. The regulator would send air to the helmet by hand control. Jacques Cousteau was a very famous Frenchman who developed several important parts of the scuba system and made it useful. One part was a better regulator that only sent air when the diver breathed in. This let the divers go farther on one tank. It was light enough to use with fins and easily swim. He also took many underwater movies and showed people what was under the water and why it needed to be protected.
Divers also use snorkeling equipment. They wear a mask to see through, a snorkel for breathing near the surface, fins on their feet to swim better, and a wetsuit to keep them warm under water because water makes you cold four times as fast as air.
Running out of air or getting the bends can be dangerous. So a person must take a certification class before going scuba diving. This proves that they have been trained on how to use the equipment and dive safely. The biggest organization for certifying divers is PADI - Professional Association of Diving Instructors - but there are many others, depending on the country. Some tourist places have a short course on certification and then lead the class in a shallow dive, all in one day.
Because of special dangers, there are advanced classes for things like diving in or around underwater ship wrecks, cave diving, and deep diving (more than 60 feet or 18 meters).

</doc>
<doc id="22754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22754" title="Capillary">
Capillary

A capillary is a blood vessel. It does not have the muscular/elastic tissue of other blood vessels. It has a single celled wall to help substances be transported through organisms.
Capillaries are small, and smaller than any other blood vessels. They are about 5-10 μms big, which connect arteries and venules, and enable the moving of water, oxygen, carbon dioxide, as well as many other nutrients and waste chemicals between blood and surrounding tissues.
Blood moves from the heart to arteries, which branch and narrow into smaller arteries, and then branch more into capillaries. After oxygen has been moved to the tissue, capillaries join and widen to become small veins and then widen more to become veins, which return blood to the heart.
The "capillary bed" is the network of capillaries supplying an organ. The more metabolically active the cells, the more capillaries it will require to supply nutrients and carry away waste products. 
Special arteries connect between arterioles and venules and are important in bypassing the flow of blood through the capillaries. True capillaries come from mainly from metarterioles and provide movement between cells and the circulation. The width of 8 μm forces the red blood cells to partly fold into bullet-like shapes in order to bypass them in single file.
Precapillary muscles are rings of smooth muscles at the start of true capillaries that handle blood flow into true capillaries and control blood flow through a body part or area.
The capillary wall is a one-layer tissue so thin that gas and other items such as oxygen, water, proteins and fats can pass through them driven by pressure differences. Waste items such as carbon dioxide and urea can move back into the blood to be carried away for removal from the body. 
The capillary bed usually moves no more than 25% of the amount of blood it could contain, although this amount can be increased through auto regulation by making the smooth muscle relax in the arterioles that lead to the capillary bed as well as metarterioles making themselves smaller.
The capillaries do not have this smooth muscle in their own wall, and so any change in their width is passive. Any signaling molecules they release (such as endothelin for constriction and nitric oxide for dilation) act on the smooth muscle cells in the walls of nearby, larger vessels, e.g. arterioles.
Capillary's ability to move items can be increased by the release of certain cytokines, such as in an the body defending itself form germs.

</doc>
<doc id="22763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22763" title="Viriato Clemente da Cruz">
Viriato Clemente da Cruz

Viriato Clemente da Cruz, an Angolan poet and politician, was born in 1928 in Kikuvo (Porto Amboim), Angola and died in Beijing, China on 13 June 1973. 
He is considered one of the most important Angolan poets of his time. He wrote poems in Portuguese and Angolan languages. He took part in the fight to free Angola from Portuguese rulers.
He was educated in Luanda, the capital of Angola, which was then ruled by Portugal. As a young man in 1957 he went to Paris, where he met Mario Pinto de Andrade, another Angolan poet and politician, who helped with his political ideas. In the 1960s they helped create the group called the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA—from the Portuguese name ""). 
The MPLA was in not in Angola at this time, but was first in Conakry (the capital of Guinea) and then later in Leopoldville, Congo (now Kinshasa the capital of the DRC). Viriato da Cruz became secretary-general of the MPLA. After some time he and others, did not agree with some people in the group and this led to fighting in the streets of Leopoldville.
Viriato da Cruz went to Beijing, China in the 1960s because of the fighting in the MPLA. At first, the Chinese government welcomed him. He was well-known because he had helped create the MPLA. The Chinese wanted Viriato da Cruz to help them bring Maoist socialism to Africa. 
This was a big problem for Viriato and his family. His ideas were not the same as the Maoists. He thought that stronger countries can not bring a socialist revolution to other places. He was very brave and did not change his ideas. This was against the Chinese Maoist idea of world revolution.
Viriato da Cruz wanted to leave China and return to Africa, but the Chinese government would not let him go and they were not good to him. This may be because he could have made trouble for their work in Africa. 
The last years of the life of Viriato da Cruz were unhappy and difficult. He was weak, without much food, and he died on 13 Jun 1973. His dead body was taken away in a military vehicle and his burial was without any ceremony.
Some Angolan people think that this was shocking, because Viriato da Cruz worked hard for Angola and was one of the leaders of the liberation from Portugal.
Poems (1961). Among these poems, "Namoro", "Sô Santo" and "Makézu" are well-known.

</doc>
<doc id="22764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22764" title="Mollusc">
Mollusc

Molluscs (or mollusks) are an important phylum of invertebrate animals. Most of them are marine. They have huge numbers in-shore, that is, in shallow waters near the shore. They are the largest marine phylum, with about 85,000 living species, 23% of all named marine organisms. They also occur in freshwater and on land. 
Molluscs are extremely varied: they have great diversity. That may be why there is no word in English for the phylum as a whole. "In an evolutionary sense, molluscs are plastic material". They have much more variety than their ancient rivals, the brachiopods.
Most molluscs have shells, but some groups do not: octopods, slugs, and the gastropods known as sea slugs. 
Many molluscs also live in freshwater and terrestrial habitats. They are highly diverse, not just in size and in anatomical structure, but also in behaviour and in habitat. 
The phylum is usually divided into 9 or 10 taxonomic classes, of which two are entirely extinct. Cephalopod molluscs, such as squid, cuttlefish and octopus, are among the most neurologically advanced of all invertebrates: they have good brains and complex behaviours. Either the giant squid or the colossal squid is the largest known invertebrate species. The gastropods (snails and slugs) are by far the most numerous molluscs in terms of classified species, and account for 80% of the total. The scientific study of molluscs is called malacology.
The three most universal features defining modern molluscs are:
Other than these things, molluscs have so much variety that many textbooks use a "hypothetical ancestral mollusc" to summarise them (see below). This has a single, "limpet-like" shell on top, which is made of proteins and chitin reinforced with calcium carbonate. It is secreted by a mantle covering the whole upper surface. The underside of the animal consists of a single muscular "foot". 
The mollusc's feeding system starts with a rasping "tongue", the radula. The complex digestive system uses mucus and microscopic, muscle-powered "hairs" called cilia. The generalized mollusc has two paired nerve cords, or three in bivalves. The brain, in species that have one, circles the oesophagus. Most molluscs have eyes, and all have sensors to detect chemicals, vibrations, and touch. The simplest type of molluscan reproductive system relies on external fertilization, but more complex variations occur. All produce eggs, from which may emerge trochophore larvae, more complex veliger larvae, or miniature adults.
A striking feature of molluscs is the use of the same organ for multiple functions. For example, the heart and nephridia ("kidneys") are important parts of the reproductive system, as well as the circulatory and excretory systems. In bivalves, the gills both "breathe" and produce a water current in the mantle cavity: this is important for excretion and reproduction. In reproduction, molluscs may change gender to accommodate the other breeding partner.
Good evidence exists for the appearance of gastropods, cephalopods and bivalves in the Cambrian period, 541 to 485.4 million years ago (mya). Before that, the evolutionary history of molluscs' emergence from the ancestral Lophotrochozoa is still unclear.
Mollusc species can also represent hazards or pests for human activities. The bite of the blue-ringed octopus is often fatal, and that of "Octopus apollyon" causes inflammation that can last for over a month. Stings from a few species of large tropical cone shells can also kill: their venoms have become important tools in neurological research. Schistosomiasis (also known as bilharzia, bilharziosis or snail fever) is transmitted to humans via water snail hosts, and affects about 200 million people. Snails and slugs can also be serious agricultural pests, and accidental or deliberate introduction of some snail species into new environments has seriously damaged some ecosystems.
Because of the great range of anatomical diversity among molluscs, many textbooks start the subject of molluscan anatomy by describing what is called an "archi-mollusc", "hypothetical generalized mollusc", or "hypothetical ancestral mollusc" ("HAM") to illustrate the most common features in the phylum. The picture is rather similar to modern monoplacophorans: some think it may resemble very early molluscs.
The generalized mollusc is bilaterally symmetrical and has a single, "limpet-like" shell on top. The shell is secreted by a mantle covering the upper surface. The underside consists of a single muscular "foot". The visceral mass, or visceropallium, is the soft, nonmuscular metabolic region of the mollusc. It contains the body organs.
Classes of molluscs:
It has become clear that the fossil taxon Helcionelloida does "not" belong to the class Gastropoda. It is now a separate class in the Mollusca. Parkhaev (2006, 2007) created the class Helcionelloida, whose members were previously treated as "Paleozoic molluscs of uncertain systematic position" by Bouchet & Rocroi.

</doc>
<doc id="22765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22765" title="Sponge">
Sponge

A sponge is a member of the phylum Porifera. It is a simple animal with many cells, but no mouth, muscles, heart or brain. It is sessile: it cannot move from place to place the way most other animals can. A sponge is an animal that grows in one spot like most plants do. Nevertheless, sponges are quite successful.
The basic body plan is a jelly-like layer sandwiched between two thin layers of cells. Their bodies are full of pores and channels allowing water to circulate through them. Most of them feed on bacteria and other microorganisms. A few of them eat tiny crustaceans.
There are more than 10,000 species of sponge. Most sponges live in the ocean. A few live in fresh water. All sponges take in water through pores (little holes) in their bodies. The water goes out through a big tube in the center. Most sponges filter (take out) little bits of food from the water going through their bodies. Animals that get food this way are called filter feeders.
Sponges are simple animals. A few things make them different from other animals. 
There are four classes of sponges. The difference between these kinds is in how their skeleton is made. 
Sponges are sessile, they live in one place, where they are "fixed" to the ground. A few sponges can change their position, they can move at speeds of between 1 mm and 4 mm a day. They do this like amoebae. A few species can contract their whole bodies. Many can close their openings/holes.
A few species live in waters where there is very little food available. They have therefore changed, and became predators. They eat small crustaceans and other small animals. Most of these sponges belong to the family Cladorhizidae, but a few members of the Guitarridae and Esperiopsidae are also carnivores. In most cases little is known about how they actually capture prey. Some species are thought to use either sticky threads or hooked spicules. Most carnivorous sponges live in deep waters, up to , and the development of deep-ocean exploration techniques is expected to lead to the discovery of several more. However one species has been found in Mediterranean caves at depths of 17-23m alongside the more usual filter feeding sponges. The cave-dwelling predators capture crustaceans under long by entangling them with fine threads, digest them by enveloping them with further threads over the course of a few days, and then return to their normal shape; there is no evidence that they use venom.
Most known carnivorous sponges have completely lost the water flow system and choanocytes. However the genus "Chondrocladia" uses a highly modified water flow system to inflate balloon-like structures that are used for capturing prey.
Sponges usually reproduce (make more of their kind) when little pieces break off. If such a piece has the right types of cells it can grow to become a new sponge. A few sponges can also use budding. With budding a small sponge grows on the parent; when it is done growing, it simply "falls off". When the conditions are bad, some sponges can also grow lumps of unspecialised cells. These will not develop until the conditions improve again. They can then either make a new sponge, or they can use the skeleton of the parent sponge (that died).
Most sponges reproduce sexually. They can make sperm cells that are released into the water. These are either captured by another sponge, and are then transported to the egg cells of the parent. This is known as "viviparous". Both cells are joined to form larvae, which can swim off to find a good place to settle.
The other way, known as "oviparous" is that both sperm cells and egg cells are released into the water. These then combine outside the sponges.
A report in 1997 described how bottlenose dolphins in Shark Bay used sponges as tools: A dolphin will attach a marine sponge to its rostrum (snoutlike projection). It is thought the sponge is used to protect the rostrum when the dolphin is looking for food in the sandy sea bottom but scientists have not confirmed this. The behaviour, known as "sponging", has only been seen in this bay, and is almost exclusively shown by females. A study in 2005 concluded that mothers teach the behaviour to their daughters, and that all the sponge-users are closely related. This suggests that it is a fairly recent innovation. Dolphins also use sponges as an exfoliator, rubbing their skin against the sponge attached to the rock to get rid of their old/dry skin. 
The calcium carbonate or silica spicules of most sponges make them too rough for most uses, but two genera, "Hippospongia" and "Spongia", have soft, entirely fibrous skeletons. Early Europeans used soft sponges for many purposes including padding for helmets, portable drinking utensils and municipal water filters. Until synthetic sponges were invented, they were also used as cleaning tools, for painting, and as contraceptives. In the 20th century, overfishing is a problem. This has caused the animals, as well as the industry behind it to be close to extinction.
Many objects with sponge-like textures are now made of substances that do not come from poriferans. Synthetic "sponges" include personal and household cleaning tools; breast implants; contraceptive sponges.
The luffa "sponge", also spelled "loofah", which is commonly sold for use in the kitchen or the bath, is not derived from an animal but from the fibrous "skeleton" of a gourd (Cucurbitaceae).

</doc>
<doc id="22768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22768" title="Kibibyte">
Kibibyte

A kibibyte is a unit of information or computer storage. A kibibyte is 1024 bytes, 1024 kibibytes are a mebibyte.

</doc>
<doc id="22790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22790" title="Lara Croft Tomb Raider: The Cradle of Life">
Lara Croft Tomb Raider: The Cradle of Life

Tomb Raider: The Cradle of Life is a 2003 action movie from Paramount Pictures. It is the second movie to star Angelina Jolie as the title character from the "Tomb Raider" video games.

</doc>
<doc id="22797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22797" title="Amplitude">
Amplitude

The amplitude or peak amplitude of a wave is a measure of how big its oscillation is.
Amplitudes are always measured as positive numbers (for example: 3.5, 1, 120) and are never negative (for example: -3.5, -1, -120). That's because distance can only be greater than zero or equal to zero; negative distance does not exist.
The distance from the top of one peak to the bottom of another is called "peak-to-peak amplitude". Another way to describe peak-to-peak amplitude is to say that it is the distance between the maximum positive value and the maximum negative value of a wave.

</doc>
<doc id="22799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22799" title="Ska">
Ska

Ska is a kind of popular music from Jamaica that was developed in the 1950s. Ska music played at a slower tempo turned into reggae in the late 1960s.
Ska music bands include singers, electric guitars, electric bass guitar, piano, organ, saxophone, trumpet, and trombone.
In ska, the electric guitar and piano normally play short chords on the off-beat. If you go "one and two and three and four", the off-beat is the "And". 
In ska, the singer does a style of Jamaican singing called "toasting." When a singer is "toasting", they make sounds, repeat words, invent rhymes, and shout into the microphone. The Jamaican "toasting" style of singing and talking turned into rap music in the 1980s.
Musicians who play ska dress in hats and suits. Many ska bands wear clothes with a chessboard pattern of black and white squares. Doc Martens are a common type of shoe. This pattern symbolizes the way that ska music mixes of Black and White musicans and styles of music.There was a British genre of ska-punk influenced by The Specials, Madness and the English Beat, that began to dress in kilts.
Even though ska was developed in the 1950s, it became popular again in the 1980s in Britain. In the 1980s, ska bands such as The Specials, The Selecter, The English Beat (known just as "The Beat" in England), and Madness played ska music.
In the 1990s, some bands mixed ska music with Punk rock to make ska-punk. This kind of ska music is from England and the United States. Some pop-punk bands from the 1990s mixed pop-punk with ska-punk.
Examples of Ska Bands:

</doc>
<doc id="22811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22811" title="Braille">
Braille

The Braille system is a way of writing things. It is named after Louis Braille, the French man who invented it. The system is used by blind people to read and write. The Braille system uses a set of raised bumps or dots that can be felt with a finger. Each set of dots is a character in an alphabet, and the numbers and some punctuation.
Louis Braille was not the first person to think about how to let the blind read and write. In the 17th century the Italian Jesuit Francesco Lana thought about different systems of writing for the blind. He invented a system of dashes that could be felt.
Valentin Haüy was one of the first French who was interested in the problems the blind had when they wanted to communicate. Haüy was born in Picardie in 1745, and studied languages at the university in Paris. First he studied deaf people who could not speak, then blind people. In his opinion the biggest problem of the blind was that they could not read. He then invented a system which allowed them to read and write sentences and to do mathematics. Later he started a school for blind children. His writing system used two columns which had between one and six positions each. Vowels had a dot in the left column, for example.
Charles Barbier used a similar system, because Napoleon wanted a code that soldiers could use to exchange messages silently and without light at night. Barbier called it night writing. Night writing uses two columns of six dots. It uses phonemes (separate sounds), not letters. Barbier's system was too hard for soldiers to learn, and the military did not use it. From the year 1821, he started to test his system in the school Haüy had founded. There it became very successful. Even though the system was difficult to learn, it did help the blind to read better than earlier systems. Barbier had understood that it was better to use a system that used dots over one that used lines.
Barbier met Braille when he visited the National Institute of the Blind. Braille saw the biggest problem of the code: The human finger cannot feel the whole symbol at one time. This makes it impossible to move rapidly from one symbol to the next. Braille's change was to use a 6 dot cell — the braille system — which completely changed how the blind would read and write.
Braille can be seen as the world's first binary way of character encoding. The system as originally invented by Braille has two parts
Braille is used with different languages today. In each language, the letters are "encoded" differently, depending on the alphabet. The list of codes is known as braille code, or code page. There are also different braille codes in use for special purposes, like writing shorthand, mathematics or music.
To make it possible to read faster, certain transcriptions of Braille use shortened words, or contractions. This is known as "Grade 2 Braille".
Braille uses cells of six raised dots, in two columns of three dots. The dot positions on the left are numbered one, to three, the ones on the right four to six, as shown in the picture.
Each symbol is coded with certain dots present, and others absent. The dots are approximately 0.02 inches (0.5 mm) high; inside the cell, the dots are about 0.1 inches (2.5 mm) apart. The space between the dots of two cells is about 0.15 inches (3.75 mm) horizontally and 0.2 inches (5 mm) vertically. A standard braille page is 11 inches by 11 inches and typically has between forty and forty-two braille cells per line and twenty-five lines.
As first made by Louis Braille, the first group of characters, using just the top 4 dots of the braille cell, represents letters "a" through "j" (this group of ten characters is called a "decade"). Dot 3 (bottom left) is added to each of the "a" through "j" symbols to give letters "k" through "t". Both of the bottom dots (dots 3 and 6) are added to the first decade to give letters "u", "v", "x", "y", and "z". The letter "w" is left out of this group because French did not use the letter "w" when Louis Braille made his alphabet. The fifth decade is the same as the first decade, but shifted down by a row (dots 1 and 4 are blank).
English braille has codes for the letters and some punctuation, and some double letter signs and word signs directly, but capitalization and numbers need a prefix symbol. In practice, braille produced in the United Kingdom does not use capital letters.
There are braille codes for representing shorthand (produced on a machine which embosses a paper tape) and for representing mathematics (Nemeth Braille) and musical notation (braille music).
Braille can be made using a "slate" and a "stylus" in which each dot is created from the back of the page, writing in mirror image, by hand, or it may be produced on a special braille typewriter or "Perkins Brailler", or produced by a braille embosser attached to a computer. It may also be made using a refreshable braille display.
The six bit braille code is very limited, it only allows 64 different possible combinations. This means that many things need more than one braille character to be coded. One example for this is how numbers are coded in English braille: First there is a symbol that says the next symbol is a number, and then there is the symbol for the number. The symbol for "number" is usually given only once; every symbol that follows is treated as a number, until there is a space.
Braille has been extended to an 8 dot code, particularly for use with braille embossers and refreshable braille displays. In 8 dot braille the added dots are added at the bottom of the cell, giving a cell 4 dots high by 2 dots wide. The additional dots are called 7 (for the lower-left dot) and 8 (for the lower-right dot). 8-dot braille has the advantages that capital and lower cases of the letters are directly coded in the cell, a capital letter does not need two cells. All the printable ASCII characters can be represented in a single cell, and all 256 possible combinations of 8 bits are encoded by the Unicode standard. Braille with six dots is frequently stored as braille ASCII.
It is possible to transcribe braille by replacing each letter with the braille code for the letter. This is usually known as "Grade 1 Braille". Grade 1 braille is mostly used by beginners.
The basic problem of Grade 1 braille is that braille "letters" are much larger than printed ones. The standard page is 11"x11" (28 cm by 28 cm) in size and only has room for twenty-five lines of forty characters. This means a book would need to be very thick compared to a standard printed book.
For this reason almost all English braille books use a transcription known as "Grade 2 braille". Grade 2 braille uses contractions, which allows to save space and increase reading speed. Grade 2 braille was developed by linguists (people who study languages), who also looked at customs, styles and practices. Transcribing a text into Grade 2 braille is difficult, and the people doing the transcription need to have a special education.
In English, there are 23 words which are replaced with a single letter. That way, the word "but" is contracted (shortened) to the single letter "b," "can" to "c", "do" to "d", and so on. Even this simple rule has exceptions and special cases, which must be thought of. As an example, only the verb "to do" is replaced by "d", the noun "do" (which stands for a note in music) is a different word, and is written in full.
Sometimes, part of words are contracted, and a character can mean different things in different parts of a word. There are many rules for this process. For example, the character with dots 2-3-5 (the letter "f" lowered in the braille cell) stands for "ff" when used in the middle of a word. At the beginning of a word, this same character stands for the word "to" although the character is written in braille with no space following it. At the end of a word, the same character represents an exclamation point.
The contraction rules cannot be used when it would make a problem with a prefix or suffix on the word. Also, some rules are flexible and may depend on the situation. So when the rules permit the same word to be written in more than one way, preference is given to "the contraction that is closer to the correct pronunciation."
"Grade 3 Braille" is a system that includes many additional contractions. It is almost like a shorthand. It is rarely used for books, but people use it to be able to write and read fast, for themselves. It can be used for taking notes.
Only very few people can use grade 4 braille. It uses many rules to shorten grade 3 even further. It allows a blind person to use shorthand to follow spoken conversation. Very often, systems of seven or eight dots are used.
The current Canadian paper money has raised dots on the bills that shows its value. This helps blind people who might otherwise be cheated. This 'tactile feature' does not use standard braille but, instead, a system developed by working with blind and visually impaired Canadians after they found that not all people who needed it could read braille.
Though braille is thought to be the main way blind people read and write, in Britain (for example) out of the reported 2 million visually impaired population, it is estimated that only around 15-20 thousand people use Braille. Younger people are turning to electronic text on computers instead which can be read aloud by computer programs; a more portable communication method that they can also use with their friends. A debate has started on how to make braille more attractive and for more teachers to be available to teach it.
There are many extensions of Braille for additional letters with diacritics, such as "ç, ô, é".
When braille is adapted to languages which do not use the Latin alphabet, the blocks are generally assigned to the new alphabet according to how it is transliterated into the Latin alphabet, not the alphabetic order of the national script. This is the case with Russian (Cyrillic alphabet), Greek, Hebrew, Arabic, and Chinese. In Greek, for example, "gamma" is written as Latin "g", even though it is the third letter of that alphabet (like the Latin "c"). Hebrew "beth", the second letter of the alphabet and cognate with the Latin letter "b", is instead written "v", as it is commonly pronounced. Esperanto letters with circumflexes, "ĉ", "ĝ", "ĥ", "ĵ" and "ŝ", are written as those letters without circumflexes with a filled sixth dot.
More differences are in Chinese braille. In Mandarin Braille, which is based on Zhuyin rather than the Latin Pinyin alphabet, the Latin braille values are used for the first consonants and the simple vowels. There are additional blocks for the tones, diphthongs, and any following vowel + consonant combinations. Cantonese Braille is also based on Latin braille for many of the initial consonants and simple vowels, but the blocks also have different values depending on whether they are in a leading syllable or following syllable position. For instance, the block for Latin "k" represents old-style Cantonese "k" ("g" in Yale and other modern Romanizations) when initial, but "aak" when final, while Latin "j" represents Cantonese initial "j" but final "oei".
However, at least two adaptations of Braille have completely reassigned the Latin sound values of the blocks. These are:
In Japanese Braille, alphabetic signs for a consonant and vowel are combined into a single syllable block; in Korean Braille, the consonants have different leading and following syllable forms. These changes made Braille much more compatible with Japanese kana and Korean hangul, but meant that the Latin sound values could not be kept.
Trained readers of Braille can read about 100 words per minute; trained readers who do not have sight problems can get to around 250 to 300 words per minute.

</doc>
<doc id="22812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22812" title="Switch">
Switch

A switch is something that changes the flow of an electrical circuit. The most common kind of switch is something (for example a railroad switch) which can be taken off of one course and put onto another. The term "switch" usually means electrical power. In applications where more than one switch is needed, (i.e. a telephone service) mechanical switches have been replaced by electronic switches which can be controlled automatically.
The switch is called a "gate" when used in a mathematical form. In logic, arguments are represented as logic gates. The use of electronic "gates" to work as a system of logical gates is the basic idea behind the computer —i.e. a computer is a lot of electronic switches that work as logic gates.
There are many types of switches. Some of these are: 
The word 'switch' can also mean to change between two things. For example, on a railway line, sometimes the track can split into two different tracks. If the train is travelling on one line and changes over to the other, it has just done a switch.

</doc>
<doc id="22814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22814" title="Francis Bacon">
Francis Bacon

Francis Bacon, 1st Viscount St. Alban KC, (22 January 1561 – 9 April 1626), was an English philosopher, statesman, and author. He has been described as one of the greatest thinkers ever whose ideas have changed the way people think.
He was born in London, the son of Sir Nicholas Bacon, and the nephew of Queen Elizabeth's advisor, William Cecil. He was educated at Trinity College, Cambridge. His first job was a lawyer. He later became a Member of Parliament and in 1586 he took a leading part in having Mary Queen of Scots executed. He became a friend of Robert Deveraux, the Earl of Essex, in 1591, and received many valuable gifts from him. After Essex led a rebellion against the Queen, Bacon was one of the people who led the investigation which led to Essex's execution in 1601.
Bacon was often in trouble for spending too much, and in 1601 he was arrested for debt. When King James became king in 1603, Bacon's position improved. He was knighted in 1603. He was one of the people appointed to plan the joining of England and Scotland together as one country. He married Alice Barnham in 1606, and the next year he was made the Solicitor General. He continued to be given better paying positions including Attorney General, Lord Keeper, and Lord Chancellor.
He was made Baron Verulam in 1618, and Viscount St Albans in 1621. Because he did not have children both titles ended when he died.
He used his positions to make more money for himself, and in 1621 the Parliament found that he was corrupt. He was fined £40,000 and removed from all his jobs. King James overturned the fine, but he was kept as a prisoner in the Tower of London for a while.
He became best known as a leading thinker in new ways of looking at the world. His writings started and made famous a way of thinking about science. This way of thinking is now called the "Baconian method". It is based on looking at the world by making experiments. After watching the results the scientist comes up with an idea to explain what has happened. This idea or hypothesis is then further tested by more experiments. This way of thinking about science is called inductive methodology. In Bacon's time these methods were linked with magic including hermeticism and alchemy. Alchemy was the study of fire, earth, water and air. Alchemists tried to make gold from lead.

</doc>
<doc id="22822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22822" title="Sled dog">
Sled dog

Sled dogs, known also as sleigh dogs, sledge dogs or sleddogs are types of dogs that are used to pull a wheel-less vehicle on runners (a sled or sleigh) over snow or ice, by means of harnesses and lines.

</doc>
<doc id="22847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22847" title="Overland Expedition">
Overland Expedition

The Overland Expedition, also called the Overland Relief Expedition or Point Barrow-Overland Relief Expedition, was a long trip in 1897–8, by three officers of the United States Coast Guard (then named the "U.S. Revenue Cutter Service"), with the help of two civilians, using sled dogs and reindeer to rescue more than 250 whalers trapped in the Arctic Ocean by ice around their ships.
The rescue was ordered by then-U.S. President William McKinley. McKinley later talked about the rescue in a letter dated January 17, 1899 to the United States Congress, in which he asked Congress to award the officers Congressional Gold Medals, and to pay the civilians for their help:
It will be remembered that in the month of October, 1897, reports were
received here of the probable loss of the whaling fleet in the Arctic
regions, and of the likelihood that nearly 300 men, composing the
officers and crews of the fleet, would perish from hunger unless succor [an old word for help] could reach them early in the spring. ...<br>
The overland expedition was formed, and consisted of First Lieut. David
H. Jarvis, Revenue-Cutter Service, commanding; Second Lieut. Ellsworth
P. Bertholf, Revenue-Cutter Service, and Dr. Samuel J. Call, surgeon of
the "Bear", all volunteers. ...<br>
They were materially aided by Mr. W.T. Lopp, agent of the American Missionary Society at Cape Prince of Wales, and Artisarlook, a native of that region, both of whom, at great personal sacrifice, left their families and accompanied the reindeer herd to Point Barrow.
The overland expedition, after a difficult and hazardous journey of
nearly 2,000 miles through the storms and bitter cold of an Arctic
winter, reached Point Barrow with the herd on the 29th of March, 1898,
three months and twelve days from their landing from the "Bear" at
Cape Vancouver, Alaskan coast of Bering Sea. They arrived none too soon. ... [due to] bad sanitary conditions and want of proper food, the men from the whale ships quartered there were found upon the verge of great suffering, while sickness had broken out among them. ...<br>
I have therefore the honor to submit the following recommendations and
to ask your favorable action: ...<br>
That gold medals of honor of appropriate design, to be approved by
the Secretary of the Treasury, be awarded to Lieutenants Jarvis and
Bertholf and Dr. Call, commemorative of their heroic struggles in aid of
suffering fellow-men. ...<br>
That the sum of $2,500 be appropriated to be disbursed by the
Secretary of the Treasury in bestowing rewards upon W.T. Lopp,
Artisarlook, and native herders, who rendered material aid to the relief
expedition.

</doc>
<doc id="22857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22857" title="Number theory">
Number theory

Number theory is a part of mathematics. It explains what some types of numbers are, what properties they have, and ways that they can be useful.
Topics in number theory are: 
Important theorems in number theory are: 
A well-known application of number theory is encrypted messaging (encryption). Data compression also makes use of the field.

</doc>
<doc id="22863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22863" title="Tear gas">
Tear gas

Tear gas is the name for a number of chemical compounds. It is not actually a gas. It is a fine powder or very small drops of liquid. The chemicals in the powder are acidic and cause pain in the eyes. Tear gas may cause temporary blindness for up to 45 minutes. Tear gas is commonly used by police to control crowds. Phenacyl chloride (CN) and CS gas are two of the chemicals that are often found in tear gas. Pepper spray is another chemical compound that acts very similarly and is sometimes used to control crowds.

</doc>
<doc id="22881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22881" title="Kaba Ma Kyei">
Kaba Ma Kyei

"Kaba Ma Kyei" (), which means "Until the World Crumbles", is the national anthem (song) of Myanmar. The melody and lyrics were created by Saya Tin, and became the Burmese national anthem in 1947.

</doc>
<doc id="22882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22882" title="Yangon">
Yangon

Yangon, also known as Rangoon, is the largest city in Myanmar. It was also the capital city until 2006. The city is by a river called Hlaing River, and is close to the sea. Yangon has more than 4 million people living there.
Yangon was founded as Dagon in the 6th century AD by the Mons, who ruled Lower Burma at that time. Dagon was a small fishing village centered about the Shwedagon Pagoda. In 1755, King Alaungpaya conquered Dagon and renamed it "Yangon". The British captured Yangon during the First Anglo-Burmese War (1824–26) but returned it to Burma after the war. The city was destroyed by a fire in 1841.
The British took Yangon and all of Lower Burma in the Second Anglo-Burmese War of 1852, and then changed Yangon into the most important city of British Burma. The British constructed a new city on a grid plan on delta land. It was bound to the east by the Pazundaung Creek and to the south and west by the Yangon River. Yangon became the capital of all British Burma after the British had captured Upper Burma in the Third Anglo-Burmese War of 1885. By the 1890s Yangon's increasing population and commerce gave birth to prosperous residential suburbs to the north of Royal Lake (Kandawgyi) and Inya Lake. The British also established hospitals including Rangoon General Hospital and colleges including Rangoon University.
Colonial Yangon, with its spacious parks and lakes and mix of modern buildings and traditional wooden architecture, was known as "the garden city of the East." By the early 20th century, Yangon had public services and infrastructure on par with London.
Before World War II, about 55% of Yangon's population of 500,000 was Indian or South Asian, and only about a third was Bamar (Burman). Karens, the Chinese, the Anglo-Burmese and others made up the rest.
After World War I, Yangon became the center of Burmese independence movement. The leftist Rangoon University students led the way. Three nationwide strikes against the British Empire in 1920, 1936 and 1938 began in Yangon. Yangon was under Japan's occupation (1942–45), and was heavily damaged during World War II. Yangon became the capital of Union of Burma on 4 January 1948 when the country regained independence from the British Empire.

</doc>
<doc id="22883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22883" title="Pyinmana">
Pyinmana

Pyinmana (, ; population: 100,000 (2006 estimate)) is a small town in Mandalay Division of Myanmar. The government in 2005 decided to move the capital city from Yangon to an area two miles (3.2 km) away west of Pyinmana on November 6, 2005, near the town, named Naypyidaw, which means Royal City. Pyinmana is approximately north of Yangon.

</doc>
<doc id="22885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22885" title="Kyat">
Kyat

A kyat () is a kind of money used in Myanmar. The symbol for it is K. One kyat is equal to 100 pya. One kyat is almost equal to 1000 US dollars.

</doc>
<doc id="22886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22886" title="Burmese language">
Burmese language

Burmese (in Burmese "", pronounced /baa-MAA-saa/) is a language spoken in Myanmar. Burmese is a Sino-Tibetan language, meaning that is close to Chinese and Tibetan.
Burmese has three tones (high, medium, low: plus two 'stops or abbreviated additional, qualifying 'tones")", no gender {have natural gender e.g. saya (male teacher), sayama(female teacher)}, and no tense. Burmese has many English and Indian words(loan words) though is a very distinct and full language itself with a long history and substantial numbers of proudly articulated dialects.
Here are some examples of words and sentences in Burmese.
Hello = "min-ga-la-ba"
How are you? = "Nei kaun la?"
I am (name) = "Cha-naw yè nan-bè ga _______"
What is your name? = "Ka-mya na mei be' lo khal le' " (OR) na mei be' lo khal le' (You can omit "Ka-mya=You")
Are you from Burma? = "Nae ba-ma pyi ga la da la?"

</doc>
<doc id="22889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22889" title="Category:Fibers">
Category:Fibers


</doc>
<doc id="22893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22893" title="Danielle Steel">
Danielle Steel

Danielle Fernande Schuelein-Steel (born August 14, 1947 in New York City) is an American writer. Steel was an only child. Her parents divorced when she was young. She was looked after by relatives and family employees in Paris and New York City. She was a lonely child and read a lot of books and poetry.

</doc>
<doc id="22896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22896" title="Coat of arms">
Coat of arms

A coat of arms is a unique design painted on a shield. These designs may be inherited, meaning that they pass from a father to his children. In the Middle Ages, these designs were shown on real shields, but today they are usually only drawn or painted on the paper that makes them legal which is called a grant of arms. The grant of arms is usually allowed only when it is given by the government of a country or its agent. In England, this is called the College of Arms and in Scotland is called the Lord Lyon. 
Coats of arms are normally issued for real people but nowadays lots of countries and businesses also have coats of arms. Each symbol on the coat of arms will represent something that has an important meaning to that person, country or company. 

</doc>
<doc id="22902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22902" title="Spear">
Spear

A spear is a weapon used in Antiquity and the Middle Ages. It is meant to primarily stab. But some spears can both stab and slash, although stabbing is still used more often. Some kinds of spears were also meant to be thrown.
A lance is a special spear used from horseback during medieval times. A pike is a very big spear for infantry to fight horsemen.

</doc>
<doc id="22904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22904" title="Hat">
Hat

A hat is a type of covering for the head, and there are many types of hats. 
Hats are different in different parts of the world. Some hats are worn by women, other hats by men, others by both; infants and children may also wear hats, and some hats are not worn by anyone at all. These hats are just used for decoration. People who make hats for men are called hatters, and those who make hats for women are called milliners. The kinds of hats (or caps, which are like hats) worn by different groups within various societies in different countries are very numerous. 
Some types of hats or caps are worn as a sign of highly specialised social roles. For example, bishops can wear mitres and some lawyers wear wigs. In some societies, hats are of great political significance, such as the white hat of English Radicals, the Cap of Liberty of the Jacobins of France; and the two political parties in Sweden, the Hats (noblemen) and Caps (common people). 
Some examples of hats:

</doc>
<doc id="22908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22908" title="Postage stamp">
Postage stamp

Postage stamps are pieces of paper, with glue or adhesive on the back. They are put on the corner of an envelope to pay the fee for having the postal service take the envelope to where it is being sent. There are a lot of different postage stamps in the world. They have existed since the nineteenth century. Most countries have their own stamps. People collect them in books called stamp albums. Sometimes people collect stamps from only one country, or there is something else that links the stamps. Perhaps, the stamps all have errors in the printing like in the "Inverted Jenny" picture with the aeroplane printed upside down.
Maps on stamps is a common topic on stamp collecting. Almost every country has featured maps on stamps. There are also topic maps including demographic and cross topic ones (showing explorer routes over maps).
People on stamps is one more common topic in stamp collecting. For instance, many famous people are featured on stamps in the United States. 

</doc>
<doc id="22914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22914" title="Czechoslovakia">
Czechoslovakia

Czechoslovakia (Czech: "Československo", Slovak: "Československo"/after 1990 "Česko-Slovensko") was a country in Europe that existed from 1918 until 1993.
In mid 1938 Nazi Germany took over Czechoslovakia and split off Slovakia. After World War II the USSR kept part of eastern Czechoslovakia so that they could have a border with Hungary. The USSR also kept parts of Poland and Romania. All four of these countries were in the USSR's sphere of influence. The USSR thought that this meant they could make sure the countries did what they wanted. In 1968 the USSR thought that the government of Alexander Dubcek was moving away from communism and leaving the Warsaw Pact, and invaded Czechoslovakia.
In 1989 Czechoslovakia peacefully removed the Communist dictatorship in the "Velvet Revolution".
On 1 January 1993, Czechoslovakia split into the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Both countries separated in peace.

</doc>
<doc id="22917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22917" title="1410s">
1410s


</doc>
<doc id="22918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22918" title="William Randolph Hearst">
William Randolph Hearst

William Randolph Hearst (April 29, 1863–August 14, 1951) was an American newspaper magnate, born in San Francisco, California.
William Randolph was the only child of Phoebe Apperson Hearst, a former school teacher from Missouri and George Hearst, a successful miner who became a multi-millionaire, and later U.S. Senator from California. William Randolph Hearst was a member of the United States House of Representatives for New York between 1903 and 1907, as a member of the Independence Party.
Hearst was a media tycoon. He started a newspaper empire, now the Hearst corporation. He has become known for sensationalist stories. Those stories were often false, or only very loosely based on true events.
The film Citizen Kane by Orson Welles tells the story about William Randolph Hearst.
Learned at Harvard

</doc>
<doc id="22919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22919" title="Joseph Pulitzer">
Joseph Pulitzer

Joseph "Joe" Pulitzer (April 10, 1847 – October 29, 1911) was an American publisher. Most people link the word Pulitzer to the Pulitzer Prizes. These prizes were established by his will, after his death. He is also known (along with William Randolph Hearst) for starting yellow journalism. 
Joseph Pulitzer was born in Makó, in present-day Hungary. Originally, he wanted to do a military career, but was turned down by the Austrian army. They said his health was bad and that he did not see too well. He went to live in the United States in 1864 to serve in the American Civil War. After the war he settled in St. Louis, Missouri. In 1868 he began working there for a German-language daily newspaper, the "Westliche Post". He joined the Republican Party and was elected to the Missouri State Assembly in 1869. In 1872, Pulitzer bought the "Post" for $3,000. Then, in 1878, he bought the "St. Louis Dispatch" for $2,700 and merged the two papers, which became the "St. Louis Post-Dispatch", which remains St. Louis' daily newspaper. It was at the Post-Dispatch that Pulitzer developed his role as a champion of the common man with exposés and a hard-hitting populist approach. 
By 1883, Pulitzer had made a lot of money. In that year, he bought the "New York World". That newspaper had been losing $40,000 a year. He paid $346,000 to Jay Gould, the owner. Pulitzer changed its focus to human-interest stories, scandal, and sensationalism. In 1885, he was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives, but resigned after a few months' service. He did not like politics . In 1887, he recruited the famous investigative journalist Nellie Bly. In 1895 the "World" introduced the popular Yellow Kid comic by Richard F. Outcault. This was the first newspaper comic printed with color. Under Pulitzer's leadership circulation grew from 15,000 to 600,000, making "the New Your World" the largest newspaper in the country. 
The editor of the rival "New York Sun" attacked Pulitzer in print. He calling him "The Jew who gave up his religion".This was in 1890. This was intended to turn away Pulitzer's Jewish readership. Pulitzer's already failing health deteriorated rapidly, and he left the newsroom. He continued to actively manage the paper from his vacation retreat in Bar Harbor Maine and his New York mansion. 
In 1895, William Randolph Hearst purchased the rival "New York Journal", which led to a circulation war. This competition with Hearst, particularly the coverage before and during the Spanish-American War, linked Pulitzer's name with "yellow journalism". 
After the "World" exposed a fraudulent payment of $40 million by the United States to the French Panama Canal Company in 1909, Pulitzer was indicted for libeling Theodore Roosevelt and J. P. Morgan. The courts dismissed the indictments, in a victory for freedom of the press.
In 1892, Pulitzer offered Columbia University's president, Seth Low, money to set up the world's first school of journalism. The university initially turned down the money, evidently unimpressed by Pulitzer's unscrupulous character. In 1902, Columbia's new president Nicholas Murray Butler was more receptive to the plan for a school and prizes, but it would not be until after Pulitzer's death that this dream would be fulfilled. Pulitzer left the university $2 million in his will, which led to the creation in 1912 of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, but by then the first school of journalism had been created at the University of Missouri. Columbia's Graduate School of Journalism remains one of the most prestigious in the world. 
Joseph Pulitzer died aboard his yacht in the harbor of Charleston, South Carolina in 1911. He is interred in the Woodlawn Cemetery in The Bronx, New York. In 1917, the first Pulitzer Prizes were awarded, in accordance with Pulitzer's wishes.
In 1989, Pulitzer was inducted into the St. Louis Walk of Fame.

</doc>
<doc id="22920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22920" title="Horace Greeley">
Horace Greeley

Horace Greeley (February 3, 1811 – November 29, 1872) was an American newspaper editor, reformer and politician. His "New York Tribune" was the most influential newspaper of the period 1840-1870. Greeley used it to promote the Whig and Republican parties.
He is best known for his socially colored journalism. He wanted to convince people of his ideas. He thought that the role of a journalist must be to convince people with sound arguments. He did not like the sensationalist approach of Joseph Pulitzer and others.
Greeley ran for President in 1872, but died before the election results came. Whether or not if he died he would have lost to Ulysses S. Grant.

</doc>
<doc id="22923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22923" title="Arachnid">
Arachnid

The Arachnids are a class of eight-legged arthropods. They are a highly successful group of mainly terrestrial invertebrates: spiders, scorpions, harvestmen, ticks, and mites, and a number of smaller groups.
Almost all adult arachnids have eight legs, and arachnids may be easily distinguished from insects by this fact, since insects have six legs. However, arachnids also have two further pairs of appendages that have become adapted for feeding, defense, and sensory perception. The first pair, the chelicerae, serve in feeding and defense. The next pair of appendages, the pedipalps have been adapted for feeding, locomotion, and/or reproductive functions. 
Like all arthropods, arachnids have an exoskeleton. They also have an internal structure of cartilage-like tissue, to which certain muscle groups are attached.
Arachnids have no antennae or wings. Their body is organized into two parts: the cephalothorax, and the abdomen.
There are some adaptations for life on land. They have internal respiratory surfaces. These may be trachea (tubes), or a modification of gills into a 'book lung'. This is an internal series of lamellae used for gas exchange with the air. 
Arachnids are mostly carnivorous, feeding on the pre-digested bodies of insects and other small animals. Only the harvestmen and some mites eat solid food particles. Predigestion avoids exposure to internal parasites. Several groups secrete venom from specialized glands to kill prey or enemies. Several mites are external parasites, and some of them are carriers of disease (vectors).
Arachnids pour digestive juices produced in their stomachs over their prey after killing it with their pedipalps and chelicerae. The digestive juices rapidly turn the prey into a broth of nutrients which the arachnid sucks into a pre-buccal cavity located immediately in front of the mouth. Behind the mouth is a muscular, pharynx, which acts as a pump, sucking the food through the mouth and on into the oesophagus and stomach. In some arachnids, the oesophagus also acts as an additional pump.
The word "Arachnida" comes from the Greek for 'spider'. In legend, a girl called Arachne was turned into a spider by the goddess Athena. Arachne said she'd win a weaving contest against the goddess. Arachne won, but Athena became angry, turning her into a spider for her "hubris" (pride) in challenging a goddess.

</doc>
<doc id="22924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22924" title="Arthropod">
Arthropod

Arthropods (phylum or superphylum Arthropoda, Greek language for "joint-legged") are a large group of invertebrates, which means they do not have backbones (vertebrae). Insects, spiders, crabs, shrimp, millipedes, and centipedes are all arthropods. Arthropods have jointed feet, a segmented body, and an exoskeleton, a cuticle on the outside of their body. 
Arthropods have by far the greatest number of species of any animal group, at around 900,000 species. One single order of insects the beetles outnumber all others.
The other notable fact is that the arthropods are mostly terrestrial in their habitat. They are the only invertebrate phylum of which this is true. Helping them in this respect is their hard exoskeleton, which reduces the loss of water (dessication). They are also notable as the first phylum to develop genuine flight. 
Arthropods are made up of four groups of living animals and one group of extinct animals. The four groups are insects, arachnids, crustaceans, and myriapods. The trilobites are extinct, and they are the second most famous type of fossils, after the dinosaurs.
Arthropods are a source of food for many animals, including humans. 

</doc>
<doc id="22926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22926" title="University of Alabama">
University of Alabama

The University of Alabama (UA) is a university in the U.S. state of Alabama. The University of Alabama is in the city of Tuscaloosa. People can usually just say "Alabama" or "UA" for short when they are talking about the University.
UA opened in 1831 and now about 35,000 students study there. UA is one of the three largest universities in Alabama. Auburn University and University of Alabama at Birmingham are the other two main schools in Alabama. Students study many things at UA, such as liberal arts, science, engineering, communication, engineering, education, social work, nursing, human sciences (such as fashion design) and law. People study to get Bachelor's degrees, Master's degrees and doctorates at Alabama. Also, graduates can get an Education Specialist degree.
Many people have heard about the University of Alabama because it has many good sports teams. These sports teams are called the Crimson Tide. The football team from UA has won the national football championship 12 times in the past 83 years and play at Bryant–Denny Stadium.
In 1963, Alabama Gov. George Wallace announced in his inaugural address, "segregation now, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever" as his policy. He personally blocked the door to Foster Auditorium at the University of Alabama to prevent the enrollment of two black students. He moved aside only when confronted by General Henry Graham of the Alabama National Guard, who was ordered by President John F. Kennedy to intervene.

</doc>
<doc id="22928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22928" title="Buttercup">
Buttercup

Buttercups are a large genus of flowering plants called Ranunculus. It has yellow, shiny, petals, and grows wild in many places. It is poisonous to eat for humans and cattle, but when dry the poison is not active.
There are about 200 to 600 species in this one genus. They mostly have yellow or sometimes white flowers. Buttercups include a wide variety of flower types, grouped by a plant naming system in the genus "Ranunculus". Among them are the Meadow Buttercup ("Ranunculus acris"), Goldilocks Buttercup ("R. auricomus"), Creeping Buttercup ("R. repens"), Large White Buttercup ("R. platanafolius"), Celery-leaved Buttercup ("R. sceleratus"), Corn Buttercup ("R. arvensis"), Bulbous Buttercup ("R. bulbosus") and Glacial Buttercup ("R. glacialis").
Lesser Celandine ("R. ficaria"), Lesser Spearwort ("R. flammula"), and Greater Spearwort ("R. lingua") also belong to the buttercup family.
Plants of the commonly named buttercup family grow in many different variations but most can be identified by their yellow cupped flowers and free-growing habit. The plants often climb or sprawl, with leaves arranged in spirals. Some may contain leaves without stipules and flowers with many stamens.
Molecular investigation of the genus shows that "Ranunculus" is not monophyletic. Proposals are under way to split up the genus.
 Highlights shining on the reflective petals of the buttercup can be seen in the images at left and above.
People sometimes hold a fresh buttercup flower under the chin of a friend or family member. If a yellow reflection from the flower's shiny petals can be seen under the chin, the person is said to "like butter". This custom is still taught to young children and shows how buttercup petals reflect light. They make people look pretty.
Some other plants and people are named buttercup, based on the name of the yellow wild flower. These include a type of pumpkin, and the girl's name Buttercup.
"Build Me Up Buttercup" was the name of a popular song by The Foundations during the 1960s. A cartoon character from the Powerpuff Girls television series was also named Buttercup. Buttercups and their poisonous effect are used as a theme in the PC game "Undertale".
In 1916, an elderly man went around a field painting all the buttercups blue.

</doc>
<doc id="22939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22939" title="Gomaespuma">
Gomaespuma

Gomaespuma is a radio show, presented by Juan Luis Cano and Guillermo Fesser. The program is broadcast by Onda Cero. It also has been in M80 radio and in Antenna 3 Radio. Gomaespuma organises the Flamenco pa tos festival, the most important Flamenco festival of Spain. Gomaespuma directs a foundation with the same name.
These people have appeared on television and on radio (marionettes)
These links are in Spanish

</doc>
<doc id="22953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22953" title="Engineer">
Engineer

Engineer is a person with a proper education in the field of engineering. The word "engineer" is derived from the Latin root "ingenium", meaning "cleverness". Engineers design materials, structures, machines and systems while considering the limitations imposed by practicality, safety and cost. Much of the work is applied science, using information given by scientists to do their work. Apart from working with things, an engineer must also be good at working with people and money.
Many engineering projects are large and very complicated.
Often different kinds of engineers work together and help each other. As an example, computer engineers need help from electrical engineers to 
build a computer. The computer needs programs written by software engineers. The computer could be used by aerospace engineers to control an 
airplane. An airplane is a big mechanical system with many parts, so a mechanical engineer and a systems engineer are also needed.

</doc>
<doc id="22964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22964" title="Division by zero">
Division by zero

In mathematics, a number can not be divided by zero. Observe: 
1. formula_1
If "B" = 0, then "C" = 0. This is true. But look:
2. formula_2
Which is the same as:
3. formula_3
The problem is that A could be any number. It would work if A were 1 or if it were 1,000,000,000. 0/0 is said to be of "indeterminate form" for this reason, because it has no single value. Numbers of the form A/0, on the other hand, where A is not 0, are said to be "undefined." This is because any attempt to define them will result in a value of infinity, which is itself undefined. Usually when two numbers are equal to the same thing, they are equal to each other. That is not true when the thing they are both equal to is 0/0. This means that the normal rules of maths do not work when the number is divided by zero.
It is possible to disguise a special case of division by zero in an algebraic argument. This can lead to invalid proofs, such as 1=2, as in the following:
With the following assumptions:
The following must be true:
Dividing by zero gives:
Simplify:
The fallacy is the assumption that dividing by 0 is a legitimate operation with 0/0 = 1.
Most people would probably recognize the above "proof" as incorrect, but the same argument can be presented in a way that makes it harder to spot the error. For example, if 1 is written as "x", then 0 can be hidden behind "x"-"x" and 2 behind "x"+"x". The above mentioned proof can then be displayed as follows:
therefore:
Dividing by "x" - "x" gives:
and dividing by "x" gives:
The "proof" above is incorrect because it divides by zero when it divides by "x"-"x", because any number minus itself is zero.
In calculus, the above "indeterminate forms" also come as a result of direct substitution while evaluating limits. 
If a computer program tries to divide an integer by zero, the operating system will usually detect this and stop the program. Usually it will print an "error message," or give the programmer advice on how to improve the program. Division by zero is a common bug in computer programming. Dividing floating point numbers (decimals) by zero will usually result in either infinity or a special NaN (not a number) value, depending on what is being divided by zero.

</doc>
<doc id="22965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22965" title="Flamenco pa tos">
Flamenco pa tos

Flamenco pa tos is a Spanish festival of Flamenco music. It is organized by the Gomaespuma Foundation. This festival is the most important festival in Spain. The profits of the festival are used by the Gomaespuma Foundation to help children in Managua. The Festival has been the winner of the National Awards of Flamenco during 2004 and 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="22969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22969" title="Peter I of Russia">
Peter I of Russia

Peter the Great (born in 1672, died in 1725) was a czar of Russia. He transformed Russia from an isolated kingdom into a transcontinental superpower. He became czar of Russia in 1682 and in 1697 he visited Western Europe and decided Russia must have access to the sea. He built the city and seaport of St. Petersburg which became the capital of Russia in 1711. He changed Russia's society, by making new laws so it would be modern like the European countries of the new Age of Enlightenment. Prince Alexander Danilovich Menshikov was a close friend of the emperor but was later disgraced due to embezzlement of national funds. 
These are the wars that Russia fought in when Peter the Great was in charge:
The Great Turkish War: In this war Russia fought against the Ottoman Empire and won. Russia got some fortresses in the town of Azov from the Ottoman Empire.
Great Northern War: Russia was fighting Sweden during the Great Northern War. In 1700 Saxony, Denmark and Russia attacked Sweden. Sweden invaded Russia in 1709 which was not a good idea. The Russian Army retreated so the Swedish Army had to chase them. When a very cold winter came, half of the Swedish soldiers died in the cold. Eventually the Swedish army caught up to the Russian army and they had a battle, called the battle of Poltava. Russia won the battle but most of the Swedish soldiers, including their king, Charles XII of Sweden escaped and went to the Ottoman Empire. Peter didn't like this so he declared war on the Ottoman Empire but he lost and had to give the town of Azov back to the Ottomans.
After that Russia invaded Sweden and conquered Estonia, Livonia, and Finland. By 1719 Russia had conquered all of Sweden. Even though Sweden had clearly lost, they did not give up until 1721. In 1721 Sweden signed the Treaty of Nystad where they agreed to give Estonia, Livonia and Ingria to Russia. 
Because Russia was a major power after the war, Peter the Great changed its name from the Tsardom of Russia to the Russian Empire. 
Russo-Persian War: At the start of the war Persia was already in chaos and was about to collapse. Peter the Great took advantage of this and invaded Persia. The war went from 1722 to 1723. In the end, Russia won and gained lots of land from Persia but had lost a lot of men from fighting. After Peter died, his heirs struggled for power and all the lands that Russia had conquered were given back to Persia.

</doc>
<doc id="22971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22971" title="Musical note">
Musical note

In music, a note is a small bit of sound, similar to a syllable in speaking a language. For example: in the first two lines of the song "Twinkle, twinkle little star, how I wonder what you are" there are 14 notes: one for each syllable.
Confusingly, the word "note" can also mean the pitch of a note (how high or low it is). For example: the whole of the song "Twinkle, twinkle, little star" can be played using six different notes: C, D, E, F, G and A. 
The word "note" can also mean the written symbol of the note.
Nearly all music is made up of notes. Music without notes might be sound effects.
In some Western countries, like United Kingdom, Germany and the USA, the notes (in the sense of the pitches) are given a letter of the alphabet according to their pitch. From lowest sounding to highest sounding: A, B, C, D, E, F, G. This pattern repeats, so that after G will come A. This A is an octave higher than the first A.
Because there are 12 notes needed in Western music, these 7 notes can have modifiers ("symbols or words that change them"). The two main modifiers are sharps, which raise the pitch a half-step, and flats, which lower the pitch a half-step. The symbol for a sharp is ♯ (like the hash symbol (American: number symbol): #). The symbol for a flat is ♭ (like a lower-case italic "b"). To un-flat or un-sharp a note, the natural symbol, ♮, is written before the note. When writing in words (like this page), the symbols are written after the note name, for example: "B♭" means B flat and "F♯" represents F sharp. However, when writing in music notation, the flat, sharp or natural signs are written BEFORE the note. A way to remember this is to say: if the sign came after the note, it would be too late, and you would have already played it, so it must go before so that you know what is coming.
Sharps and flats can also be written in key signatures. A key signature is written at the beginning of the piece, and repeated at the beginning of each line. It gives the sharps or flats which are going to be regular in the piece.
Two other modifiers are double sharps, which raise the note a whole step, and double flats, which lower the note a whole step. These are much less common that the simple sharp or flat, but can still be seen in some types of music. The symbol for a double sharp is × and the symbol for a double flat is ♭♭. For example, E♭♭ is another name for D. This is called an enharmonic equivalent. Another enharmonic equivalent is C and B♯.
In Italy, France, Spain, Portugal and some other countries, notes are named Do, Re, Mi, Fa, Sol, La, Si ("or Ti") instead of C, D, E, F, G, A, B. This notation is called solfege in the United States. These notes are the focus for a song in "The Sound of Music".
Drum Kits do not have notes, they have places on the manuscript where each line means each Drum,
each symbol means each Cymbak on the Kit - how Many Times to hit it in what speed and beats
in a bar there are usually shown as 4/4 and you count 1 2 3 4 each bar.

</doc>
<doc id="22977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22977" title="Calabria">
Calabria

Calabria is a region of the south of Italy. The capital is Catanzaro. The population in 2004 was about 2.009.506 .

</doc>
<doc id="22978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22978" title="Newcastle">
Newcastle

There are three cities called Newcastle:

</doc>
<doc id="22981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22981" title="WordPress">
WordPress

WordPress is a piece of software used inside blogs. It is open source, licensed under the GPL, and written in PHP.
WordPress allows users to create and edit websites from a central control panel, which includes a text editor for modifying content and menus to change various design elements. WordPress provides various plugins in WordPress Plugin Directory, and it is quite easy to upload and promote plugins in WordPress.
Users can write posts into the software and other people reading the post can write comments about it.
Since the release of WordPress version 3.0, the software had been downloaded more than 27 million times.
WordPress can be downloaded and installed on any server with PHP installed. However, WordPress has a service for users to host blogs, called wordpress.com. It has a limit of 3 GB of free space, with an option to upgrade for more. Users cannot add their own domain to the blog when using free option.

</doc>
<doc id="22982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22982" title="Outback">
Outback

The outback is the remote areas of Australia. The outback is not a defined area, it is only a term used to refer to locations that are far away from big cities. 
The fertile parts are known as Rangelands and have been traditionally used for sheep or cattle farming.
Agriculture, tourism and mining are the main economic activities in this vast and sparsely settled area.
Because of the expanses and remoteness in the outback a unique service, The Flying Doctor, was created in 1928. The aim of the service is to provide medical care to people who cannot reach hospitals or other doctors. Consultations are carried out via radio or telephone and for serious situations, doctors are flown out to the patients.
Organised travels with a guide to the outback is popular, although some Australian and international tourists travel in their own cars. Such a trip, especially off the few big roads in the outback, requires very good planning and a suitable vehicle (usually four wheel drive). On remote routes considerable supplies and equipment are required. Some big trips cannot be undertaken safely without a convoy of several vehicles. Deaths of tourists are a regular occurrences because many people are not well-prepared for their outback trip.

</doc>
<doc id="22988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22988" title="Marske-by-the-Sea">
Marske-by-the-Sea

Marske by the Sea is a village in the borough of Redcar and Cleveland in England. It has three primary schools and one secondary school (Bydales School), a museum, and two train stations.
The village has a Methodist, Roman Catholic (St Bede's) and Church of England (St Mark's) church.
Most of the people who live in Marske do not work in the village, but work in the nearby factory or in Middlesbrough or Redcar. Marske has a decent range of local shops. The Longbeck railway station and Marske railway station, which connect to Darlington mainline station, are the only means of transport there.

</doc>
<doc id="22991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22991" title="PayPal">
PayPal

PayPal is a website that allows money to be transferred between various email addresses. Someone who is sent money with this system can send it to other people, or withdraw it into a bank account. eBay owns it.
Local restrictions
Countries not supported by PayPal include Iraq, Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="22993" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22993" title="Orson Welles">
Orson Welles

George Orson Welles (May 6, 1915 – October 10, 1985) was an American director of movies and the theatre, as well as an actor, screenwriter, broadcaster and producer.
Welles was born in Kenosha, Wisconsin.
In 1938, he performed "The War of the Worlds" (about an attack on Earth by beings from the planet Mars) on the radio. It was a radio drama (fiction), but many people took it as a newscast.
Welles also made the movie "Citizen Kane" in 1941. Many movie critics think that this movie is the best movie ever made.
Welles died of a heart attack in Los Angeles, California, aged 70.

</doc>
<doc id="22996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22996" title="Slobodan Milošević">
Slobodan Milošević

Slobodan Milošević (Serbian: Слободан Милошевић, pronounced []; August 20, 1941 – March 11, 2006) was a Serbian, Yugoslav leader. He was President of Serbia from 1989 to 1997 and then President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia from 1997 to 2000. He was the leader of Serbia's ruling Socialist Party. He was a leader in the Yugoslav Wars. He also led his nation to defend itself against NATO aggression that took Kosovo from Serbia. NATO leaders charged him for war crimes and crimes against humanity during the bombing of Yugoslavia. He lost re-election in 2000. After his fall from power in 2001, he was taken to The Netherlands to stand trial at the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague, but died after five years in prison before the case could reach a conclusion. He did not recognize the tribunal calling it an American/UN puppet court and said he was being tried for standing up to NATO expansion. Many accusations against him regarding Kosovo proved to be false. It was said by the UN tribunal that Milosevic, who had chronic heart problems and a high blood pressure, died of natural causes.
Milosevic did not retreat his army because of NATO's 77 days of bombing. His goal was to keep Kosovo within Serbian parallel structures. Once resolution was passed, he retreated but also managed (with other politicians) to hold on to North Kosovo whose area is 1200KM2 or 11%, where 96% of its population is Serbian whose religion is Christian.

</doc>
<doc id="23015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23015" title="Gymnosperm">
Gymnosperm

The gymnosperms are a group of seed plants which includes conifers, cycads, "Ginkgo". The group may, doubtfully, include the Gnetales 
They have naked seeds, in contrast to the seeds or ovules of flowering plants (angiosperms) which are enclosed during pollination. Gymnosperm seeds develop either on the surface of scale- or leaf-like appendages of cones, or at the end of short stalks ("Ginkgo").
The gymnosperms and angiosperms together make up the spermatophytes or seed plants. By far the largest group of living gymnosperms are the conifers (pines, cypresses, and relatives), followed by cycads, Gnetales ("Gnetum", "Ephedra" and "Welwitschia"), and "Ginkgo" (a single living species).
Fossil gymnosperms include many that do not belong to the four modern groups, including the so-called "seed ferns" (Pteridosperms) and the "cycadeoids" (Bennettitales). Most of the Gymnosperms became extinct in the Cenozoic era (from 65 million years ago to present day).

</doc>
<doc id="23016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23016" title="Influenza pandemic of 1918">
Influenza pandemic of 1918

The Influenza pandemic of 1918 was a heavy pandemic of influenza. It lasted from January 1918 to December 1920. About 500 million people were infected across the world. The pandemic spread to remote Pacific Islands and the Arctic. It killed 50 million to 100 million people—3 to 5 percent of the world's population at the time. This means it was one of the deadliest natural disasters in human history.
To maintain morale, wartime censors minimized early reports of illness and mortality in Germany, Britain, France, and the United States; but papers were free to report the epidemic's effects in neutral Spain (such as the grave illness of King Alfonso XIII). This situation created the false impression of Spain being especially hard-hit. It also resulted in the nickname Spanish flu.
In most cases, influenza outbreaks kill young people, or the elderly, or those patients that are already weakened. This was not the case for the 1918 pandemic, which killed predominantly healthy young adults. Modern research, using virus taken from the bodies of frozen victims, has concluded that the virus kills through a cytokine storm (overreaction of the body's immune system). The strong immune reactions of young adults ravaged the body, whereas the weaker immune systems of children and middle-aged adults resulted in fewer deaths among those groups.
Historical and epidemiological data are insufficient to identify the pandemic's geographic origin.
The pandemic was implicated in the outbreak of encephalitis lethargica in the 1920s.

</doc>
<doc id="23017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23017" title="Brock (Pokémon)">
Brock (Pokémon)

Brock appears in the first series of the anime. In his first appearance, he has many siblings and is in charge of them and cares for them since his mother Lola is away chasing dreams and his father Flint ran away from the family. After Flint comes back, Brock then picks up and his bags and travels with Ash and Misty throughout the Kanto series. He ends up leaving the group when they get to the Orange Islands to work with Professor Ivy. He later returns and travels with Ash throughout Johto, Hoenn, and Sinnoh. He uses rock-types Geodude and Onix, as well as others like Zubat.
Brock appears in the games "Pokémon Red", "Blue", and "Yellow", and the "Red" and "Blue" remakes "FireRed" and "LeafGreen" as the gym leader of Pewter City. He gives out the Boulder Badge and uses Rock-type Pokémon. He also appears in "Gold", "Silver", and "Crystal" and the "Gold" and "Silver" remakes "HeartGold" and "SoulSilver" as a gym leader the player can face when they get to the Kanto region.

</doc>
<doc id="23022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23022" title="Zetland (lifeboat)">
Zetland (lifeboat)

The Zetland was a lifeboat in Redcar, England, and is the oldest lifeboat in the world which still exists. It was put in Redcar in 1802. In 1858, the lifeboat was given to the Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI). The boat was damaged in 1864, and was to be destroyed - however, following protest it was given to the town's people. Today, it is in its own museum.

</doc>
<doc id="23024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23024" title="Silba">
Silba

Silba is an island in Croatia. It is found between the islands of Premuda and Olib. It has an area of 15 km² and its population (as of 2001) was 265; with the village of Silba located at the narrowest point in the middle. The main administrative centre is Zadar, found on the mainland.

</doc>
<doc id="23025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23025" title="Ian Fleming">
Ian Fleming

Ian Lancaster Fleming (28 May 1908 - 12 August 1964) was a British author and journalist. He was best known for writing the James Bond spy novels. He also wrote the children's book "Chitty Chitty Bang Bang" in 1964.
Fleming was born in London to a wealthy family. He was educated at Eton College. He spent many years working in Britain's Naval Intelligence Division during the Second World War. During this time, Fleming helped with the planning and management of two British intelligence units. This experience along with his work in journalism provided much of the background to the stories in his James Bond novels.
Fleming wrote his first James Bond novel, Casino Royale, in 1952. Because of the book's success, Fleming wrote eleven more novels and two collections of short-stories about the British secret agent. 
In total, there have been twenty-three major movies based on Fleming's famous character. The twenty-fourth movie, "Spectre", is scheduled to be released in late 2015.
Fleming died of a heart attack in Canterbury, Kent.

</doc>
<doc id="23027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23027" title="1602">
1602


</doc>
<doc id="23028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23028" title="1676">
1676


</doc>
<doc id="23029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23029" title="301">
301


</doc>
<doc id="23030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23030" title="1611">
1611

Gov. Sir Thomas Dale arrives at Jamestown from England announcing new rules called "Laws Divine, Morall and Martial."

</doc>
<doc id="23034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23034" title="Raiders of the Lost Ark">
Raiders of the Lost Ark

Raiders of the Lost Ark, also known as Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark, is an American adventure movie that came out in 1981 from Paramount Pictures.
The movie was directed by Steven Spielberg, and produced by George Lucas. It stars Harrison Ford as the main character, Indiana Jones. It is the first part in the "Indiana Jones" series. 
The movie has three sequels, "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom" (1984) and "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade" (1989), and "Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull" (2008).
The movie was directed by Steven Spielberg (also from "Jaws"), and produced by George Lucas (who also made "Star Wars" and "American Graffiti").
In 1936, Indiana Jones is trying to find the golden idol in the jungle in Peru. His guide, Sapito, betrays him and tries to take the idol for himself, but is killed in one of the traps. After Jones comes out from the temple, he finds his rival Belloq and a dozen of the native people holding spears. Jones gives up the idol and runs to his airplane.
While teaching at Marshall College, the U.S. Army comes up to him and says that the Nazis are trying to find the Ark of the Covenant. Jones wants to find it first, so he goes to a bar in Nepal. His old teacher, Abner Ravenwood, was trying to find the Ark and has the headpiece to the Staff of Ra, an important piece that is needed to find it. His daughter, Marion, now runs Abner's bar and she punches him in the face because they had a romance and he ran away. She, however, comes along with him after the Nazi person Toht and his friends try to get the piece themselves.
Jones and Ravenwood fly to Cairo and recruit a man named Sallah to help him out. They start digging in the area where they think it is. The Nazis capture Ravenwood and makes Jones thinks that she is dead. Sallah and Jones do some calculations and realize that the Nazis are digging in the wrong area because their staff is too long. Jones finds the right place and starts digging, finding it in a place called the Well of Souls. However, Belloq comes back, raises the Ark, and throws Ravenwood in there. They escape.
After a battle, Jones gets the Ark back. Sallah puts it on a ship, but the Nazis on a U-boat intercept the ship and search it. Jones escapes. He then takes a big weapon called Panzerschreck and threatens to blow up the Ark as it is being loaded onto an island. Belloq calls Jones' bluff, and Jones lowers his weapon. He and Marion are then tied up as Belloq and the Nazis test the power of the Ark by opening it. The spirits inside kill everyone. Jones and Marion close their eyes and escape the spirits' anger.
At the end of the movie, the government puts the Ark inside a warehouse. The Army tells Jones that they are studying it, but Jones does not believe them. Marion tries to comfort him by saying that she will buy him a drink.

</doc>
<doc id="23044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23044" title="Ash Ketchum">
Ash Ketchum

Ash Ketchum (Satoshi in Japanese) is a character from the "Pokémon" anime. He is the main character in the television show. He often travels with his friends, Misty and Brock. He has black hair and brown eyes. His first Pokémon was a lightning-tailed mouse named Pikachu.
Named after his and "Pokémon" series creator Satoshi Tajiri, Satoshi was designed by Ken Sugimori and Atsuko Nishida, and was meant to represent Tajiri as a child. He has a character similar to him in the games, known as Red, who first appeared as the player-controlled protagonist (main character) in "Pokémon Red" and "Blue". He is a Pokémon Trainer whose goal is to capture and train creatures called Pokémon, and use the creatures' special abilities to fight other Pokémon, or use them for new ways to explore the game's world, such as instant travel between two areas. An animated version of the games later followed, with Satoshi voiced by Rica Matsumoto and was redesigned by Sayuri Ichishi.
When they were changing the show so it was easier for North Americans to understand, the character's name was changed in the anime to "Ash Ketchum", the first name taken from one of the possible names players could choose for the character in the games, and the last name tying into 4Kids early catchphrase for the series, "Gotta catch 'em all!"
Tajiri said in an interview that, between Japanese and American reactions to the series, Japanese customers focused on Pikachu, while Americans bought more items featuring Ash and Pikachu together. He said that he felt the character represented (showed) what the franchise meant, the human nature, was necessary. Ash was given a rival, Shigeru. In an interview, Tajiri said the difference between the character's relationship in the games and anime; while in the games, trainers Red and Blue were enemies, in the anime, Shigeru represented Satoshi's mentor. When asked if in either case Satoshi would beat his rival, Tajiri replied "No! Never!" However, Ash has outdone Gary as a trainer in the anime, and Gary has since become a Pokémon researcher like his grandfather, Professor Oak.
Ash's character design was first managed by Sayuri Ichishi, replaced by Toshiya Yamada during the "Diamond and Pearl" story line.
Veronica Taylor did the voice of Ash in seasons one through eight of the English version of the "Pokémon" anime. After the script was translated from Japanese, the lines were changed to fit the movements of the character's mouth (called "lip flap"). All the voices were recorded separately so Taylor was the only one there when she said her lines, which took about six to eight hours. Taylor was often the first person to record so she had to imagine how the previous line will be said. "Luckily, I work with a great director who helps with the interpretation of the line, matching of the lip flap, and consistency of the voice." Taylor enjoyed playing Ash because of his "low, husky (scratchy, deep) voice" also well as "energy and excitement".
Taylor said that Ash and the other characters "loosened up" after the first ten episodes of the anime; she believed the writers were more relaxed and felt the pressure of making sure everything was done correctly. Taylor commented: "I enjoy playing [Ash] now much more than I did in the very beginning because I can have fun with him more, and we kind of know him and can work out how he really would react. We have the classic Ash responses and things like that." Sarah Natochenny replaced Taylor in season nine when Pokémon International took over the dubbing rights (replacing and re-recording voices). In Japan, Rica Matsumoto is the voice of Ash.
Red, the silent protagonist of "Pokémon Red", "Blue", and "Yellow" and its remakes, "Pokémon FireRed" and "LeafGreen", has many names, one of which is "Red". Some others are "Ash" (later used for anime character Ash Ketchum) and "Jack". In the game, Red is a young (most people think about 10 years old) boy from Pallet Town. His adventure begins one day when Professor Oak calls the two of them to his lab and gives them each a chance to choose their Pokémon. After getting their Pokémon, Blue challenges Red to a battle. Later, Professor Oak calls both Red and Blue and gives them both a Pokédex each, and sends them on a journey to achieve his dream of capturing every type of Pokémon.
In addition to the anime, Ash has appeared in video games and manga. The only video games that Ash has appeared in to date is "Pokémon Puzzle League", where he tries to become a Pokémon Puzzle Master, and Pokémon Yellow, where you play as Ash, starting with a Pikachu. 
In the beginning, ten-year-old Ash is starting out as a beginner Pokémon trainer in Pallet Town, his hometown. After getting Pikachu as a starter Pokémon from Professor Oak, Ash left Pallet Town to start his journey. Since he left, Ash has traveled the world of Pokémon, competed in many challenges, and caught many Pokémon. He currently travels with Iris and Cilan in Unova.
Ash has improved a lot as a trainer as the series went by. However, he is still excited and strong-willed. During the first season of the series, Ash trained to catch more Pokémon than his childhood rival (person who you compete against), Gary Oak, although Gary was always shown to be the stronger trainer. He soon began to focus more on each of his Pokémon's abilities. Ash's primary enemy is a group of antagonists named Team Rocket. Ever since the second episode, "Pokémon Emergency!", two Team Rocket agents named Jessie and James, along with a talking Meowth, have tried to steal Ash's partner, Pikachu, as well as many others, but have always failed. While they fight a lot, they sometimes work together against a common enemy, like in "", where they help Ash in finding the three treasures in order to save the world.
The descriptions of Ash in the manga "The Electric Tale of Pikachu", "Pocket Monster Zensho", and "Ash & Pikachu", are much like in the anime. There are key differences in the manga, though. In "The Electric Tale of Pikachu", it is based on Ash's journey up until the end of the Orange Islands travel. Ash is usually seen traveling by himself during this manga, although he is sometimes joined by Misty and Brock in Indigo. Misty is the only one to join Ash in the Orange Islands. At the end of the series, The "Ash & Pikachu" manga is similar, although it has the episodes from the anime like "The Fortune Hunters" and "A Goldenrod Opportunity" combined, but with a few changes. In "Pocket Monsters Zensho", Satoshi (as Ash is known in Japanese) starts with Charmander instead of Pikachu. The manga ends at the Indigo Plateau, where Satoshi beats the Elite Four. Manga author Toshihiro Ono said that Ash was one of his favorite characters to draw for the series, saying "I want to go on a trip with Misty just like him! (And forget about job, rent, etc.)".
In the "Pokémon Adventures" manga, Red is a Pokémon trainer and the main character of the first stories. Red starts off in Pallet Town, eager to be a trainer, and gets a Bulbasaur (who later evolves all the way into a Venusaur) and a Pokédex from Professor Oak. He also has a Poliwhirl which he has known since childhood that evolves into a Poliwrath, and uses these two Pokémon on his adventure. He later captures a troublesome Pikachu, and, after working to gain it's trust, it becomes one of Red's top three Pokémon. Antagonists include his rival, Oak’s grandson Blue, who was given Charmander; Green, another Pokémon trainer from Pallet Town, who stole a Squirtle from Professor Oak; and Team Rocket, a group whose goal was to take over the world through Pokémon.
The book "The Japanification of Children's Popular Culture" thought of Ash as an example of customer identification, with the character doing things players of the games had to in order to go further through them. It also made clear the character's growth as the anime series went by.

</doc>
<doc id="23047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23047" title="Category:Fungi">
Category:Fungi


</doc>
<doc id="23054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23054" title="Born">
Born

Born can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="23057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23057" title="World's Fair">
World's Fair

A world's fair is a large exhibition of industry and culture. They are also called "expositions" or "expos". This type of exhibition occurs since the middle of the 19th century. The Bureau of International Expositions officially takes care of them. The "Bureau of International Expositions" is usually abbreviated BIE, from the organization's name in French: "Bureau International des Expositions".
List of official world expositions (BIE): 

</doc>
<doc id="23058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23058" title="Category:Society">
Category:Society


</doc>
<doc id="23061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23061" title="Métis people">
Métis people

The Métis (pronounced 'may-TEE' in English and 'may-TEES' in French), also known as Bois Brule, mixed-bloods, or Countryborn (Anglo-Métis), are one of the three divisions of Aboriginal peoples in Canada according to the Canadian government. Their home land is in the Canadian provinces of British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba,Ontario,Quebec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, as well as the Northwest Territories. The Métis Homeland also includes parts of the northern United States (specifically Montana, North Dakota, and northwest Minnesota). The Métis Nation are descendants of marriages of Woodland Cree, Ojibway, Saulteaux,Mi'kmaq and Menominee Indians (Native Americans) with French Canadian and/or British/Celtic settlers. Their history starts in the mid-1700's in the west and starts in the early 1600's in the east. Historically, many (but not all, only in the west) Métis spoke a mixed language called Michif. "Michif" is the Métis pronunciation of "Métis". The Métis today mostly speak English, with French as a strong second language, as well as many native language. The use of Michif is growing again thanks to the work of the provincial Métis councils.
The word "Métis" is French, and related to the Spanish word "mestizo". It means the same thing: "mixed blood"; both names come from the Latin word "mixtus", "mixed".
It is hard to say how many Métis people in Canada and the United States have Métis ancestors, but it is more than can be known.
Métis culture is an mixture of cultures of the First Nations, French Canadian, English, and Orkney/Scottish. The Métis are known for their love of fiddle playing, but traditional instruments also included the concertina, the harmonica, and the hand drum. This love for the fiddle has gone together with a kind of dancing called jigging. Traditionally, dancing included such moves as the Waltz Quadrille, the Square dance, Drops of Brandy, the Duck, La Double Gigue and the Red River Jig.
Metis people were famous for their horsemanship and breeding of horses. The RCMP Musical Ride horses dance the Quadrille as begun by the Metis and their horses.
As the Métis culture grew, a new language called Michif was spoken. This language was a result of the combining of French nouns and Cree verbs. Though a distinct language, it is spoken by few people. Some guess that the number of Michif speakers is about 1,000.
The sash, recognized as the symbol of the Métis nation in Western Canada has long been a part of Métis culture in the Maritimes. Originally made of vegetable fibres, Mi'kmaq women created colourful sashes using a finger-weaving technique. Later, the Assomption-style sashes were brought from Quebec and adopted by both Métis and Mi'kmaq alike.
The clothing worn by Métis in the 19th century included the sash or "ceinture flechée". It is traditionally about three metres in length and is made by weaving yarn together with one's fingers. The sash is worn around the waist, tied in the middle, with the fringed ends hanging. Vests with Métis beadwork are also popular. The Red River Coat came from the Metis culture.
The Métis were important in Canada's past, as fur traders who came from the east coast, voyageurs (coureur de bois), frontiersmen, pioneers, and middlemen who communicated between the First Nations peoples and cultures, and the European settlers and colonists.
The most famous Métis was Louis Riel, who led two rebellions which John A Mcdonald hated, the Red River Rebellion in 1869 in the area now known as Manitoba, and the North-West Rebellion in 1885 in the area now known as Saskatchewan. Some say these were not really rebellions. For example, in 1869 Riel was the leader of a government recognized by Canada as controlling territory that did not belong to Canada; Canada worked on the Manitoba Act with this government. After these "rebellions", land claimers and other non-Métis took away the Métis' land by taking advantage of a government program for buying it, with the government letting this happen. The province of Alberta gave some land to Métis in 1938 to fix what it thought was not fair, but Saskatchewan and Manitoba have not done the same.
Two other famous Métis leaders were Cuthbert Grant and Gabriel Dumont.
Actor August Schellenberg is of Métis descent.
Born in 1940, in northern Saskatchewan, Metis writer and filmmaker Maria Campbell brought attention to the struggles of modern-day Metis and Aboriginal people with her book, "Halfbreed" (1973), and the play, "Jessica" (1982). She has shown the sound and song of traditional stories through her work in dialect, "Stories of the Road Allowance People" (1996).
On May 7, 2004, Métis Todd Ducharme became a judge of the Ontario Supreme Court of Justice.
Other well known Canadians of Métis descent are Sharon Bruneau, a Canadian female bodybuilder and fitness model, and Kevin O'Toole, 1996 North American Lightheavyweight bodybuilding champion.
British Columbia New Democratic Party Leader Carole James is of partly Métis ancestry.
NHL star defenceman Sheldon Souray is of Métis ancestry.
Former Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin is of partly Métis ancestry.
Architect Douglas Cardinal is of Métis and Blackfoot ancestry.
Novelist Sandra Birdsell is the daughter of a Métis man and a Russian Mennonite woman and wrote her award-winning novel "Children of the Day" partly on her parents' experience in Manitoba in the 1920s-50s.
Canadian Professional Wrestler Ben Saulnier, better known for his ring name Jake Benson, is a Métis from Penetanguishene, Ontario, Canada.

</doc>
<doc id="23062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23062" title="Sangha">
Sangha

In Buddhism, the word sangha means "assembly" or "community." For Buddhists, there are two sanghas that are very important:
In Buddhism, there are three things that a Buddhist shows the greatest respect: the Buddha, the Dharma (the Buddha's teaching), and the Sangha (the Buddha's community). So, for instance, when the sangha is talked about in very old Buddhist books, the following words are often used:

</doc>
<doc id="23064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23064" title="Courteney Cox">
Courteney Cox

Courteney Bass Cox (born June 15, 1964) is an American actress. She is best known for playing Monica on the television series "Friends" and for her role in the movie "Scream" and its sequels. Cox married David Arquette between seasons 5 and 6 of "Friends", and changed her name to Courteney Cox Arquette. She later changed it back in honor of her parents.
Courteney Cox was raised in Mountain Brook, Alabama, a suburb of Birmingham. She is the daughter of businessman Richard Lewis Cox (January 28, 1931 – September 3, 2001) and his wife Courteney (née Bass, later Copeland). She has two older sisters, Virginia and Dottie, and an older brother, Richard, Jr. Her parents divorced in 1974 and her mother then married businessman Hunter Copeland (uncle to music promoter and business manager Ian Copeland). After graduating from Mountain Brook High School, Cox left for Mount Vernon College in Washington, D.C., but did not complete her architecture course. She instead pursued a career in modeling and acting.
Cox is of English, Scottish, Welsh, Irish and German ancestry.
In 1996, Cox began dating actor David Arquette. The couple married on June 12, 1999. They have one child together, a daughter named Coco Riley Arquette (born June 13, 2004). Coco's godmother is family friend Jennifer Aniston. Cox had seven miscarriages between 2001 and November 2010. She and her husband separated on December 31, 2011. Arquette filed for divorce on June 8, 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="23065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23065" title="UEFA Champions League">
UEFA Champions League

The UEFA Champions League is a football competition between the best club teams in Europe. The teams are selected because of good performances in their league matches. The teams used to have to win their countries' championship, but more than one team can play in the competition depending on how good their league is. For example: the Spanish League can get 4 Spanish clubs in the competition compared to the Kazakhstan League which can only get one team in the competition. 
Real Madrid won the Champions League the first five times it was held, still a record. They have also won the Champions League/European Cup 11 times, which is also a record.
The 1st team ever which won the UEFA Champions League and all the other titles was Barcelona, after they beat Manchester United 3-1 in 2011. The current champions are Real Madrid after defeating Atlético Madrid.

</doc>
<doc id="23066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23066" title="FA Cup">
FA Cup

The FA Cup is a national football competition between all clubs in England that are linked with the sport's governing body in that country, The Football Association. The winner of the FA Cup usually goes through to the next season's UEFA Europa League. If the winner of the FA Cup has already qualified for a European competition, then the Europa League place goes to the runner-up. If the runner-up has also qualified for a European competition, then the Europa League place goes to 6th or 7th place, depending on who won the Football League Cup. The FA Cup final is held at Wembley Stadium, and currently both semi-finals are also held at Wembley, but in the past both semi-finals were played at neutral stadiums. The FA Cup is the oldest football competition in the world and first took place in 1871.
The current holders (winners of the cup in 2014) are Arsenal football club, of London. The cup has been won 11 times by both Arsenal and Manchester United.
At the moment the F.A cup is at the semi-final stage - the matches are Aston Villa against Liverpool and Reading against Arsenal.

</doc>
<doc id="23067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23067" title="Old Trafford">
Old Trafford

Old Trafford is a football stadium in Manchester in North West England. It is home to the club Manchester United F.C. It is the biggest club stadium in Great Britain and second biggest stadium in Great Britain, with Wembley Stadium being the biggest. Old Trafford hosted most of England's home matches while Wembley was being built. It was built in 1910 and the Club has always been played there. It has costed about £60,000,000.

</doc>
<doc id="23068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23068" title="Stadium">
Stadium

A stadium is a building in which lots of people may watch an event. They are often used for football and athletics. Some stadiums are paid to add a company name to the name of their stadium. For example, "Comerica" Park in Detroit, Michigan, or the ALLTEL Stadium in Jacksonville, Florida. When people do this the company has the "naming rights" to the stadium. The name of a stadium can change when another company buys the naming rights to that stadium. 
An arena is a small indoor stadium. Arenas are often used for many different types of events. These include sports and music. 

</doc>
<doc id="23073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23073" title="Disaster">
Disaster

A disaster is something very bad that happens to people and almost always changes their lives completely. Disasters can destroy homes and many kinds of work. Disasters can be of different kinds, but most are caused by forces of nature.
These may include avalanches (where snow comes down a mountain), cold (where animals and people freeze), diseases (sicknesses), droughts (when there is no water), earthquakes (where the ground moves), famine (where there is not enough food), fire that burns things and people, flood (where rivers grow too big and invade land), hail (hard ice falls like rain), heat that lowers the water supply, hurricanes that break everything, the hyper nova of a star that kills life, an impact event where meteors hit the earth, a limnic eruption (where bad chemicals come from lakes and can kill people), landslides and mudslides (where the top of the ground moves because of extra water), sink holes (where a cave falls in), solar flares (where the sun reaches out at the earth and burns it), storm surge (where water piles up and then suddenly comes on land), thunderstorms (rain with lightning and thunder), tornadoes (currents of wind that break things), tsunami (where a wall of water comes on land), volcanoes (where lava from inside the earth comes out slowly or shoots into the air), a waterspout (like a tornado on water), or winter storms (where snow falls thick and you cannot see).
Disasters caused by humans include aviation (flying) accidents, arson (lighting a fire to burn something), CBRNs (where a country has a powerful weapon), civil disorder (where people riot or do crimes), power outages (where electricity is interrupted), public relations crises where a company must tell bad news, radiation accidents, disasters in space, a telecommunications outage (not being able to communicate), terrorism (where a group attacks civilians or says they will attack to gain something), and war (fighting with weapons between large groups).
To live through a disaster, it is important that your family and your city prepare in advance. This may be making a pack of things you need in an emergency, it may be a government sending soldiers to help, or it may be something in between.
Theories vary widely about the cause of world disasters, and while most are controversial, the amount of followers that they attract show that there is perhaps some merit behind them. One notable theorist is named Fei Weixiang. Fei's theory centers around the idea that all world disasters stem from a single source. He believes he has tracked the source to Beijing, where he currently resides.

</doc>
<doc id="23074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23074" title="Bobby Orr">
Bobby Orr

Robert Gordon "Bobby" Orr (born March 20, 1948 in Parry Sound, Ontario) is a retired Canadian ice hockey defenceman.
Bobby Orr's ice hockey skills were evident at a very early age. He was signed by the Boston Bruins at twelve. As a 14-year-old, he played junior hockey against eighteen, nineteen and twenty-year-olds. He signed his first pro contract with the Boston Bruins in 1966.
In his first professional season, he won the Calder Memorial Trophy as top rookie in the league. Orr only played 46 games in the 1967-68 NHL season because he was injured, but won the Norris Trophy. In the 1969-70 season, he scored 120 points and became the only defenseman in history to win the Art Ross Trophy, for leading the league in scoring. He also won the Hart Memorial Trophy and the Conn Smythe Trophy. In 1976, Bobby Orr was named the most valuable player in the inaugural Canada Cup Tournament. Orr was traded to the Chicago Blackhawks in 1976. He would only play 26 games over the next three seasons because of problems with his knees. 
Orr was inducted in the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1979.

</doc>
<doc id="23076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23076" title="The Muppet Show">
The Muppet Show

The Muppet Show is a variety television series. It aired from 1976 until 1981. The series starred Jim Henson's Muppet characters. Each episode featured a famous guest star.
The main characters on the series are Kermit the Frog, Miss Piggy, Fozzie Bear and Gonzo. 

</doc>
<doc id="23077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23077" title="1250">
1250

The population of the world in 1250 is around 400 to 416 million people.

</doc>
<doc id="23086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23086" title="Valencia (autonomous community)">
Valencia (autonomous community)

Valencia, officially called Valencian Community (unofficially: Valencian Country, Valencia Region, Region of Valencia, Land of Valencia; and historically: Kingdom of Valencia), is a Spanish autonomous community, in the east of the country. The population is 5,000,000 and the capital and biggest city is Valencia, with near 800,000. Valencia is also the capital of the Valencia province. The second-largest city is Alicante, with 332,000, capital of the Alicante province. The city of Elche in Alicante, with 230,000, is a very important industrial centre. Castellón, with 180,000, is the capital of the Castellón province.

</doc>
<doc id="23087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23087" title="Elx">
Elx

Elx (in Catalan) or Elche (in Spanish) is the third biggest city in Valencia, and the second in the Alicante province, in eastern Spain. The city has 215,000 inhabitants and is famous for its palm trees and the Mystery of Elx, a theatrical piece.

</doc>
<doc id="23094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23094" title="Java (programming language)">
Java (programming language)

Java is a programming language. It was first developed by James Gosling at Sun Microsystems, which is now a part of Oracle Corporation. It was released in 1995 as a part of Sun Microsystems' Java platform. The language has developed much of its syntax from C and C++. Java applications are usually compiled to bytecode (class file) that can run on any Java Virtual Machine (JVM).
Java is currently one of the most popular programming languages being used. It has about 10 million users.
Java and JavaScript are not the same thing; in fact, they are not even related. JavaScript is a scripting language which is used mainly inside of web browsers.
Java is object oriented. Unchanged C++ or C code will not work in Java, in most cases, though Java looks much like C and C++.
Java can run on many different operating systems. This makes Java platform independent. Java does this by making the Java compiler turn code into Java bytecode instead of machine code. This means that when the program is executed, the Java Virtual Machine interprets the bytecode and translates it into machine code.
Java was developed to achieve 5 main goals. These are:
The "Java platform" refers to a group of software products from Sun Microsystems. The platform is used to develop and run Java programs. The platform includes the execution engine (called a Java Virtual Machine) that allows Java programs to do the same thing on different computer systems.
This capability of being able to develop software on one platform and running it on other platforms is called "cross-platform capability".
An example Hello World program:
/**
class HelloWorldprogram {
There are many types of Java programs which run differently:
Java is commonly used to teach students how to program as a first language, yet is still also used by professionals.
The programming language Java has also been criticized. Some of the criticisms are:

</doc>
<doc id="23098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23098" title="Eon">
Eon

An eon (or aeon) is a term in Earth science for the longest periods of time. It describes a part of the Earth's existence lasting hundreds of millions of years.
A geologic eon is part of Earth's existence, made up of a number of eras of different lengths. A geologic era is made up of two or more shorter times called geologic periods. A geologic period is, in turn made up of yet shorter times called epochs. 
Geologists have given names to all of the eons, eras, periods and epochs that they have found by looking at rocks. The names given to each eon describe something about that time, or the rocks that were made at that time.
For example, we are now in the Phanerozoic eon, which comes from the Greek words for "life that we can see", that is, there were animals and plants big enough to see without a lens. This era started about 545 million years ago.

</doc>
<doc id="23101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23101" title="Bhagavad Gita">
Bhagavad Gita

The Bhagavad Gita is one of the holy books of Hinduism. It was written thousands of years ago. It has teachings said to be given by Lord Krishna (an incarnation whom many Hindus believe to be the god Vishnu in human form.) In the book, Krishna is talking to Arjuna, an archer, before the kurukshetra war begins. Krishna tells Arjuna that he must perform his duty (called dharma) for his caste, and go to fight. Arjuna hesitates because he is fighting his friends, but in the end he listens to Krishna. He will not be led into the underworld for ever for his sins because he will now be reincarnated.
It was said to be regarded one of the major books of Hinduism by 18th century. This was when European colonization was spreading over the Indian subcontinent, along with the idea of having a single holy book (like the Bible). To make a standard form of Hinduism, Bhagavad Gita was put forward and said to be the unique holy book of Hinduism.

</doc>
<doc id="23102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23102" title="Upanishad">
Upanishad

The Upanishads are some of the sacred books of the Hindu people. The Upanishads are part of a large collection of sacred books of Hindu people, called the Vedas. They are place at the end of the Vedas and they primarily deal with knowledge or wisdom. Because they deal with knowledge portion of the Vedas, they are called Jnana-Kanda (Jnana means knowledge). Also because they come at the end portion of the Vedas they are often called texts of "Vedanta" ("veda": of vedas, "anta": at the end). Upanishads form the foundation of the philosophy of Hindu religion. 
Many scholars believe that originally Upanishads are rebellion against Vedas and it has added to Vedas by its unique spiritual quest.
Upanishad means "sit down with" master to learn about the Atman(soul).
The Upanishads do not belong to a specific period of Sanskrit literature. The oldest, such as the Brhadaranyaka Upanishad and Chandogya Upanishad, may be as old as 8th century BC, while the youngest, depending on the specific Upanishad, may date to the medieval or early modern period.

</doc>
<doc id="23103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23103" title="Concert">
Concert

A concert (as in a "concert tour") is a performance in which a musician or many musicians play music together to a group of listeners (an audience). In the case of a concert of classical music there may be an orchestra. There is often an important visual element to the performance, such as with a rock concert. However, if acting out a story is an important part of the performance, then this is called "theatre" or "opera" but some concerts have dramatic, theatrical music, with lights and special effects. Informal names for a concert include "show" or sometimes, "gig" for musicians who play in lots of different concerts, with different groups. A "concert tour" is a set of concerts where the performers travel to different cities or towns.
The performers at a concert are usually raised above the level of the audience on a stage. Concerts may be held in concert halls which are built for the purpose, or they may be held in any other suitable large building such as a school hall, a nightclub, a barn or a large house or castle. Some concerts are given to very large audiences in the open air. They may take place in a field or in a stadium. The music for these “open-airs” is usually amplified by loudspeakers so that large audiences can hear it.
A concert given by just one performer (or perhaps two) is usually called a recital.
A group of concerts in one place or in one area that takes place for several days may be called a "festival". Examples are: The Proms, the Edinburgh Festival, the Glastonbury Festival etc.
Before the days of recording, a concert would have been the only opportunity most people would have of hearing concerts given by groups.
Usually people who go to a concert have to pay an admission charge. The money that is made from the ticket sales will usually go to paying the performing artistes, producers, and organisers. However, there are also benefit concerts where either the proceeds (all the ticket money) or profits (the money earned) will go to charity. Tickets for concerts can often be bought at the box-office of the concert hall or bought online. Sometimes concerts are free.
The nature of a concert will vary by musical genre and the individual performers. Concerts by a small jazz combo or small bluegrass band may have the same order of program, mood, and volume, but vary in music and dress. In a similar way, a particular musician, band, or genre of music might attract concert attendees with similar dress, hairstyle, and behavior. For example, the hippies of the 60s often toted long hair (sometimes in dread lock form), sandals and inexpensive clothing made of natural fibers. The regular attendees to a concert venue might also have a recognizable style, comprising that venue's "scene".
Some performers or groups put on very elaborate and expensive affairs, with parts of the show being similar to a theater performance. In order to create a memorable and exciting atmosphere and increase the spectacle, artists will have additional entertainment devices within their concerts. These tend to include: elaborate stage lighting; an image-magnification (IMAG) system and/or pre-recorded video; inflatables, artwork or other set pieces; various special effects, such as theatrical smoke and fog and pyrotechnics; and unusual costumes or wardrobe. Some singers, especially in genres of popular music, augment the sound of their concerts with pre-recorded accompaniment, back-up dancers, and even broadcast vocal tracks of the singer's own voice. Activities which may take place during these concerts include dancing, sing-alongs, and moshing. Some performers well known for including these elements in their performances include: Pink Floyd, Jean Michel Jarre, Sarah Brightman and KISS.
Concerts involving a greater number of artists, especially those that last for days, are known as festivals. Unlike other concerts, which typically remain in a single genre of music or work of a particular artist, festivals often cover a broad scope of music and arts. Due to their size, festivals are almost always held outdoors. A few examples of the hundreds of festivals include: Bayreuth Festival, Big Day Out, Coachella, Falls Festival, Glastonbury Festival, Mostly Mozart Festival, Newport Jazz Festival, Oxegen, Parachute Music Festival, Rock In Rio, Rockwave Festival, Salzburg Festival, Summer Sonic Festival, Tanglewood Music Festival, Woodstock Music and Art Festival, the Warped Tour, or the Umbria Jazz Festival.
A concert tour is a series of concerts by an artist or group of artists in different cities or locations. Often, concert tours are named, to differentiate different tours by the same artist and associate a specific tour with a particular album or product (for example: Michael Jackson's Bad Tour). Especially in the popular music world, such tours can become large-scale enterprises that last for several months or even years. They are seen by thousands or millions of people, and bring in millions of dollars (or the equivalent) in ticket revenues. 
Different segments of longer concert tours are known as "legs". The different legs of a tour are denoted in different ways, dependent on the artist and type of tour, but the most common means of separating legs are dates (especially if there is a long break at some point), countries and/or continents, or different opening acts. In the largest concert tours, it is becoming more common for different legs to employ separate touring production crews and equipment, local to each geographical region. Concert tours are often managed on the local level by concert promoters or by performing arts presenters.
While admission to some concerts is free, charging for tickets is very common. Historically, concerts were the main source of revenue for musicians. Revenue from ticket sales typically goes to the performing artists, producers, venue and organizers. In the case of benefit concerts, a portion of profits will often go towards a charitable organization.
Additional revenue is also often raised through in-concert advertising, from free local concerts for local sponsorships to sponsorships from corporations during major tours, such as 2009's "Vans' Warped Tour Presented by AT&T". Both Vans and AT&T would have paid significant amounts to have their company names included at the forefront in all marketing material for the Warped Tour.
Concessions and merchandise are also often sold during and after concerts, often by the venue in the case of the former, and by the performing band or artist in the case of the latter.
The highest grossing concert tour of all time is The Rolling Stones' A Bigger Bang Tour which earned approximately $558 million in between 2005 and 2007. The highest earning tour by a solo artist is the Sticky & Sweet Tour by pop artist Madonna, which earned $408 million in 2008 and 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="23106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23106" title="Palm tree">
Palm tree

Palm trees are a botanical family of perennial lianas, shrubs, and trees. They are the only members of the family Arecaceae, which is the only family in the order Arecales. They grow in hot climates.
Well known palm trees are:
There are about 2600 species of palm trees, most of them living in tropical, subtropical, and warm temperate climates.
Palms are one of the best known and most widely planted tree families. They have held an important role for humans throughout much of history. Many common products and foods come from palms. They are often used in parks and gardens that are in areas that do not have heavy frosts.
In the past palms were symbols of victory, peace, and fertility. Today palms are a popular symbol for the tropics and for vacations.
Most palm trees grow in the tropical and subtropical regions of the world. They occur from about 44° northern latitude to about 44° southern latitude. The dwarf palm ("Chamaerops humilis") occurs in southern France, the Nikau ("Rhopalostylis sapida") is a species of palm growing in New Zealand.
Most palms are a straight, unbranched stem, but sometimes a branching stem, or even a creeping vine, such as the rattan. They have large evergreen leaves that are either 'fan-leaved' or 'feather-leaved' and arranged in a spiral at the top of the trunk. The leaves have a tubular sheath at the base that usually splits open on one side when it is grown. The flowers grow on an inflorescence, a special branch just for carrying the great number of tiny flowers. The flowers are generally small and white, and are star-shaped. The sepals and petals usually number three each. The fruit is usually a single seed surrounded by flesh. The familiar coconut is the seed of a large fruit. Some kinds may contain two or more seeds in each fruit.
Over two-thirds of palms live in tropical forests, where some species grow tall enough to form part of the canopy and other shorter palms form part of the understory. Some kinds form pure stands in areas with poor drainage or regular flooding. Other palms live on tropical mountains above 1000 meters, Palms may also live in grasslands and scrublands, usually where there is water, and in desert oases. A few palms are adapted to extremely basic lime soils, while others are similarly adapted to very acidic soils.
The Coco de mer has the largest seeds of any plant, 30-50 centimeters in diameter and weighing 15-30 kilograms each. Raffia palms, with leaves up to 25 meters long and 3 meters wide, have the largest leaves of any plant. The "Corypha" palms have the largest inflorescence (flowering part) of any plant, up to 7.5 meters tall and containing millions of small flowers. The wax palm, Colombia's national tree, is the tallest palm in the world, reaching heights of 70 meters.
Palms first appear in the fossil record around 80 million years ago, during the late Cretaceous period. Some descendants from that period are still to be seen today, such as the nipa palm or mangrove palm.
Like many other plants, some palms are in danger of dying out because of human activity. The greatest dangers are from Increasingly large cities, mining, and turning forests into farmland. The harvesting of heart of palm for food also poses a threat, because it comes from the inner core of the tree, and harvesting it kills the tree. The use of rattan palms in furniture has caused a big fall in the number of rattan palms, as they are collected from the wild instead of being farmed. The sale of wild seeds to growers and collectors is another threat.
At least a hundred kinds are in danger, and nine kinds are said to have recently died out.
It is very hard to save palm seeds because they are killed by cooling them, which is the normal way of keeping rare seeds for the future. Also, planting rare kinds in parks can never truly recreate the wild areas they come from, and the plants may not do well in these parks.
The Palm Specialist Group of the World Conservation Union (IUCN) started in 1984, supported by the WWF. The group gathered a lot of information from different parts of the world. An action plan to save rare palms was made by this group in 1996.
Pests that attack species of palm trees include:
Human use of palms is as old as, or even older than, civilization itself, starting with the growing of date palms by Mesopotamians and other Middle Eastern peoples 5000 years or more ago. The Date Palm had a great effect on the history of the Middle East. Historian W.H. Barreveld wrote:
The early importance of palms in the Middle East is shown in scripture. They are mentioned more than 30 times in the Bible, and more than 22 times in the Qur'an.
Apart from the well-known coconut and date, there are other kinds of food from palms. Palm oil, Sago, heart of palm and palm wine are all eaten or drunk in different parts of the world. Palm oil is used in everything, from cosmetics to food ingredients.
South Carolina is nicknamed the Palmetto State, after the sabal palmetto, logs from which were used to build the fort at Fort Moultrie. During the American Revolutionary War their spongy wood helped stop the British cannonballs.
Coir is a coarse, water-resistant fibre from the outer shell of coconuts. It is used in doormats, brushes, mattresses, and ropes. 'Dragon's blood' is a resin used in dyes, varnishes and incense, can come from the fruit of the rattan. The "Washingtonia robusta" trees line Ocean Avenue in Santa Monica, California.
Today, palms are popular in parks and gardens in countries outside the tropics. two of the most cold-tolerant species are the Chusan palm, from eastern Asia, and the needle palm from the United States.
The palm branch was a symbol of triumph and victory in Roman times. The Romans rewarded champions of the games and celebrated success in war with palm branches.
Jews also had a tradition of carrying palm branches during festive times.
The motto of the University of Southern California is "Palmam qui meruit ferat", which means in Latin, "Let him bear the palm who has deserved it".
Palms appear on the flags and seals of several countries where they are native, including those of Haiti, Guam, Florida, South Carolina, and Samoa.
The palm has many meanings in both ancient and modern Middle Eastern religions.
Early Christians used the palm branch to symbolize the victory of the faithful over enemies of the soul, as in the Palm Sunday festival celebrating the triumphal entry of Jesus into Jerusalem.
In Christian art, martyrs were usually shown holding palms representing the victory of spirit over flesh, and it was widely believed that a picture of a palm on a tomb meant that a martyr was buried there. Origen calls the palm "the symbol of victory in that war waged by the spirit against the flesh. In this sense it was especially applicable to martyrs, the victors par excellence over the spiritual foes of mankind; hence the frequent occurrence in the Acts of the martyrs of such expressions as "he received the palm of martyrdom".
In Judaism, the palm represents peace and plenty. The palm may also symbolize the Tree of Life in Kabbalah.
The Prophet Muhammad is said to have built his home out of palm, and the palm represents rest and hospitality in many cultures of the Middle East.
Palm stems represented long life to the Ancient Egyptians, and the god Huh was often shown holding a palm stem in one or both hands.
The sacred tree of the Assyrians was a palm that represents the god Ishtar connecting heaven, the crown of the tree, and earth, the base of the trunk. The Mesopotamian goddess Inanna, who had a part in the sacred marriage ritual, was thought of as the one who made the dates abundant.
The palm tree was a sacred sign of Apollo in Ancient Greece because he had been born under one.
The palm, especially the Coconut, remains a symbol of tropical island paradise.
The palm tree also represents Oasis.
Rabindranath Tagore has written a long famous poem about a special genus of palm tree.

</doc>
<doc id="23109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23109" title="Bailiwick of Guernsey">
Bailiwick of Guernsey

The Bailiwick of Guernsey is a territory belonging to the British Crown in the Channel Islands. The bailiwick includes the islands of Guernsey, Alderney and Burhou, Herm and Jethou as well as Sark, Little Sark and Brecqhou. 
A bailiwick is a territory governed by a bailiff. The Bailiff of Guernsey is the head of the parliament, the States of Guernsey, which makes the laws for the Bailiwick. But Sark and Alderney also have their own parliaments and pass some of their own laws. 
The Casquets (49°43.′4″N, 2°22.′7″W) are a group of rocks 13 km northwest of Alderney and are part of an underwater sandstone ridge. Other rocks which appear above the water are the islets of Burhou and Ortac. Not many plants grow on them.
Lihou is a small tidal island (95 vergees; 7ha) that is part of the Channel Islands. It lies off the west coast of Guernsey and is the most westerly point in the Channel Islands. Coordinates: 49°27′38.16″N, 2°40′4.44″W. The island was bought by the States of Guernsey in January 1995. Lihou is joined to Guernsey at low tide by an ancient stone path between the island and L'Eree headland. It is part of the Parish of St. Peter's.
The country code (also used for internet) is GG.

</doc>
<doc id="23111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23111" title="Alderney">
Alderney

Alderney is one of the Channel Islands in the English Channel between England and France. It forms part of the Bailiwick of Guernsey, but its parliament, The States of Alderney, still has the right to make laws for the island.
The traditional language was Auregnais, but nobody speaks it now.
During World War II Alderney was used to house four concentration camps by the Germans, who had occupied each of the Channel Islands.

</doc>
<doc id="23112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23112" title="Category:Guernsey">
Category:Guernsey


</doc>
<doc id="23114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23114" title="Hera">
Hera

In Greek mythology, Hera was the goddess of marriage, life and love and is one of the Twelve Olympians. Hera is also a goddess of the sky and starry heavens. The Ancient Greeks said that Hera is the most beautiful goddess, even prettier than Aphrodite.
Her own special signs are the peacock, the pomegranate, and the cow. Her other important items are the crown and veil. 
Hera's parents are Cronos and Rhea. Her brothers and sisters are Zeus (who she also married), Hestia, Demeter, Hades, and Poseidon. Hera has one daughter and two sons, Hebe, Ares and Hephaestus. Athena is her stepdaughter. Hermes is her stepson. 
Hera is the queen of all the Greek gods and goddesses. She is often thought of as being wise and serious. Hera is also called 'The Queen of Heaven' because she rules over Mount Olympus where all the gods and goddesses live. Long before her marriage to Zeus, she ruled over the heavens and the Earth. She is responsible for every living thing, including the seasons and the weather. In most stories, myths and legends, Hera (Juno) is the goddess of marriage. 
The name Hera means 'beautiful lady'. Hera was the sister and wife of the harsh Zeus.
Dionysus is a son of Zeus by a human woman. Hera tried to kill him when he was a baby with the Titans. The Titans were going to make Dionysis come to him by showing him toys, and then eat him. Zeus scared the Titans away with his thunderbolts, but the Titans had already eaten everything but Dionysus's heart. Zeus used the heart to make Dionysus again. He did this by putting the heart in the womb of Semele. Dionysis was then born for a second time.
Echo is a nymph in Greek mythology. She once had the job of distracting Hera from Zeus having relationships with other women. She did this by leading Hera away and flattering her. When Hera found out she was very angry with Echo. She put a curse on her that meant that she could only speak the words of other people after she had heard them. It is due to this story that we get the meaning behind the word "echo".
Io is a mistress of Zeus. Hera almost caught Io and Zeus together, but Zeus hid Io by turning her into a cow. Hera was not fooled and said that Zeus had to give her the cow as a present. Once Io belonged to Hera she was looked after by Argus. It was Argus's job to make sure that Io and Zeus were never together. Zeus ordered Hermes to kill Argus so that Io would be free. Hermes did this by killing Argus after he had been lulled to sleep. Hera then sent a gadfly to sting Io as she walked about on the earth.
Lamia is a queen of Libya who Zeus was in love with. Hera was jealous of Lamia and turned her into a monster. When she was a monster, Lamia then killed her children. Another version of this story is that Hera killed Lamia's children and was then so sad that she turned into a monster. Hera also put a curse on Lamia. The curse was that Lamia could not close her eyes. Hera chose this curse because she wanted Lamia to always think about the picture of her dead children. Zeus then gave Lamia the gift of being able to take her eyes out, so that she could rest. She could then put them back in again afterwards.
When Hera found out that Leto was pregnant with twins by Zeus she was angry. She banned Leto from giving birth on any mainland or island that was known. Leto found a floating island, called Dellos. It was neither a mainland or a "real" island, so Leto was allowed to give birth there. Artemis was born first, who then helped Leto to give birth to Apollo. Dellos was later held down with four pillars so that it would not float around anymore. It is said to be surrounded by swans and later became a sacred place to Apollo.

</doc>
<doc id="23119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23119" title="Category:London">
Category:London

London, England - capital city of the United Kingdom

</doc>
<doc id="23124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23124" title="Mirror">
Mirror

A mirror or looking-glass is something that reflects light. One common "plane mirror" is a piece of special flat glass that a person can look into to see a reflection of themselves or what is behind them.
Sometimes, a flat piece of metal or the surface of water can act like a mirror.
The reason you are able to see yourself in a mirror is because light comes in and gets reflected, and that's how you are able to see your reflection. 
Mirrors can have magnification properties, making images appear smaller or larger than their actual size. They can also be concave (curved inward) or convex (curved outward), making the reflected angle and view to be smaller or larger, respectively. Special mirrors can make a person's appearance look quite strange. 
Also, in a mirror, writing appears backwards, as a "mirror image" of the original writing.
Mirrors are usually made out of glass with metal on the back, called "silvering" even if the metal is not silver. Some mirrors are made of polished metal, which is less breakable.
Mirrors with a curved surface can make things appear bigger or smaller, like a lens does.

</doc>
<doc id="23126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23126" title="Space probe">
Space probe

A space probe is an unmanned space mission, usually a small spacecraft sent out to find out information about a planet or other far away thing. As a tool of space exploration a planetary probe may land on the planet, or orbit around it, or merely fly by closely. Probes use radio waves to send information back to Earth or sometimes to a manned spacecraft. A space observatory leaves the Earth to look at distant objects, but does not go near the objects, so it is not called a "probe". 

</doc>
<doc id="23143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23143" title="Blue's Clues">
Blue's Clues

Blue's Clues is an American television series for young children. It airs on Nickelodeon's Nick Jr. block. It ran from September 8, 1996 to August 6, 2006, and has been repeated since then. On the show, Blue is a blue dog. Her owner was Steve, until 2002, when Steve went off to college. Now Steve's younger brother, Joe, owns her.
The producers got ideas from child development and early-childhood education. Innovative animation and other techniques helped their viewers learn. The show follows an animated blue-spotted dog named Blue as she plays a game with the host and the viewers. 
"Blue's Clues" became the highest-rated show for preschoolers on American commercial television and was critical to Nickelodeon's growth. It has been called "one of the most successful, critically acclaimed, and ground-breaking preschool television series of all time". A spin-off called "Blue's Room" premiered in 2004.
"Blue's Clues" was developed during difficult period for children's television. In 1990, Congress had passed the Children's Television Act. This required networks and TV stations to devote a portion of their programming to children's shows. The legislation set no guidelines or criteria for educational programs and had no provisions for enforcement. According to author Diane Tracy, "The state of children's television was pretty dismal. 
Since the late 1960s, PBS was one of the few sources for children's educational television programming in the U.S., and most other U.S. children's TV shows were violent and created for the purpose of selling toys. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) ruled in 1997 that the commercial broadcast networks had to air educational children's programs for a minimum of three hours per week. The cable network Nickelodeon, which had been airing programs for six- to twelve-year-olds, was not legally bound by this legislation but complied with it anyway many years before the laws and regulations were passed.
The show's producers and creators presented material in a narrative format instead of the more traditional magazine format. They used repetition to reinforce its curriculum, and structured every episode the same way. 
They used research about child development and young children's viewing habits that had been done in the thirty years since the start of "Sesame Street" in the U.S. This revolutionized the genre by inviting their viewers' involvement. Research was part of the creative and decision-making process in the production of the show and was integrated into all aspects and stages of the creative process. "Blue's Clues" was the first cutout animation series for preschoolers. It looks like a storybook with primary colors and simple construction paper shapes of familiar objects with varied colors and textures. 
Its home-based setting is familiar to American children, but has a look unlike other children's TV shows. A live production of "Blue's Clues", which used many of the production innovations developed by the show's creators, toured the U.S. starting in 1999. As of 2002, over 2 million people had attended over 1,000 performances.
Malcolm Gladwell noted that Sesame Street appealed to both children and adults, but Blue's Clues was solely aimed at preschool children. They like stories, repetition and joining in the answers. "Every" episode of Blue was tested on preschool children, and the research noted how much of the time children watched the screen. The order of clues was tested. All aspects of the program could be changed if the testing suggested it would work better some other way.
By 2002, "Blue's Clues" had received several awards for excellence in children's programming, educational software, and licensing, and had been nominated for nine Emmy Awards. It has been syndicated in 120 countries and translated into 15 languages. Regional versions of the show featuring local hosts have been produced in other countries. It was one of the first preschool shows to incorporate American Sign Language into its content. The show's extensive use of research in its development and production process inspired several research studies that have provided evidence for its effectiveness as a learning tool.

</doc>
<doc id="23179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23179" title="Ford Motor Company">
Ford Motor Company

The Ford Motor Company (often known as Ford) is an American company that makes vehicles. This company is named after its founder, Henry Ford.
These brands are also made by Ford:
In 1896, Henry Ford had an idea to make a Quadricycle, the first "horseless carriage" he built. This four-wheeled vehicle was very different from cars we drive now. It was very different even from vehicles Ford produced just a few years later. Even so, this was the start of Ford's career as a businessman. Until the Quadricycle, Ford's work had been experimental and theoretical. For example, in the 1890's, Ford built a gas engine on his kitchen table — just an engine with nothing to power. Enough people liked the Quadricycle, and much could be done with the it, so it led to the beginning of Ford's business.
Ford Motor Company started on June 16, 1903, when Henry Ford and 11 business helpers signed papers to form the company. Their first Ford production car, the Model A, was sold in Detroit, Michigan a few months later. (This Model A should not be confused with their more famous Model A, which came out in 1927). With $280,000 (around 165 000 pounds), the early businessmen made what was to become one of the world's largest companies. Few companies changed the history and development of industry and society in the 20th century as much as Ford Motor Company.
Ford Motor Company's most important contribution to automotive manufacturing was the (moving) assembly line. First implemented at the Highland Park plant (in Michigan, US) in 1913, this new method let each workers to stay in one place, to do the same job repeatedly as the vehicles went by on the assembly line. The line proved to be very efficient; it helped the company make more cars, and make them cheaper than other car companies could do at the time. Before using the assembly line, Ford made 12,000 Model T's in a year. With the assembly line, Ford could make 12,000 Model T's in just two days. Ford had discovered how to make more cars that more people could afford to buy. He even paid his workers higher salaries than other car companies and still made money.
Henry Ford insisted that the company's future lay in the production of affordable cars for a mass market. In 1903, the company began using the first 19 letters of the alphabet to name new cars. In 1908, the Model T was born, and it was sold for 19 years. By selling 15 million Model T's, Ford Motor Company became a giant company which spanned the globe. They built plants in the Soviet Union, Japan and other places. Ford started making farm tractors, trucks and school buses. In 1925, Ford Motor Company bought the Lincoln Motor Company. It uses that name to build luxury cars. In the 1930's, the name "Mercury" was given to its mid-priced cars. Ford Motor Company was growing.
The 1920s
The 1930s
1932 Ford Model B Coup
The 1950s
The 1960s
The 1970s
The 1980s
The 1990s 
The 2000s
Current

</doc>
<doc id="23185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23185" title="Rastafari movement">
Rastafari movement

A Rastafarian (often called a Rasta) is a member of the Rastafari movement. Most Rastafarians live in the Caribbean, most notably Jamaica.
Rastafarians say that Haile Selassie I of Ethiopia, is Jah (shortened from Jehovah). They say that Jesus has returned again in the form of Haile Selassie I, or Jah, as he promised in the Bible, and he will deliver them to Zion, their name for paradise or Ethiopia.
There are several things that define a Rastafarian: they do not drink alcohol, they do not cut their hair, they spiritually smoke marijuana, they have a strict all-natural (often vegetarian) diet, and they believe in Jah and Zion.
Their diet is called "I-tal" derived from the word "vital", and is something like Jewish kosher, but sometimes with no meat at all.
Dreadlocks are a common hairstyle of Rastafarians. For them, dreadlocks are an expression of spirituality: the term "dread" refers to a "fear of the Lord".
Naturality is an important part of the Rastafari way of life. They want to return to Africa and live naturally. They believe that smoking marijuana helps them to get in touch with Jah, and their way of life is improved when they practice meditation.
Many reggae musicians are part of the Rastafari movement, including the famous musician Bob Marley, who died in 1981. Rapper Snoop Dogg became a Rastafarian in 2012. He has made an album of reggae music.

</doc>
<doc id="23190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23190" title="John Constable">
John Constable

John Constable (East Bergholt, Suffolk 11 June 1776 – London, 31 March 1837) was an English painter and artist. 
His family had plenty of money because his father owned a business running corn mills. Constable's father wanted his son to take over the business after him, but Constable started painting at an early age, and convinced his father to let him follow art as a career.
He married Maria Bicknell in 1816, and they had seven children. She died in 1829 of tuberculosis.
His paintings are treasures of British art, but in his lifetime his work was appreciated more in France. Constable's most famous painting, "The Hay Wain" (now in the National Gallery in London), was first shown at the Paris Salon in 1824. He had to wait until he was 52 years old before the Royal Academy voted that he should be a member.
Constable was influenced by the French painter Claude Lorrain. His most famous paintings are landscapes showing the countryside around Dedham and Flatford, where his father's mills were.
Constable's idea was to use nature itself, rather than imagination. He told Leslie, "When I sit down to make a sketch from nature, the first thing I try to do is to forget that I have ever seen a picture".
Although Constable produced paintings throughout his life for the market of patrons and R.A. exhibitions, on-the-spot studies were essential. He never just followed a formula. "The world is wide", he wrote, "no two days are alike, nor even two hours; neither were there ever two leaves of a tree alike since the creation of all the world; and the genuine productions of art, like those of nature, are all distinct from each other".
Constable painted many full-scale preliminary sketches of his landscapes in order to test the composition in advance of finished pictures. These large sketches, with their free and vigorous brushwork, were revolutionary at the time. The sketches for and convey a vigour missing from his finished oil paintings of the same subjects. Compare the composition of this preliminary study with the finished painting: . Possibly more than any other aspect of Constable's work, the oil sketches reveal him to be an avant-garde painter, one who showed that landscape painting could be taken in a totally new direction.
Constable's watercolours were also remarkably free for their time. The almost mystical "Stonehenge", 1835, with its double rainbow, is often considered to be one of the greatest watercolours ever painted. When he exhibited it in 1836, Constable appended a text to the title: "The mysterious monument of Stonehenge, standing remote on a bare and boundless heath, as much unconnected with the events of past ages as it is with the uses of the present, carries you back beyond all historical records into the obscurity of a totally unknown period".
In addition to the full-scale oil sketches, Constable completed numerous studies of landscapes and clouds, to become more scientific in his recording of atmospheric conditions. , for example, prompted a critic to write: "the atmosphere possesses a characteristic humidity about it, that almost imparts the wish for an umbrella". 
The sketches were the first ever done in oils directly from the subject in the open air. To convey the effects of light and movement, Constable used broken brushstrokes, often in small touches, which he worked over lighter passages. This gave an impression of sparkling light over the landscape. One of the most expressionistic and powerful of all his studies is "Seascape Study with Rain Cloud", painted in around 1824 at Brighton, which captures with slashing dark brushstrokes an exploding shower at sea. Constable also became interested in painting rainbow effects, for example in "Salisbury Cathedral from the Meadows", 1831, and in "", 1833.
To the sky studies he added notes, often on the back of the sketches, of the prevailing weather conditions, direction of light, and time of day, believing that the sky was "the key note, the standard of scale, and the chief organ of sentiment" in a landscape painting. In this habit he is known to have been influenced by the pioneering work of the meteorologist Luke Howard on the classification of clouds. "I have done a good deal of skying", Constable wrote to Fisher on 23 October 1821.
Constable once wrote in a letter to Leslie, "My limited and abstracted art is to be found under every hedge, and in every lane, and therefore nobody thinks it worth picking up". He could never have imagined how influential his honest techniques would turn out to be. Constable's art inspired not only contemporaries like Géricault and Delacroix, but the Barbizon School, and the French impressionists of the late nineteenth century.

</doc>
<doc id="23214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23214" title="Alyssa Milano">
Alyssa Milano

Alyssa Milano (born December 19, 1972) is an American actress. She is best known for her appearance in the 1980s television series "Who's The Boss?". She was one of the stars of The WB's series "Charmed" since 1998.
Milano was born in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn. She moved to Great Kills, Staten Island early in her life.

</doc>
<doc id="23215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23215" title="A Beautiful Mind (movie)">
A Beautiful Mind (movie)

A Beautiful Mind is a 2001 biographical movie about the mathematician John Nash and his experiences of schizophrenia. It is set in Massachusetts and New Jersey. It stars Russell Crowe, Ed Harris, Jennifer Connelly, Christopher Plummer, and Paul Bettany. It was directed by Ron Howard.
The movie is based on a book by Sylvia Nasar.
The movie won four Academy Awards, including the Academy Award for Best Picture. Connelly won for Best Supporting Actress.

</doc>
<doc id="23220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23220" title="McGurk effect">
McGurk effect

The McGurk effect shows how hearing and vision are used for speech perception. Named after the man who found it, Harry McGurk (23 February 1936 – 17 April 1998), it says that people hear speech with their ears, and use other senses to help interpret what they hear. The McGurk effect happens when watching a video of a person saying /ga/ with a sound-recording saying /ba/. When this is done, a third sound is heard: /da/.
The McGurk effect is robust: that is, it still works even if a person know about it. This is different from some optical illusions, which do not work anymore once a person can see it.
The McGurk effect describes a phenomenon that shows how speech perception is not dependent only on auditory information. Visual information in the form of reading the lips is also taken into account and combined with the auditory information that is heard to produce the final stimuli perceived. This can get particularly interesting when the auditory information of one sound, paired with the spoken lips of another sound, ultimately combine to form the perception of a third different sound.
When humans perceive speech, they not only take in auditory information but also visual information as well in the form of reading lips, facial expression, and other body bodily cues. Usually, these two sources of information are consistent with each other so the brain simply combines them to form one unified perceived stimuli. When the McGurk effect is tested and the incoming information from the ears and eyes differ, the brian tries to make sense of the contradictory stimuli which ultimately results in a fusion of both. In humans, information received from the eyes dominates other sensory modalities, including audition, so for instance when 'ba' is heard and 'ga' is seen, the resulting stimuli is heard is 'da'. The resulting stimuli is what happens when the brain tries to make sense of the two different sets of information.
Interestingly enough, around the same time that Harry McGurk and John Macdonald discovered what is now known as the McGurk effect, another British researcher also stumbled upon this phenomenon. Barbara Dodd discovered a similar effect with audio-visual speech interpretation but instead it was with the visual cue of 'hole' and the audio cue of 'tough' which ultimately generated the audio perception of 'towel'. These discoveries in audio-visual speech perception ultimately changed the way scientists and researchers view the interaction of different senses in the brain.
Infants also show signs similar to the McGurk effect. Obviously you cannot ask the infant what they hear since they cannot verbally communicate yet but by measuring certain variables such as their attention to audiovisual stimuli, effects similar to the McGurk effect can be seen. Very soon after infants are born, sometimes even within minutes of birth, they are able to imitate adult facial movements; an important first step in audiovisual speech perception. Next comes the ability to recognize lip movements and speech sounds a couple of weeks after birth. Evidence of the McGurk effect is not visible though until about 4 months of age, with a much stronger presence at around 5 months after birth. To test this effect on infants, infants are first habituated to a stimuli. Once the stimuli gets changed, the infant exhibits an effect similar to the McGurk effect. As infants grow older and continue to develop, the McGurk effect also becomes more prominent as visual cues start to override purely auditory information in audiovisual speech perception.
Although the McGurk effect has been primarily studied in English because of its origins in English speaking countries, research has now spread to others countries with different languages as well. In particular, the comparison between English and Japanese has been prominent. Research has shown that the McGurk effect is much more prominent in English listeners compared to Japanese listeners. One strong hypothesis for this is the difference between cultures and how each culture behaves and interacts. Japanese culture is notable for being politeness and avoiding direct eye or face contact when interacting.
This phenomenon has also been studied in French Canadian children and adults with similar findings. When compared to adults though, children tend to show less susceptibility to the McGurk effect since their primary sense of speech perception is dominated by auditory information. This is evident in children scoring lower on lip reading tasks when compared to adults. Nevertheless, the McGurk effect was present in certain contexts but the effects were much more variable than when the tests were run on adults.
Although the McGurk effect's importance may seem isolated to just psychological researchers and scientists, this phenomenon has been expanded to everyday audio and visual speech perception as well. Two researchers by the name of Wareham and Wright conducted a study in 2005 that may suggest that the McGurk effect can influence how everyday speech is perceived. This is especially important in witness testimony where the observations and accounts of the witness are usually expected to be accurate and correct. With this information, witness testimonies now must be interpreted with the notion that the witness may be unaware of their own inaccurate perception.

</doc>
<doc id="23221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23221" title="J. M. W. Turner">
J. M. W. Turner

Joseph Mallord William Turner (Covent Garden, London, 23 April 1775 – Chelsea, London, 19 December 1851) was an English painter and artist. He was one of the greatest artists of landscape painting, with a great mastery of light and colour.
His father was a maker of wigs. His mother was ill with mental problems, and the young Turner was sent to live with his uncle in Brentford, where he first started to paint.
Turner became a student at the Royal Academy of Art school in London when he was 14 years old. He was accepted into the Academy a year later. He had a watercolour painting in 1790 in the Academy's important art show. He had only been studying for a year. In 1802, at the age of only 28, he was elected a member of the Royal Academy, and later became its Professor of Perspective. 
In 1802, Turner travelled around Europe, visiting France and Switzerland. He also went to the Louvre in Paris. During his life, he often travelled across Europe, visiting Venice in Italy several times. As his personal style developed, he began to produce paintings that were generalised or exaggerated in form and colour, rather than realistic or detailed. These caused much argument as to their artistic value, but nowadays are his best loved works. On his death, he left 300 oils and 20,000 watercolours to the British nation. Some of his watercolours are the most abstract or generalised of his paintings.
Turner never married, although he had two children with his mistress Sarah Danby. For much of his life, he lived with his father, who helped him in his studio until he died in 1829.
In his early career, Turner was influenced by the painters Claude Lorrain and Nicolas Poussin, who painted "historical" landscapes.
Turner became interested in natural catastrophes, and natural phenomena such as sunlight, storm, rain, and fog. He was fascinated by the violent power of the sea. His paintings revolve around the light of the sun, shown in infinite variety. His work showed some of the ideas of the impressionists decades before they arrived on the scene. Monet, in particular, studied Turner's methods. 
His most famous paintings include "The Fighting Temeraire tugged to her last berth to be broken up". Often called just "The Fighting Temeraire", this is a picture of a famous warship that was used in the Battle of Trafalgar. Other pictures include "Rain, Steam and Speed", which shows a steam train crossing a bridge, and "Snowstorm" which shows a steamship in a snowstorm trying to get into a harbour. In order to get the right feeling into this painting, he had himself tied to a ship's mast during a storm, so that he could see what it was like. Some of his most famous paintings show the roughness of nature, with bleak landscapes and violent storms.
But also there is beauty and a sense of calmness in pictures such as Crossing the Brook, a stunning scenic view of the Tamar Valley and River from New Bridge near Gunnislake in Cornwall, painted in 1815, a view which can still be admired today. 
As he grew older, Turner's behaviour became a bit odd, and he became depressed quite often. He died in Chelsea on 19 September 1851, and was buried next to the painter Joshua Reynolds in St Paul's Cathedral.
Even while Turner was alive, some people thought he was a genius. Some people complained that the pictures he painted when he was older were not realistic, and some even joked that they could have been painted with a mop. However, most think that his way of painting shows complete mastery.

</doc>
<doc id="23242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23242" title="Mug">
Mug

A mug is a container for drinking. It has one handle on the side. It is usually made of ceramic or steel. People might talk about getting "a mug of beer" at a local pub. They might also drink a mug of coffee in the morning.

</doc>
<doc id="23312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23312" title="Claude Monet">
Claude Monet

Claude Monet (14 November 1840 – 5 December 1926) was a French impressionist artist.
One of his most famous paintings was called "Water Lilies", which he repeated many times in various conditions.
Monet was born in Paris, France. His father wanted him to help run the family's grocery business. However, Monet wanted to be an artist. When he was young he met the painter Eugène Boudin who taught him to use oil paints, and encouraged him to paint out of doors.
Monet joined the French Army in Algeria for two years from 1860-1862. When he became ill he left the army to study art at university. He did not like the way art was taught, and joined the painter Charles Gleyre in his studio. He met other artists here, including Pierre-Auguste Renoir and Alfred Sisley. They shared their ideas about painting.
In 1866 Monet had a child with Camille Doncieux, who had been his model. They married in 1870. In 1870 he moved to England to escape the Franco-Prussian War, and in 1871 he moved to Argenteuil near Paris where he painted some of his most famous pictures. In 1873 he painted "Impression, Sunrise", showing the sea at Le Havre. When this picture was shown in 1874 one critic took its title and called the group of artists "Impressionists". He intended to make fun of the artists, but the name has stuck and this is what people today call this style of painting.
In 1879 Camille died of tuberculosis. Alice Hoschedé decided to help Monet by taking care of his children as well as her own. In 1883 they moved to a house in Giverny where Monet planted a large garden. Monet married Alice in 1892.
Monet found that his garden inspired him to paint pictures of it, particularly the water lilies. Alice died in 1911, and his son Jean was killed in World War I in 1914.
Monet used broad brush strokes to build up his pictures, and painted quite quickly to try and get the idea of the light he could see into his paintings. If you go very close to one of his pictures it is hard to see what it shows, but if you stand back everything becomes clear.
His later paintings include series, in which he paints the same subject in different lights. For example, he painted a series of pictures of haystacks in a field, and another series of pictures of the west front of Rouen Cathedral.

</doc>
<doc id="23322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23322" title="Video">
Video

Video is a technology. It records moving images onto some medium. The recorder may be a separate machine such as a videocassette recorder (also called a VCR) or built into something else such as a video camera. 
A popular 20th century videotape format was VHS. It was used by many people to record television programmes onto cassettes. This is usually an analog format. In the 21st century digital recording is used more. 
By extension, a video clip is a short movie. A music video usually stars someone who recorded an (audio) album. One purpose is to promote the album.

</doc>
<doc id="23334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23334" title="Exodus">
Exodus

Exodus is the second book in the Torah, or Books of Moses. Exodus in Hebrew is called "Shmowt", which means "names." 
Exodus means 'going out' in Latin. It is about how the Hebrew people were led out of Egypt by God. Moses, their leader, hears God's words and in turn tells the Israelites. Exodus ends with God's laws and his instructions on how to build a holy container called the Ark of the Covenant.
After the Hebrews went to Egypt to get food, the old Pharaoh died and a new Pharaoh came to power and made each Hebrew a slave. The Pharaoh made the Hebrews work for them very hard, and told his soldiers to throw their babies into the Nile River. A baby; Moses, who was put in a reed basket set adrift on the Nile and later rescued by an Egyptian princess, grew up in Pharaoh's palace, later killed an Egyptian slave-driver. He escaped from Egypt and lived away from his people in Midian for Jethro, his father-in-law.
One day, while Moses was tending his flocks, God appeared in a burning bush to Moses and instructed him to lead the Israelites out of Egypt. As Moses had no confidence in doing this task, God gives him his brother Aaron to help him. Aaron was a good talker and helped Moses speak to the Pharaoh.
When he returned to Egypt, Moses asked the Pharaoh to let the Israelites go, but the Pharaoh refused. Through God's power, Moses causes ten plagues to come on Egypt.
The last plague was the death of all the firstborns in Egypt. Only the Israelites' firstborns were spared, as they had the blood of a young lamb on their door, so God did not let the Angel of Death enter their houses (12:23) The Pharaoh finally decided to let the Israelites go. 
While the Israelites were crossing the Red Sea, the Pharaoh changed his mind and decided to pursue them with his troops. The Israelites passed safely as Moses parted the Sea with his staff by God's power but once they all passed the sea closed, leaving all the Pharaoh's troops to drown.
Later, at Mount Sinai, Moses received the law and the Ten Commandments from God. The Israelites, however, sinned against God by worshiping an idol (a golden calf). Moses broke the first two stone tablets of the Ten Commandments in anger. God later gave him another two. He also told Moses how to build the Ark of the Covenant.
The book has been filmed several times, as "The Ten Commandments" and "The Prince of Egypt". 

</doc>
<doc id="23340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23340" title="Stretching (body piercing)">
Stretching (body piercing)

Stretching is a word used to describe a kind of body modification. It is when a person widens a pierced hole in their body.
Stretching is usually done a little bit at a time, so the pierced hole would not bleed or get infected. 
There are some common ways used to stretch piercings, of different origins and useful for different people.
Body jewellery is measured in gauges from 20g up to 000g; sizes larger than that are measured in fractions of inches. In Europe they are measured in millimeters.
The table below is not exact, but very close.

</doc>
<doc id="23341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23341" title="Chernobyl disaster">
Chernobyl disaster

The Chernobyl disaster was a nuclear disaster which occurred on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Pripyat, Ukraine. At that time, Ukraine was part of the Soviet Union. 
The event was the worst accident in the history of nuclear power. Because there was no containment building to trap the radiation, radioactive fallout drifted over parts of the western Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Scandinavia, the UK, and the eastern United States. Large areas of Ukraine, Belarus, and Russia were badly contaminated. About 60% of the radioactive fallout landed in Belarus. About 350,000 people needed to be evacuated (moved away) and moved to other places where they could live after the accident.
Before the accident, there was a planned power reduction. By the beginning of the day shift, the power level had reached 50%. Following this, randomly, one of the regional power stations went offline. It was then requested that the further power reduction would be postponed. Despite this request, the reduction and preparations for a test that was to happen continued.
The accident occurred when the fourth reactor suffered a huge power increase. This led to the core of the reactor exploding. Due to this explosion, large amounts of radioactive materials and fuel were released into the atmosphere. This lit the combustable graphite moderator on fire. This fire greatened the release of radioactive material, which was carried by the smoke of the fire, into the environment and atmosphere.
Reactor 4 is now covered by a "sarcophagus", made from steel and concrete to stop the escape of more radiation from elements such as corium, uranium and plutonium, as well as radioactive dust. The sarcophagus is to be replaced with the New Safe Confinement structure. 
The accident raised concerns about the safety of the Soviet nuclear power industry. The Soviet Union slowed down the process of making its nuclear industry bigger for some time. The Soviet government also had to become less secretive as a result of the accident. Since then, Russia, Ukraine and Belarus have become separate countries. Those countries have been burdened with continuing costs for decontamination (removing the radiation) and health care because of the accident. Exposure to radiation leads to a higher risk of getting cancer. It is difficult to accurately tell the number of deaths caused by the events at Chernobyl. The Chernobyl accident happened when some workers were testing the safety of the reactor. Some of the devices that stopped the reactor from blowing up were switched off. Then, there was a power surge; they lost control and the reactor blew up.
Most of the people affected have not died yet. When and if the people involved die of cancer, or related diseases, it will be hard to tell if this was because of the accident. A 2005 IAEA report tells of 56 direct deaths; of those, 47 were accident workers and 9 were children who died of thyroid cancer. The report estimates that up to 4,000 people may die from long term diseases related to the accident. Greenpeace, along with others, thinks that the study's conclusions may be false.

</doc>
<doc id="23342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23342" title="Prypiat">
Prypiat

Prypiat (Ukrainian: При́п'ять, "Pryp”iat’") is an abandoned city in northern Ukraine. It lies in Kiev Oblast, near the border with Belarus. It was home to Chernobyl nuclear power plant workers. The city was abandoned in 1986 after the Chernobyl accident, the worst nuclear reactor accident in history. Before being abandoned, about 48,000 people lived in the city. The city was founded in the 1970s, when the nuclear power plant opened.
The site today is practically a museum showing the late Soviet era. With entirely abandoned buildings, including abandoned apartment buildings (four of which were yet to be used), swimming pools and hospitals, everything inside remains, from records to papers to children's toys and clothing. Prypiat and the surrounding area will not be safe for people to live there for several centuries. Scientists think that the most dangerous radioactive elements will take up to nine hundred years to decay sufficiently to render the area safe.
The city is entirely accessible and is relatively safe on the road, although it is unsafe to go around the city without a dosimeter. The doors of all the buildings are open to reduce the risk to visitors, although many have accumulated too much radioactive material to be safe to visit. 

</doc>
<doc id="23344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23344" title="Thyroid cancer">
Thyroid cancer

Thyroid cancer is cancer in the thyroid gland.
There are four types of thyroid cancer:
Thyroid cancer can be diagnosed in a few different ways:
"Basic Tests:"
"Special Tests:"

</doc>
<doc id="23345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23345" title="Containment building">
Containment building

Containment building is a building with a nuclear reactor in it. It is built around the reactor to keep the radiation from getting out, if something happens to the reactor. The containment building is the last barrier to the radiation getting into the environment. Containment systems for nuclear power reactors are distinguished by size, shape, materials used, and suppression systems. The kind of containment used is determined by the type of reactor, generation of the reactor, and the specific plant needs.
The Chernobyl accident was very bad partly because Soviet reactors had no containment buildings.
The diagram shows the order of defense layers for a nuclear reactor. The first layer of defense is the inert, ceramic quality of the uranium oxide itself. The second layer is the air tight zirconium alloy of the fuel rod. The third layer is the reactor pressure vessel made of steel more than a dozen centimeters thick. The fourth layer is the pressure resistant, air tight "containment building". The fifth layer is the exclusion zone around the reactor.

</doc>
<doc id="23346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23346" title="Chernobyl">
Chernobyl

Chernobyl (, also known as Chernobyl) is a city in northern Ukraine, near the border with Belarus. 
It was a major communications node and important center of trade and commerce, especially in the 19th century. The city is 14.5 kilometers (9 miles) south by south-east of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, which became known for the Chernobyl disaster. The plant exploded on 26 April 1986; clouds of radioactive particles were released, and the severely damaged containment vessel started leaking radioactive matter. More than 100,000 people were evacuated from the city and other affected areas. Despite the fact that radiation is still being emitted from the nuclear disaster site, the 800-year-old city of Chernobyl survives. As of 2004, government workers still police the zone. They try to clean up radioactive material. Hundreds of people — mostly the elderly — have decided to live with the dangers and have returned to their homes in the zone's towns and villages. Their population was highest in 1987, when there were more than 1200 people. In 2003, there were about 300. There are currently 704 people living in Chernobyl, the houses that have people inside have a sign on the outside saying, Owner of this house lives here. 

</doc>
<doc id="23356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23356" title="Category:Cities in Ukraine">
Category:Cities in Ukraine


</doc>
<doc id="23359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23359" title="Klaus Wowereit">
Klaus Wowereit

Klaus Wowereit (born 1 October 1953) is a German politician. He was born in Berlin. He has been the SPD Governing Mayor of Berlin since 2001. He and his party won 31.4% of the votes in the 2001 state elections, and he started a coalition government with Linkspartei.PDS. He was President of the Bundesrat in 2001/02. He was re-elected as Governing Mayor in 2006, and has carried on the coalition.
He supports Kurt Beck as "Kanzlerkandidat", the SPDs nominee for the Chancellorship of Germany. Many people wanted Wowereit to be the candidate, not so many after he decided to stay in coalition with Die Linke after the 2006 elections.
He is openly gay.
Klaus Wowereit attended the Ulrich-von-Hutten-Oberschule in Berlin until 1973. He went on to study law at the Free University Berlin, passing his first State Exams in 1981 and the second set in 1984.
After university Wowereit spent three years as a civil servant in the Senate Office (that is, Ministry) of the Interior. At the age of 30, he was became the youngest councillor in the city of Berlin when he was elected a councillor of Tempelhof Borough. After eleven years he stood for the Berlin House of Deputies Abgeordnetenhaus which is City's Landtag or state legislature in 1995. In December 1999, he was elected chairman of the SPD parliamentary group in the Abgeordnetenhaus. Since June 2001 he has served as Governing Mayor, "Regierender Bürgermeister", of Berlin.
Wowereit is one of the most famous German politicians who has openly declared himself homosexual. He came out at a convention of the Berlin SPD just before the 2001 mayoral elections, when he said "" ("I am gay, and it's good that way".) This is now a famous quotation in Germany. He probably came out so that the tabloid newspapers could not publish what they thought were embarrassing stories about him.
Wowereit is not the only gay mayor of a large European city. Bertrand Delanoë, the mayor of Paris, is openly gay, and Ole von Beust, the former mayor of Hamburg, is also gay.
In September 2007, Wowereit published an autobiography called "...und das ist auch gut so.", after his famous coming out phrase.

</doc>
<doc id="23360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23360" title="Sino-Soviet split">
Sino-Soviet split

The Sino-Soviet split (1960–1989) was a time when the relations between the People's Republic of China and the Soviet Union weakened during the Cold War. Eventually, China's leader, Mao Zedong, decided to break the alliance with the Soviet Union.
The Soviet leader, Stalin, wanted to help spread communism, especially in China. During the Chinese Civil War, the Soviets gave weapons and supplies to the Kuomintang, but once the Communists were about to win, Stalin and the Soviet Union decided to help the Communists. This is one of the main reasons for the Sino-Soviet split since the Soviets didn't help Mao and the Communists from the start. 
Suddenly, in 1953, Stalin died. Mao saw Stalin as the leader of Communism, but also had a negative relationship with the Soviet Union throughout his time as leader. The new Soviet leader, Nikita Khrushchev, was not like Stalin. He did not want capitalism to collapse like Stalin did. Mao got angry about this, and he wanted Nikita Khrushchev to help him fight the imperialists. Khrushchev said no, and then Mao decided that if Khrushchev was not going to cooperate, they would not work with each other anymore.
There was peace between the USSR and China, but they were suspicious of each other. They were no longer allies, and Mao's supporters said that it had been a victory.

</doc>
<doc id="23368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23368" title="Awake">
Awake

Being Awake is a daily brain state. It is being in a state of consciousness where one is conscious about the surroundings. The person (or animal) can respond to these surroundings by communicating, walking, eating, and more. 
Being awake is the opposite of being asleep. When you are asleep most responses to your surroundings are turned off, and you are unconscious of what is happening around you.
Animals are awake for some hours each day or night. Animals which are awake during the day are called diurnal. Animals which are awake during the night are called nocturnal.
Diurnal animals include humans. They wake up in the morning and are awake during the day. When they are awake they can eat and move. 

</doc>
<doc id="23372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23372" title="Category:Chinese people">
Category:Chinese people


</doc>
<doc id="23374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23374" title="Liu Bei">
Liu Bei

Liu Bei (161-223) was the founder of the Chinese Shu Han dynasty and its first emperor.
He went into battle against the Yellow Scarves rebellion in 184, along with his sworn brothers Guan Yu and Zhang Fei. Later (in 190) he joined Gongsun Zan against the evil Dong Zhuo who had seized the Han emperor Xian. After Dong lost, the emperor was in the clutches of his followers—until Cao Cao saved him and seized control over him. Cao Cao tried to conquer all of China for the emperor but in fact wanted to conquer it for himself. He defeated Liu Bei once at the Battle of Changban in 207 but was not able to win the Battle of Red Cliffs against the united forces of Liu Bei and Sun Quan, a warlord in the South.
Sun Quan granted Liu Bei some land in the West of his domain, and the two agreed to fight Cao Cao again if necessary.
From 211 to 214, Liu Bei conquered the country Ba Shu in the West. Because he had now an empire of his own, Sun Quan demanded his western regions back but Liu Bei declined. This made Sun Quan quite angry.
After several useless battles against Liu Bei's general Guan Yu, Cao Cao chose to make a union with Sun Quan. They attacked Guan Yu with their allied forces and overthrew him in 219. Liu Bei was mad and swore revenge for the death of his brother and the loss of an important part of his empire.
When Cao Cao died in 220, his son Cao Pi forced Emperor Xian of Han to give up his power. Cao Pi declared himself Emperor of the Wei Dynasty. Liu Bei found that offensive, for he was a member of the royal family of Han and considered himself the righteous Emperor of China. That's why he declared himself emperor of the Shu Han in 221. The next year, Sun Quan claimed the title "Emperor of Wu" for himself.
Liu Bei was really mad at Sun Quan's arrogance. In 222 he opposed him in the Battle of Yiling but failed due to Lu Xun's (a Wu general) great tactics. After his defeat Liu Bei got ill and died a year later. His son Liu Shan followed him as emperor.

</doc>
<doc id="23375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23375" title="Cao Cao">
Cao Cao

Cao Cao (曹操 155-220) was a Chinese general. He managed to control the last Han Emperor Xian and conquered the whole northern China.
Cao Cao gathered an army in 184 to fight against the Yellow Scarves rebellion. After the Dong Zhuo had seized the Emperor Liu Bian in 189 and deposed him in favour of his brother Liu Xie (Emperor Xian), a coalition of local warlords all over the country arose against Dong. It was called by Cao Cao and led by Yuan Shao, and many powerful warriors joined it.
After Dong Zhuo's death through the hands of his foster son Lü Bu, Emperor Xian was controlled by Dong's associates. He fled to Chang'an (the old capital) in 195 but almost starved to death. Cao Cao saved him in 196 and brought him to his own place at Xuchang.
With the emperor under his control, Cao Cao managed to slay most of the minor warlords in Northern China and was even able to defeat Lü Bu and the powerful Yuan Shao at Guandu in 200. He tried to conquer the south, too, but Liu Bei and Sun Quan opposed him and defeated his forces in the "Battle at Red Cliffs". Cao Cao led several campaigns against the south, but with fairly low success. Also, he managed to get the famous general Guan Yu killed by Sun Quan's general Lü Meng.
Cao Cao died in 220, and his son Cao Pi followed him in control of the emperor. He eventually deposed him the same year and became Emperor Wen of Wei, making his father posthumously "Emperor Wu of Wei".

</doc>
<doc id="23376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23376" title="Zhang Fei">
Zhang Fei

Zhang Fei (167-221) was a warrior in ancient China. He fought along with his brothers Liu Bei and Guan Yu for the restoration of the Han Dynasty.
In the battles against the Dong Zhuo, Zhang fended off the enemy general Lü Bu and was greatly rewarded by his then-ally Cao Cao. When Cao Cao tried to crush Liu Bei's folk in 207, Zhang Fei drew the whole enemy forces back by yelling really loud. Some historians believe that the yell crushed the bridge in front of him, some say that the leading general of Cao Cao's army died of fear.
Zhang Fei was later killed by his own officers, because after the death of his brother Guan Yu, he became a drunk.

</doc>
<doc id="23377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23377" title="Dong Zhuo">
Dong Zhuo

Dong Zhuo (董卓 139-192) was a reckless general in ancient China. He took control over the imperial court of Han in 189. He was later killed by his own foster son, Lu Bu.
Dong Zhuo had been a successful warrior and general since his youth. Anyway, he was defeated by Yellow Scarves rebels in 184 and demoted. After the death of Emperor Ling, the eunuchs kidnapped the young follower Liu Bian and his brother Liu Xie. Dong Zhuo freed them and intimidated the kidnappers so they committed suicide by drowning in the Yellow River. Dong then brought the emperor and his brother back to the capital Luoyang and seized perfect control over the court. Because Liu Bian seemed too stupid to him, Dong deposed him and made his brother Liu Xie emperor instead (Emperor Xian). In 190 he poisoned Liu Bian.
Dong Zhuo became arrogant and violent. He even forced the emperor to move to the city Chang'an as capital instead and burned Luoyang. Because of that, many warlords and Han generals all over the country formed an alliance to destroy Dong's reign. After some fierce battles, Lü Bu knew that his position was lost, and killed his foster father Dong in 192.
Dong's associates Guo Si and Li Jue continued to control the emperor, but they started struggles and the emperor escaped. He was rescued by Cao Cao in 196.

</doc>
<doc id="23378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23378" title="Sun Quan">
Sun Quan

Sun Quan (孫權 182-252) was an ancient Chinese warlord and founder of Eastern Wu in 222.
His brother Sun Ce conquered Southeastern China from 197 until his death in 200. Sun Quan was in charge at the age of 18. He continued to expand his empire and drew back the forces of Cao Cao in the "Battle at Red Cliffs" (along with Liu Bei). To have better opportunities against the north, he gave his Jing Province to Liu Bei so that he could create an empire on his own. Liu Bei conquered the other western territories from 211 to 214 and set his brother Guan Yu in charge of defending Jing.
Now that Liu Bei had his own empire, Sun quan demanded his western province back from him, but Liu Bei declined. In alliance with Cao Cao, Sun Quan's general Lü Meng captured Guan Yu in 219 and slayed him along with his son, Guan Ping.
After Cao Cao's son Cao Pi started the Wei Dynasty in 220, Liu Bei also wanted to be an emperor and declared himself Emperor of Shu Han in 221. He considered himself the righteous heir of the abdicated Han emperor Xian. Sun Quan declared himself "King of Wu" in 222. Liu Bei found that offensive, and launched a great attack against Sun Quan but failed—due to Lu Xun's great tactics. He died a year later.
Under the regency of the Shu prime minister Zhuge Liang, the alliance between Shu and Wu was renewed. Both empires did not have to worry about their defense in the west/east after that.
In 229, Sun Quan declared himself "Emperor of Wu". His attacks on Wei were all in vain but he managed to develop his country very well. After his son Crown Prince Sun Deng died in 241, he made his now-oldest son Sun He Crown Prince. All along the next nine years, He would have trouble with his brother Sun Ba who wanted to be Crown Prince instead. Their fight even caused the honorable general Lu Xun to die of anger in 245.
In 250, Sun Quan was sick of his sons' struggles and deposed them both as princes. Instead he made his youngest son Sun Liang Crown Prince. Two years later, Sun Quan died at the age of 70. For his follower was too young to rule on his own, the official Zhuge Ke became regent.

</doc>
<doc id="23381" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23381" title="Conference">
Conference

A conference is an event where people get together to discuss things. For example, scientists usually present their findings at conferences. Many other types of people other than scientists attend conferences also. Business people sometimes come together to talk about things. Using modern media, like the Internet, or the telephone people can talk to each other that are not in the same place. This is then called a conference call. Very often, digital video cameras can be used to transmit images, as well as sound.

</doc>
<doc id="23385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23385" title="Pasture">
Pasture

A pasture is a piece of land. Usually specific grasses and herbs are grown on it. Then livestock is put on for "grazing". Rangeland is similarly used, but less controlled.

</doc>
<doc id="23386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23386" title="Hectare">
Hectare

A hectare is a unit of measurement. It measures the area of something, most often the area of land, or of very large buildings. It is equal to 10,000 square metres, or a square with sides of 100 by 100 metres. It is equal to 2.47 "acres". 100 hectares is one square kilometre. Therefore, a farm with 200 hectares of fields has 2 square kilometers of fields.
The word "hectare" means 100 ares. "Hecto" is the metric system prefix meaning 100 times. "Are" is a metric system unit of measure for area, equal to 100 square metres. 
A square plot of land with 100–metre length for a side, is one hectare. It is about the size of a European football field.

</doc>
<doc id="23387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23387" title="Zhuge Liang">
Zhuge Liang

Zhuge Liang (181-234) was a Chinese politician and general of the ancient Shu Han Dynasty.
He helped his lord Liu Bei conquer the country "Ba Shu" from 211 to 214, along with Pang Tong. After Liu Bei's death in 223, Zhuge Liang was a regent for the new emperor Liu Shan. Zhuge Liang attempted to conquer the Southern Wei territories five times but had no success. He died in 234, leaving the regency to Jiang Wei.

</doc>
<doc id="23389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23389" title="Wavelength">
Wavelength

A wavelength is the length of the shortest repeating part of a "sine wave". All waves can be formed by adding up sine waves. That is, every wave is a total of sine waves, which may be identified by Fourier analysis.
Waves are everywhere. Examples of waves include:
The sine wave has a pattern that repeats. The length of this repeating piece of the sine wave is called the wavelength. The wavelength can be found by measuring the length or distance between one peak of a sine wave and the next peak. The wavelength can be found in many other ways too. 
There are other properties of waves and sine waves, such as their frequency, amplitude, phase, and speed. 
A symbol used for wavelength most often is the Greek letter "lambda" (λ).

</doc>
<doc id="23391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23391" title="Francis Scott Key">
Francis Scott Key

Francis Scott Key (August 1, 1779 - January 11, 1843) was an American lawyer and poet. He is best known for writing "The Star-Spangled Banner", which is the national anthem of the United States of America, a country in the continent North America He went to college at St. John's College in Annapolis, Maryland. 
His mother was Ann Phoebe Penn Dagworthy (Charlton) and his father was Captain John Ross Key.
Key was an owner of slaves, and in the later administration of Andrew Jackson he was the United States Attorney in Washington, D.C.

</doc>
<doc id="23397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23397" title="Latex">
Latex

Latex is found in the sap of the Para rubber tree. The tree takes its name from the state of Pará, Brazil. Latex is used to make rubber. Brazil, in particular the city of Manaus grew rich on latex. Today, much natural latex comes from Southeast Asia, particularly Malaysia and Indonesia. Rubber can be produced synthetically (this means that it can be made in factories).

</doc>
<doc id="23398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23398" title="Drum">
Drum

A drum is a musical instrument that is struck with the hands or with a drum stick (a stick for hitting a drum). A collection of drums and cymbals is called a drum kit, or drum set. 
Drums are used to keep a steady beat in a song. They give music of many kinds a sense of feeling. For example, to make a song to be slow or fast, the drums play slower or faster.
A drum is a percussion instrument, which means it makes a noise by being hit. There are many types of percussion such as cymbals and cowbells; even a simple piece of wood can be considered percussion. 
The drum kit is a group of drums & cymbals to make beats for music. Drum kits are used in most types of popular music, including rock, jazz, country, blues, and many others.

</doc>
<doc id="23400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23400" title="Galician">
Galician

Galician might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="23402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23402" title="Pashupatinath">
Pashupatinath

Pashupatinath is one of the most sacred temples of Hindu. It is in Kathmandu, the capital city of Nepal. It is the temple of the Hindu god Shiva.

</doc>
<doc id="23403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23403" title="Invasion">
Invasion

Invasion is a word that comes from Latin. Originally, it meant that something "goes in" (as in military occupation) of a foreign territory. So far, the following uses are known:
One of many examples is the importing of rabbits to Australia. As they had no enemies, they did what rabbits do best. They multiplied. To get rid of them, people then thought about importing foxes as well.

</doc>
<doc id="23407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23407" title="Olive tree">
Olive tree

The olive tree is a small tree. Its scientific name is "Olea europaea". A long time ago, it came from the coastal areas of the eastern Mediterranean, from Syria and the maritime (next to the sea) parts of Asia Minor and northern Iran at the south end of the Caspian Sea. It has been farmed for a very long time. The Ancient Greeks were farming it. They spread the trees to the western part of the Mediterranean. 
Olive trees like soil with lots of chalk in it. They grow best on limestone slopes and crags in coastal climate. 
The Wild Olive is a small tree or shrub that grows up to 8–15 m tall with thorny branches. The leaves are opposite, 4–10 cm long and 1–3 cm wide. The leaves have a dark greyish-green color above and are pale with whitish scales below. The small white flowers, with calyx and corolla divided into four parts, two stamens and bifid stigma, are mostly on the last year's wood, in racemes coming up from the axils of the leaves. The fruit is a small drupe 1–2 cm long, thinner-fleshed and smaller in wild plants than in orchard cultivars.
Today, olive trees are grown for the following reasons:
In total, about 17.3 million tons of olives are produced every year. 60% of all olive trees are in the European Union. The top producers are:
Very probably, the first olive trees were grown in Syria. From there they spread rapidly. In Ancient Greece, the tree was considered to be holy. Some city states (polis) like Athens punished people for cutting down olive trees.
The branches in the flag of the United Nations are those of an olive tree.
In Christianity, the olive tree can be a sign of peace, because according to the Bible, a dove brought an olive branch to Noah to show that the flood was over.
The olive tree is the National tree of Palestine.

</doc>
<doc id="23410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23410" title="Hello">
Hello

Hello is a greeting in the English language. It is common between two people in a non-formal (informal) setting, but can also be used in a formal setting. There are also many other ways of saying "hello", for example a wave of the hand, a salute or a bow (both very formal), a handshake (a little formal) or a high five (very informal). Saying "hello" is a sign of politeness, especially when it is said in a friendly way. "Hello" was first used in writing in about 1833.
Hello is also used by many people when they are answering a phone call. Sometimes, people can say "Good morning" in the morning or noon, "Good afternoon" in the afternoon,"Good evening" in the evening, and "Good night" in the night-time/when it's dark. These greetings are normally used in more formal situations.
Some more versions of the word "hello" include; Hi, Hallo, Hiya, Howdy, Hey, Howya, 'Sup, Yo, 'Yello, Herro, Yeller (mainly in the southwestern United States) and many more.
On instant messaging, people greet others using "hello" or other versions of it including hi, sup, hey, and many others.
The opposite of hello is goodbye, which is said when people leave.
The German word for "hello" is "Hallo", the French word is "bonjour", the Spanish word is "Hola". The Chinese word is 你好 (Nǐ hǎo).

</doc>
<doc id="23413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23413" title="Annexation">
Annexation

Annexation (Latin: "ad" "to" and "nexus" "joining") means one territory is being merged with another. The territory being annexed is usually the smaller or weaker one, which becomes an inseparable part of the bigger one.

</doc>
<doc id="23414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23414" title="Manchuria">
Manchuria

Manchuria (Northeast China) is the homeland of the Manchu people (related to the Chinese and Mongolians). To the Chinese, the region is simply known as the Northeast (Chinese: 东北, Dōngbĕi). Manchuria is made up of China's three northeastern most provinces: Liaoning, Jilin, and Heilongjiang. Parts of Manchuria were annexed by the Russian Empire in the past, and they are now ruled by Russia.
Manchuria is a translation of the Chinese word Manzhou (). 
In the early history, Manchuria was under the control of many Chinese kingdoms. Later, the Manchu people formed their own empire called Jurchen. They eventually invaded China and founded the Chinese Qing Dynasty. 
Although China signed a treaty with Russia, the Russians took advantage of the weak Qing government and annexed the part that touches the Pacific Ocean, where the modern Chinese city of Dalian stands today. Japan then attacked the Russians to take this important piece of land. Later, Japan invaded the Chinese part of Manchuria too (see Manchukuo). This eventually led to World War II.
After the war, Manchuria was returned to China and Russia.
Manchuria is in north-east China and the Russian Far East. The land has rocks, grasslands, mountains, and deserts. The weather is very extreme. It is very hot and humid in the summer, and is very cold and dry in the winter.

</doc>
<doc id="23416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23416" title="Tuva">
Tuva

Tuva is part of Russia. Another way to spell it is Tyva. It is in south Siberia. During the Chinese Qing Dynasty, Tuva was part of the province of Mongolia. From 1921 to 1944, Tuva was a separate country called Tannu-Tuva. In 1944, it joined Russia.
Before they joined Russian, Tuvans were nomadic people. They traveled on horses. Therefore, horses were very important in Tuvan culture. Tuvan art often shows horses. And many Tuvan songs are about horses. Tuvans lived in yurts (round, felt covered houses that are easy to take apart and carry). Even today, a few Tuvans are nomads. Ethinically they are Mongols. However, during the Soviet period, they were washed their brain as they are different from Mongols.
Tuvans are famous for their throat singing. Throat singing is a very old art. And it is very special because a throat singer can sing two or more notes at the same time. Throat singers imitate the sounds of nature. They can sound like a bird or like the howling wind. One style of throat singing has a rhythm like a horse trotting. For many centuries only men were allowed to be throat singers. But now women are throat singers too. Singing more than one note at the same time is sometimes called overtone singing.
Tannu-Tuva was also famous for its colorful and unusual postage stamps. Some were triangles. Many showed interesting pictures of life in Tuva.
Tuvans speak their own language, which is called Tuvan. It is a Turkic language. And it is related to Turkish. Before Tuva joined Russia, the Tuvan language used the Roman alphabet, which is the same alphabet that English uses. Since Tuva joined Russia, they use the Cyrillic alphabet, which is the same alphabet that Russian uses. Because Tuva is part of Russia, Tuvans also learn to speak Russian.
Kyzyl is the capital city of Tuva. The name means "red" in Tuvan. Tuvans say that Kyzyl is the exact center of Asia. And there is a monument to the Center of Asia in the capital. But others think that Kyzyl is not the exact center of Asia. Nevertheless, Tuva is in Central Asia. And Tuvan culture is similar to the culture of their neighbors in other Central Asian countries.
Tuva is in a mountain basin between the Sayan Mountains and the Tannu-Ola Mountains. In the east, Tuva has forests. In the west, the land is drier.
The average temperature in January is −32 °C (−25.6 °F). The average temperature in July is +18 °C (64.4 °F).
Many Tuvans have two religions. One is Shamanism. The other is Tibetan Buddhism. Many Tuvan people believe in both.

</doc>
<doc id="23417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23417" title="Senkaku Islands">
Senkaku Islands

Senkaku Islands, also called , Diaoyu Dao Islands () and Diaoyutai Islands (), are uninhabited islands in the East China Sea.
The group of islands, islets and rocks is east of mainland China, northeast of Taiwan, west of Okinawa, and north of the southwestern end of the Ryukyu Islands. The islands are about 200km from Taiwan, and about 300 km from Okinawa.
Control over these islands and rocks is disputed. The dispute issues are complex. 
The Japanese government describes the islands as part of Japan. 
The islands are also described as part of China. There are conflicts in the positions of the People's Republic of China (PRC) and the Republic of China (ROC). The PRC and ROC have a shared history. 
The United States occupied the islands from 1945 to 1972 when they reverted to Japan. The official US position is neutral in a dispute among Japan, China and Taiwan.

</doc>
<doc id="23419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23419" title="Sino-Japanese War">
Sino-Japanese War

There were two wars known as the Sino-Japanese War (between China and Japan):

</doc>
<doc id="23422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23422" title="World Youth Day">
World Youth Day

World Youth Day (WYD) is a gathering (meeting) of young Catholic people. It was created by Pope John Paul II in 1984 "to consolidate the ordinary youth ministry by offering new encouragement for commitment, objectives which foster ever greater involvement and participation". In other words, the Pope wanted young Catholics to come together, and work together.
The day is celebrated around the world every year, and every two or three years, a gathering is held at a different place. Thousands of people (including young people) from many countries go to this celebration. Because of World Youth Day, many young people are more likely to work together around the world.
The last World Youth Day celebration was held in 2005, in Cologne, Germany, the country in which Pope Benedict XVI was born in. About 1,200,000 attended the event. In 2008 World Youth Day was held in Sydney, Australia and in 2011 in Madrid,Spain and in 2013 in Rio,Brazil

</doc>
<doc id="23424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23424" title="Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden">
Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden

Carl XVI Gustaf (born 30 April 1946) is the king of Sweden. He became king on 15 September 1973. He is married to Silvia Sommerlath who is half German, half Brazilian. With her he has three children:
Internationally King Carl XVI Gustav is best known for presenting the Nobel Prizes every year.

</doc>
<doc id="23429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23429" title="Age of Empires III">
Age of Empires III

Age of Empires III is a 2005 computer game made by the company Ensemble Studios. It is published by Microsoft. It is the third game of the Age of Empires games, and has better graphics than the ones before it. It is a real-time strategy game. The plot is from 1500 to 1860. An expansion pack, "Age of Empires III: The WarChiefs", was released for the game on October 17, 2006.
It was published several years ago (October 18, 2005), so it will run on almost any recent computer. It is only compatible with Microsoft Windows XP and Windows Vista. The game is on three CDs.

</doc>
<doc id="23432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23432" title="Bank of China Tower">
Bank of China Tower

The Bank of China Tower (BOC Tower, 中銀大廈) is one of the most well known skyscrapers in the central parts of Hong Kong. In the tower, the Bank of China has their offices.
The tower was designed by the architect I. M. Pei and is 315 meters high. On the tower there is two masts that is 369 meters (1209 feet) high.

</doc>
<doc id="23433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23433" title="Ulan Bator">
Ulan Bator

Ulaanbaatar, or Ulan Bator, is the capital and largest city of Mongolia. The city is an independent municipality not part of any provinces, and its population as of 2008 is just over 1 million. Located in the north central part of the country, the city is at an elevation of about 1310 m in a valley on the Tuul River. The city is the bigger point in the country for culture, industry and finance. Ulaanbaatar is connected by highway to all the major towns in Mongolia and by rail to the Trans-Siberian Railway and Chinese railroad network. The city was founded in 1639 as a Buddhist monastery center and, in the 20th century, grew into a major manufacturing center.
Ulaanbaatar has had numerous names in its history. From 1639–1706, it was known as Örgöö (Mongolian: Өргөө, "residence"), and from 1706–1911 as Ikh Khüree (Mongolian: Их = "great", Хүрээ = "camp"), Da Khüree or simply Khüree. Upon independence in 1911,the city's name changed to Niislel Khüree (Mongolian: Нийслэл = "capital", Хүрээ = "camp"). When the city became the capital of the new Mongolian People's Republic in 1924, its name was changed to Ulaanbaatar, literally "red hero", in honour of Mongolia's national hero Damdin Sükhbaatar, that liberated Mongolia from Ungern von Sternberg's troops and Chinese occupation with the Soviet Red Army. In Europe and North America, Ulaanbaatar was generally known as Urga (from "Örgöö") or sometimes "Kuren" (from "Khüree") or "Kulun" (from 庫倫, the Chinese transcription of "Khüree") before 1924.
Ulaanbaatar is at about 1350 meters (4430 ft) above sea level. For this high elevation, and for the high latitude, and location hundreds of kilometres from any coast, Ulaanbaatar is the coldest national capital in the world, with a subarctic climate.
Most important events:
- 1639: The city was Founded.
- 1778: the city settled for good at its current location, near the confluence of the Selbe and Tuul rivers and beneath Bogd Khan Uul, back then also on the caravan route from Beijing to Kyakhta.
- 1911: Mongolian leaders in Ikh Khüree for Naadam met in secret and resolved upon independence from China for their country. On December 29, 1911, the Bogd Khan was declared ruler of an independent Mongolia.
- 1919: the city was occupied by Chinese troops
- 1921: the city has been controlled first by Baron Ungern's Whites Soldateska, and in July to the Soviet-supported Mongolian troops controlled by Sükhbaatar. 
- October 29, 1924: the town was renamed to Ulaanbaatar ("red hero") in honour of Sükhbaatar.
- 1956: The Transmongolian Railway, connecting Ulaanbaatar with Moscow and Beijing, was completed.
- Many of the temples and monasteries of pre-socialist were destroyed following the anti-religious purges of the late 1930s.
- After the growth of 1990 many buildings as, cinemas, shops were built. Now the biggest cinema is Urguu and Tengis cinema. Main shopping district is 3rd and 4th distirict.
- 2008, Ulaanbaatar was the scene of riots after the opposition Mongolian Democratic Party protested its defeat by the MPRP in parliamentary elections.
Ulaanbaatar is divided into nine districts (Düüregs): Baganuur, Bagakhangai, Bayangol, Bayanzürkh, Chingeltei, Khan Uul, Nalaikh, Songino Khairkhan, and Sükhbaatar. Each district is subdivided into Khoroos. The capital is governed by a city council (the Citizen's Representatives Hural) with forty members, elected every four years. The city council appoints the mayor. Ulaanbaatar is governed as an independent first-level subdivision of Mongolia, separate from Töv Aimag, the province that surrounds Ulaanbaatar.
Ulaanbaatar has five major universities: 
And a big library, The National Library of Mongolia.
Most important places in Ulaanbaatar:
"Choijin Lama Monastery" and "Gandantegchinlen Khiid Monastery" are two of the very few in Mongolia to escape the destruction of Mongolian monasteries under Khorloogiin Choibalsan.
Ulaanbaatar has several museums dedicated to Mongolian history and culture.
The official symbol of Ulaanbaatar is the , a mythical bird in both Buddhist and Hindu mythology called Khan Garuda or "Khangar'd" by Mongols.
The city’s flag is sky blue with the arms in the center.

</doc>
<doc id="23434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23434" title="Pyongyang">
Pyongyang

Pyŏngyang (평양 직할시 in hangul, 平壤直轄市 in hanja) is the capital and biggest city in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea or DPRK (North Korea). The government does not want people to know anything so Pyongyang is one of the few places in North Korea that foreigners (outside people) can travel (go) to.
Pyongyang is a closed city meaning that North Koreans can't just go there. They must apply for a permit or be high up in the military. It is the most advanced city in the country which allows tourists to go there. Pyongyang does not really show what North Korea is really like as the government uses it to give the illusion to tourists that the country is not poor. The city is kept very clean and littering is strictly not allowed. The city is home to the DPRK's only fast food restaurant which only the most privileged North Koreans go to (a meal would be worth around a weeks wages for the average person there). Many shops there have plastic food on display in the windows to make tourists think that there is lots of food in the country when in fact, food is scarce. 
The city has lots of nice attractions like the statues of Kim Il-Sung and Kim Jong-Il at Mansudae hill. The Juche tower is one of the most recognisable landmarks in the country, towering over the Taedong River across from Kim Il-Sung square. It also has the worlds deepest subway system. Pyongyang has many large parks and wide avenues as well as a large sports stadium. The city is also the location of the embalmed bodies of the two leaders, Il-Sung and Jong-Il in the Kumsusan Palace of the sun.
Pyongyang is home to the 105-storey hotel, Ryugyong Hotel. Construction started in 1987 and the exterior was completed twenty-four years later in 2011. It was originally intended as a propaganda device to make North Korea look wealthy when a South Korean recently built the world's then-tallest building. The hotel to this day remains empty and does not accept guests. It is a scary monument to the government's problems. 
The population of Pyongyang is 3,255,388.

</doc>
<doc id="23439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23439" title="IBM">
IBM

International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) is a company from the United States that makes and sells software, computer hardware, infrastructure services, and consulting services. IBM is one of the biggest Information Technology companies in the world. IBM has had the most patents of any technology company for many years, and has made many important inventions and discoveries that have improved computers.
IBM began in 1911, it was called the "Computer Tabulating Recording Company". It was set up by a man named Charles Flint. There were no computers at that time, so IBM made other machines, such as typewriters. In 1924, the company changed its name to International Business Machines (IBM). In 1937, the company's Tabulating Machines were used by the United States government to record information about Americans, so they could make a new law called the Social Security Act.
During World War II, IBM made guns for the American army. During the 1960s, IBM computers were used for American space exploration. From the 1980s until 2005, IBM made personal computers. In 2005, IBM sold their personal computer manufacturing to a Chinese company called Lenovo. Today, IBM mostly makes software, and some powerful supercomputers.

</doc>
<doc id="23441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23441" title="Mary (mother of Jesus)">
Mary (mother of Jesus)

In Abrahamic religions, Mary (Judeo-Aramaic מרים Maryām "Bitter"; (Maryam); Septuagint Greek Μαριαμ, Mariam, Μαρια, Maria; ) was the mother of Jesus. Her story is told in the New Testament of the Bible. 
Christian beliefs about Mary are based on the Bible. The Gospel of Matthew and the Gospel of Luke say that Mary was a young woman who was engaged to be married to a man called Joseph. The Gospel of Luke says that the angel Gabriel came to Mary to tell her that she would give birth to a son. The angel told Mary that she should call her son Jesus. The angel also said that Jesus would save people from their sins.
Mary asked the angel how she could be pregnant, since she was a virgin. The angel told her that God had made her pregnant through a miracle.
In the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a town of Galilee called Nazareth, to a virgin betrothed to a man named Joseph, of the house of David, and the virgin’s name was Mary. And coming to her, he said, “Hail, favored one! The Lord is with you.” But she was greatly troubled at what was said and pondered what sort of greeting this might be. Then the angel said to her, “Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. Behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall name him Jesus. He will be great and will be called Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give him the throne of David his father, and he will rule over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end.” But Mary said to the angel, “How can this be, since I have no relations with a man?” And the angel said to her in reply, “The holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. Therefore the child to be born will be called holy, the Son of God. And behold, Elizabeth, your relative, has also conceived a son in her old age, and this is the sixth month for her who was called barren; for nothing will be impossible for God.” Mary said, “Behold, I am the handmaid of the Lord. May it be done to me according to your word.” Then the angel departed from her.According to the law that Israelites follow, Joseph had the right to divorce Mary publicly, but he did not. In a dream Joseph was told that Mary conceived by the Holy Spirit. 
At this time, the Roman Emperor, Caesar Augustus, made a law that everyone in the Roman Empire had to pay a tax. Everyone had to go back to the town that their family came from, to have their name put on the tax lists. Joseph came from Bethlehem, which was called The City of David. So Joseph took Mary to Bethlehem. There, she gave birth to the baby, Jesus. She gave birth in an animal shed, because Mary and Joseph could not find a room to stay in.
Thirty-three years later, Jesus was killed by crucifixion. Many of Jesus' apostles were scared of the Roman soldiers and ran away. However, Mary stood by the cross and was with Jesus when he died. As he was dying, he told the young disciple John to care for Mary as if she was his own mother and the words were "Women,this is your son."This is your mother". On the third day after Jesus' death, Mary went to Jesus' tomb with other women. They saw that the stone was rolled away from the tomb, and his body was gone. An angel told the women that Jesus had risen and is alive.
Mary continued to meet with the early church after the Ascension. (Acts 1:14)
Mary is given honor in the Christian faith. She is especially honored as "the Mother of God" in the Roman Catholic Church She is also honored as "Theotokos" (roughly translated as "the one who gave birth to God") in the Eastern Orthodox Church. In Christianity, Jesus is thought to be both fully God and fully man. 
Christians do not worship Mary, because they believe that only God should be worshipped. However, some Christians - mainly Roman Catholics and Orthodox Christians- venerate her, which means they pray to her and respect her acceptance of God's will by willingly giving birth to Jesus.
Mary is also given honor by Muslim(s) because the Qur'an says that she was a virgin when she gave birth to Jesus. Muslims honor Jesus as a great prophet. 
Mary is often called "the Blessed Virgin Mary" by Roman Catholics. There are many feast days which honor the Virgin Mary. For example, the "Nativity of the Blessed Virgin" on 8 September remembers her birth. Catholics also celebrate the Immaculate conception, and Mary as Queen of Heaven on August 22.
Christian art often shows the Virgin Mary. Many paintings show Mary with the baby Jesus. These paintings are known as Madonna and Child pictures. 
Many people who pray to Mary use a prayer called the Hail Mary. The first part of the prayer honors Mary: "Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou amongst women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus." The second part of the prayer asks for Mary's help: "Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners, now and in the hour of our deaths. Amen."
Protestants believe Roman Catholics give Mary too much honor. Orthodoxy takes a middle view.

</doc>
<doc id="23443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23443" title="Quake (video game)">
Quake (video game)

Quake is a first-person shooter video game that was released by id Software on July 22, 1996. It was the first game in the popular "Quake" series of video games.
"Quake" is about killing demons and zombies, but also has multiplayer deathmatch. It is very much like the video game Doom that id Software made before Quake.
There are 8 weapons in "Quake."

</doc>
<doc id="23445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23445" title="Kunya">
Kunya

A kunya (Arabic:كنية) is a name which is honorably given to the mother or father of an Arabic child. Kunya is pronounced koon-ya. A married person (especially ladies) are called by their kunya name, which is "abu" (father) or "umm" (mother) plus the name of their first son. Their whole name is their name plus their kunya. For example, "Umm Ja'far Aminah" is the mother of Ja'far. The kunya precedes the personal name.

</doc>
<doc id="23456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23456" title="Wake">
Wake

Wake could mean several things:

</doc>
<doc id="23458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23458" title="Zen">
Zen

Zen is a Japanese school of Mahayana Buddhism. Buddhism was first brought to China from India, by Bodhidharma. It developed in China, into Zen, in the 6th century. From China it spread to Vietnam, Korea and Japan. 
Zen is a Japanese word translated from the Chinese word Chán, which means "meditation". 
Zen uses meditation to help practitioners go beyond simply thinking about Zen. The goal in Zen is to attain "satori". This Japanese word translates as "enlightenment". The practice also includes using riddles, called Koans. Koans are also designed to help the practitioner not just engage in rational thought. The traditional Japanese place to learn Zen is a Zen monastery. 
Japanese Zen scholars such as D.T. Suzuki became well known in the West. Suzuki spent over fifty years teaching Zen to the world with a series of books in English.In the 1960s in California, Aldous Huxley, Alan Watts, and others promoted the philosophy. From there it spread to many parts of the western world. Zen is now well established outside of Japan and China. Many Zen centers exist in the US and Europe.
Zen is now associated with some design styles, like Minimalism. The Japanese gardens found at Zen monasteries in Japan are an example of this style. They are called Zen rock gardens. They are not directly part of the teachings of Zen.

</doc>
<doc id="23469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23469" title="Scots">
Scots

Scots, which is sometimes incorrectly called Scottish English, is a West Germanic language, very similar to English, that is spoken in Scotland. A spin-off, Ulster Scots can be found in the north of Ireland. It is quite different from the Scottish Gaelic language, which is a Celtic language.
There have been disagreements about the linguistic, historical and social status of Scots. Focused broad Scots is at one end of a scale, with Scottish Standard English at the other. Scots is generally regarded as one of the ancient varieties of English, yet it has its own distinct variations.
Northumbrian Old English was established in what is now southeastern Scotland as far as the River Forth by the seventh century. The region was part of the Anglo-Saxon kingdom of Northumbria. Early Scots began to diverge from Northumbrian English in the twelfth and thirteenth century. There was immigration of Scandinavian-influenced Middle English-speakers from the North and Midlands of England.
Later influences on the development of Scots were from Romance languages via ecclesiastical and legal Latin, Norman and later Parisian French due to the Auld Alliance as well as Dutch and Middle Low German influences due to trade and immigration from the Low Countries. Scots also includes loan words resulting from contact with Gaelic.
From the thirteenth century Early Scots spread further into Scotland through the burghs established by King David I. The growth in prestige of Early Scots in the fourteenth century, and the decline of French in Scotland, made Scots the prestige dialect of most of eastern Scotland. From 1610 to the 1690s during the Plantation of Ulster large numbers of Scots-speaking Lowlanders, some 200,000, settled there. In the core areas of Scots settlement, Scots outnumbered English settlers by five or six to one. Southern Modern English was adopted as the literary language after 1700, while "Modern Scots" is sometimes used to describe the spoken language after 1700.

</doc>
<doc id="23470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23470" title="Mathematical analysis">
Mathematical analysis

Mathematical analysis is a part of mathematics. It is often shortened to analysis. It looks at functions, sequences and series. These have useful properties and characteristics that can be used in engineering. The mathematical analysis is about continuous functions, differential calculus and integration.
Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz and Isaac Newton developed most of the basis of mathematical analysis.
An example for mathematical analysis is limits. Limits are used to see what happens very close to things. Limits can also be used to see what happens when things get very big. For example, formula_1 is never zero, but as n gets bigger formula_1 gets close to zero. The limit of formula_1 as n gets bigger is zero. It is usually said "The limit of formula_1 as n goes to infinity is zero". It is written as formula_5.
The counterpart would be formula_6. When the formula_7 gets bigger, the limit goes to infinity. It is written as formula_8.
The fundamental theorem of algebra can be proven from some basic results in complex analysis. It says that every polynomial formula_9 with real or complex coefficients has a complex root. A root is a number "x" which gives a solution formula_10. Some of these roots may be the same.
The function formula_11 is a line. The formula_12 shows the slope of the function and the formula_13 shows the position of the function on the ordinate. With two points on the line, it is possible to calculate the slope formula_12 with:
formula_15.
A function of the form formula_16, which is not linear, cannot be calculated like above. It is only possible to calculate the slope by using tangents and secants. The secant passes through two points and when the two points get closer, it turns into a tangent.
The new formula is formula_17.
This is called difference quotient. The formula_18 gets now closer to formula_19. This can be expressed with the following formula:
formula_20.
The result is called derivative or slope of f at the point formula_21.
The integration is about the calculation of areas.
The symbol formula_22
is read as "the integral of f, from a to b" and refers to the area between the x-axis, the graph of function f, and the lines x=a and x=b. The formula_23 is the point where the area should start and the formula_24 where the area ends.
Some topics in analysis are:
Some useful ideas in analysis are:

</doc>
<doc id="23472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23472" title="Locust">
Locust

Locust are the swarming phase of certain species of short-horned grasshoppers in the family Acrididae. Such swarms are usually made of a great number of locusts. They do a lot of damage to the places where they pass, by eating the crops.
These are species which breed rapidly under suitable conditions. The migratory locust is the best-known example. They become gregarious and migratory when their populations become dense enough. They form bands as nymphs and swarms as adults. Both the bands and the swarms are nomadic and rapidly strip fields and greatly damage crops. The adults are powerful fliers; they can travel great distances, consuming practically all green material wherever the swarm settles.
The origin and apparent extinction of certain species of locust—some of which grew to in length—are unclear.
Locusts are edible insects, and are considered a delicacy in some countries. There have been references to their consumption as food throughout history.
In the Book of Joel in the Old Testament locust swarms are described as a plague.
More detailed information on locusts can be found at the pages of the Australian Plague Locust Commission.

</doc>
<doc id="23473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23473" title="Grasshopper">
Grasshopper

Grasshoppers are the suborder Caelifera, including locusts. There are 11,000 species, of which 10,000 are in the family Acrididae.
To distinguish grasshoppers from bush-crickets or katydids, they are sometimes referred to as the "short-horned grasshopper". Species which change colour and behaviour at high population densities are called locusts.
Grasshoppers prefer to eat grasses, leaves and cereal crops, but many grasshoppers are omnivorous. Many grasshoppers eat from several host plants in one day, while others stay on one host plant. One of the 8000 species of grasshopper eats only a single species of plant.
Grasshoppers make good food for some. As an example, in southern Mexico, "chapulines" (grasshoppers of the genus "Sphenarium") are often eaten. They are high in protein, minerals and vitamins. 
They are usually collected at dusk, using lamps or electric lighting, in sweep nets. Sometimes they are placed in water for 24 hours, after which they can be boiled or eaten raw, sun-dried, fried, flavoured with spices, such as garlic, onions, chile, drenched in lime, and used in soup or as a filling for various dishes. They are abundant in Central and Southern Mexican food and street markets.

</doc>
<doc id="23474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23474" title="Olive oil">
Olive oil

Olive oil is a vegetable oil. It is made by getting the juice of the fruits of the olive tree. These are called olives. The oil is used in cooking, as well as cosmetics, traditional medicine, and as a fuel for oil lamps.
Olive oil quality is defined by some parameters that are measured by chemical analysis. One of the most important is acidity. The highest quality olive oil (Extra-Virgin) must feature an acidity lower than 0.8%.
People see it as a healthy addition to their diet because of the high level of unsaturated fats (mainly oleic acid) and polyphenols. Olive oil is popular in Mediterranean countries.
Spain has more than a third of a the world's olive trees, and is the top producer of olive oil in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="23476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23476" title="Oil lamp">
Oil lamp

An oil lamp is a lamp used for lighting by burning oil. Usually, it produces a flame by burning olive oil, or another vegetable oil, or whale oil during the 1700's and 1800's. They burned cleaner, with less smoke, than candles and other sources of light before electricity.
The lamps were usually made of pottery or metal or glass. An old story in the 1001 Nights has Aladdin cleaning (rubbing the lamp) and making a Genie appear.
Late in the 19th century, those lamps were mostly replaced by kerosene lamps.

</doc>
<doc id="23479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23479" title="Conjugation">
Conjugation

Conjugations are forms of verbs that are changed to agree with the subject that is doing the action described by the verb. Usually most of the word stays the same, but the endings change. Most conjugation systems follow some sort of pattern within the language.
Example: French verb for 'to eat'- "manger" (stem: mang)
("manger" is the Infinitive of the verb. The infinitive is the un-conjugated form of the verb, literally the "to do" something form such as "to" walk, "to" play, "to" eat. In English one does not say "I like eat" one must say "I like "to" eat". In both English and French ("J'aime "manger"") the infinitive form of the verb would be used in this case.
The pattern here is that the "er" is removed from the verb and replaced with a different ending depending on the subject(who's doing the eating). This pattern is good for many French conjugations, but not all, and in other languages, conjugation patterns are going to be very different.

</doc>
<doc id="23481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23481" title="Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk">
Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk

Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk (7 March 1850 - 14 September 1937) was the first president of Czechoslovakia. He led the country between years 1918 and 1935.
He was scientist, philosopher, pedagog, politician, and journalist.
He studied in Brno, Vienna, and Leipzig, and he spoke many languages (Latin, French, Polish, German and English)
He worked as a teacher at a university in Prague and Vienna.
He was a big persona with huge charisma and he is called "President liberator" and "Daddy Masaryk".
Edvard Beneš was the next president after him.

</doc>
<doc id="23483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23483" title="Arachne">
Arachne

Arachne is a character from Greek mythology. 
She was the daughter of Idmon of Colophon, in Lydia (Greece). Her father earned his living with dyeing (coloring) cloth. She learned to be a weaver. A weaver makes cloth, or textiles, from single strands. She was good at what she did, and she claimed that her skill was greater than that of Athena. Athena was the young Greek goddess of weaving (amongst other things). 
Athena appeared to the girl as an old woman, and warned her not to offend the gods. Arachne did not take the advice, she wanted a weaving contest to prove her skill. 
Athena revealed herself, and let the contest begin. Athena wove her scene were she won over Poseidon, the god of the sea. Arachne wove scenes about Zeus being unfaithful, with different women: Leda, Europa, and Danae.
Athena saw Arachne's work was without error, but she did not like the subject of Arachne's weaving. Athena lost her temper, and destroyed what Arachne had created. She also hit Arachne on the head. Arachne then realized what she had done. She ran away and hanged herself. Athena however had pity with Arachne, so before Arachne was dead, she changed the rope into a cobweb, and Arachne into a spider. 
Ovid tells the story in "Metamorphoses". Book 6, 5-54, 129-145. The story is typical of tragedy in Ancient Greek theatre, where pride in thinking oneself better than the gods – "ὕβρις" (hubris) – brings punishment from the gods.
The Greek word for spider is "arachne" (αραχνη), from which derive the mythological woman's name, the class name Arachnida in biology, and the name for fear of spiders, arachnophobia.

</doc>
<doc id="23484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23484" title="Arachnophobia">
Arachnophobia

Arachnophobia is a fear of spiders. It is a very common phobia - many people suffer from it. People who have it often feel uncomfortable in areas where there may be spiders. The usual way of treating this is using behaviour therapy. People will be confronted with spiders; they may be required to touch spiders as big as a tarantula.

</doc>
<doc id="23485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23485" title="Phobia">
Phobia

A phobia (from the Greek φόβος, meaning "fear" or "morbid fear") is a strong fear about a specific thing or situation. In psychology, phobia is considered an anxiety disorder. Phobia is different than just being scared of something. The fear is so strong that it affects, and often damages, the sufferer's life. For example, the person will usually do everything they can to avoid the thing they fear. If they cannot avoid that thing, they will suffer from very strong anxiety which can damage their social relationships, their ability to work, and other areas of their everyday life.
There are two basic types of phobias: specific phobias and social phobias. People with specific phobias fear a certain thing, like spiders (this is called arachnophobia) or high places (acrophobia). People with social phobias fear social situations (like speaking in public, being in crowded areas, or being around other people).
Fear is a normal human emotion. A phobia is different from normal fear in many ways:
It is hard to tell how many people suffer from phobias. Researchers think that between 5 and 13 percent of people seem to have a phobia. Women suffer from phobias about twice as often as men.
Every child is afraid of something. For most children, these fears eventually disappear.
Normal fears in children include:
These fears would only be called phobias if they caused problems in the child's daily life, or if they caused the child to suffer from severe anxiety or emotional distress.
Causes and risk factors phobias is very.
It can be caused by:
also psychological phobias. These include hundreds of types phobias. Some:
When a person with a phobia is exposed to their fear (encounters with the stimulus, think of it, sees the object of fear in the picture...) occur at these physical and psychological symptoms. Intensity depends on the degree of fear.
Psychological symptoms are symptoms that take place within a human. These include the:
There are different ways to help people with phobias. There is treatment available; it focuses on making the patient less sensitive to the fear they suffer from, or showing him or her how the cycle of fear works. There is also medication available (mostly sedatives) that help people cope. Finally there are self-help groups.
List of phobias

</doc>
<doc id="23486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23486" title="John le Carré">
John le Carré

John le Carré (born 19 October 1931) is an English novelist. He was born in Poole, Dorset. He is the writer of many spy novels. The name is a pseudonym. His real name is David John Moore Cornwell.
Le Carré graduated from Lincoln College, Oxford with a Bachelor of Arts degree.

</doc>
<doc id="23491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23491" title="Sexually transmitted disease">
Sexually transmitted disease

A sexually transmitted disease (STD) is a disease which spreads by having sex. STDs can spread through oral sex or anal sex, or when two people's genitals touch. Today, STDs are usually called sexually transmitted infections (STIs). In the past, they were called venereal diseases (VD).
STDs can be caused by viruses, bacteria, or parasites. Examples of the most common STDs are listed on this page.
HIV causes the immune system - the system in the body that is supposed to fight off infection - to not work as well as it should. This makes people with HIV more likely to get infections and some other diseases, like some cancers. HIV is the virus that causes AIDS.
There are about 40 different kinds of HPV that can be spread through sex and affect the anus and genitals. Examples of diseases that HPV can cause include:
Hepatitis is an infection of the liver. There are three common types of hepatitis: hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C.
Hepatitis A causes a short-term liver infection. It can be spread by having sex, though this is not the most common way to get hepatitis A.
Hepatitis B and hepatitis C cause much more serious, long-lasting liver problems. Both can cause very bad liver disease, like cirrhosis, and death. They are more likely than hepatitis A to be spread by having sex.
The herpes simplex virus (HSV) causes genital herpes. Genital herpes can cause painful blisters on the genitals and anus. Herpes can also cause sores on the mouth.
There is no cure for herpes.
Chlamydia is one of the common STDs in the world. In humans, it is the most common STD caused by bacteria. In the United States alone, about 2.8 million more people get chlamydia infection every year.
If chlamydia is not treated, it can cause serious problems, like diseases of the genitals and eyes. It can even cause blindness. Chlamydia can also cause permanent damage to a woman's reproductive system if it is not treated.
Gonorrhea can infect the genitals, rectum, mouth, throat, and eyes. In bad cases, it can spread through the blood to infect the body's joints. In the worst cases, it can spread through the blood and infect the heart (causing endocarditis, an infection of the heart's valves) or the spinal cord (causing meningitis).
Syphilis can cause many serious problems if it is not treated. It makes a person much more likely to get HIV, because it causes sores on the genitals that make it easier for HIV (and other STDs) to get spread. After a few years, if people with syphilis do not get treated, they can have serious problems with the organs in their body. Eventually - without treatment - syphilis infects the brain and causes death.
Trichomoniasis is the most common STD in the world that is not caused by a virus. It can cause inflammation swelling of the vagina (vaginitis, urethra (urethritis), or penis. It can also cause more serious problems. If it is not treated, it can cause permanent damage to a woman's reproductive system. It can also cause prostate cancer, and makes a woman more likely to give birth to a premature baby.
The only way for a person to be sure they will not get an STI is for that person not to have sex. This includes sex of any kind.
There are some things that a person can do to make it less likely to get an STI:

</doc>
<doc id="23525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23525" title="Category:181 births">
Category:181 births


</doc>
<doc id="23526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23526" title="Category:181">
Category:181


</doc>
<doc id="23537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23537" title="Atacama Desert">
Atacama Desert

The Atacama Desert is a desert. It is on the Tropic of Capricorn in northern Chile, and is one of the driest places on earth. In some places less than an inch (25mm) of rain falls every ten years. Only one of the rivers from the Andes mountains reaches the ocean through the desert. The rest disappear into the dry soil. 
The Atacama is a desert not because mountains make a rain shadow, but because the ocean does. The water on the west part of Chile is quite cold, because it came from Antarctica. Moisture cannot stay in the cold air above the cold water, so mainly fog reaches the land, but very little rain. The people of Chile have learned how to get water from the fog to help them live. They "harvest" the clouds by putting up plastic sheets with pans underneath. The fog collects on the plastic and drips into the pans, giving the people water for crops and drinking. In parts of this desert it has not rained for over 400 years. Even though the Atacama is the driest place in the world that does not mean it is the hottest. The Atacama Desert is actually a really cold place with temperatures ranging from 0 to 30 degrees.
The oldest known artificially prepared mummies come from this desert. They are called the Chinchorro mummies.

</doc>
<doc id="23551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23551" title="International Atomic Energy Agency">
International Atomic Energy Agency

International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) is a spin-off organisation from the United Nations. It was created as an autonomous (self-governing) organization on July 29, 1957. The organization is intended to monitor and promote the peaceful and safe use of nuclear energy with protection from harmful radiation and, also, to prevent the use of this energy to build nuclear weapons.
International Atomic Energy Agency and its Director General, Mohamed ElBaradei, were both awarded the Nobel Peace Prize on 7 October 2005 for their role in trying to prevent the invasion of Iraq by a US-led coalition of troops.
The IAEA has its headquarters in Vienna, Austria. Additional facilities are in Seibersdorf (near Vienna), Monaco, Toronto, and Tokyo.

</doc>
<doc id="23553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23553" title="1080">
1080


</doc>
<doc id="23554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23554" title="Roger Ebert">
Roger Ebert

Roger Joseph Ebert (June 18, 1942 – April 4, 2013) was an American movie critic. Ebert's reviews appear in newspapers such as the "Chicago Sun-Times" from April 3, 1967 until his death.
Ebert was born on June 18, 1942 in Urbana, Illinois to a Catholic family.
Ebert and Chicago Tribune critic Gene Siskel helped make nationally-televised movie reviewing popular. They co-hosted the PBS show "Sneak Previews". It was followed by "At the Movies" which made both of them popular across the country. The two fought and made jokes while talking about movies. They created and trademarked the phrase "Two Thumbs Up," used when both hosts thought the same movie was very good. After Siskel died in 1999, Ebert continued hosting the show with various co-hosts and then, starting in 2000, with Richard Roeper.
Ebert lived with thyroid cancer since its diagnosis in 2002. He continued to publish his reviews both online and in print until April 2, 2013. Just two days later, on April 4, 2013, Ebert died from the disease in Chicago, Illinois. He was 70 years old.
Ebert was born Roger Joseph Ebert on June 18, 1942 in Urbana, Illinois. His parents were Annabel (née Stumm) and Walter H. Ebert. His ancestry was German, Dutch, and Irish. He was raised Roman Catholic, attending St. Mary's elementary school and serving as an altarboy in Urbana. Ebert studied at Urbana High School, at the University of Chicago, and at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Ebert was raised in Chicago, Illinois.
Ebert began his professional critic career in 1967, writing for the "Chicago Sun-Times". That same year, Ebert's first book, a history of the University of Illinois titled "Illini Century: One Hundred Years of Campus Life", was published by the University's press.
In 1969, his review of "Night of the Living Dead" was published in "Reader's Digest".
Ebert co-wrote the screenplay for the 1970 Russ Meyer movie "Beyond the Valley of the Dolls" and likes to joke about being responsible for the movie, which was poorly received on its release but is now regarded as a cult classic. Ebert and Meyer also made "Beneath the Valley of the Ultra-Vixens", "Up!", and others, and were involved in the ill-fated Sex Pistols movie "Who Killed Bambi?" In April 2010, Ebert posted his screenplay of "Who Killed Bambi?" aka "Anarchy in the UK" on his blog.
From the 1970s, Ebert worked for the University of Chicago as a guest lecturer, teaching a night class on movies. His fall 2005 class was on the works of the German director Rainer Werner Fassbinder.
In 1975, Ebert and Gene Siskel of the "Chicago Tribune" began co-hosting a weekly movie review television show, "Sneak Previews", which was locally produced by the Chicago public broadcasting station WTTW. The show was picked up by PBS in 1978 for national distribution. In 1982, the critics moved to a television program named "At the Movies with Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert", and in 1986 they left to create "Siskel & Ebert & The Movies" with Buena Vista Television (part of the Walt Disney Company).
The duo was known for their "thumbs up/thumbs down" review summaries. When Siskel died in 1999, the producers retitled the show "Roger Ebert & the Movies" with rotating co-hosts. In September 2000, fellow "Chicago Sun-Times" columnist Richard Roeper became the permanent co-host and the show was renamed "At the Movies with Ebert & Roeper".
Ebert was the co-host of the television show "Ebert and Roeper" (originally "Siskel and Ebert"), where he and another critic, originally Gene Siskel (1946-1999) and after Siskel's death, Richard Roeper, appear in and talk about new movies.
His name stayed in the title, but Ebert did not appear on the show after mid-2006, because of problems after surgery for thyroid cancer which left him unable to speak.
Ebert ended his association with the show in July 2008, but in February 2009 he said that he and Roeper would continue their work on a new show. Ebert was on a show called, "Ebert Presents at the Movies", premiered on January 21, 2011, with Ebert appearing in a brief segment called "Roger's Office".
On September 13, 2013, it was announced that fellow co-star critic Richard Roeper was to replace Ebert as the main movie critic for the Chicago Sun-Times.
Ebert said that his favorite movie was "Citizen Kane", joking, "That's the official answer", although he liked to keep saying it as "the most important" movie. He kept saying that his real favorite movie was "La Dolce Vita". His favorite actor was Robert Mitchum, and his favorite actress was Ingrid Bergman. He expressed his general dislikes for "top ten" lists, and all movie lists in general, but contributed a top ten list to the 2012 Sight and Sound Critics' poll. Listed alphabetically, those movies were ""; "Aguirre, the Wrath of God"; "Apocalypse Now"; "Citizen Kane"; "La Dolce Vita"; "The General"; "Raging Bull"; "Tokyo Story"; "The Tree of Life"; and "Vertigo".
Ebert compiled "best of the year" movie lists beginning in the 1960s, thereby helping provide an overview of his critical preferences. His top choices were:
Ebert revisited and sometimes revised his opinions. After ranking "E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial" third on his 1982 list, it was the only movie from that year to appear on his later "Best Films of the 1980s" list (where it also ranked third). He made similar revaluations of 1981's "Raiders of the Lost Ark", and 1985's "Ran". "The Three Colors trilogy" (', ', and ""), and "Pulp Fiction" originally ranked second and third on Ebert's 1994 list; both were included on his "Best Films of the 1990s" list, but their order had reversed.
In 1975 Ebert became the first movie critic to win a Pulitzer Prize for Criticism. In 2005, Ebert became the first movie critic to receive a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Ebert's home town of Champaign, Illinois are trying to raise money for a statue in Ebert's honor.
In July 2014, a documentary about Ebert's life, "Life Itself", was released to very positive reviews.
Ebert was married to Chaz Hammelsmith from July 18, 1992 until his death in 2013. They had no children. Ebert lived with Chaz in his hometown of Chicago, Illinois. He was a supporter for the Democratic Party. Ebert was an agnostic. On April 25, 2011, he accomplished one of his long-time goals: winning one of the weekly caption contests in "The New Yorker" after more than 100 tries. Ebert's personal net worth was U.S. $9 million.
In early 2002, Ebert was diagnosed with papillary thyroid cancer. In February, surgeons at Northwestern Memorial Hospital successfully removed the cancer with clean margins. He later underwent surgery in 2003 for cancer in his salivary gland, and in December of that year, underwent a four-week follow-up course of radiation to his salivary glands, which altered his voice slightly. Ebert continued to be a dedicated critic of film, not missing a single opening while undergoing treatment. The cancer would eventually lead Ebert to be left in a wheelchair and unable to speak after having the total of three surgeries. Later on, experts created a translator that allowed Ebert to speak whatever he typed. He called his machine "Sir Olivier," because he thought its voice sounded like actor Laurence Olivier.
On April 18, 2008, it was announced that Ebert had fractured his hip in a fall, a result of the weakening of his body following the unsuccessful tissue transplants, and had undergone surgery to repair it. In December 2012, Ebert was hospitalized with a fractured hip, which his wife Chaz jokingly blamed on "tricky disco dance moves".
On April 4, 2013, Ebert died of cancer at age 70 in Chicago, Illinois according to the Chicago Sun-Times. His wife Chaz said that "We were getting ready to go home today for hospice care, when he [Ebert] looked at us, smiled, and passed away." He battled cancer for 11 years. The closing sentence on his final blog post, two days before his death, said, "So on this day of reflection I say again, thank you for going on this journey with me. I'll see you at the movies."
Hundreds attended including Pat Quinn, Rahm Emanuel, and Richard Roeper in the April 8, 2013 funeral Mass held at Chicago's Holy Name Cathedral, where Ebert was celebrated as a film critic, newspaperman, advocate for social justice, husband and father. In his eulogy, the Rev. John F. Costello sought to dispel the notion that Ebert was an either non-believer, or agnostic, by invoking the movie "The Hours" and its observations on lives cut short; and saying that Ebert, raised Catholic, wrestled with "the mystery of faith" not as someone who rejected God but, rather, as someone forever seeking further understanding. Father Michael Pfleger concluded the service with: "the balconies of heaven are filled with angels singing `thumbs up.'" Ebert was later buried at the Graceland Cemetery in Chicago's north side.
A 2-hour-and-45-minute public tribute, entitled "Roger Ebert: A Celebration of Life", was held at 7 p.m. on Thursday, April 11, 2013 at the Chicago Theatre. It featured in-person remembrances, video testimonials, video and film clips, gospel choirs, and was, according to the "Chicago Tribune"'s Mark Caro, "a laughter- and sorrow-filled send-off from the entertainment and media worlds."
Ebert's death prompted wide reaction from celebrities both in and out of the entertainment industry. President Barack Obama wrote, "Roger was the movies ... [he could capture] the unique power of the movies to take us somewhere magical ... The movies won't be the same without Roger". Robert Redford called Ebert "one of the great champions of freedom of artistic expression" and said "His personal passion for cinema was boundless, and that is sure to be his legacy for generations to come." Oprah Winfrey called Ebert's death the "end of an era", as did Steven Spielberg, who also said that Ebert's "reviews went far deeper than simply thumbs up or thumbs down. He wrote with passion through a real knowledge of film and film history, and in doing so, helped many movies find their audiences... [he] put television criticism on the map".

</doc>
<doc id="23555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23555" title="Seibersdorf">
Seibersdorf

Seibersdorf is a village in Lower Austria, Austria. As of 2001, about 1200 people lived there. It is close to Vienna, and mostly known for the research centre of the International Atomic Energy Agency. 

</doc>
<doc id="23558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23558" title="Russian Revolution">
Russian Revolution

The Russian Revolution was a series of revolutions in the Russian Empire during 1917. The events destroyed the Tsarist autocracy, and helped create the Soviet Union. 
The first revolution was on 8 March 1917, but in Russia it was recorded as 28 February 1917. This happened because Russia still used the Julian calendar instead of the Gregorian calendar, which is the standard for measuring dates today. After the February Revolution, Tsar Nicholas II was forced to step down and was replaced with a socialist provisional government. This government was meant to rule for a short time until the country became stable again. 
The second revolution, the October Revolution, was in October of the Julian calendar. Communist Bolsheviks replaced the provisional government, and created the Soviet Union. The royal family was put under house arrest, but later shot and killed. The term "Red October" is used to describe the events of this month.
During the 1890s, improvements in Russian industry put more jobs in cities. This made the cities larger as people moved there. The workers in the cities, with increasing levels of education, began to develop an interest in politics and the creation of political parties in order to try and change their lives for the better. The conditions that they lived and worked in were horrible. Poor people from other parts of the Russian Empire, like Poland and Ukraine, also created their own parties to try and stop the Russians oppressing them.
This added to the people's anger, and after the Tsar's guards fired at a peaceful protest of workers, a rebellion began. It did not really change anything, but it meant that Nicholas promised to create an elected Parliament, or Duma.
The Duma was elected for the first time in March 1906. However, there were both left-wing and right-wing opponents to it, including socialists and people who were very loyal to the Tsar. There were also arguments over whether or not to take power from the Tsar and give it to more ordinary people. Nicholas eventually stopped the Duma three times, and because that meant they could not say anything against Nicholas, people became angry.
In 1914, Russia joined World War I. At first, people thought this was a good decision, and the country was united by patriotism. But there were huge problems with supplies, and by 1915 many soldiers were being sent to fight without any guns. Communication was bad, and Army officers argued a lot. That meant that they did not make plans well. The soldiers became unhappy, and over 3,000,000 Russians died.
In 1915, the Tsar took personal control of the Russian Army, and moved to the Army headquarters. This was a mistake. Not only did he not improve the situation, he began to be blamed for it. The fact that he was not near the government also meant that his wife Queen Alexandra was left in charge. Whenever the Duma tried to warn him that the people were angry, she would say they were lying, so he would ignore them. He even ignored a report by his secret police, the Okhrana, which said that a revolution might happen if things did not get better for ordinary people.
The first revolution began with a series of strikes in early February 1917. People in food queues in St. Petersburg, began a demonstration. They were joined by thousands of women, who left the fabric factories where they worked. The strike spread through the capital. By February 25, most of St. Petersburg's factories had to close.
On the evening of February 25, Nicholas II sent the chief of the army in St. Petersburg a telegram. It told him to use his soldiers to stop the strikes. The army chief did that, but the soldiers joined the workers instead of stopping them. The police also joined them. The government's power collapsed.
On March 15, Nicholas abdicated (gave up his throne). Control of Russia was given to a socialist provisional (temporary) government.
After the February Revolution, the Provisional Government was challenged by a large group of workers in St. Petersburg - the Petrograd Soviet. The leader, Alexander Kerensky, tried to improve things by allowing freedom of speech and letting political prisoners go, but people were becoming more unhappy. There wasn't enough food. Wages went down. The national debt grew to 10 million rubles.
Vladimir Lenin arrived in St. Petersburg in April 1917. He was a Communist while the provisional government was Socialist. He had been exiled to Switzerland by the Tzar, but the Provisional Government had allowed him to come back. He began to lead a Communist group called the Bolsheviks.
In July, the Bolsheviks spent four days demonstrating against the Government. The military attacked them. Lenin was forced to escape to Finland until August, when the Bolsheviks were asked to help defend the government against a takeover by the army. The result of this was that their reputation improved. The government gave them weapons.
The Provisional Government's reputation kept getting worse as time went on. The Bolsheviks' reputation got better because they refused to work with them until both sides could compromise.
On October 10, the Bolshevik's Central Committee voted to start a revolution. One began in Estonia on October 23. Another started in St. Petersburg two days later. This time the revolution was mostly peaceful. The Bolsheviks' Red Army took over many government buildings without a fight - only two people were killed. It ended with the takeover of the Tsar's old Winter Palace on the morning of October 26, when the Provisional Government was arrested.
The Soviets took power and formed a Congress (a new Government) which began on October 25. Some members who were not Bolsheviks walked out during its first few meetings, but this made little difference to its decisions. The people who left were taunted by Leon Trotsky on their way out. He told them to go "where you belong... the dustbin of history!" All parties who opposed the Bolsheviks were eventually broken up, and their leaders were arrested.
The Congress began to get rid of private property. This meant that all land and money was to be owned by the people, and control of factories was given to their workers.
Several countries that had been in the Russian Empire before the Revolution, such as Estonia and the Ukraine, had been asking for independence since February. As the new government formed they declared independence, and were allowed it.
In Russia, the revolution was severely challenged by countries that were not Communist and by the invading White Armies. In July 1918, countries including the United States, the United Kingdom and France sent more than 15 armies to fight the Bolsheviks. The ex-Tsar and his family were shot to stop them from being freed by the White Armies. In order to win the war, Lenin began a plan to divert food and supplies to the Communist Army. The plan worked. The Bolsheviks won the war, but the lack of food meant that between 3 and 10 million people died of hunger.
The Third Russian Revolution was an anarchist revolution against the Bolsheviks and the White Army. It lasted from 1918 to 1922.
Some European countries recognized the Soviet Union as a proper country in the early 1920s. The United States refused to until 1933.
Islamic Revolution

</doc>
<doc id="23560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23560" title="Baguette">
Baguette

Baguettes are long thin of bread popular in France, and other French-speaking countries.
Baguettes are common in Europe. Usually, they are made of white bread. Baguettes usually have a hard crust on the outside but soft white bread on the inside.
French traditions say that bread may only contain the following four things: flour, water, yeast and salt. Anything containing more than those things must not be called bread.
A baguette is about 5-6 cm wide, 3 to 4 cm high, and about 65 cm long. Such a baguette usually weighs about 250 grams. It is common to dip the bread into olive oil when it is eaten. 
The baguette is thought as to have come from France, but it actually came from Vienna. In the middle of the nineteenth century, steam ovens had just been brought into use. This allowed loaves to be made with a crispy crust and the white centre, similar to today's baguettes. 
Later, in 1920, a law was passed that did not let bakers work before 4am. This made it impossible to make a larger loaf in time for their customers' breakfasts. The longer, thinner baguette helped solve this problem because it could be prepared and baked much faster. However, since the French had been making long thin loaves for a long time, what exactly was invented in 1920? It seems to be just the use of the word "baguette" for those thin loaves.
Outside France, the baguette is also called a 'French stick'. It is a loaf of bread, up to a metre long but only about four to five centimetres in diameter. The baguette is a symbol of France.
Baguettes are eaten as a sandwich cut in half. They are also eaten for breakfast (usually with jam or chocolate spread).
A loaf the same length as a baguette but thicker (about 8-10 centimetres diameter) is known as 'pain'. A thin version of the baguette is called 'ficelle'. In restaurants, the thick one is more served than the other kind.
Even within France there is a difference between a traditional baguette and a 'supermarket' baguette.

</doc>
<doc id="23562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23562" title="Barometer">
Barometer

A barometer is an instrument used to measure air pressure. The "barometer" measures air pressure in various kinds of units including hectopascals (hPa). 
There are various types of "barometers" such as the water barometer, aneroid barometer, and the mercury barometer. The mercury barometer, the earliest barometer, was created by an Italian mathematician named Evangelista Torricelli in 1643. 
They are used for measuring altitude, or height above the ground, such as the height of a mountain, and they were often used to measure altitude aboard a hot air balloon. Barometers are also used in modern aviation. Miners sometimes use them to determine the depth of a mine. The most used purpose of the barometer was measuring air pressure. This helps meteorologists in predicting weather.

</doc>
<doc id="23572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23572" title="Nokia">
Nokia

Nokia Corporation is a company that made mobile phones, but sold its manufacturing arm to Microsoft. Its main office is in Espoo, Finland. Nokia is the biggest and most important Finnish company. Nokia is one of the world's biggest mobile industry.
The company began in 1865 as a wood pulp mill in Finland and began making paper. The paper was sold to Russia, the United Kingdom, and France. The company merged with the Finnish Rubber Company which wanted to use its hydroelectricity plant. After World War Two, Nokia bought a large part of the Finnish Cable Works. In 1967 the three companies joined to form the Nokia Group.
They began making electronic products, and for a few years early in the 21st century were the world's biggest maker of smartphones. 

</doc>
<doc id="23574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23574" title="Research">
Research

Research is the process of solving problems and finding facts in an organised way. Research is done by using what is known (if anything), and building on it. Additional knowledge can be got by proving (or falsifying) existing theories, and by trying to better explain observations. Research should be systematic, organized and objective.
Researchers take part in field or laboratory experiments, reading relevant books, journals or websites, taking notes and making conclusions. Teaching and lecturing is only part of the job of a professor or researcher. When they are not directly teaching classes they are often working on academic research. Learning institutions can vary widely in what they expect from members of their faculty. Most expect faculty members to set up their own laboratories. They hire their own lab employees and obtain their own funding, often from more than one source. Academic researchers often compete for grants to fund research at their own university. The more money researchers can attract, the higher the prestige of that university. 
The scientific method is the usual way of doing this kind of research. It is meant to improve understanding of biology, engineering, physics, chemistry and many other fields. With this kind of research, scientists can understand the world, and discover useful things.
Money for research comes from governments, private corporations, and charities. Some of these organizations combine research and development of new products and ways of doing their work.
Any research should be:
Research must be published so the world can learn from it. "Nature", "Science" and "Proceedings of the Royal Society", are general scientific journals. Many special journals are published.

</doc>
<doc id="23583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23583" title="Electronic Entertainment Expo">
Electronic Entertainment Expo

The Electronic Entertainment Expo (Exposition) or E3 is one of the biggest conferences for video games in the world. Every year in late May or early June, game developers and other professional people gather to show off new video games, computer hardware, and features. It is only open to people who have been invited and people visiting must be over eighteen years old. It was first held in 1995.

</doc>
<doc id="23589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23589" title="Prince Edward Island">
Prince Edward Island

Prince Edward Island () is a province in Canada. It is the smallest of Canada's ten provinces. Most of the people on Prince Edward Island speak English. Prince Edward Island was named for the son of King George lll of Britain and joined Canada in 1873.
This province is 224 km (139 miles) long and 4 to 60 kilometers (2.5 to 37 miles) wide. The capital, and also the largest city, is Charlottetown.
Prince Edward Island is known for being the location for novels written by Lucy Maud Montgomery including "Anne of Green Gables".

</doc>
<doc id="23591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23591" title="Antigen">
Antigen

An antigen is a protein expressed by a bacteria or virus that is recognized by the immune system as foreign which can stimulate the production of antibodies and combine specifically with them. 
Usually an antigen is a molecule, perhaps on the cell surface of a bacterium or virus.
Antigens are always 'foreign' and trigger an attack. The system is normally tolerant of its own molecules, which don't start an attack. Autoimmune diseases are caused when this safeguard fails.
When an antigen is introduced into the body it causes the production of antibodies. Antigens include bacteria, cells of transplanted organs, plant pollen and toxins. 
Antigens "stimulate" the production of antibodies: they do not produce them directly.
The first time that a new antigen comes into contact with the body the response of the immune system will be a complete immune response. During this first response, the antigen will cause antibodies to be made. 
The next time the same antigen contacts the body, a full-scale immune response is not needed as the body already has a specific antibody available instantly for that antigen. 
This means that the body can begin fighting an infection much sooner for illnesses it has encountered before, and takes more time to begin to fight an infection in new illnesses. 
Vaccinations usually contain dead bacteria or antigen so the antibodies can familiarise themselves and kill it.

</doc>
<doc id="23592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23592" title="Chaos">
Chaos

Chaos is when something unpredictable or random happens. It may refer to several different things:

</doc>
<doc id="23593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23593" title="Information entropy">
Information entropy

Information entropy is a concept from information theory. It tells how much information there is in an event. In general, the more uncertain or random the event is, the more information it will contain. The concept of information entropy was created by mathematician Claude Shannon.
It has applications in many areas, including lossless data compression, statistical inference, cryptography, and sometimes in other disciplines as biology, physics or machine learning.
The information gain is a measure of the probability with which a certain result is expected to happen. In the context of a coin flip, with a 50-50 probability, the entropy is the highest value of 1. It does not involve information gain because it does not incline towards a specific result more than the other. If there is a 100-0 probability that a result will occur, the entropy is 0.
Let's look at an example. If someone is told something they already know, the information they get is very small. It will be pointless for them to be told something they already know. This information would have very low entropy.
If they were told about something they knew little about, they would get much new information. This information would be very valuable to them. They would learn something. This information would have high entropy.

</doc>
<doc id="23597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23597" title="Spice Girls">
Spice Girls

The Spice Girls are a British pop girl group. The group formed in 1994. The group has five members. Each member uses a nicknames initially given to them: Melanie Chisholm ("Sporty Spice"), Emma Bunton ("Baby Spice"), Melanie Brown ("Scary Spice"), Victoria Beckham (née Adams) ("Posh Spice"), and Geri Halliwell ("Ginger Spice") . They were signed to Virgin Records. The Spice Girls released their debut single, "Wannabe" in 1996. It hit number-one in more than 30 countries. The song helped make the group as a global phenomenon. The group is credited for being starting the trend of commercial success of teen pop in the late 1990s. Their debut album, "Spice", sold more than 28 million copies worldwide. It is the best-selling album by a female group in music history. They have sold over 75 million records worldwide. This makes them the best-selling female group of all time. It also makes them the most successful British band since the Beatles.
The group released three albums: Spice in 1996, Spice World in 1997 and Forever in 2000. The Spice Girls starred in , which was released in December 1997. 
The members reunited in 2007. They released a "Greatest Hits" album in November and said a world tour would start in December. On 1 February 2008, the group said that they would be ending the tour early.
In 2012, they reunited again to perform at the closing ceremonies of the 2012 Summer Olympics in London. 

</doc>
<doc id="23598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23598" title="Traffic cone">
Traffic cone

Traffic cones (also called road cones, safety cones, or pylons) are cone-shaped markers, generally made out of plastic, that are placed on roads to temporarily redirect automobile traffic in a safe manner. 
Traffic cones are often placed around construction sites or roadside accidents. As well, many utility companies such as telephone companies and electric companies place cones on the road when utility workers are working on or near the road. Cones are also used by driving schools to set up tests of turning and parking skills.
They have many other uses including bike training, fun and for personal use like reserving parking spaces.
Traffic cones are easily movable and about 60 cm (24 inches) tall. Traffic cones come in many different colors, with orange, yellow and red being the most common colors. Many types of traffic cones have reflective strips or stripes of reflective paint, so that the cones are easier to see at night.
Traffic cones were invented in 1914 by Charles P. Rudabaker. The first cones were made of concrete. In the 2000s, most cones are made of brightly-colored plastic.

</doc>
<doc id="23605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23605" title="Category:1976 births">
Category:1976 births


</doc>
<doc id="23606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23606" title="Category:1976 deaths">
Category:1976 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="23607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23607" title="Agatha Christie">
Agatha Christie

Agatha Christie, in full Dame Agatha Mary Clarissa Christie (15 September 1890 – 12 January 1976) was an English writer of crime stories. Her books are very famous all over the world, and she sold a lot of books. Her stories are about murders and finding out who did them. The most well-known characters in her books are Miss Marple and Hercule Poirot. Miss Marple is an old lady, and she talks to everyone. She uses logic to find out who is guilty of the murder. Hercule Poirot is a private detective from Belgium who lives in London. He likes to find out who did the murder by thinking about all the evidence.
Christie was born in Torquay. She was married twice; she had a daughter called Rosalind Hicks. She worked in a hospital and in a pharmacy during World War I. She also wrote romance novels and plays. They were very successful too. In 1971, she was honoured by the Queen with the title Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire.
Christie died on 12 January 1976 at age 85 from natural causes at her Winterbrook House in the north of Cholsey parish, adjoining Wallingford in Oxfordshire (formerly part of Berkshire). She is buried in the nearby churchyard of St Mary's, Cholsey.
The "Guinness Book of World Records" ranks Christie as the best-selling novelist ever. Her novels have sold about 4 billion copies. Her works are the world's most-widely published books after those of William Shakespeare and the Bible. Her books have been translated into at least 103 languages. Christie's best-selling novel is "And Then There Were None". It has sold 100 million copies. It is the world's best-selling mystery novel.

</doc>
<doc id="23623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23623" title="Motion">
Motion

Motion could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="23627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23627" title="MB">
MB

MB, Mb, mB or mb may mean:
MB may mean:
Mb may mean:
mb may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="23628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23628" title="Kwame Nkrumah">
Kwame Nkrumah

Dr. Kwame Nkrumah (born Francis Nwia-Kofi Ngonloma, September 21, 1909 – April 27, 1972) was an African political leader. He was well known as the first Prime Minister, then President, of Ghana. He imagined a united Africa. On March 6, 1957, after ten years of campaigning for Ghanaian independence, Nkrumah was elected President and Ghana gained independence from British rule.
Nkrumah was born Francis Nwia-Kofi Ngonloma in Nkroful, a town in Gold Coast (the British colony that was to become Ghana) to Kofi Ngonloma, a goldsmith, and Elizabeth Nyaniba, a salesperson, who he saw as a great inspiration.
He attended Elementary School at Half Assini where his father worked as a goldsmith. A German priest called George Fischer influenced his education. He went to a school for teachers in Accra, then became a teacher himself. In 1935 he went to Lincoln University in the United States. He learned more about Communism. His education continued at the University of Pennsylvania, from 1939 to 1943. Next he went to London and organized an international conference for African freedom. He also changed his name to "Kwame".
Nkrumah returned to the Gold Coast and founded the Convention People's Party. He was elected Prime Minister. When Ghana became independent from England, Nkrumah was its first president. He created the flag of Ghana. He required all children to attend school. More women attended school and took jobs. For electricity, Nkrumah ordered the building of a hydroelectric dam and a nuclear power plant. 
Nkrumah was not friendly to the tribes in Ghana, such as the Asante. He wanted everyone to be a member of the Convention People's Party. He wanted them to be loyal to Ghana and Africa but not to smaller groups. Some people did not like Nkrumah because he opposed the tribes.
The military and police forced Nkrumah from power on February 24, 1966. He lived for the rest of his life in Guinea.
The Osagyefo, Dr. Kwame Nkrumah authored over 20 books and publications. (See a list of his publications) and he is a lead authority on the Political theory and Practical Pan-Africanism.

</doc>
<doc id="23630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23630" title="Diego Velázquez">
Diego Velázquez

Diego Velázquez (6 June 1599 – jdhenjdiensijwjwinsjeokd he had a black family that he once adopted with the benefits of his wife because they couldn't have any children with his wife so he diecidento adopt a black family which included 4bla k boys 7balck girls6 August 1660) was a Spanish painter, the leading artist in the court of King Philip IV.
Diego Velázquez had a hard life. He got married when he was eighteen. With his wife, he had two daughters. He died at the age of 61 after having painted many paintings, including the fahi hi hi Shenzhen dnidkekmous "Las Meninas".
lee Wallace is a grass

</doc>
<doc id="23632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23632" title="Kinshasa">
Kinshasa

Kinshasa is the capital city of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (once called Zaire). It is the third largest city in the continent of Africa (after Lagos and Cairo). Seven and a half million people live there. Kinshasa is also a province in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The city of Kinshasa is there.
Kinshasa is on one side of the Congo river, and Brazzaville, the capital of the Republic of Congo, is on the other side. Kinshasa and Brazzaville are the nearest country capitals in the world.
Henry Morton Stanley founded (started) the town in 1881 and called it Léopoldville (after King Léopold II of Belgium, who controlled the large territory that is now the Democratic Republic of the Congo), next to a village called Nshasa or Kinshasa. The city was originally private property (not public). The city of Léopoldville changed its name to Kinshasa in 1966. The post developed successfully as the first navigable port on the Congo River above Livingstone Falls, a series of rapids over 300 kilometres (190 mi) below Leopoldville. At first, all goods arriving by sea or being sent by sea had to be carried by porters between Léopoldville and Matad.

</doc>
<doc id="23635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23635" title="Great Barrier Reef">
Great Barrier Reef

The Great Barrier Reef is the world's largest coral reef. It is close to the coast of Queensland, Australia. It is made up of nearly 3000 coral reefs and over 600 islands. It is 327,800 km² big and 2600 km long. It has been listed an important World Heritage Site by UNESCO. The Great Barrier Reef is the largest structure made by living things. It can be seen from outer space. The Reefs are threatened.
The biggest threat to the Great Barrier Reef today is coral bleaching caused by high sea water temperatures as a result of global warming. During 2016, the worst die-off ever recorded occured, due to seas warming around the Great Barrier Reef. Two-thirds of a 700-km (435 miles) stretch of coral in nine months were killed.
The Reef Research Centre has found the remains of coral that are half a million years old. Corals have been growing in the region for as long as 25 million years. The corals have not always formed coral reefs.
It is difficult to work out the age of the Great Barrier Reef. This is because of the way a reef can grow and shrink as the sea level changes. A coral reef can grow in diameter, that is how wide they are, from 1 to 2 cm per year. They can also grow upwards from 1 to 15 cm per year. Coral can not grow if the water is too deep (150 metres or more) because it needs light from the sun. They cannot grow out of the water (above sea level).
The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority and Australian Institute of Marine Science say the current, living reef started growing about 20,000 years ago. It started to grow on an older reef. This makes the beginning of the reef duringay. The land that forms the bottom of the Great Barrier Reef was a coastal plain. The plain had some large hills. Some of these hills were parts of older reefs.
From 20,000 years ago until 6,000 years the sea level began to rise. As it rose, the corals could grow higher on the hills of the coastal plain. 13,000 years ago the sea level was 60 metres lower than the present day. Corals began to grow around the hills of the coastal plain. These became continental islands. As the sea level rose higher, most of these continental islands were covered by water. The corals could then grow over the hills. This formed the present cays and reefs. Sea level on the Great Barrier Reef has not risen much in the last 6,000 years. The CRC Reef Research Centre has worked out that the present, living reef is 6,000 to 8,000 years old.
The remains of a very old barrier reef has been found in the Kimberley area. This is in the northern part of Western Australia.
The Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area has been divided into 70 different areas. These are called bioregions. Each bioregion has its own special plants and animals. There are 30 reef bioregions, and 40 are non-reef bioregions. In the northern part of the Great Barrier Reef, there are ribbon reefs and deltaic reefs. These kinds of reef do not exist in the rest of the Great Barrier Reef system.
The Great Barrier Reef has 1,500 species of fish, and many other animals, algae, and corals. This includes many vulnerable or endangered species. Some of these exist only on this reef system.
Thirty species of whales, dolphins, and porpoises have been seen in the Great Barrier Reef. This includes the dwarf minke whale, Indo-Pacific humpback dolphin, and the humpback whale. Most of the population of the dugongs live there.
Six species of sea turtles come to the reef to breed. These are the green sea turtle, leatherback sea turtle, hawksbill turtle, loggerhead sea turtle, flatback turtle, and the olive ridley. There are two different groups of green sea turtles on the Great Barrier Reef. One group lives in the northern part of the reef and the other in the south. Fifteen species of seagrass attract the dugongs and turtles. They also provide a food and shelter for fish. The most common kinds of seagrasses are "Halophila" and "Halodule".
Saltwater Crocodiles live in mangrove and salt marshes on the coast near the reef. No crocodile nests have been found on the reef. The salt water crocodiles on the reef travel long distances. There are not many living around the reef. Around 125 species of shark, stingray, skates or chimaera live on the reef. About 5,000 species of mollusc live on the reef. These include the giant clam, nudibranchs and cone snails. Forty-nine species of pipefish and nine species of seahorse have been found. Seven species of frogs live on the islands.Also, the Moray eel lives on the bottom, preying on fish.
215 species of birds come to the reef or nest or roost on the islands. This includes 22 species of seabirds and 32 species of shorebirds. These include the white-bellied sea eagle and roseate tern. Most nesting sites are on islands in the northern and southern regions of the Great Barrier Reef. About 1.7 million birds use the sites to breed.
The islands of the Great Barrier Reef have 2,195 known plant species. Three of these do not live anywhere else. The northern islands have 300-350 plants which are woody. The southern islands have 200 plants which are herbaceous. The Whitsunday region has the most plant species placing at 1,141. The plant species are mostly spread by fish
Seventeen types of sea snake live on the Great Barrier Reef. They take about 4 years to become old enough to breed. They usually live on the sea floor. They live in warm waters up to deep. They are more common in the southern part of the reef.
More than 1,500 species of fish live on the reef. These include the clownfish, red bass, red-throat emperor, and several types of snapper and coral trout. There are at least 330 species of sea squirts (ascidians) on the reef. These vary in size from 1 mm-10 cm in diameter. Between 300-500 species of bryozoans live on the reef system. These are small water animals that look like moss, or
branches
Four hundred species of corals, both hard corals and soft corals live on the reef. Most of these spawn, releasing thousands of eggs, in huge events. This spawning is controlled by the rising sea temperatures. This happens in spring, summer and some parts of autumn, as part of the moons lunar cycle, and the day/night diurnal cycle. Reefs in the inner Great Barrier Reef spawn during the week after the full moon in October. Outer reefs spawn in November and December. The common soft corals on the Great Barrier Reef belong to 36 different types. Five hundred species of marine algae or seaweed live on the reef. This includes thirteen types of "Halimeda". These deposit chalky (calcareous) mounds up to 100 metres wide. They have mini-ecosystems on their surface which have been compared to rainforest cover.
A new report, the Reef Outlook Report, says that climate change will cause huge damage to the reef. The report was written by the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. Warmer and more acidic water around the coral reef will slow down calcification, which is how the coral grows and becomes strong. The corals will become bleached (lose their colours) and many species that live on and around the reef will be in danger. The Australian government has already spent AU$325 million to improve the health of the reef in the last two years.
The Reef Outlook Report also warned of other dangers to the reef. These included poor quality water running into the sea from the mainland. This water is polluted with farm insecticides and rubbish from nearby towns. The increasing amount of development on the coast is destroying natural marine and coastal habitats. There is also some damage from fishing.

</doc>
<doc id="23641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23641" title="Missouri Compromise">
Missouri Compromise

The Missouri Compromise, also called the Compromise of 1820, was a plan proposed by Henry Clay of the U.S. state of Kentucky. It was signed by President James Monroe and passed in 1820. The agreement was between the pro-slavery and anti-slavery factions in the United States Congress, involving primarily the regulation of slavery in the western territories. It admitted Missouri as a slave state to please the South and it also admitted Maine as a free state to please the North. It kept the balance of power in the United States Senate between the free states and slave states. The plan also called for slavery to be banned from the Louisiana Territory north of the parallel 36 degrees 30' north (also known as the Missouri Compromise Line), except within the boundaries of the proposed state of Missouri.
Prior to the agreement, the House of Representatives had refused to accept this compromise and a conference committee was appointed. The United States Senate refused to concur in the amendment, and the whole measure was lost.
During the following session (1819-1820), the House passed a similar bill with an amendment, introduced on January 26, 1820 by John W. Taylor of New York, allowing Missouri into the union as a slave state. The question had been complicated by the admission in December of Alabama, a slave state, making the number of slave and free states equal. In addition, there was a bill in passage through the House (January 3, 1820) to admit Maine as a free state.
The Senate decided to connect the two measures. It passed a bill for the admission of Maine with an amendment enabling the people of Missouri to form a state constitution. Before the bill was returned to the House, a second amendment was adopted on the motion of Jesse B. Thomas of Illinois, excluding slavery from the Missouri Territory north of the parallel 36°30' north (the southern boundary of Missouri), except within the limits of the proposed state of Missouri.

</doc>
<doc id="23642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23642" title="Peafowl">
Peafowl

A peafowl is a bird of the "Phasianide" family. It is a relative of the pheasant.
There are two species of peafowl: the Asiatic peafowl ("Pavo") or the Congo peafowl ("Afropavo congensis"). The Congo peafowl is the only member of the pheasant family that originated outside Asia.
The male peafowl can have up to 150 brightly colored feathers on its tail coverts.
For centuries peafowl have been admired for their beauty and hunted for their meat. Recently peacocks have become more popular in parks and gardens.
The male peafowls (called peacocks) have long, colorful feathers. Female peafowls (called peahens) have shorter, brown feathers.
They like to eat any kind of green shoots (flowers, veggies, grass etc.) as well as wheat, cracked corn or wild game feed. They can handle freezing temperatures as long as they have a dry perch that is out of the wind and weather. Dry dog and cat chows make excellent winter feed for peafowl, who are omnivores, eating insects, small snakes, lizards, grain, as well as many varieties of greens. They are particularly fond of petunias and similar pot plants, leaving nothing but a small green circle where the stem once emerged from the soil. The birds will learn to come to a specific place at specific times of day to be fed, and a regular light feeding during summer adapts them to coming to the feeding place in winter.
The peafowl is native to southeast Asia, including India and Pakistan. They were brought to Europe long ago, and can acclimatize to colder areas.
The very long, elegant and colorful plumage of the male birds, peacocks, is grown over the winter months so that they are ready for the early spring mating season, during which each male establishes a territory. The male calls to the females to come and admire his dance.
He displays a rustling of tail quills which hold up the fanned back plumes (= tail feathers) as he stamps and turns. The summoning call is loud, repeated, happens sometimes at night, and sounds, to some people, like a woman screaming. Often it is tri-syllabic, mi-fa-sol. Once the mating season is over, the tail feathers are naturally shed.
The peacock's display is a classic example of sexual selection.
The female birds, peahens, are soft brown and gray with white chests and bellies and some light green on the neck, the colors blending so well with weeds and grasses that when the female is nesting on the ground, she is almost invisible.
The hen teaches her chicks what to eat by putting her beak down at a chosen bug, grain, seed, or leaf and making a throaty "grock" sound. The chick put its beak against the mother's, follows the beak to the tip, and eats whatever it points at. The chicks can learn what to eat from a hen of another species, but, unlike baby chickens, peachicks need to be shown what to eat. Chicks hatched in a hatchery can starve to death if there is no hen to teach them what to eat.
In addition to the "eat this" sound, the female has a particular call for a missing chick, a "where are you," "hoo-hah" call, two toned, high then low, mi-do, mi-do. When a chick is missing, this call can go on for hours.
She lays from two to six eggs in the spring time and, once all are laid, sits on the eggs for about thirty days to hatch them, leaving the nest once or twice a day to feed and drink. Often the female will utter a shrieked "trouble" call, a quickly repeated "cuk, cuk, cuk, cuk" when she leaves the nest, to attract predators away from it.
Once the chicks are hatched, the mother leads them away from the broken eggs, as the smell of the eggs attracts predators. They are able to flutter a little within hours, and in a few days can fly up into sheltering trees by going first to lower branches and working their way higher, preferring high, protected branches. The chicks roost on either side of the peahen, and she extends her wings to cover them during the night, thus protecting them from rain, hail, and visits from owls. They begin to grow their "crowns" when they are only a few weeks old and it takes about a year for them to reach full size, though it may take three years to reach breeding age. Both males and females are hatched with the same plumage; nine to twelve months after hatching, the males' necks begin to turn peacock blue, and their splendid plumage takes about four years to reach full size.

</doc>
<doc id="23643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23643" title="Manager">
Manager

A manager is a person who "manages" or is "in charge of" something. Managers can control departments in companies, or guide the people who work for them. Managers must often make decisions about things.
According to Henri Fayol, a French management theorist, managers must be able to do:

</doc>
<doc id="23646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23646" title="Dachshund">
Dachshund

The dachshund is a breed of dog. It is usually short (small in height), but long from front to back and with short legs. “Dachshund” is a German word that is used in English, and it means “badger dog.” (In German, dachshunds are called "Dackel" or "Teckel".)
The breed was developed to use its sense of smell to find, chase, and hunt badgers and other animals that live in holes. A dachshund has a long, narrow body, so it is sometimes called a "wiener dog", "hot dog", or "sausage dog". Some people believe that using those words does not show respect.
Today, dachshunds have crooked legs, loose skin, and a barrel-like chest. Over time, breeders selected dogs so that those features would appear in puppies. That way, dachshunds could do a better job of burrowing into tight spaces. Another feature is a long tail.
The coat or fur of a dachshund comes in three kinds – smooth or short-haired, long-haired, and wire-haired. The wire-haired dachshund usually is shorter front to back than the other two. 
A fully-grown dachshund weighs between 16 and 28 lb. (7 to 12.7 kg), while the miniature dachshund may weigh less than 11 lb. (5 kg). The writer H. L. Mencken said that “A dachshund is a half-dog high and a dog-and-a-half long.”
Dachshund fur comes in many colours. The colors that are most common are red (a brown color that looks a little reddish) and black-and-tan (black body with brown parts). There are solid black and solid chocolate-brown dachshunds. Many people think those dachshunds are handsome, but the colors are not standard or official – that is, you cannot enter those dogs in some dog shows.
Dachshunds are playful, fun dogs. People know that dachshunds like to chase small animals and birds, and when they chase those animals they do it ferociously (without fear and very intensely). Many dachshunds are strong-headed or stubborn, and that means they can be hard to train. However; if trained in proper way and at an early age, these dogs can be a good family dogs. These dogs should be trained for socialization and obedience. Dachshunds are often very loyal to their owners (devoted to their owners, or very interested in their owners). In fact, they can be much more loyal than other kinds of dogs. But wire-haired dachshunds often do not show that kind of loyalty to their owners.
People know that dachshunds have deep and tender eyes, and that dachshunds have many facial expressions (dachshunds can communicate just with the look on their faces).
Dachshunds often have spinal problems, that is, their backbone can become injured. That is because of the dog’s very long spinal column and short rib cage. The problems are usually hereditary (genetic), that is, they are passed down from parent dogs to puppies.
A dachshund that is obese (fat) can have a higher risk of getting injured. That is because the extra weight puts more strain on the backbone (vertebrae).
To prevent injury, dachshunds should not climb stairs or jump unless they really have to. It is also important to hold the dog the right way – by holding up the front and the rear parts of the body at all times.
Some people have wondered if dachshunds go back to ancient Egypt. People have found drawings and engravings from ancient Egypt that show hunting dogs with short legs. But the dachshund of today was bred in Europe, and it has parts of German, French, and English hounds and terriers.
Kings and queens all over Europe have had dachshunds. Queen Victoria especially liked dachshunds.

</doc>
<doc id="23654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23654" title="Karachi">
Karachi

Karachi () is the largest city and former capital of Pakistan and the capital of the province of Sindh. It's old name found in history books is "Mai Kolachi Jo Goth" and "Karatishi" is also one of the old version of its name. A native of Karachi is called a Karachiite. The city is the financial and commercial centre of Pakistan. It has two important regional seaports. The city lies on the coast of the Arabian Sea west of the Indus River delta. Karachi generates the largest share of Pakistan's GDP and national revenue. The population is estimated at approximately 12 million, making it the third largest cities in the world after Shanghai and Mumbai.It has five districts: District South, District East, District West, District Central, and Distrct Malir. Karachi has the most number of districts in Sindh after Hyderabad, which has six districts. Quad-e-Azam (Muhammad Ali Jinnah) father of the nation was born and buried in Karachi.
Apart from the University of Karachi, there are several other institutions of higher education and numerous colleges and schools in Karachi. Karachi is home to the National Stadium which hosts many cricket games, and several other sports complexes. The city has several long sandy beaches including Clifton/Kemari beach and Sandspit beach. Clifton beach suffered from a recent oil spillage but the beach has been cleaned.Karachi has Pakistan's first nuclear site KANUP in 1952 from Canada. The city has 26 universities, including 1. Karachi university-KU 2. Nadirshaw Eduljee Deenshaw engineering university-NED University Hamdard Medical University & 4. Dow University of Health Sciences. Karachi has the honor to host the first ever night hockey match between India and Pakistan in 1986 at Hockey Club of Pakistan Stadium but failed to gain the official status due to having no night hockey match recognition by World Hockey federation at that time.
Karachi has many large and small shopping areas including the Saddar area in downtown Karachi. Karachi also has a number of large modern shopping malls. The city has a modern international airport called the Jinnah International Airport and two large shipping ports at Port of Karachi and Port Qasim. Karachi is linked by railway to the rest of Pakistan.
Karachi has a hot desert climate ("BWh" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="23662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23662" title="Transliteration">
Transliteration

Transliteration is how writing is changed from a writing system or alphabet to another, while making each sound stay the same. There are different systems of writing in the world. Some use letters to write out sounds, and others use characters to write out whole words that have many sounds in them. Transliteration is what happens when letters from an alphabet match letters of another alphabet, that have the same sounds. Most often this is done by spelling the sounds of one system, with the letters or symbols of another. For example, the Cyrillic letter "я" is usually written as "ya".

</doc>
<doc id="23663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23663" title="Taoism">
Taoism

Taoism or Daoism is a type of belief, or a way of thinking about life. It is at least 2,500 years old and it comes from China. Taoism is now said to be a philosophy. Tao (or Dao, ) is the name of the force or the "Way" that Taoists believe makes everything in the world. Taoists think that words cannot be used to correctly describe Tao. The very first line of the "Dào Dé Jīng" (), the most important text in Taoism, says "the Way that can be explained in words is not the true Way." There are many other sacred writings by the teachers of Taoism.
Instead of spending a lot of time trying to explain what the Tao is, Taoists focus on living a simple and balanced life in harmony with nature. This is one of the most important principles in Taoism. Taoists also believe that conflict is not good and that if you have a problem with something, it is better to find a way around it.
Taoism first showed up in writing in China about 2000 years ago. People do not always write about their religions at first, so this religion may be much older. Some important people the history of Taoism are:
People who follow this religion believe that doing something with words, thoughts, symbolic actions, etc. can make things in the real world change. That idea is hard to understand. Here is an example: There is an old story that says China was once covered by a flood. The world was saved from the flood by 禹 Yǔ, who had only one leg that worked. Yǔ went to different parts of China in a special order, and he dug ditches to let the flood water go into the ocean. When something very bad happens in the world, a Daoist priest can go to the Daoist temple and act out what Yǔ did, and just doing that will make the world get fixed.
Daoist priests do many other things. For instance, they can use fire and noise to scare demons away. They can do things to cure sickness. They can perform funerals and help keep the new ghosts safe from harm.

</doc>
<doc id="23667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23667" title="Adjustment">
Adjustment

An adjustment is when something is changed in a small way. This is usually to make it better. The word can be used as a verb, as in "Bill needs to adjust his tie".
Examples of adjustments:

</doc>
<doc id="23668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23668" title="Poverty">
Poverty

Poverty means not having enough money for basic needs such as food, water, shelter, or toilets. Many people in different countries live in poverty, especially in developing areas of Africa, Latin America and some parts Asia. 
Poverty is caused by illiteracy.
There are different ways to measure poverty. The World Bank says that "extreme poverty" is when someone has less than US$1 a day to live on (that dollar is an ideal one). It has been changed to rule out certain effects such as inflation, meaning that prices of things rise higher than what a person is paid, and other price level differences. "Moderate poverty" is when people have to live on less than $2 a day. In the year 2001, 1.1 billion people were seen as "extremely poor", and 2.7 billion were seen as "moderately poor". 
In the developed world this does not apply. There, many people are seen as the "working poor". They have a job, but do not earn enough money for basic things such as food and a home. In most developed countries, people without jobs receive money from the government, but this is often less than they need for a comfortable life. 
There are different ways to tell if a country is rich or poor. The Gross Domestic Product, or GDP, and Human Development Index, or HDI, are two of those measures. Gross Domestic Product is the money made from trade from inside the country. 
HDI, meaning the Human Development Index is a different matter. It is determined by life expectancy and adult literacy rates. Places in Africa like Guinea-Bissau and Sierra Leone are the poorest, with Sierra Leone having the lowest HDI ranking in the world.
Poverty is a hurdle in the way of a country's progress. One way of helping lower poverty is by educating poor people, so that they can start contributing to a nation's economic development. Education teaches the poor about their rights and may show them the path to become an important part in growth and expansion of the country. Vienna Declaration also tells this fact. 
One of the most important things that is needed to make a country richer is for the Government to want to help poor people do better. Without this it is hard for people to become better off.

</doc>
<doc id="23672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23672" title="Course">
Course

A course can mean one of these things:

</doc>
<doc id="23677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23677" title="British Empire">
British Empire

The British Empire was made up of the colonies, protectorates, mandates and other territories which were controlled by the United Kingdom. 
It began with the overseas colonies and trading posts set up by England between the late 16th and early 18th centuries. At its height, it was the largest empire in history, and the world's most powerful superpower for more than a century. By 1922, more than 458 million people lived in the British Empire, which was more than one fifth of the world's population at that time. The empire was larger than , almost a quarter of the Earth's total land area. Since it was so large, the British Empire has left a large legal, linguistic and cultural legacy. Like the Spanish Empire before it, the British Empire was often said to be "the empire on which the sun never sets" because it was so large that the sun was always shining somewhere in the empire.
During the Age of Discovery in the 15th and 16th centuries, Portugal and Spain were the first countries to begin exploring. This allowed them to create large and rich colonial empires. Jealous of how rich Spain and Portugal became because of their empires, England, France, and the Netherlands began to make colonies and trade networks of their own in the Americas and Asia. England fought and won some wars in the 17th and 18th centuries against the Netherlands and France. After these wars, England (and then, after the union between England and Scotland in 1707, Great Britain) became the main colonial power in North America and India.
When the Thirteen Colonies became independent in the American War of Independence, the British Empire lost some of its oldest and most important colonies. Britain then began focusing on Asia, Africa, and the Pacific. After defeating Napoleonic France in 1815, Britain became the world's only superpower for more than a century and made its empire even larger. 
By the start of the twentieth century, the economies of Germany and the United States had begun catching up to Britain, especially in their industrialisation. 
The First World War damaged all of Europe. Having taken most of the German overseas colonies, the British Empire was at its largest after World War I, but by now the United States was the greatest industrial power. In the Second World War, Japan took the colonies of Britain and other European countries in South-East Asia. The allies (principally U.S. forces) eventually defeated Japan. Britain's prestige in Asia was damaged. This caused the empire to decline more quickly.
The British Raj included the whole of the Indian subcontinent. The independence of the two states of India and Pakistan in 1947 was the first and most important step in decolonisation. Britain also gave independence to most of the territories of the British Empire. After the UK transferred Hong Kong back to China in 1997, the British Empire was essentially over. However, Britain still controls some overseas territories. After they were given independence, many countries which used to be British colonies joined the Commonwealth of Nations. have the same head of state, Queen Elizabeth II, and are Commonwealth realms.

</doc>
<doc id="23689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23689" title="Chimbote">
Chimbote

Chimbote is the largest city in the Ancash Region of Peru. The city has over 400,000 residents.
It is on the coast of the Pacific Ocean. Most of the people of Chimbote catch fish, or work with seafood in some way. The city catches more fish than any other place in Peru. 
Chimbote is known for its good version of the national dish of Peru, ceviche. Chimbote is also the hometown of the former president of Peru, Alejandro Toledo.

</doc>
<doc id="23690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23690" title="Tram">
Tram

A tram (tramcar, trolley, streetcar, or street railway) is a passenger vehicle that is like a light train. It carries people to places within a city. Because a single tram can carry many people at the same time, riding on a tram instead of driving a car is a good way to help prevent pollution and stop the roads getting too busy.
The word "tram" is used mainly outside North America, while within North America these vehicles are called "streetcars" or "trolleys" as they run mainly on streets.
More modern and larger trams manufactured since the 1970s, such as the one in the second picture from Warsaw, are called light rail vehicles. These vehicles are bigger because they are very often made of two or more parts, with a bendy section in the middle which works like a human joint. In railway jargon, these types of vehicles are called "articulated". These may sometimes have their own right-of-way instead of traveling on the street and their stops are usually farther apart than the stops of trams so that they can travel faster. 
On Market Street in San Francisco, vintage streetcars from the 1910s through the 1940s, called "historic streetcars" (the "F Market" line), that travel on the street are a popular tourist attraction. Another city whose trams are highly used by tourists is Hong Kong, because here the trams have two floors which is very rare in the world.
The largest tram networks in the world are in: Melbourne, St. Petersburg, Amsterdam, Berlin, Moscow and Vienna. 
Trams first came into use in the 1890s, when they replaced horsecars--streetcars drawn by horses.
In the 1910s to 1930s, in many metropolitan areas in North America, there were special bigger and longer streetcars that traveled long distances to distant suburbs on what were called "interurban" lines. These streetcar lines sometimes had "dedicated tracks" with their own right-of-way and made fewer local stops. 
In the late 1940s and early 1950s, in the United States, there was a conspiracy by Standard Oil, General Motors, and Firestone Rubber. They formed a company called National City Lines to buy streetcar systems, tear up the tracks, and replace them with buses in almost all the cities in North America. They did this so they could make bigger profits by selling more oil, buses, and rubber tires. Because of this, it was necessary to spend hundreds of millions of dollars of public funds in the 1980s and 1990s to reconstruct the streetcar systems as light rail systems using light rail vehicles. This conspiracy is obliquely referred to in the 1988 film Who Framed Roger Rabbit?. 

</doc>
<doc id="23692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23692" title="Fast food">
Fast food

Fast food is the term for a kind of food that people eat from a restaurant, cafe or take-out where food is prepared and served quickly. 
The restaurants that sell fast food are called "fast food shops" or "fast food restaurants". Some of the more common fast food restaurants are McDonald's, Wendy's, Burger King, Taco Bell, and KFC.
When a lot of fast food is eaten, it can cause health problems and complications, such as high cholesterol, clogged arteries, diabetes, obesity, and death.

</doc>
<doc id="23694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23694" title="Ford (disambiguation)">
Ford (disambiguation)

Ford can mean more than one thing:

</doc>
<doc id="23695" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23695" title="Scott Joplin">
Scott Joplin

Scott Joplin was an American ragtime musician and composer.
Joplin was born in the U.S. state of Texas sometime between June 1867 and January 1868. Even though he was from Texas, most of his pieces were written when he was in Missouri and New York City.
Joplin is most well known for writing piano pieces called rags. His music became popular again in the 1970s, with the album "Scott Joplin: Piano Rags", performed by Joshua Rifkin, from Nonesuch Records. He may be most commonly known now by the Marvin Hamlisch adaptation of his composition "The Entertainer" (1902) which was used in the 1973 movie "The Sting" starring Paul Newman and Robert Redford. His best-known song while he was alive was "Maple Leaf Rag" (1899). Other rags he wrote were "The Ragtime Dance" (1906) and "Magnetic Rag" (1914). Scott Joplin wrote more than 40 piano rags, but he also wrote two operas; "A Guest of Honor" and "Treemonisha". "A Guest of Honor" was performed in Joplin's lifetime, but since then the music has been lost. "Treemonisha" was never performed while Joplin was alive, but it has been performed since then. Joplin also wrote a symphony, but the music has been lost.
Joplin died of syphilis in New York City on April 1, 1917.
• Gildo_De_Stefano, "Ragtime, jazz & dintorni". Preface by Amiri Baraka. SUGARCO Editions, Milano 2007 ISBN 978-88-7198-532-9

</doc>
<doc id="23697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23697" title="Propane">
Propane

Propane is an alkane (a hydrocarbon). An alkane is a molecule composed of the chemical elements hydrogen and carbon. Propane has three carbon atoms and eight hydrogen atoms, so its molecular formula is CH.
It begins to burn very quickly. 
Its melting temperature is −187.7 °C; its boiling temperature is −42 °C; its density is 1.83 g/l.
Propane is extracted from natural gasoline or from petroleum.

</doc>
<doc id="23710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23710" title="Flag of Japan">
Flag of Japan

The flag of Japan shows a red sun (rising sun) in the middle of a white field. It is called "Nisshoki" (日章旗) formally in Japan. But Japanese people usually call it "Hinomaru" (日の丸) which means "circle of the sun".
The Japanese navy uses the other flag; the sun has rays.
This flag represents the heat of the sun.

</doc>
<doc id="23712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23712" title="Nationalism">
Nationalism

Nationalism is a way of thinking that says that every ethnic group of humans should be free to rule itself. Nationalists think that the best way to make this happen is for every ethnic group to have its own nation or society that they can rule without being controlled or oppressed by anybody else. Many nationalists think that nationalism is the best way to save small and not powerful groups, which are threatened by the mixing of ethnic groups. Nationalists think that the world is better with lots of cultural diversity. They also think that diversity is threatened by worldwide influences and mixing.
Many early socialists were also nationalists. The earliest forms of nationalism had lots of socialist features. In this period, political thinkers who thought that ethnic groups should not be oppressed by other ethnic groups thought also that 'normal folk', the backbone of society, like workers and peasants, should not be oppressed by higher social classes like rich people. They thought that it is wrong for somebody to live in great welfare that is made of the hard work of others, or the oppression of others. All the social classes should work together and have a common goal that aims for the good of everyone. These goals can be called "national interest". National interest is ideal and not always easy to find. There are different ways to reach national interest, for example politics.
Nationalists started to support and admire normal people, especially peasants, who were seen as uncorrupted, gallant, and fair, unlike high classes. For example, normal folk often had more original and local ethnic culture than high classes, whose culture was seen more rootless. National Romanticism was based much on the ideal of uncorrupt folk.
Socialism and nationalism grew together, but they have also been placed in opposition in some theories. The most known opposition between these ideologies was with the Soviet Union. The Soviet propaganda made nationalism an insult word that was linked with opposed ideologies like capitalism, liberalism, imperialism or fascism. Still, even in the Soviet Union and other communist or socialist countries, there was nationalism in great measure (even if it was not called with that name). The most capitalist countries like United States were patriotic rather than nationalist. The Nordic countries, which were amongst the most pure nation-states (countries that follow nationalist principle), were not very capitalist or rightist; they were built on the social democratic idea, which is left. Only after Nordic countries became more multicultural did their politics become more rightist. 
Today nationalism does not have a common stand on those fields of politics that are outside of its basic goals, like left-right politics. However nationalism can be a part of bigger political ideology or agenda that can be leftist or rightist or something outside that classification.
Nationalism is still usually connected to goals that resist strong hierarchy between social classes inside society. Nationalist people are usually more or less against the strongest forms of capitalism, which they think gives too much power to rich people and big companies.
Nationalism had an important role in ending the colonial rule. Nationalism spread to colonies and made their people desire independence. Nationalism also made the people in metropolitan states (countries that colonized others) accept more the desire of other people to rule themselves. However nationalists think that the end of colonialization of Africa was not done well. They think that there would not be so many conflicts in Africa if African nations had built in a nationalist way (so that every ethnic group is its own nation). After the imperialists left their African colonies, the new nations were built with borders that were not the same as the ethnic borders. New nations became nations with many ethnic groups, which do not want to or cannot live peacefully in the same society with the others.

</doc>
<doc id="23713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23713" title="Drought">
Drought

Drought is a continuous period of dry weather, when an area gets less than its normal amount of rain, over months or even years. Crops and other plants need water to grow, and land animals need it to live. It can become dangerous to people and other animals; causing famine and even creating deserts.
A drought is a natural event, caused by other weather events like El Niño and high-pressure systems. Drought can also be triggered by deforestation (people cutting down forests), by global warming, and by diverting rivers or emptying lakes.
Drought is a disaster which usually takes place slowly. It is often difficult to decide when a drought started and sometimes when it ends too. Its effects often build up slowly over a long period of time and may last from months to years after rain resumes.
Many people die every year in famines due to drought in subsistence farming areas. Conflicts can result from drought conditions.

</doc>
<doc id="23714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23714" title="Deafness">
Deafness

Deafness is when someone cannot hear or cannot hear well. There were many famous people who were deaf, such as Ludwig van Beethoven and Helen Keller. Deafness is also known as 'hearing loss'. 
A person is considered to be deaf if they cannot hear the same range of sounds as a person with normal hearing ability. People that cannot hear any sounds are also deaf. People who are partially deaf may hear some sounds and may hear words.
People who cannot hear and understand words well are hard of hearing.
There are different causes of deafness:
Generally, there are two views of deafness:
These categories may overlap.

</doc>
<doc id="23716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23716" title="Liver bird">
Liver bird

The Liver birds are two large and famous bronze metal birds on top of a building - the Liver Building - in the city of Liverpool, England. The building has the offices of an insurance organization. The birds are symbol of the city, although no birds really look like this. 
The sound of the end of the word "liver" in the name of the bird is like "driver" not "river". The start of the word Liverpool ("liver") sounds like the word "river". This is a funny play on words. 
There is also a British television sitcom with the same name that is about two young women who share a flat in Liverpool. The play on words is increased by a second British slang meaning of the word "bird" to mean young woman.
Many people in Liverpool (known as "Liverpudlians") are proud of their city and of the Liver birds. There is a story that the birds will come alive if a truly pure woman walks between them. This will never happen! This is an example of the humor of the local people.

</doc>
<doc id="23717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23717" title="Demonstration">
Demonstration

A demonstration can mean an event where people do something to let others know what they think and to try to change people's point of view. A demonstration is usually considered more successful the more people participate. Demonstration is permitted by international human rights law as the freedom of assembly if done peacefully.
Examples of this type of demonstration include marches and rallies.
In 2003 many people demonstrated against the 2003 Invasion of Iraq.
A demonstration can also mean when someone shows how to do something, or in what ways a thing can be used. Salespeople often demonstrate things like computers, cars, and televisions to customers so they can make sure the customer sees all the features of the item. "Demo" is short for demonstration, and people often use it to describe this meaning of the word.

</doc>
<doc id="23718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23718" title="Chartist">
Chartist

The Chartists were people who wanted to get more rights for working class people in the mid-19th century. They were called Chartists because they wrote their main aims down in the People's Charter of 1838.

</doc>
<doc id="23721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23721" title="Movie theater">
Movie theater

A movie theater or movie theatre is a place where movies are shown on a big screen. People or "patrons" (the audience) watch movies, usually in chairs inside an auditorium. An electric machine called a projector shines a very bright light through the movie, and people sitting in the dark room see it on the big screen. A movie theatre is sometimes called a cinema. A theatre with multiple screens commonly is called a "multi-plex" or "mega-plex" (if more than 10 screens). Movie theatres have comfortable chairs. There are different types of formats of a movie theatre.
The first movie theatre was opened to the public on April 23, 1896, in Koster and Bial's Music Hall on 34th Street in New York City. The oldest movie theatre in the world, which is still in action today is the "Kino Pionier" (opened 1907) in Szczecin, Poland.
Movie theatres make money from not only movie tickets but from concessions which sell food and drinks (popcorn, candy, soft drinks, etc). In recent years with the increase of movie rental costs, theatres have become more and more creative about how they make money. New theatres being built include restaurants, party rooms, conference rooms, arcades and more.

</doc>
<doc id="23728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23728" title="1654">
1654


</doc>
<doc id="23731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23731" title="The KLF">
The KLF

The KLF were a band from England. They made music from the late 1980s until the early 1990s. A lot of the music they made was pop music or dance music. The band members were two men, Bill Drummond and Jimmy Cauty. Bill Drummond is a musician, singer, and writer from Scotland. Jimmy Cauty is a musician and artist from England. Sometimes they used the names The Justified Ancients of Mu Mu, The JAMs and The Timelords as their band name, instead.

</doc>
<doc id="23734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23734" title="Monounsaturated fat">
Monounsaturated fat

Monounsaturated fats are found in food items, more particularly natural foods like nuts and avocados. They are the main component in olive oil (oleic acid). 
In general, these fats are considered to be healthier as compared to the others. They have the same amount of energy, but they reduce blood cholesterol levels. This reduces the risk to the heart. Another type of fat is polyunsaturated fat.

</doc>
<doc id="23735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23735" title="Polyunsaturated fat">
Polyunsaturated fat

Polyunsaturated fats are fats that are usually found in items like vegetable oils. Such items are typically found to be liquid at room temperature.
Polyunsaturated fats are called organic compounds. Its molecules contains more than one double bonds. The peculiar structure reduces the strength of the forces between molecules. This causes the items to have a lower melting point. This is why the items are usually liquid at room temperature.

</doc>
<doc id="23739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23739" title="The North Avenue Irregulars">
The North Avenue Irregulars

The North Avenue Irregulars is a 1979 movie starring Edward Hermann, Ruth Buzzi, Steven Franken, and Cliff Osmond.
The movie is about a newly installed minister, who entrusts, despite objections by the founding pastors daughter, the churches "sinking fund" money into the hands of a congregate whom he does not even know, with instructions to increase the amount in the fund.
The money is bet on a horse race, and upon hearing this, the Pastor gives the shortest sermon in history and begins a pursuit of the money and the organized crime syndicate, amid the hijinx of assorted feminine members of the congregation in a pursuit of the "money trail".

</doc>
<doc id="23740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23740" title="Candleshoe">
Candleshoe

Candleshoe is a 1977 Walt Disney Productions live action movie. It stars Jodie Foster as Casey Brown, Helen Hayes as Lady St. Edmund (in her last screen appearance), David Niven as Priory (as well as Colonel Dennis and Mr. Gipping), and Leo McKern as Harry Bundage. Candleshoe is loosely based on the Michael Innes novel "Christmas at Candleshoe".

</doc>
<doc id="23748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23748" title="Hikaru Utada">
Hikaru Utada

Hikaru Utada (宇多田ヒカル "Utada Hikaru", born January 19, 1983 in New York City), is a Japanese and American singer and songwriter. Because she was born in the United States, she can speak English perfectly. She is the only child of the 1970s Enka singer Keiko Fuji. Her first Japanese album, "First Love", was very popular. It sold more copies than any other Japanese singer ever. She is also known in the west for singing the theme songs for "Kingdom Hearts" and "Kingdom Hearts II": "Simple and Clean" and "Sanctuary".
When Hikaru was little, she did not want to become a singer. She saw how busy her parents' lives were, and did not want that for herself. When she was 10 years-old, her parents asked her if she wanted to write songs. She did not want to, but tried doing it. She wrote a song called "I'll Be Stronger". During this time, Hikaru went to school in New York. Her classmates were not able to say her name right (Hee-ka-roo) so they shortened it to 'Hikki'. 'Hikki' became Hikaru's nickname. Her fans in Japan call her that. The name is not promoted very much in the United States because it sounds too much like 'hickey'.
In 1996, Hikaru started to record an album, when she was only 13 years old. It was in English. The album was in the R&B style. It was written all by herself. The album was going to be released on the EMI's record company, but since the company fell apart, it was never sold in the United States. A man called Akira Miyake from Japan heard the album, and wanted to release it there. Hikaru agreed, and the album was released in Japan in 1998.
The album sold okay, but it was not until later when Hikaru started to sing Japanese songs that she became famous. Her music still sounded very R&B, but at this point, it sounded more like pop. Her first single, "Automatic / Time Will Tell", reached #2 on the single charts in Japan. A while later, after another single, she released her first Japanese album, "First Love". This sold a very large amount (over 9 million copies) and became the most sold album by a Japanese singer.
Hikaru went on to release two more albums: "Distance" (2001), and "Deep River" (2002). In each album, her style changed slightly. Each album was less R&B, and more pop. In 2004, she released an album made up of all her old single songs. She then released an album in English called "Exodus". "Exodus" was released under the record label Island Def-Jam. It was sold in Japan, the United States, and the United Kingdom. She sang, wrote, and made the music for the whole album herself (except for when she got hip-hop producer Timbaland to help her). The album sold many copies in Japan, but it did not sell that well in the United States. However, many famous people and music critics thought that the album was good (for example, Elton John thought it was interesting).
Hikaru has started to make new Japanese music again, but continued on making all the music herself. Usually, a singer/songwriter will only write the music and the lyrics, but Hikaru decided she wanted to arrange her songs all by herself as well. She released her new album, "Ultra Blue", in mid-2006. Soon after, she went on a tour all across Japan. This is the second time she has ever done this (despite her singing for eight years).

</doc>
<doc id="23751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23751" title="Scramble for Africa">
Scramble for Africa

The Scramble for Africa (or the Race for Africa), from the 1880s until the start of World War I, was a time of much colonial expansion in Africa. Many European countries started colonies in Africa during this time. This is an example of New Imperialism.
The last half of the 19th century saw a change in the way countries controlled their colonies. They changed from economic control through mass settlement, to political and military control of the colony's resources, especially in the 1870s. This was seen in the fight for the areas that were controlled by European nations.
Some famous people who helped European countries find more land in Africa included the explorers David Livingston, Henry Morton Stanley, and Pierre Savorgnan de Brazza, and the French politician Jules Ferry.
The Berlin Conference (1884 - 1885) tried to end disputes between the United Kingdom, France's Third Republic, the German Empire, and other European countries. They agreed that "effective occupation" would be the rule for colonial claims. Laws were made for using direct rule on a colony, backed up by military power.

</doc>
<doc id="23752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23752" title="1160s">
1160s


</doc>
<doc id="23763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23763" title="Seaweed">
Seaweed

Seaweed is a term used for several forms of multicellular marine algae. Red algae, Green algae and Brown algae are commonly considered to be seaweed. Seaweed gets its energy from photosynthesis just as plants do.
Two specific environmental requirements dominate seaweed ecology. These are the presence of seawater (or at least brackish water) and the presence of enough light for photosynthesis. Often, a firm attachment point is also needed. 
For this reason, seaweeds can be found in the littoral zone of the sea. Within that zone, they are more frequent on a rocky shore, than on sand. 
Another common requirement is a firm attachment point. As a result, seaweeds most commonly inhabit the littoral zone and within that zone more frequently on rocky shores than on sand or shingle. Seaweeds occupy a wide range of ecological niches. The highest elevation is only wetted by the tops of sea spray, the lowest is several meters deep. In some areas, littoral seaweeds can extend several miles out to sea. The limiting factor in such cases is sunlight availability. The deepest living seaweeds are the various kelps.
A number of species such as "Sargassum" have adapted to a fully planktonic niche and are free-floating, depending on gas-filled sacs to maintain an acceptable depth.
Others have adapted to live in tidal rock pools. In this niche seaweeds must withstand rapidly changing temperature and salinity and even occasional drying.
Seaweed has different uses. Sometimes it is farmed or foraged from the wild.
People living on the coast often eat seaweed, especially those in East Asia, such as Japan, China, Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam. It is also used in Belize, Peru, the Canadian Maritimes, Scandinavia, Ireland, Wales, Philippines, and Scotland.
Tiwi, Albay residents discovered a new pancit or noodles made from seaweed. These have health benefits. Seaweed is rich in calcium and magnesium and seaweed noodles can be cooked into pancit canton, pancit luglug, spaghetti or carbonara.
In Asia, Zicai (紫菜) (in China), gim (in Korea) and nori (in Japan) are sheets of dried "Porphyra" used in soups or to wrap sushi. "Chondrus crispus" (commonly known as Irish moss or carrageenan moss) is another red alga used in producing various food additives, along with Kappaphycus and various gigartinoid seaweeds. "Porphyra" is a red alga used in Wales to make laver. Laverbread, made from oats and the laver, is a popular dish there. Affectionately called "Dulce" in northern Belize, seaweeds are mixed with milk, nutmeg, cinnamon, and vanilla to make a common beverage.
Seaweeds are also harvested or cultivated for the extraction of alginate, agar and carrageenan, gelatinous substances collectively known as hydrocolloids or phycocolloids. Hydrocolloids have attained commercial significance as food additives. The food industry exploits their gelling, water-retention, emulsifying and other physical properties. Agar is used in foods such as confectionery, meat and poultry products, desserts and beverages and moulded foods. Carrageenan is used in salad dressings and sauces, dietetic foods, and as a preservative in meat and fish products, dairy items and baked goods.
Seaweed is a source of iodine, necessary for thyroid function and to prevent goitre.
Seaweed extract is used in some diet pills. Other seaweed pills exploit the same effect as gastric banding, expanding in the stomach to make the body feel more full.
Seaweed is currently under consideration as a potential source of bioethanol. Seaweed is an ingredient in some toothpaste, cosmetics and paints.

</doc>
<doc id="23778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23778" title="Fairy tale">
Fairy tale

A fairy tale is an English language expression for a kind of short story. It has the same meaning as the French expression ' or ', the German word ', the Italian ', the Polish ', the Russian ' or the Swedish "". These stories are not all directly about fairies, but they are different from legends and traditions (which usually say that the stories are true) and directly moral stories. There are usually fairies, goblins, elves, trolls, giants or gnomes in fairy tales, and usually magic.
Fairy tales can also mean unusual happiness (for example, the expression "fairy tale ending", meaning a happy ending, even though not all fairy tales have a happy ending). Also, "fairy tale" can simply mean any unbelievable story.
Where demons and witches are seen as real, fairy tales can sometimes be similar to legends, where the story is claimed to be historically true. However, differently from legends and epics, they usually do not specifically mention religion and actual places, people, and events. They also do not say exactly when it happened. Instead, they say that the story happened "once upon a time".
Fairy tales are found in oral form (passed on from mouth to mouth) and in literary form (written down). Fairy tales' histories are hard to find. This is because only written fairy tales can be passed on for a long time. Still, literary works show that there has been fairy tales for thousands of years. Many fairy tales today have are based on very old stories that have appeared, though in different ways, in many different cultures around the world. Fairy tales, and works based on from fairy tales, are still written today.
At first, fairy tales were for both adults and children, but now children are mostly connected with fairy tales. Examples of traditional old fairy tales are "Sleeping Beauty", "Little Red Riding Hood" and "The Three Little Pigs". There can also be new fairy tales written by an author, like "The Little Mermaid" or "Pinocchio". New fairy tales were for example written by Hans Christian Andersen, James Thurber and Oscar Wilde.
People do not agree what a fairy tale exactly is. Some argue that a story with fairies or other magical beings in the story would make it a fairy tale. However, others have suggested that the expression began when the French expression "conte de fées" was being translated (it was first used by Madame D'Aulnoy in 1697). Vladimir Propp criticized the difference between "fairy tales" and "animal tales" in his book "Morphology of the Folktale". He said that many stories had both fantastic qualities and animals. He suggested that fairy tales could be recognized by their story, but this has been criticized, because the same stories can be found in stories that are not fairy tales.
In fact, people such as Stith Thompson point out that there are often more talking animals and magic in fairy tales than fairies. However, just because there is a talking animal in a story does not mean that the story is a fairy tale.
Steven Swann Jones said that fairy tales were different from other sorts of folktales because of magic. Davidson and Chaudri say that "transformation (changing)" is the most important part of a fairy tale.
Some like to use the German expression "Märchen" or "wonder tale" instead of "fairy tale". For example, in his 1977 edition of "The Folktale", Thompson said that fairy tales were "a tale of some length involving a succession of motifs or episodes. It moves in an unreal world without definite locality or definite creatures and is filled with the marvelous. In this never-never land, humble heroes kill adversaries (enemies), succeed to kingdoms and marry princesses." The characters and motifs of fairy tales are simple: princesses and girls taking care of geese; youngest sons and brave princes; ogres, giants, dragons, and trolls; wicked stepmothers and false heroes; fairy godmothers and other magic helpers, often talking horses, or foxes, or birds; rules, and people breaking rules. 
Fairy tales were passed down by speaking of it from person to person before writing was developed. Stories were told or acted out dramatically. Because of this, the history of fairy tales is not very clear. The oldest written fairy tales we know are from ancient Egypt, around 1300 BC. There are sometimes fairy tales in written literature in different cultures, such as "The Golden Ass", which includes "Cupid and Psyche" (Roman, 100–200 AD). They show that fairy tales were told from very long ago.

</doc>
<doc id="23779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23779" title="Category:Buildings and structures">
Category:Buildings and structures

This category is for important buildings and similar structures.

</doc>
<doc id="23780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23780" title="Game show">
Game show

A game show is a reality television program where people play a game for points, with the goal of winning money or prizes. Different game shows use different games. Some game shows involve word games, and others involve tests of skill or general knowledge. Many game shows incorporate some element of chance; for example, in "Wheel of Fortune", contestants spin a wheel to determine how much prize money they get for a correct letter.
Some game shows have the contestants compete against other individual contestants; other game shows group contestants into teams. Some game shows have regular people as the contestants. Other game shows have celebrities such as movie actors or musicians as the contestants. 
Many game shows air on the Game Show Network and other television networks.
Game shows often reward people with money, holidays, or cars. These prizes are often given by the people or group of people that give the game show money to run. The people who give the game show money to run are called sponsors. 
The first game shows were on radio.
Examples of game shows include:

</doc>
<doc id="23781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23781" title="Genre">
Genre

A genre (from ) is a style or type of music, literature, movies, or other media.
Some genres (styles) are used in more than one form of art or communication. For example, the genres fantasy and science fiction are used in literature, movies, and television.

</doc>
<doc id="23782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23782" title="Category:Arabic words">
Category:Arabic words


</doc>
<doc id="23795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23795" title="Category:Agriculture">
Category:Agriculture

Agriculture

</doc>
<doc id="23796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23796" title="Category:Mascots">
Category:Mascots


</doc>
<doc id="23800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23800" title="Kristy Swanson">
Kristy Swanson

Renee Kristen "Kristy" Swanson (born December 19, 1969) is an American actress. She is best known for playing the main character in the movie "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". She has also starred in the movie "Flowers in the Attic" as well as many movies and television programs.

</doc>
<doc id="23805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23805" title="Octopus">
Octopus

The Octopus is a genus of cephalopod mollusc in the order Octopoda. The genus is quite typical of most octopods. They have two eyes and four pairs of arms with suckers. They have a hard beak, with the mouth at the center point of the arms. 
Octopods have no internal or external skeleton, allowing them to squeeze through tight places. Many stay in cracks between rocks or corals when they are not hunting. They are intelligent predators with a taste for crabs.
Octopods inhabit many regions of the ocean, especially coral reefs. For defense against predators, they hide, flee quickly, expel ink, or use colour-changing camouflage. They live rather short lives.
An octopus trails its eight arms behind it as it swims. All octopods are venomous, but only the small blue-ringed octopus is known to be deadly to humans.
There are about 300 octopod species, of which more than 100 are in the genus "Octopus". Octopods make up over one-third of the total number of living cephalopods. The term 'octopus' may be used to refer to those in the genus "Octopus". The term 'octopod' is correct for members of the order Octopoda in general.
Unlike most other cephalopods, most octopods have only soft body with no internal skeleton. They have no protective outer shell like the nautilus, which is another type of cephalopod.
A beak, similar in shape to a parrot's beak, is their only hard part.
Because of this, it is very easy for an octopus to squeeze through very narrow openings between rocks, for example squeezing through a hole as big as its eye.
Octopod eyes are complex. In fact, they do not have a blind spot. A "blind spot" is a special place in the eyes that is not able to sense light. So, when we look somewhere, part of what is there is not actually perceived (the brain 'fills in' so we do not notice). However, an octopus does not have this problem.
The lens in octopod are movable. It moves back and forth to focus. This is the way a camera focuses. When a camera focuses on an object to take a picture, the lens moves back and forth until the image that the camera sees is in the right focus.
Some octopuses can use their chromatophores for more than camouflage. If they are not blending in with their surroundings, they can signal their feelings using colour. When they are relaxed, for example, they are a dull, grayish brown or orange-tinged colour. When they become angry, they can become red. If they feel scared, they may turn white.
Octopods are highly intelligent, probably more so than any other invertebrate. The exact extent of their intelligence and learning capability is much debated among biologists. Maze and problem-solving experiments have shown that they do have both short and long-term memory. Their short lifespans limit the amount they can learn. 
Some octopods, such as the mimic octopus, can move their arms in ways which copy the movements of other sea creatures.
In laboratory experiments, octopuses can be readily trained to distinguish between different shapes and patterns. They have been seen in what some have described as play: repeatedly releasing bottles or toys into a circular current in their aquariums and then catching them. Octopuses often break out of their aquaria and sometimes into others in search of food. 
The largest of the 300+ species of octopods, the giant octopus "Enteroctopus", is large indeed. Mature males average about 50 pounds and females about 33 pounds. Their arm spans are about eight feet. They have even boarded fishing boats and opened holds to get at and eat crabs.
In the UK, cephalopods such as octopuses are regarded as "honorary vertebrates" under the "Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986". This gives them protection not normally given to invertebrates.
Octopods are the only invertebrate which have been definitely shown to use tools. At least four specimens of the veined octopus ("Amphioctopus marginatus") have been seen picking up discarded coconut shells, and then reassembling them to use as shelter.
Octopods are active and intelligent predators, with good eyesight and brains. They eat mostly crabs and some fish. 
Octopods have a variety of defences. They use active camouflage and mimicry, controlled by their nervous system. Most can eject black ink clouds to help escape, and some can shed an arm in extreme danger. It wriggles, and attracts the attacker.
When octopods reproduce, males use a specialized arm to put packets of sperm into the female's mantle cavity. Males die within a few months of mating. In some species, the female octopus can keep the sperm alive inside her for weeks until her eggs are mature.
After they have been fertilized, the female lays about 200,000 eggs (this figure dramatically varies between species). The female cares for the eggs, guarding them against predators, and gently blows currents of water over them so they get enough oxygen. The female does not hunt during the one-month period spent taking care of the unhatched eggs, and may ingest some of her own arms for sustenance. 
At around the time the eggs hatch, the mother leaves the lair and is too weak to defend herself from predators like cod, often succumbing to their attacks. The young larval octopuses spend a period of time drifting in clouds of plankton, where they feed until they are ready to descend to the ocean bottom, where the cycle repeats.
All octopods for which we have data have a relatively short life expectancy. Some species live for as little as six months. Larger species, such as the North Pacific giant octopus, may live for up to five years under suitable circumstances. 
"Reproduction is a cause of death": males can only live for a few months after mating, and females die shortly after their eggs hatch. They neglect to eat during the (roughly) one month period spent taking care of their unhatched eggs, but apparently they do not die of starvation. A biological explanation of these short lifespans (or rapid ageing) is not agreed at present.
Off the coast of California, marine biologists have watched the same female octopod guarding her eggs for over four years. Their development took a long time because the water 1.4 kilometres down was very cold. They knew it was the same octopod because it had a characteristic scar. The research was done using a remote diving vehicle with cameras, lights and robotic arms.

</doc>
<doc id="23810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23810" title="Category:Psychology">
Category:Psychology

These are articles about Psychology.

</doc>
<doc id="23811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23811" title="Byzantine Empire">
Byzantine Empire

The Byzantine Empire (or Eastern Roman Empire) was the name of the eastern remnant of the Roman Empire which survived into the Middle Ages. Its capital was Constantinople, which today is in Turkey and is now called Istanbul. Unlike the Western Roman Empire, its people spoke Greek, not Latin. Their culture and identity had a large Greek influence.
In 324, the Roman Emperor Constantine I moved the capital of the Roman Empire to the city of "Byzantium", and he renamed the city Constantinople. 150 years later, after the city of Rome was slowly taken over by Germanic people, the only remaining capital of the Empire became Constantinople. The remaining Eastern empire had a smaller territory than the original Roman Empire.
The Byzantine Empire tried to take back Rome and Italy from the Germans. Between 530–555 AD, the Byzantines won many battles and took back Rome.
These gains did not last however. More Germans came and eventually Italy and Rome was lost again. Worse was to come when Avar and Slavic peoples came to take modern Bulgaria and Greece from the Byzantines. Gradually, after the 560s the invaders won much of the Balkans. These invaders were later followed by the Bulgarians. The Avars and Bulgarians were both Turkish peoples at first. They ruled over Slavic people called "Sklavinai" and slowly absorbed Slavic language and customs.
After western Rome was captured by Germanic people, the Empire continued to control modern Egypt, Greece, Palestine, Syria and Turkey. However, another Empire, known as the Persian Empire, tried to take over these lands for itself. Between 224–628 AD, the Romans and the Persians fought many battles, with many men killed in the fighting. Eventually, the Persians were finally defeated in modern-day Iraq, near the ancient city of Nineveh in 627 AD, allowing the Byzantines to keep their lands.
After this, another enemy appeared: the Arabs. The Byzantines were economically damaged by the battles with the Persians. They could not withstand the Arabs. Palestine, Syria and Egypt were lost between 635 and 645. However, the Byzantines defended Asia Minor (modern Turkey) and the Arab advance stopped.
In 718 AD, the Arabs were defeated outside Constantinople, ending the Arab threat in the east, but leaving the Byzantine Empire severely weakened. In the west, the Byzantines launched a number of attacks against the Bulgarians. Some of these were successful, others were not and led to the deaths of many emperors. Over time, the Byzantine Empire would became weaker as it loss land to outside invaders.
Between 1007–1014, the ambitious Byzantine Emperor Basil II attacked Bulgaria many times and eventually won a great victory. Later, he fully recaptured Greece, adding it back to the Byzantine Empire. He then went on to conquer Bulgaria, which was completed in 1018.
In the east, the Arabs once again became a threat to the Empire. However, Basil II's attacks won many more victories. Much of Syria was restored to the Empire and Turkey and Armenia were secured. After 1025, the Arabs were no longer a threat to the Byzantine Empire.
After the Byzantine Emperor Basil II died, many unskilled Emperors came to the throne. They wasted the money of the Empire and reduced her army. This meant that she could not defend herself well against enemies if they would attack. Later, the Byzantines relied on mercenaries, soldiers who fought for money and not for their country, so they were less loyal and reliable and more expensive. Because they had mercenaries, military generals were able to rise to power and grab it from the elaborate bureaucracy, a system of administration where tasks are divided by departments.
A large number of people known as the Turks rode on horseback from central Asia and attacked the Byzantine Empire. They took all of Turkey from the Byzantines by 1091. However, the Byzantines received help from people in Europe. This help is known as the First Crusade. Many knights and soldiers left to help the Byzantines but also to secure Jerusalem for Christians, which at the time was in Muslim hands.
The Byzantine Empire survived and with the help of the Europeans took back half of Turkey from the Turks, with the other half remaining under the Turks. The Byzantines survived because three good Emperors ruled one after the other, allowing the Byzantines to grow strong again.
After the three good Emperors, the remaining Emperors ruled badly and again wasted a lot of money and soldiers.
In the west, the Europeans betrayed the Byzantines and attacked their capital, Constantinople. The Byzantines lost their capital in 1204 and they did not take it back until 1261. The Byzantines were then divided into many smaller Greek states that were fighting with each other for the throne of the Empire.
After the Byzantines took back Constantinople, they were too busy fighting the Europeans who had betrayed them and could not find enough soldiers or money to fight the new Ottoman Empire of the Turks. All of Anatolia was lost by 1331. In 1369, the Turks crossed over from Turkey and into Greece, taking over much of Greece between 1354–1450. 
The Byzantines lost so much land, money and soldiers that they became very weak and begged for help from the Europeans. Some soldiers and ships came from Italy and the Pope to assist the Byzantines when the Turks attacked Constantinople in April 1453. They were very outnumbered though, and the walls of Constantinople were badly damaged by cannons used by the Turks. At the end of May 1453 the Turks captured Constantinople by entering through one of the gates along the walls and the Empire came to an end. The city was plundered for three days. At the end, the population which had not been able to escape, was deported to Edirne, Bursa and other Ottoman cities, leaving the city deserted except for the Jews of Balat and the Genoese of Pera. After that Constantinople became the capital of the Ottoman Empire, which it would be until the 1900s, when the capital was moved to Ankara, a city in the Asian part of Turkey.
The Empire had many achievements:

</doc>
<doc id="23812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23812" title="Category:Psychologists">
Category:Psychologists


</doc>
<doc id="23826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23826" title="Guqin">
Guqin

The (; ; Wade-Giles: ku-ch'in; literally "ancient stringed-instrument") is the modern name for a plucked seven-string Chinese musical instrument of the zither family. It has been played since ancient times, and has traditionally been favored by educated people as an instrument of great beauty and refinement. It is uncommonly spelt as Gu Qin (and sometimes GuQin or Gu-qin) in English.
Traditionally the instrument was called simply qin 「琴」, but by the 20th century the term had come to be used on many other musical instruments as well (for example, the "yangqin" 「揚琴」 hammered dulcimer, the "huqin" 「胡琴」 family of bowed string instruments, and the Western piano (; literally "steel stringed-instrument")), so the prefix "gu-" 「古」 (meaning "ancient") was added for clarification. It can also be called qixianqin 「七絃琴」 ("seven-stringed instrument"). The guqin is not to be confused with the "guzheng", another Chinese long zither also without frets, but with moveable bridges under each string. Because Robert Hans van Gulik's famous book about the qin is called "The Lore of the Chinese Lute", the qin is sometimes inaccurately called a lute. Other incorrect classifications (mainly from music CDs) include "harp" or "table-harp". Other Western nicknames for the guqin include "Chinese guitar" and "Chinaman's harp".
The qin is a very quiet instrument, with a range of about four octaves, and its open strings are tuned in the bass register (its lowest pitch is about two octaves below middle C, or the lowest note on the cello). Sounds are produced by open strings, stopped strings, and harmonics. Stopped sounds are special for the variety of slides and ornaments used, and the use of glissando (sliding tones) gives it a sound similar to a pizzicato cello or fretless bass guitar. Extended sections in music scores consisting entirely of harmonics are common, this made possible because the 91 indicated harmonic positions allow great flexibility; early tablature shows that even more harmonic positions were used in the past. By tradition the qin originally had five strings, but ancient qin-like instruments with 10 or more strings have been found. The modern form has been standardized from about two thousand years.
Legend has it that the qin, has a history of about 5,000 years; that the legendary people of China's pre-history; Fuxi, Shennong and Huang Di (the Yellow Emperor), was involved in its creation. It is mentioned in Chinese writings dating back nearly 3,000 years, and related instruments have been found in tombs from about 2,500 years ago. Chinese tradition says the qin originally had five strings, but then two were added about 1,000 BCE, making seven. 
Based on the detailed description in the poetic essay "Qin Fu" 【琴賦】 by Xi Kang / Ji Kang (223–262), the form of the qin that is recognizable today was most likely set around the late Han Dynasty (206 BC - 220 AD). The earliest surviving qin in this modern form, preserved in both Japan and China, have been dated to the Tang Dynasty (618-907). Many are still playable, the most famous perhaps being the one named "Jiuxiao Huanpei" 《九霄環佩》, said to have been made by the famous late Tang dynasty qin maker Lei Wei (雷威). It is kept in the Forbidden City Museum in Beijing. 
According to Robert Temple, the qin played an important part in the gaining the first understanding of music timbre for the Chinese. He said that "the Chinese understanding of the nature of sound as vibration was much increased by studying the production of timbre on the strings of the "ch'in"." This understanding of timbre, overtones and higher harmonics eventually led the Chinese to discover equal temperament in music. 
In 1977, a recording of "Liu Shui" (Flowing Water, as performed by Guan Pinghu, one of the best qin players of the 20th century) was chosen to be included in the Voyager Golden Record, a gold-plated LP recording containing music from around the world, which was sent into outer space by NASA on the Voyager 1 and Voyager 2 spacecrafts. It is the longest music track included on the disc. In 2003, guqin music was proclaimed one of the Masterpieces of the Oral and Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO.
Because of the difference in geography in China, many qin schools known as "qin pai" (琴派) developed over the centuries. Such schools generally formed around areas where qin activity was greatest. 
The main schools are: 
Most qin schools and groups are based in China. During the 20th century some societies began in other countries. Qin study was initially confined to China in ancient times. Today countries like Japan also have their own qin small traditions. The Tokyo Qin Society was recently founded. Japan has published a "qinpu" (qin tablature collection) in the past, known as "Toukou Kinpu" or "Donggao Qinpu" 【東臯琴譜】.
There have been many players throughout the ages. The instrument was a favourite of the scholars, so many artists played it. Some famous players are also associated with some melodies, like Confucius and Qu Yuan. 
Historical:
Classical books such as "Qin Shi", "Qinshi Bu" and "Qinshi Xu" have biographies of hundreds of more players.
The beauty of qin melodies comes not only from the melodies themselves, but from the variation a player can apply to the individual tones and their combinations. The rich tones of the qin can be categorised as three distinctively different "sounds." The first is "san yin" 〔散音〕, which means "scattered sounds." This meant simply pluck the required string to sound an open note. The second is "fan yin" 〔泛音〕, or "floating sounds." These are harmonics, and the player simply lightly touches the string with one or more fingers of the left hand at a position indicated by the white "hui" dots, pluck and then lift, creating a crisp and clear sound ringing sound. The third is "an yin" 〔按音 / 案音 / 實音 / 走音〕, or "stopped sounds." This forms the majority of most qin pieces and requires the player to press on a string with a finger or thumb of the left hand until it touches with the surface board, then pluck. Afterwards, the hand can slide up and down, thereby changing the pitch. 
When plucking the strings, it is not required to attach fake-nails on one's fingers. One will often leave their fingernails long, and cut them into an rounded shape. The length is subjective and will depend on the player's preference, but it is usually around 3-4mm from the finger tip. If it is too short, then the finger tip will deaden the sound as it touches the string after the nail has plucked it. If it is too long then the fingers can make playing difficult. Generally, the nails of the right hand are kept long, whilst the nails of the left are cut short, so as to be able to press on the strings without difficulty. 
There are eight basic right hand finger techniques: "pi" 〈劈〉 (thumb pluck outwards), "tuo" 〈托〉 (thumb pluck inwards), "mo" 〈抹〉 (index in), "tiao" 〈挑〉 (index out), "gou" 〈勾〉 (middle in), "ti" 〈剔〉 (middle out), "da" 〈打〉 (ring in), and "zhai" 〈摘〉 (ring out); the little finger is not used. Out of these basic eight, their combinations create many more. "Cuo" 〈撮〉 is to pluck two strings at the same time, "lun" 〈輪〉 is to pluck a string with the ring, middle and index finger out in quick succession, the "suo" 〈鎖〉 technique involves plucking a string several times in a fixed rhythm, "bo" 〈撥〉 cups the fingers and strums two strings at the same time, and "gun fu" 〈滾拂〉 is to create a sequence of sounds by running up and down the strings continuously with the index and middle fingers. These are just a few. 
Left hand techniques start from the simple pressing down on the string (mostly with the thumb between the flesh and nail, and the ring finger), sliding up or down to the next note ("shang" 〈上〉 and "xia" 〈下〉), to vibrati by swaying the hand ("yin" 〈吟〉 and "nao" 〈猱〉, there are as many as 15 plus different forms of vibrato), plucking the string with the thumb whilst the ring finger stops the string at the lower position ("qiaqi" 〈掐起 / 搯起〉), hammering on a string using the thumb ("yan" 〈掩 / 罨〉), to more difficult techniques such as pressing on several strings at the same time. 
Techniques executed by both hands together are more difficult to achieve, for example, "qia cuo san sheng" 〈掐撮三聲〉 (a combination of hammering on and off then plucking two strings, then repeating), to more exciting forms, like pressing of all seven strings with the left, then strumming all the strings with the right, then the left hand quickly moves up the qin, creating a rolling sound like a bucket of water being thrown in a deep pool of water (this technique is used in the Shu style of "Liu Shui" to copy the sound of water). 
In order to master the qin, there are in excess of 50 different techniques that must be mastered. Even the most commonly used (such as "tiao") are difficult to get right without proper instruction from a teacher. 
Written qin music did not directly tell what notes were played like many outer musical instruments; instead, it was written in a tablature detailing tuning, finger positions, and plucking technique, thus made up of a step by step method and description of how to play a piece. Some tablatures do indicate notes using the "gongche" notation system, or indicate rhythm using dots. 
The earliest example of the modern shorthand tablature survives from around the 12th century CE. An earlier form of music notation from the Tang era survives in just one manuscript, dated to the 7th century CE, called "Jieshi Diao: You Lan" 《碣石調幽蘭》 (Solitary Orchid, in Stone Tablet Mode). It is written in a longhand form called "wenzi pu" 〔文字譜〕 (literally "written notation"), which gives all the details using ordinary written Chinese characters. Later in the Tang dynasty, Cao Rou (曹柔) and others simplified the notation, using only the important elements of the characters (like string number, plucking technique, "hui" number and which finger to stop the string) and combined them into one character notation. This meant that instead of having two lines of written text to describe a few notes, a single character could represent one note, or sometimes as many as nine. This notation form was called "jianzi pu" 〔減字譜〕 (literally "reduced notation") and it was a great step forward for recording qin scores. It was so successful that from the Ming dynasty (1368-1644) onwards, a lot of qinpu 〔琴譜〕 (qin tablature collections) appeared, the most famous and useful being "Shenqi Mipu" (The Mysterious and Marvellous Tablature) compiled by Zhu Quan (朱勸), the 17th son of the founder of the Ming dynasty. In the 1960s, Zha Fuxi discovered more than 130 qinpu that contain well over 3360 pieces of written music. Many qinpu compiled before the Ming dynasty are now lost, and many pieces have remained unplayed for hundreds of years. 
Existing qinpu generally come from private collections or in public libraries throughout China, etc. Those that are available for public purchase are photographic copies printed and bound in the traditional Chinese bookbinding process. More modern qinpu tend to be bound in the normal Western way on modern paper. The format uses qin notation with staff notation and/or "jianpu" notation. 
Qin pieces are usually around three to eight minutes in length, with the longest being "Guangling San" 《廣陵散》, which is 22 minutes long. Other famous pieces include "Liu Shui" 《流水》 (Flowing Water), "Yangguan San Die" 《陽關三疊》 (Three Refrains on the Yang Pass Theme), "Meihua San Nong" 《梅花三弄》 (Three Variations on the Plum Blossom Theme), "Xiao Xiang Shui Yun" 《瀟湘水雲》 (Mist and Clouds over the Xiao and Xiang Rivers), and "Pingsha Luo Yan" 《平沙落雁》 (Wild Geese Descending on the Sandbank). The average player can generally play around ten pieces from memory which they will aim to play very well, learning new pieces as and when they feel like it. Players mainly learn popular well studied versions, often using a recording as a reference. In addition to learning to play established or ancient pieces very well, highly skilled qin players may also compose or improvise, although the player must be very good and extremely familiar with the instrument to be successful at it.
Dapu 〔打譜〕 is the conversion of old tablature into a playable form. This can be used to create new music as well as to reconstruct the ancient melodies. Since qin tablature does not indicate note value, tempo or rhythm, the player must work it out for him/herself. Normally, qin players will learn the rhythm of a piece through a teacher. They sit facing one another, with the student copying the master. The tablature will only be looked at if the teacher is not sure of how to play a certain part. Because of this, traditional qinpu do not indicate them. If one did not have a teacher, then one had to work out the rhythm by themselves. But it would be a mistake to say that qin music has no rhythm or melody. By the 20th century, there had been attempts to try to replace the shorthand notation, but so far, it has been unsuccessful; since the 20th century, qin music is generally printed with staff notation above the qin tablature. Because qin tablature is so useful, logical, easy, and the fastest way (once the performer knows how to read the notation) of learning a piece, it is invaluable to the qin player and cannot totally be replaced. There are two views of how to best use dapu: one is to use it to create new music, and the other is to use it to reconstruct the way the original music was played.
According to tradition, the qin originally had five strings, representing the five elements of metal, wood, water, fire and earth. Later, in the Zhou dynasty, Zhou Wen Wang 周文王 added a sixth string to mourn his son, Bo Yihou 伯邑考. His successor, Zhou Wu Wang 周武王, added a seventh string to motivate his troops into battle with the Shang. The thirteen "hui" 『徽』 on the surface represent the 13 months of the year (the extra 13th is the 'leap month' in the lunar calendar). The surface board is round to represent Heaven and the bottom board flat to represent earth. The entire length of the qin (in Chinese measurements) is 3 feet, 6.5 inches, representing the 365 days of the year (though this is just a standard since qins can be shorter or longer depending on the period's measurement standard or the maker's preference). Each part of the qin has meaning, some more obvious, like "dragon pool" 『龍池』 and "phoenix pond" 『鳳沼』. 
The sound chamber of the qin is constructed with two boards of wood, typically of differing wood types. The slightly rounded top board (soundboard) is usually made of "tong" wood 『桐』, the Chinese parasol tree, or Chinese paulownia. The bottom board is made of "zi mu" 『梓木』 catalpa ("Catalpa ovata") or, more recently, "nan mu" 『楠木』 camphor wood ("Machilus nanmu"). The wood must be well aged, that is, the sap and moisture must be removed (of the top board wood). If sap remains then the sound will not be clear and, as the moisture evaporates, the wood will warp and crack. Some makers use old or ancient wood to construct qins because most of the sap and moisture has been removed naturally by time (old "shan mu" 『杉木』, Chinese Cunninghamia or Japanese Cryptomeria, is often used for creating modern qins). Some go to lengths to obtain extremely ancient wood, such as that from Han dynasty tomb structures or coffins. Although such wood is very dry, it is not necessarily the best since it may be infected with wood worm or be of a bad quality or type. Many modern qins made out of new "tong" wood (such as those made by Zeng Chengwei) can be better than the quality of antique qins. 
There are two sound holes in the bottom board, as the playing techniques of the qin employ the entire surface of the top board which is curved / humped. The inside of the top board is hollowed out to a degree. Inside the qin, there are 'nayin' 『納音』 sound absorbers, and a 'tian chu' 『天柱』 and 'di chu' 『地柱』 soundposts that connect the bottom board to the top. The boards are joined using bamboo nails. Lacquer 『漆』 from the Chinese lacquer tree ("Rhus vernicifera") is then applied to the surfaces of the qin, mixed with various types of powder, the most common being "lujiao shuang" 『鹿角霜』, the remains of deer antler after the glue has been eremoved. Often, ceramic powder is used instead of deer antler powder, but the quality is not as good. After the lacquer has dried (a qin will need several layers), the surface will be polished using oil stones. At the head end of the instrument is the "yue shan" 『岳山』 or bridge, and at the other end is the "long yin" 『龍齦』 (dragon's gums) or nut. There are 13 circular mother-of-pearl inlays which mark the harmonic positions, as well as a reference point to note position, called "hui" 『徽』 ("insignia"). 
Until the Cultural Revolution, the guqin's strings were always made of various thicknesses of twisted silk 『絲』, but since then most players use modern nylon-flatwound steel strings 『鋼絲』. This was partly due to the scarcity of high quality silk strings and partly due to the newer strings' greater durability and louder tone.
Silk strings are made by gathering a prescribed number of strands of silk thread, then twisting them tightly together. The twisted cord of strings is then wrapped around a frame and immersed in a vat of liquid of natural glue that binds the strands together. The strings are taken out and left to dry, before being cut into the appropriate length. The top thicker strings (i.e. strings one to four) are further wrapped in a thin silk thread, coiled around the core to make it smoother. 
Recently in China, production of very good quality silk strings has resumed and more players are beginning to use them. Although most contemporary players use nylon-wrapped metal strings, some argue that nylon-wrapped metal strings cannot replace silk strings for their refinement of tone. Furthermore, it is the case that nylon-wrapped metal strings can cause damage to the wood of old qins. Many traditionalists feel that the sound of the fingers of the left hand sliding on the strings to be a distinctive feature of qin music. The modern nylon-wrapped metal strings were very smooth in the past, but are now slightly modified in order to capture these sliding sounds.
To string a qin, one traditionally had to tie a butterfly knot ("shengtou jie" 『蠅頭結』) at one end of the string, and slip the string through the twisted cord ("rongkou" 『絨剅』) which goes into holes at the head of the qin and then out the bottom through the tuning pegs ("zhen" 『軫』). The string is dragged over the bridge ("yueshan" 『岳山』), across the surface board, over the nut ("longyin" 『龍齦』 dragon gums) to the back of the qin, where the end is wrapped around two legs ("fengzu" 『鳳足』 "phoenix feet" or "yanzu" 『雁足』 "geese feet"). Afterwards, the strings are fine tuned using the tuning pegs. The most common tuning, "zheng diao" 〈正調〉, is pentatonic: 1245612 in the traditional Chinese number system or "jianpu" 〔簡譜〕. Today this is generally interpreted to mean C D F G A c d, but this should be considered do re fa so la do re, since historically the qin was not tuned to absolute pitch. In fact the same tuning can also be considered as 5612356 when the third string is played as do. Thus, except when accompanied by other instruments, only the pitch relations between the seven strings needs to be accurate. Other tunings are achieved by adjusting the tension of the strings using the tuning pegs at the head end. Thus "manjiao diao" 〈慢角調〉 (slackened third string) gives 1235612 and "ruibin diao" 〈蕤賔調〉 (raised fifth string) gives 1245712, which is transposed to 2356123. 
The guqin is nearly always used a solo single instrument, as its quietness of tone means that it cannot be heard over the sounds of most other instruments or an ensemble. It can, however, be played together with a "xiao" (end-blown bamboo flute), with other qin, or played while singing. In old times, the "se" (a long zither with movable bridges and 25 strings, similar to the Japanese koto) was frequently used in duets with the qin. 
In order for an instrument to accompany the qin, its sound must be mellow and not overwhelm the qin. Thus, the "xiao" generally used for this purpose is one pitched in the key of F, known as "qin xiao", which is narrower than an ordinary "xiao". If one sings to qin songs (which is rare nowadays) then one should not sing in an operatic or folk style as is common in China, but rather in a very low pitched and deep way; and the range in which one should sing should not exceed one and a half octaves. The style of singing is similar to that used to recite Tang poetry. To enjoy qin songs, one must learn to become accustomed to the strange style some players may sing their songs to.
Traditionally, the qin was played in a quiet studio or room by oneself, or with a few friends; or played outdoors in places of outstanding natural beauty. Nowadays, many qin players perform at concerts in large concert halls, almost always, out of necessity, using electronic pickups or microphones to amplify the sound. Many qin players attend yaji (『雅集』 literally "elegant gatherings"), at which a number of qin players, music lovers, or anyone with an interest in Chinese culture can come along to discuss and play the qin.
Chinese books on qin:
English books on qin:
Qin society sites
General Qin sites
Other specialist Qin sites
Sites with music samples

</doc>
<doc id="23828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23828" title="Ripuarian">
Ripuarian

Ripuarian has several meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="23837" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23837" title="Category:Invertebrates">
Category:Invertebrates


</doc>
<doc id="23841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23841" title="Vandal">
Vandal

Vandal can mean several things:

</doc>
<doc id="23842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23842" title="São Paulo (state)">
São Paulo (state)

São Paulo (Portuguese: Saint Paul) is a state in the Southeast Region of Brazil. Its capital city is called São Paulo too.
São Paulo is located in the south-east region of Brazil, with close to 248,000 square kilometers of area. (For comparison, Oregon State in the United States of America has 251,000 square miles). 
It borders the state of Minas Gerais to the north, the state of Rio de Janeiro and the Atlantic Ocean to the east, the state of Paraná to the south and state of Mato Grosso do Sul to the west. 
The capital of São Paulo is the city of São Paulo.
São Paulo is the state in Brazil with the highest economical output. 
It has the second highest per capita income of Brazil, second only to the Federal District, where Brasília is located. 
With the states of Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul it shares the highest standard of living in Brazil, despite of pockets of blight poverty in its largest cities.
The robust economy of São Paulo is based in industrial production, to include automobile and aviation, agriculture, services and tourism.
São Paulo is the Brazilian state with the largest population and also is the most ethnically diverse. 
Portuguese, Italian, Spanish, Arab, Asian and other descents chose São Paulo as their home, due to its thriving economy. 
Also migrants from other Brazilian states (especially from the Northeast Region) come to São Paulo in search of a better life. Because there are not enough jobs, these people usually want to back to their states.
São Paulo is the state in Brazil with the largest and most efficient transportation system. 
The city of São Paulo relies on underground train and also suburban at-grade rail systems. City buses complement the public transportation system. 
Air traffic is the busiest of all Brazil.
Harbors along the state's ocean front receive and ship a great share of Brazil's export and import goods.
São Paulo is a vibrant place when it comes to sports. Football (soccer) is king but the state has human resources and facilities to produce some of the best athletes in the world in many other fields. 
The state has many professional soccer clubs but also volleyball has found a niche here. 
Auto racing is a staple of the paulista's way of life. The state has produced several racing drivers that have attained international fame.
São Paulo, Campinas, Guarulhos, Osasco, Ribeirão Preto, Santo André, Santos, São Bernardo do Campo, São Carlos, São José dos Campos and Sorocaba.

</doc>
<doc id="23848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23848" title="Category:Argentina">
Category:Argentina

Argentina is a country in South America.

</doc>
<doc id="23853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23853" title="Trolley">
Trolley

A trolley is a small vehicle with wheels that can carry things. People can push trolleys.
There are different kind of trolleys. There are shopping trolleys which are used in supermarkets and other large stores with self-service. In American English these are called shopping carriages or shopping carts. Customers can put things they want to buy in the trolley and then pay for everything at the checkout. Usually they are then allowed to wheel the trolley with the things they have bought out to their car.
Sometimes the customers have to pay a small deposit when collecting a trolley. The trolleys are chained together. The customer puts in a coin (in Britain a £1 coin) which he can have back again when he parks the trolley back in the trolley chain.
Trolleys are used in airports and some large railway stations for passengers to carry their luggage.
A trolley can also be a tea-trolley. This is a small trolley used traditionally in the house for plates, cups, saucers and sandwiches and cakes for afternoon tea. Tea-trolleys are also used in hospitals and offices to take cups of tea and coffee to people.
In American English "trolley" can be used to mean a tram (or streetcar). This is not to be confused with a trolleybus which is a bus which uses electricity from an overhead cable (like a tram).
When someone says "He is off his trolley" it means that he is crazy.

</doc>
<doc id="23865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23865" title="Abuse">
Abuse

Abuse might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="23874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23874" title="Mutant (Marvel)">
Mutant (Marvel)

A mutant is a type of fictional character in a fictional universe created by Marvel Comics. In this world, mutants can be either heroes or villains. A mutant is someone who has different DNA than its parents. These mutations often lead to superpowers. They may also cause physical changes such as wings, blue skin, or a tail.
Mutants were created in the Marvel Universe in the 1960s with the comic book "The X-Men". It was a way for them to tell stories that dealt with racism. Racism, hatred and fear of mutants are an important part of their history . Two main teams of mutants have been around since the 1960s: The X-Men (heroes) and the Brotherhood of Mutants (villains).
Sometime a human is born with a certain kind of DNA change. This "X-GENE" is passed to their children. This genetic change may not create any noticeable difference. It could pass for generations without anyone knowing about it.
Mutants may be born to human or mutant parents, though the odds of a mutant birth are much better for the latter. Likewise, it is rare but possible for mutant parents to have human children, termed "baseline" by characters within the Marvel Universe. Some baseline humans are genetically predisposed towards having mutant descendants such as the Guthrie family (see Cannonball, Husk, and Icarus). Mutant children born to mutant parent(s) will not necessarily have the same power(s) as their parent(s), nor will they necessarily have the same power(s) as any mutant siblings they may have; however, examples of children with the same power(s) as their parents and/or siblings are not uncommon.
There is, however, a chance that mutants may not even be able to reproduce a child at all. The Hayes (Runaways), telepathic mutant doctors, were unsure their mutant heritage could even produce a child; it did, however, take them several years to finally have a child: Molly Hayes.
Marvel's mutants are classified by their level of power.
Note: Only Alpha and Omega have actually been used as classification within comics. The other ranks were created by fans. 
The X-Men were created in the 1960s during a time of civil unrest in the United States. The characters allowed the writer to write stories that showed racism and bigotry without singling out a specific minority.
By classifying Mutants as they did, they also created different aspects of racism. Some mutants are easily recognized by how they look (similar to African-Americans). Some have a few physical characteristics that can make them get notices (Similar to Jews). Other mutants blend in so well that it nearly impossible to tell they are a mutant unless they use their powers (Similar to homosexuals)
In the Marvel universe normal people often hate and fear mutants. This is because they think mutants may make normal humans extinct. They fear what they do not understand. They are jealous of them having superpowers. Bigotry and xenophobia are also reasons for hatred of mutants. In the Marvel universe, anti-mutant feeling has led to the separation of mutants from society. It has led to mob violence and government sponsored tries to fight mutants.
The X-Men books have been written as typical superhero comic books. They have epic adventures and battles with super villains. Yet, the idea of mutants as a metaphor for real world minorities who face oppression is shown throughout the series. Some examples:

</doc>
<doc id="23884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23884" title="Urethra">
Urethra

The urethra is a tube that connects the bladder to the outside of the body. It allows people and animals to remove urine from the body. People and animals control urination using the urethral sphincter.
The urethra is part of the urinary system in mammals. Because humans are mammals, they have urethras. In male mammals, the urethra is also a part of the reproductive system, because males use it as a tube for sperm during sex.
In human anatomy, men have longer urethras than women. This means that women have bladder infections more often, because their bladders are closer to the outside. Because the male urethra is longer and is not straight, inserting a catheter (tube to help urination) is more difficult in men.
In women, the urethra is 2.5-4 cm (1-1.5 in) long. Its opening to the outside of the body is part of the vulva (the area between a woman's legs). The female urethra is between the clitoris and the opening to the vagina. In men, the urethra is about 20 cm (8 in) long and its opening to the outside of the body is at the end of the penis.
The male urethra has three sections:

</doc>
<doc id="23889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23889" title="Stanislav Lem">
Stanislav Lem

Stanislaw Lem() (September 12, 1921 – March 27, 2006) was a Polish science fiction writer. His writings are highly philosophical and satirical. His books have been translated into 41 languages. Over 27 million copies of his books have been sold worldwide. At one point he was among the most widely read science fiction authors in the world. Lem's writing is full of intelligent humor, puns, and neologisms, and Michael Kandel's translations into English have been praised by many for capturing Lem's style.
Lem is perhaps best known for his novel "Solaris". This novel was published in 1961. It is set into the future. Humans have discovered what they think is intelligent life in space. They want to talk to the alien life form. The only problem they have is that the life form is the size of a planet. It is an ocean. This book has also been made into a film by Andrei Tarkowski in 1972. Steven Soderbergh made another film of the book in 2002.
Lem won various prizes for his novels.

</doc>
<doc id="23890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23890" title="Hostage">
Hostage

A hostage is a person who is held captive against his or her will. Hostages are often taken (held captive) to force someone else to do something for their "captors" (the people who took them hostage). Hostages are taken for many different reasons. 

</doc>
<doc id="23895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23895" title="Intel">
Intel

Intel Corporation (Integrated Electronics Corporation) is a microprocessor company that was set up in the 1960s. Different types of processors made by Intel were used in most computers. Their most famous older products are the 386, 486, and Pentium models. Many people use Core 2 processor in their computer - it says "Intel Inside." Intel makes many different products, and has switched to dual core, 64-bit processors in 2006. The first Pentium chips were released on March 22, 1993.
Intel Corporation is traded on the NASDAQ under the ticker INTC and has been a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average since 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="23898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23898" title="Nintendo Entertainment System">
Nintendo Entertainment System

The Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) also known as the Family Computer or Famicom in Japan is the first video game console made by Nintendo in Japan, Europe, the United States. It came out in 1985 in the United States and was very popular.
The controller for the NES was different from the joysticks that older consoles had. It had a D-pad button, that could go up, down, left, or right. It also had A, B, Select, and Start buttons. The NES could use up to two controllers for multiplayer games. There were also other types of controllers that could be used with the NES.
Some famous games for the NES are "Super Mario Bros.", "The Legend of Zelda", "Metroid", "Mega Man", "Castlevania", "Donkey Kong", and "Final Fantasy". There have been many sequels made to these games and they are still enjoyed today. Nintendo discontinued (stopped making and selling) the NES in 1995.
The CPU (Central Processing Unit) in the NES is called MOS 6502 and is an 8-bit CPU. The chip that contains the CPU also contains other electronics that generate sound for games and help with some other things. There are two different versions of the chip called 2A03 and 2A07 that are used in different regions of the world (2A03 works with NTSC TVs, 2A07 with PAL TVs). It was made by a company called Ricoh.
The NES uses a chip called the PPU (Picture Processing Unit) to draw graphics on the TV. It has two different versions called 2C02 (for NTSC TVs) and 2C07 (for PAL TVs). It was also made by Ricoh.

</doc>
<doc id="23902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23902" title="System of a Down">
System of a Down

System of a Down is an American metal band. They started in 1995 in Los Angeles, California by four members of Armenian descent, Serj Tankian (lead singer, born August 21, 1967), Daron Malakian (lead guitar, singer, born July 18, 1975), Shavo Odadjian (bass, background singer, born April 22, 1974) and drummer Andy Khachaturian (but was replaced with John Dolmayan). 
The band has four albums:
The band became successful with popular songs like "Sugar", "Spiders", "Chop Suey!", "Toxicity", "Aerials", "B.Y.O.B.", "Question!", "Hypnotize", and "Lonely Day".
After the release of "MEZMERIZE"/"Hypnotize", System of a Down went on a break, but they say they have not broken up.
Often described as very angry, Khachaturian was unhappy about his place as drummer, and wanted to lead the band. He left the band and the drummer from the band, "Friik", John Dolmayan, joined the band.
Serj, Daron, and Shavo, went to the same school, Alex Pilibos School for Armenian Americans in Los Angeles, when they were young. 
In 1995, they made their first demo tape, and had the songs: "Suite-Pee", "Sugar", "Dam", and "P.L.U.C.K.(Politically Lying Unholy Cowardly Killers)". In 1996, another demo tape was released with the songs: Soil, and two songs that were not on the first album, "Honey" and "Temper". They made another demo tape, and this was the one that got them put on the record label. The producer, Rick Rubin, had tried to sign up the band several times before they agreed.
In 1997, SOAD teamed up with Rubin and produced their first studio album in 1997, "System of a Down". This album was not as popular as the next album, but it made people aware of who and what System of a Down stood for.
Their next album, "Toxicity", made in 2001, had their first UK top 20 single "Chop Suey". This album explores a more melodic side of metal music. It is also political; for example the opening track: "Prison Song" which has Serj speaking the lines "Minor drug offenders
med up with Rubin and produced their first studio album in 1997, "System of a Down". This album was not as popular as the next album, but it made people aware of who and what System of a Down stood for.
In May 2005, the band released part one of a double album, "Mezmerize". More melodic than before, it included "B.Y.O.B" (Bring Your Own Bombs), and "Lost in Hollywood"; a song based on Daron's childhood about growing up in Hollywood, which he did not think was all that glamorous.
Months later, the second part of the double album, "Hypnotize", was released. This was the same sort of style as they were recorded at the same time.
In 2006, the band decided that they were going to go on break for a little while. They said they were going to come back together in a few years. After 10 years together, they each wanted to do different things for a while. They've been rumors of them returning in 2011. In July 2010 Dolmayan said in an interview that the band will most likely tour in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="23903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23903" title="Belarusian language">
Belarusian language

The Belarusian language ("", transliteration: Biełaruskaja mova) is an eastern Slavic language. This language is a part of the Indo-European language family. It is spoken in Belarus and eastern Poland (in the area of Białystok). It is also spoken by Belarusians who live in other countries of Europe, Australia, and North America.
When writing Belarusian, people can use the Cyrillic or the Latin alphabet.

</doc>
<doc id="23904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23904" title="Kevin Bacon">
Kevin Bacon

Kevin Norwood Bacon (born July 8, 1958 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania) is an American movie actor who has starred in "Stir of Echoes", "Wild Things", "JFK", "Footloose" and "Apollo 13", among others. He has been married to actress Kyra Sedgwick since September 4, 1988. They have two children, Travis and Sosie Ruth. Bacon is known for the Bacon Number.

</doc>
<doc id="23905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23905" title="Kyra Sedgwick">
Kyra Sedgwick

Kyra Sedgwick (born August 19, 1965) is an American actress. She was born in New York City, New York to a father of English descent and a Jewish mother. She is the great-granddaughter of Endicott Peabody, the founder of Groton School. She is married to actor Kevin Bacon. She produced and starred in "The Closer".

</doc>
<doc id="23906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23906" title="Treaty of Versailles">
Treaty of Versailles

The Treaty of Versailles was a peace treaty between the nations, France, Germany, Britain, Austria-Hungary, Japan and the United States after World War I. The treaty was made in 1919, but the German government did not participate in it. In fact, Germany had the choice between signing it or facing the occupation of Germany by Allied troops. This was known as a diktat Frieden. This angered the German people as they believed that they did not start the war.
The French made the Treaty unfavorable for the Germans so that Germany would not be able to start a new war. Thus, Germany had to reduce its armed forces from 6 million to 100,000 men, and get rid of its submarines, military aircraft and most of their artillery, such as cannons. Their Navy battleships were limited to only six small ones. Germany also had to give back French territories it had occupied, as well as large territories of its own to Poland, for instance, and all of its colonies. A heavy economical burden for Germany was to pay back the very big World War I reparations for the damage done to Allied countries, mostly France, during World War I by German troops. This sum was not fixed. 132 billion gold marks had to be paid only as a first part of the German debt. They only finished paying off this debt in 2010.
This Treaty can be seen as a one-sided peace diktat for Germany, a treaty which later was used as a reason for Germany's nationalists and Adolf Hitler to try to get the support of the Germans to get rid of the "chains of Versailles," which finally led to World War II.
The treaty made a League of Nations, which decided things after the treaty was signed. It solved some international disputes without war, but could not stop World War II.
Germany had to give back French areas, (Alsace-Lorraine) taken by Germany in the Franco-Prussian War, which Germany had won and which was still an embarrassment for France. The French made Germany take its troops out of the Rhineland (the long stretch of land on Germany's border with France where the Rhine river flows), which was an important part of land for Germany where many factories and businesses existed. If Germany put troops back into the Rhineland the punishment would be France invading Germany.
Germany also had to give many parts to Poland, a new country made out of old Russian and Austrian parts and the Polish and Lithuanian people who lived in them. Poland was a very strong kingdom a few hundred years before but Austria, Prussia and Russia had split it between them.
Belgium was given Moresnet and Eupen and Malmedy. This is the main reason that Belgium now has a German-speaking community.
Versailles also split up many large empires on the losing side. The U.S. President, Woodrow Wilson, thought this was a very good idea because many people in Europe wanted to be free from the big empires. But it also created problems.
Austria-Hungary was split into many countries. One was Austria. Austria was meant to be the homeland of the Austrians, who spoke German and mainly ruled Austria-Hungary. Its capital was Vienna. One of the problems of Versailles was that many Austrians, like Adolf Hitler, thought that Austria was meant to be part of Germany. This led to the later German occupation of Austria.
The new country of Hungary was also created. Like Poland, it was a country that was strong on its own centuries before. Its capital was Budapest. Another new country, Czechoslovakia was created to be the homeland of the Czechs and Slovaks. The Czech part was made up of the country once called Bohemia and Moravia. Its capital was Prague. Many Germans lived on its borders called the Sudetenland, which was why Adolf Hitler insisted that it should belong to Germany.
Bosnia, Slovenia, Croatia (which were parts of Austria-Hungary), northern Macedonia (which was part of Bulgaria), Serbia and Montenegro made one country, called Yugoslavia. It was made to be a Slav homeland, but there were many religious, language and national differences.
New countries by the Baltic Sea called Estonia, Finland, Latvia and Lithuania were created. The Russian Revolution started during the war, and later resulted in the death of Tzar Nicholas II of Russia and the formation of a Communist state. A civil war raged in Russia between the anti-Communist White Russians and pro-Soviet Red Russians. Russia had lost control of its western territory which made up Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania and parts of Poland. During the Second World War, the Soviet Union reclaimed Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and half of Poland.
Italy gained parts of Austria.
It was agreed in another treaty called the Treaty of Sèvres that Greece would take parts of Western Turkey (called Ionia) and its past most important city, Constantinople from Turkey. Greece took them at first but a new Turkish army drove the Greeks out, killing many Greek people. Greece did gain most of the islands in the Aegean Sea from Turkey and parts of Bulgaria.
The League of Nations decided that parts of old Turkey were given to France and Great Britain to protect and keep peace in the area. Britain ruled Palestine, Iraq and Transjordan, which would become Israel, Iraq, and Jordan. France ruled Syria and Lebanon.
The German Empire became the Weimar Republic. A big problem for Germany was to pay back a giant amount of money for the all of the damage done to the Allied countries, mostly France, during World War I. This made Germany one of the poorest countries in Europe for almost 20 years, and caused political fighting in Germany. Germany officially finished paying off its debt on Sunday, October 3, 2010. The two most important parties, the Communists (who wanted a Communist revolution as had happened in Russia) and the Nazis (who thought Germany should become the most powerful country in Europe) fought for many years.
The debt to the Allies was made easier for the Germans during the Great Depression, and all debt was cancelled in 1932. Many Germans hated the treaty and some even wanted to fight more after Versailles.
The League of Nations created after Versailles was usually not powerful enough to stop wars, either. Japan took a part of China called Manchuria and the League was not able to stop it. Italy invaded Ethiopia and although the Ethiopian Emperor begged the League to help him, it did not. Germany, Japan and Italy became the Axis powers, and by invading many peaceful countries caused World War II. The United States and the USSR did not even join the League, even though it was the idea of US President Woodrow Wilson in the first place. The League was never taken seriously, even though it was created to make sure Versailles was respected. 
The treaty failed to keep peace in the end, and was a reason for Nazi Germany and Adolf Hitler to win the support of the poorer Germans to get rid of the "chains of Versailles", leading to World War II.

</doc>
<doc id="23941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23941" title="Saint Pierre and Miquelon">
Saint Pierre and Miquelon

Saint Pierre and Miquelon (French "Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon") is a French overseas collectivity. It is made up of several small islands. Those islands are near the eastern coast of Canada. They are close to Newfoundland. It is the only thing left of the former colonial territory of New France.
The communes are:
Historically L'Île-aux-Marins was a separate commune. Then in 1945 it was added into the commune of Saint-Pierre.
In each commune there are settlements Miquelon, Miquelon-Langlade and Saint-Pierre, Saint-Pierre.

</doc>
<doc id="23945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23945" title="50 (number)">
50 (number)

Fifty is the integer that is after forty-nine and before fifty-one.
The prime factors of fifty are 2 and 5. (2 * 5 * 5 = 50) The factors of 50 are 1, 2, 5, 10, 25, and 50. 5*10=50. 50 is the smallest number that can be written as the sum of two squares in two distinct ways: 50=1+7=5+5. Also, 50 is one-half of 100 or half of a century (a century is 100 years).

</doc>
<doc id="23946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23946" title="Rzeszów">
Rzeszów

Rzeszów (, ) is city in the south-east part of Poland in Subcarpathian Voivodeship with a population of 170,722 (2008). The city is located on the river Wislok.

</doc>
<doc id="23947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23947" title="1604">
1604


</doc>
<doc id="23948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23948" title="Houston">
Houston

Houston is a large city in the United States. It is in the state of Texas. It is the fourth largest city in the U.S. The mayor of Houston is Sylvester Turner. Over two million people live in Houston. It is named after Sam Houston, who fought for Texas freedom in 1836. It is well known for Johnson Space Center of NASA.
The George Bush Intercontinental Airport is the main airport serving Houston.
Houston has many sports teams. The Astros play baseball. The Rockets play basketball. The Texans play American Football.
Houston has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="23949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23949" title="1138">
1138


</doc>
<doc id="23950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23950" title="1140s">
1140s


</doc>
<doc id="23951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23951" title="Polynesian people">
Polynesian people

Polynesians are native people from islands in Polynesia, including Hawaii, Tahiti, Samoa, and Maoris in New Zealand.
they are very hardworking they trade with Hawaii etc 

</doc>
<doc id="23965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23965" title="Colonialism">
Colonialism

Colonialism occurs when a country or a nation takes control of other lands, regions, or territories outside of its borders (boundaries of the country) by turning those other lands, regions, or territories into a colony. Usually, it is a more powerful, richer country that takes control of a smaller, less powerful region or territory. Sometimes the words "colonialism" and "imperialism" are used to mean the same thing.
In the 1700s and 1800s, many of the richer, more powerful European countries (such as Britain, France, Spain, and the Netherlands) established colonies in the continents of Africa, South America, and the Caribbean.
Some countries use colonialism to get more land for their people to live in. They helped settlers move to the new area. The local people living in the land or territories were usually moved away by using force and violence from armies. To protect these settlers from the local residents who were pushed aside, colonial nations often set up a military fort or colonial police system. 
Other countries use colonialism to get more land so that they can use the land for farming or to extract (take out) resources such as trees (wood), coal, or metals, or to create a local government or military fort.
Other countries use colonialism so that they can get workers from the poorer country to work in factories or farms (either in the richer country, or in the poorer country). In the past, powerful countries that were colonizing poorer countries or regions often forced the people from the poorer countries to work as slaves.
The Phoenicians started many trade colonies around the Mediterranean. Carthage was the largest and most famous colony, and also made other colonies including Cartagena in Spain. 
Later, the Ancient Greeks expanded their territories with colonies. Ancient Greece was many city-states. Each city was independent with a government in place. Those cities also fought wars against each other and traded goods. To get more influence, or to secure a trade route, the city would send settlers to a new place. These people would then make a new city called a colony. Sometimes a new city had to pay some form of taxes to the mother city in exchange for protection, for example. The colonies, however, ruled themselves. The mother city did not sent them a governor. Syracuse is the most famous of these Greek colonies. 
If the Greek settlers found a local tribe living in the new territory, they would wage war against it to force them to leave. The local tribe was usually made into slaves. The new colony would exploit the land it found, by growing crops or by raising cattle.
Ancient Rome invented the word "colonia" from the word "colonus" meaning "farmer". "Colonia" at that time meant a new town to which some Romans moved, including farmers. Many of the settlers were veterans. In later centuries the word "colony" less often meant settlers, and more often meant rule by foreigners.
There are several different types of colonialism. Some countries that expanded their territory made Settler colonies. Some countries that started out as settler colonies include the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Argentina. In all of these countries, people from European countries moved to the best parts of the new region, and forced the indigenous peoples (such as Indians, Maori, etc.) to move. When the local people or tribes had to move, it caused a lot of problems.
In some regions which were colonized, the settlers married the local people and had children with them. An example is Mexico, where a new people called the mestizos came from the marriages of the settlers and the local tribes. In other regions which were colonized, the settlers and the local people lived in separate areas, without living together or marrying. An example of this situation is French Algeria (when France colonized the African country of Algeria) or Southern Rhodesia. 
Another type of colonialism is when a powerful country sets up (establishes) dependencies. With a dependency, the colonizing country does not send over thousands of settlers to the new territory. Instead, the colonizing country sets up administrators (a governing organization) that controls the existing local (native) populations or tribes. Examples include the British Raj, (geraldine) in which the British government controlled India; the Dutch East Indies, in which the Netherlands controlled parts of the East Indies; and the Japanese colonial empire, in which Japan controlled Asian territories.
With the plantation colony, the powerful, rich country use the poorer country's land to grow crops. The local people are forced to become slaves and work on the farms. Examples of plantation colonies include Barbados, Saint-Domingue and Jamaica. 
Another type of colony is the trading post colony. Rich and powerful countries set up trading post colonies so that there would be a territory where trading, selling, and business could be conducted. The rich and powerful countries usually set up military forts or police forces to enforce the rules and laws of the colonizing country. Examples of trading colonies include Macau, Malacca, Deshima and Singapore.

</doc>
<doc id="23966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23966" title="Hey Arnold!">
Hey Arnold!

Hey Arnold! was an American animated television show on the Nickelodeon network. It was about a boy with a football-shaped head named Arnold, his "gang" of friends, and their lives in the fictional city of Hillwood. Episodes of "Hey Arnold!" lasted for about 15 minutes each. In 2002, Nickelodeon made a movie from it. Arnold's best friends in his gang are Gerald, Sid, Stinky, Eugene, Rhonda, Phoebe, Lila, and Curly (who was voiced by Haley Joel Osment). Adult Arnold was voiced by Christopher Walberg.

</doc>
<doc id="23968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23968" title="Diego Maradona">
Diego Maradona

Diego Armando Maradona (born 30 October 1960 in Lanús, Buenos Aires) is an Argentine former football player. He was nicknamed "El Diez", "Pelusa", "El Diego" and "El pibe de oro". He won the World Cup in Mexico in the year of 1986.
He is regarded as one of the best footballers of all time. At age 25, Diego Maradona was the main figure of Argentina's drive to its 1986 World Cup. His great skill and moves reserved him a spot in soccer history and as one of the best players. Once he controlled the ball for more than half of the entire field, beating English defenders, he kicked the ball off his left leg into the net, juking out the goalkeeper. The World Cup made Maradona the most famous soccer player after Pele from Brazil. Even the British named him "athlete of the decade."
240||150||colspan="2"|-||colspan="2"|-||240||150
62||27||12||7||7||8||81||42
188||81||54||29||25||5||267||115
490||258||66||36||32||13||588||307
!Total||91||34
"Diego Maradona." Encyclopedia of World Biography. Vol. 20. Detroit: Gale, 2000.Biography in Context. Web. 12 May 2014.
"Maradona, Diego Armando." Hutchinson Encyclopedia. 2011. eLibrary. Web. 12 May. 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="23970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23970" title="José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero">
José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero

Don José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero (; born 4 August 1960 in Valladolid) is a Spanish politician. He was elected for two terms as Prime Minister of Spain. This was in the 2004 and 2008 general elections. On 2 April 2011 he said he would not stand for re-election. His party is the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE).
He left the office on 21 December 2011. He was succeeded by Mariano Rajoy. He left the PSOE's Secretary General chair on 4th February 2012 to Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba. On 9th February he entered the Spanish Council of State. 
Important actions of his government have included withdrawing Spanish troops from Iraq, legalizing same-sex marriages and negotiating with Basque terrorist group ETA.
He studied Law at the University of León, graduating in 1982. Rodríguez Zapatero met Sonsoles Espinosa in León in 1981. They married on 27 January 1990 and have two daughters named Laura (born 1993) and Alba (born 1995).
Zapatero is a supporter of FC Barcelona.

</doc>
<doc id="23976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23976" title="Electric guitar">
Electric guitar

The Electric guitar is a type of musical instrument. It was made in 1931 by George Beauchamp. It is a string instrument usually played with a pick and sometimes with the fingers. It uses things called "electric pickups" which are wire-wound magnets that change the vibration of the strings into electric current. This electric current is then sent to an amplifier that changes it to sound. This electric current can also be changed to produce effects.
The main parts of an electric guitar are the neck, the pickups, the tuners, the bridge, the input, the body, the frets, the pick guard, the volume knobs and the tone knobs. There may also be other parts that can change other sounds. A normal electric guitar has one neck with 6 strings on it, although there are 12 string guitars and guitars with more than one neck. 
Guitars are made and sold in many parts of the world by many companies. They can be hand made or factory made. Some companies that make electric guitars are Fender, Gibson, and Ibanez.
Many guitarists today share their music through a system called tablature (commonly known as 'tab'). Tablature is a way of reading notes for a guitar. It is much simpler than musical notes, but most tabs do not support rhythm. Many tabs can be found online or in books and magazines.
To read guitar tab, generally there is a staff like this:
Each line represents a string. Tab is always read as if the player were holding the guitar on their lap, strings facing up. Each number then represents what fret the finger is placed on.
E -----------------0------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
B -----------------0------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
G --1-------------1-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
D ----2-----------2-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A ------2---------2-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
E -----------------0------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The above diagram would be to play an open E chord, picking each string individually, and then strumming the chord. If the notes are stacked directly above each other, it means to strum the chord.
Some guitar music is written in both musical note format and tablature. The musical notes are written out, with the corresponding tablature under each line of notes.

</doc>
<doc id="23979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23979" title="Louise Brooks">
Louise Brooks

Louise Brooks (Cherryvale, Kansas, 14 November 1906 – Rochester, New York, 8 August 1985) was an American dancer and actress. She became a leading film star, and a style icon famous for her beauty and her bobbed hair style. 
In 2006, the centenary of Brooks' birth was celebrated by the release of three DVDs and three books, museum exhibits, screenings, and other events.
Brooks' signature film role was as Lulu in G.W. Pabst's "Pandora's Box" ("Die Büchse der Pandora") in 1929. Brooks' portrayal was of a young woman whose raw sexuality and uninhibited nature brings ruin to herself and those who love her. It made the actress a star.

</doc>
<doc id="23982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23982" title="Bangor, Maine">
Bangor, Maine

Bangor is the 3rd-largest city in Maine. In 2000, the city had 31,473 people.
In 1937, Al Brady, an armed robber and murderer is shot dead in a gun battle with FBI agent Walter Walsh, ending a long crime spree.

</doc>
<doc id="23984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23984" title="Portland">
Portland

Portland can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="24005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24005" title="Ben Bradshaw">
Ben Bradshaw

Benjamin Peter James Bradshaw (born 30 August 1960) is an English politician and the Member of Parliament for the Exeter constituency in the United Kingdom. He was elected in the 1997 general election.
He was a Minister of State in the Department of Health, a Minister for the South West and Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport. He holds no posts in the current shadow government.
He is a member of the Labour Party.

</doc>
<doc id="24014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24014" title="Eschelbronn">
Eschelbronn

Eschelbronn is a village with 2597 people living there. It is in the Rhein-Neckar area of Baden-Württemberg, Germany and close to Sinsheim.
Eschelbronn is in the north of Kraichgau with a distance of about 25 km to Heidelberg.
It was already mentioned in the years 788/789 in a document of the monastery of Lorsch. Afterwards there was no documentation until the end of the 13th century when it became part of the restrict of Speyer.
The first mayor was Heinrich von Eschelbrunnen in the year 1261. In 1267 a castle made of wood was built and later rebuilt into a water-castle of stone in 1375. In 1526 the village became Protestant.
In 1803 Eschelbronn became part of Baden. From 1807 on the village was administered by Waibstadt and 1803 by Sinsheim until the 31st of December 1972. Today it belongs to the Rhein-Neckar area.
In former times most of the people were farmers, however later in the 18th century the production of textiles became more and more important. Since the end of the 19th century Eschelbronn is well known for its furniture production.

</doc>
<doc id="24021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24021" title="Order of the Bath">
Order of the Bath

The Most Honourable Order of the Bath is a British order of chivalry. It was founded by George I, on 18 May 1725. The name comes from an old ceremony, first mentioned in 1128. In the ceremony, men participated in a vigil of fasting, prayer, and taking a bath. They did this on the day before they were made a knight. The ceremony was abolished in 1815. 
The Order is made up of the Sovereign (the British Sovereign), the Great Master (Charles, Prince of Wales), and three classes of members: (Highest to lowest)
Originally founded as a military order of chivalry, the star (or pip) is worn as army officers' rank insignia. The insignia is that of the Order of the Bath. Members of the order now belong to either the Civil or the Military Division. The Order's motto is "Tria juncta in uno" (Latin for "Three joined in one"). This is a reference to either the union of England, Scotland and Ireland, or to the Holy Trinity. A symbol of the Order that is seen over and over has three crowns in it. Another motto, "Ich dien" (German for "I serve") is used occasionally, but only by members of the Order who serve in the military.
The Order is the fourth oldest of the British Orders of Chivalry, after The Most Noble Order of the Garter, The Most Ancient and Most Noble Order of the Thistle, and The Most Illustrious Order of St Patrick. The last of those Orders–which relates to Ireland, no longer a part of the United Kingdom–still exists, but is no longer active; no appointments have been made to it since 1934.

</doc>
<doc id="24028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24028" title="Kurdish people">
Kurdish people

The Kurds are an ethnic group found in Turkey Iraq, Iran, Syria, Armenia and Lebanon. They have their own culture. Kurds are Indo-European settlers together with the people of Western and northwestern Iran, widely thought to be descended from the Medes. They speak Kurdish. 
Kurds have similarly distinct features like those of southern Europe, however their looks vary from blondes to brunettes and although they have mainly brown eyes they can have varied colours. They have a rich culture despite the long struggle by their neighbours to demolish it: it remains a strong influence on their way of life. Today, there are thought to be about 40 million Kurds. Most are Sunnite Muslim.

</doc>
<doc id="24031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24031" title="Guerrilla warfare">
Guerrilla warfare

A guerrilla is a civilian who attacks a regular army. When civilians attack civilians, it is usually called terrorism. When two or more armies (representing countries) attack each other, this is a war. 
Guerrilla warfare is a war tactic in which people () fight against an organized army. Guerrilla warfare is sometimes practiced in places where a regular army has difficulty, such as mountains, forests, or jungles. Usually, this army is invading a territory.
Guerrilla is a word of Spanish origin. It means "little war".
This war tactic was used on the British by the Native Americans. The natives had an advantage because they used Guerrilla warfare. This war tactic was also used on the Americans during the Vietnamese War.

</doc>
<doc id="24041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24041" title="Sacrament">
Sacrament

In Christianity, a sacrament is a special rite. It is a visible token of the reality of God.
The Roman Catholic Church knows seven such sacraments. These are
Following Martin Luther's tradition, many Protestant churches see only Baptism and Lord's Supper as Sacraments. They also have most of the other rites, but do not consider them to be sacraments.
Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox Churches basically have the same views as the Roman Catholic Church. They say however, that many things the church does (as church), can be seen as sacraments, in some way.

</doc>
<doc id="24049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24049" title="St. Petersburg, Florida">
St. Petersburg, Florida

St. Petersburg (shortened to St. Pete by the area residents) is a city in the U.S. state of Florida. It is the county seat of Pinellas County. It is home to the MLB team Tampa Bay Rays.

</doc>
<doc id="24055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24055" title="20 (number)">
20 (number)

Twenty is the number that is after nineteen and before twenty-one.
The prime factors of twenty are 2 and 5. (2 * 2 * 5 = 20)
Its factors are: 1, 2, 4, 5, 10, and 20. As the sum of its factors is more than itself (i.e. 22), it can be referred to as an abundant number.
20 can been used as a number base. Remnants of this system remain in some European languages, for example in the English “score” (20) and the French “quatre-vingts” (80, literally four groups of twenty). The old (pre-decimal) English monetary system had twenty shillings in a pound. The ancient Mayan numerical system – counting on fingers and toes – was a base 20 or "vigesimal" system.
A polyhedron of 20 faces is an icosahedron, one of the five Platonic solids. It is a convex regular polyhedron composed of twenty triangular faces, with five meeting at each of the twelve vertices. It has 30 edges and 12 vertices. Its dual polyhedron is the dodecahedron.
In Japanese tradition, adulthood is established at the age of 20. See seijin not hi (the celebration of adulthood in Japan).
It is the number of milk teeth in an infant’s mouth.
In Roman numerals, 20 is written as XX.

</doc>
<doc id="24057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24057" title="40 (number)">
40 (number)

Forty is the number that is after thirty-nine and before forty-one.
The prime factors of forty are 2 and 5. (2 * 2 * 2 * 5 = 40)
Forty is also the only number in the English language which is spelt in alphabetical order.
In the Judeo-Christian Bible, the number forty has special meaning. The Jews wandered in a desert for forty years, there was a forty-day and forty-night rainstorm, and other instances.

</doc>
<doc id="24058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24058" title="70 (number)">
70 (number)

Seventy is the number that is after sixty-nine and before seventy-one.
The prime factors of seventy are 2, 5, and 7. (2 * 5 * 7 = 70)

</doc>
<doc id="24060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24060" title="Gas giant">
Gas giant

A gas giant is a large planet that has a solid core, but a very thick atmosphere. This means that most of the planet is made up of gas. These planets are very large.
In our Solar System, there are 4 gas giants: Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune.
Jupiter and Saturn are similar because they are made up of mostly hydrogen and helium. They both contain massive rocky cores that are bigger than Earth. Neptune and Uranus are similar because they are mainly made up of water and rock (a mixture of one or several minerals).
Gas giants have also been found around other stars than the sun.

</doc>
<doc id="24065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24065" title="North Vietnam">
North Vietnam

The Democratic Republic of Vietnam (DRVN), or less commonly, Vietnamese Democratic Republic (Vietnamese: "Việt Nam Dân Chủ Cộng Hòa"), also known as North Vietnam, is a former country that existed from 1945 until 1976. It was in the north of present-day Vietnam. It lay north of the local Demilitarized Zone, and South Vietnam lay to the south of it.
It was proclaimed by President Hồ Chí Minh in Hà Nội on September 2, 1945. It was the first socialist country in Southeast Asia. However, it was not recognised by China and the Soviet Union until 1950. North Vietnam took part in the Vietnam War.

</doc>
<doc id="24068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24068" title="Set theory">
Set theory

Set theory is the study of sets in mathematics. Sets are collections of objects. We refer to these objects as "elements" or "members" of the set.
To write a set, one wraps the numbers in {curly brackets} and separates them with commas: e.g., holds 1, 2, and 3.
There are three types of set theories: Description method, Roster method (tabular form), Rule method (set builder form).
Set theory was made in 1874 by Georg Cantor.
It had to be made better because collections of objects can cause problems if you work with them without explaining them better. Russell's paradox was one of the problems. Think about the set of all sets that are not members of themselves. If it were inside itself, then the rule which defines it would mean that it is "not" inside itself. But, if it were not inside itself, then the rule which defines it would mean that it "is" inside itself. This was a serious problem, and it meant that the old set theory was broken.
It was improved by people including Zermelo and Bertrand Russell.
Set theory begins by giving some examples of things that are sets. Then it gives rules in which you can make other sets from the already known sets. Collections of objects that are not sets are called classes. It is possible to do mathematics using only sets, rather than classes, so that the problems that classes cause in mathematics do not occur.
A binary relation between two sets is the subset relation, also called "set inclusion". If all the members of set are also members of set , then is a "subset" of , marking . For example, is a subset of , but is not. From this example, it is clear that a set is a subset of itself. In cases where one wishes to not to have this, the term "proper subset" is meant not to have this possibility.
The selfconsidering object in the set theory was existing too, an example numbers: 1={1}, 2={1, 2}, 3={1, 2, 3} and so on.

</doc>
<doc id="24069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24069" title="Bangor">
Bangor

Bangor is a city name found in several countries.

</doc>
<doc id="24079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24079" title="Demo (music)">
Demo (music)

A demo, in music, is the first version of a song or album.
It can also refer to an album made by the band as a "sample" in hopes of getting a contract with a record label.

</doc>
<doc id="24087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24087" title="Breton language">
Breton language

Breton ("", in Breton) is a Celtic language spoken in Brittany, in the north-west of France. Breton is closely related to the Cornish language of Cornwall spoken in south-west Great Britain. It is less closely related to Welsh, and the Goidelic languages of Scotland, Ireland and the Isle of Man. The Breton language has approximately 240,000 speakers, but this number is falling very quickly due to the French government's policy of using French. As such, Breton is considered to be an endangered language.

</doc>
<doc id="24088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24088" title="Celtic languages">
Celtic languages

The Celtic languages are a language family inside of the Indo-European languages. There are six Celtic languages still spoken in the world today, spoken in north-west Europe. They are divided into two groups, the Goidelic (or Gaelic) and the Brythonic (or British). 
The three Goidelic languages still spoken are Irish, Scottish, and Manx. Scottish is the main language spoken in parts of north-west Scotland and Irish is the main language spoken in the Gaeltacht in Ireland. Manx is spoken mainly by people interested in the language.
The three Brythonic languages are Welsh, Cornish, and Breton. Of these Cornish became extinct in the 18th century but people have started speaking it again now. Welsh is spoken everywhere throughout Wales, but is mainly the first language for people in the western part of Wales, in the area some people call the Bro Gymraeg. Breton is spoken mainly in west Brittany, and is the only Celtic language not mainly spoken in the British Isles. Because Brittany is part of France, the language is in danger of becoming extinct, just like Cornish, and there are ongoing efforts to prevent this from happening.
Scottish Gaelic also has a native community of speakers in Canada where it was once very widely spoken, and there are Welsh speakers in Patagonia, Argentina.

</doc>
<doc id="24091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24091" title="Salem, Tamil Nadu">
Salem, Tamil Nadu

Salem is a district and major city in Tamil Nadu, in India. It is known for its steel plants, factories which make steel.
Salem online yellow pages Directory

</doc>
<doc id="24096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24096" title="Hunger strike">
Hunger strike

A hunger strike is a way that people protest by not eating. Many people have done this to get people's attention, especially the attention of leaders.
Sometimes, hunger strikes are done by people who are in prison. In this case, the hunger strikes are sometimes ended by force feeding, when the prisoners are fed against their will through a feeding tube.

</doc>
<doc id="24099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24099" title="Hermitage Museum">
Hermitage Museum

The Hermitage Museum (Эрмитаж) in St. Petersburg, Russia is one of the largest and oldest art galleries and museums of human history and culture in the world. The vast Hermitage collections are displayed in six buildings, founded by Catherine II of Russia in 1764 and opened in public since 1852. The main building is the Winter Palace. This was the official residence of the Russian Tsars. 
Strong points of the Hermitage collection of Western art include Michelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci, Rubens, Van Dyck, Rembrandt, Poussin, Claude Lorraine, Watteau, Tiepolo, Canaletto, Canova, Rodin, Monet, Pissarro, Renoir, Cézanne, Van Gogh, Gauguin, Picasso, and Matisse. There are several more collections. Among the collections are the Russian imperial regalia, an assortment of Faberge jewellery, and the largest existing collection of ancient gold from Eastern Europe and Western Asia.
A population of cats lives on the museum grounds. They are named the Hermitage cats. They are an added attraction for tourists.

</doc>
<doc id="24103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24103" title="Dirt">
Dirt

Dirt may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="24106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24106" title="Boeing 747">
Boeing 747

The Boeing 747 is a jet airliner. It is made by Boeing Commercial Airplanes. The Boeing 747 has more than one aisle, which means it is a wide-body aircraft. It is often called the "Jumbo Jet" or "Queen of the Skies". The Boeing 747 is one of the easiest planes in the world to recognise. It was the first wide-body aircraft ever made. The first type of 747 was two and a half times the size of the Boeing 707. The Boeing 747 made its first flight for an airline in 1970. The 747 could carry more people than any other aircraft for 37 years, until the Airbus A380 was made.
The 747 is a double deck plane. It can carry people, cargo and many other things. Boeing designed the 747's upper deck to be a first class lounge or just extra seats. They also designed the upper deck so that the aircraft could be changed into a cargo plane easily. This was done by removing seats and putting in a cargo door at the front of the plane. Boeing did this because they thought that supersonic airliners would become much more popular than the 747 and other subsonic airliners. However, they thought that subsonic cargo planes would always be popular. It was thought that the 747 would become unpopular after 400 were sold. However, 1,000 planes had been made by 1993, so it stayed popular. By September 2012, 1,448 aircraft had been built. 81 747-8s were still waiting to be built.
The 747-400 is one of the fastest airliners being used today. It usually flies at Mach 0.85–0.855 (up to ). It can fly for 7,260 nautical miles (8,350 mi or 13,450 km). The newest version of the 747, the 747-8, is now being made.
The 747 will be replaced by the Boeing Y3 (part of the Boeing Yellowstone Project) eventually.
In 1963, the United States Air Force began to look for a very big plane to transport things. At that time, the C-141 Starlifter was being used. However, the Air Force thought that a much bigger plane which could carry more cargo was needed. The Air Force called the big plane the CX-Heavy Logistics System (CX-HLS). It needed to be able to carry of cargo and travel at Mach 0.75 (). It also had to be able to fly for while carrying of cargo. The cargo bay had to be wide, high and long. There had to be doors for the bay at the front and the back of the plane.
The Air Force also wanted the plane to have only four engines. This meant that new engines had to be made. On May 18, 1964, Boeing, Douglas, General Dynamics, Lockheed and Martin Marietta designed a plane. General Electric, Curtiss-Wright and Pratt & Whitney designed the engines. The Air Force liked Boeing, Douglas and Lockheed's designs. They also liked General Electric and Pratt & Whitney's engine designs.
In 1965, Lockheed's plane and General Electric's engines were used for the C-5 Galaxy. At that time, it was the biggest military cargo plane in the world.
The idea for the 747 was thought of in the 1960s. Jets like the Boeing 707 and Douglas DC-8 had made it easy to travel long distances. Juan Trippe from Pan American World Airways (Pan Am), asked Boeing to build a plane which was more than two times bigger than the Boeing 707. At this time, airports were very busy. Trippe thought that a big plane could help make them quieter.
In 1965, Joe Sutter was told to design this new plane. It was called the 747. Sutter asked Pan Am and other airlines what they would like from the plane. At the time, it was thought that supersonic aircraft would replace the 747. Because of this, Boeing made the 747 so that it could easily be turned into a cargo plane if the passenger version became less popular.
In April 1966, Pan Am bought 25 747-100 planes. The order cost US$525 million. Since Pan Am was the launch customer, Pan Am had a big say in the design and making of the 747. No other airline before then or since then has been able to have so much influence over a plane.
The design that Boeing made for the Air Force in 1963 was not used for the 747. However, Boeing made some new things for the Air Force which were used in the 747. The first design had two full decks. However, in 1966, this was changed to only one deck. The cockpit was put above the deck, which made a "bulge". There was a small space behind the cockpit which people could sit in. At first, it was a "lounge" area with no seats.
Planes as big as the 747 needed high-bypass turbofan engines. High-bypass turbofans could make twice the power of turbojets. It also used a lot less fuel. General Electric made the first of these engines. However, it was making the engines for the C-5 Galaxy. It did not make engines for airliners until later. Pratt & Whitney was also working on this type of engine. In 1966, Boeing, Pan Am and Pratt & Whitney designed a new engine, the JT9D, for the 747.
Boeing used some special devices to make the plane make more lift. This was done so that the 747 could take off from shorter runways. The 747 has a lot of flaps on the wing. The flaps make the wings bigger by 21 percent. They also make 90 percent more lift when they are used.
Boeing tried to give the 747 to Pan Am by the end of 1969. This meant that Boeing only had 28 months to design the aircraft. The people who worked on the 747 had the nickname "The Incredibles".
Boeing did not have a factory big enough to make the new plane. Boeing thought about putting their factory in 50 different cities. They eventually decided to build their factory in Seattle, near Everett, Washington. Boeing bought the factory in June 1966.
Designing the 747 was very difficult. Building its factory was also not easy. Boeing's president, William M. Allen, asked Malcolm T. Stamper to be in charge of the building of the Everett factory. He was also asked to begin building the 747. The factory is the biggest building ever built (by volume). It has been made bigger many times so that Boeing can build even bigger planes.
Before the first 747 was put together, parts and systems were being tested. In one important test, 560 volunteers evacuated a replica of a 747 cabin using the emergency chutes. The first evacuation took two and a half minutes. However, the FAA says that the maximum time for an evacuation is 90 seconds. Many of the volunteers were hurt. More evacuations happened, and they eventually reached the 90 seconds. However, they also caused a lot of injuries. Evacuating from the top deck of the plane was difficult. Instead of using the usual slides, the volunteers had to leave the plane using a harness. The plane's taxiing also had to be tested. Boeing made "Waddell's Wagon" (named after a 747 test pilot, Jack Waddell) to train the pilots. "Waddell's Wagon" was a replica of a 747 cockpit which was put on the roof of a truck. This helped pilots to learn how to taxi the plane.
On September 30, 1968, the first 747 was finished. People from the 26 airlines that had ordered the 747 were also there. The 747 first flew on February 9, 1969. Its pilots were Jack Waddell and Brien Wygle. There was a small problem with the flaps, but the 747 handled well.
The testing was delayed because of some problems with the JT9D engines. For example, the engines stalled if the throttles were moved too quickly. This meant that 747s could not be delivered for many more months. 20 planes were stuck at the factory while they were waiting on engines. On December 13, 1969 the test plane was being taken to have some changes made to it. The pilot, Ralph C. Cokely landed too early and did not reach the runway. One of the landing gears was ripped off, and two of the engines were damaged. However, Boeing took the 747 to the 28th Paris Air Show in mid-1969. There, the public saw the 747 for the first time.
Designing the 747 and building the new factory cost a lot of money. This meant that Boeing had to borrow a lot of money from a bank. Just before the first aircraft was finished, Boeing had to keep asking for more money. If Boeing was not given this money, the company could have collapsed. Boeing was in over $2 billion in debt. Allen said, "It was really too large a project for us." However, the 747 program was a success. Boeing was the only company to make very big planes for many years.
The very first time a 747 was used by an airline was on January 22, 1970. Pan Am used it to fly from New York to London. The flight was supposed to happen on the evening of January 21. However, the engines on the aircraft overheated. Pan Am had to find another plane, which took six hours.
The 747 did quite well when it first began to be used. Some people thought that airports would not be able to handle such a big plane. However, they could. There were some problems, but they were quite small and they were fixed quickly. After Pan Am began to use the plane, other airlines began to use their 747s. Boeing thought that a lot of 747s would be sold because airlines wanted a plane which could fly for a long time, not because it was so big.
The recession of 1969-1970 was very bad for Boeing. For over a year after September 1970, it only sold two 747s. None were sold to an American airline for over three years. Some airlines did not have enough passengers to fly the 747. Therefore, they replaced them with the McDonnell Douglas DC-10 and Lockheed L-1011 TriStar. American Airlines eventually only used its 747s to carry cargo. In 1983, AA gave its 747s to Pan Am. Pan Am gave American Airlines some smaller planes. Delta Air Lines also stopped using its 747s after many years. Delta would later merge with Northwest Airlines, which operates 747s.
Flights which landed in smaller cities became quite usual in the 1980s. This was bad for the 747. However, many airlines still used the 747 to fly across the Pacific.
The first type of 747 was called the 747-100. After this, Boeing made the , which has a higher MTOW (maximum takeoff weight), and the (Short Range). The -100SR could carry more passengers. A higher MTOW means that the plane can carry more fuel and fly further. In 1971, Boeing made the . It had better engines and a higher MTOW. Airliner and cargo versions of the were made. The 747SP (special performance) was also made. It began being used in 1976.
In 1980, Boeing made the 747-300. The first 747-300 was made in 1983. Its upper deck was longer, it flew faster and it could hold more passengers. The −300 was first called the 747SUD for "stretched upper deck". Then it was called the 747-200 SUD, then the 747EUD, and finally it was called the 747-300.
In 1985, Boeing began to design the 747-400. This type has a glass cockpit. This meant that only two people were needed in the cockpit. It also had new engines and a new cabin. The workers who made the 747-400 were not very experienced and Boeing wanted them to work for longer than they needed to. This meant that there were some problems with the first 747-400s. The −400 began being used by airlines in 1989.
In 1991, 1,087 passengers were taken to Israel on a 747. This was a part of Operation Solomon. The Antonov An-225 cargo transport is the world's biggest plane. The Hughes H-4 Hercules has the biggest wingspan, but it only flew once.
Since the 747-400 was made, many more types of 747 have been suggested. Boeing said that they would make the 747-500X and in 1996. These new planes would have cost more than US$5 billion to design and make. Airlines did not like it enough, so Boeing decided not to make the planes. In 2000, Boeing said it would make a 747X to rival the Airbus A3XX. However, airlines did not like the 747X enough, so it was cancelled. A year later, Boeing began concentrating on the Sonic Cruiser. The Sonic Cruiser was stopped, so Boeing then focused on the Boeing 787 Dreamliner. Some of the ideas that Boeing had for the 747X were used on the 747-400ER.
In 2004, Boeing said that it might work on the 747 Advanced. Boeing decided to go ahead with this. The 747 Advanced used some things from the 787 to make the 747's design more modern. The 747 was the world's biggest passenger plane until the Airbus A380 was finished in 2007.
On November 14, 2005, Boeing said it had changed the name of the 747 Advanced to the Boeing 747-8. The last 747-400s were made in 2009. On February 8, 2010, the 747-8 Freighter made its first flight. Cargolux got the first 747-8 in 2011. Eventually, the 747 will be replaced by "Y3".
The Boeing 747 is a big, wide-body airliner. It has four engines on the wings, and the wings are swept at 37.5 degrees, so the 747 can fly very fast. The sweep also means that the 747 does not need any special hangars.
Since the cockpit is above the main deck, it makes a "hump", and because it is so high, the plane can have a cargo door installed at the front.
The 747-100 can fly for 5,300 nautical miles (6,100 mi, 9,800 km), and the 747-8i can fly for 8,000 nmi (9,200 mi, 14,815 km).
The 747 has special flaps, which allow the 747 to fly slowly and land on normal runways. A 747 can carry a fifth engine on the wing, but it cannot be used.
The 747-100 was the very first type of 747, which was made in 1966. The 747-200, the next version, was made in 1968. The 747-300 was made in 1980 and the 747-400 was made in 1985. The newest version, the 747-8, was announced in 2005. These types also have smaller sub-types. The International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) names these planes by combining the model number of the plane with its type number. For example, the 747-100 is "B741" and the 747-400 is "B744".
The first 747-100s had six windows on the upper deck. Later, airlines began to use the upper deck to hold more people instead of using it as a lounge. Boeing then made an upper deck with ten windows. Some −100s had the new ten-window upper deck installed after the plane was made (retrofitted). The −100 had Pratt & Whitney JT9D-3A engines. Boeing did not make a freighter version of the 747-100, but some airlines have turned some 747-100s into freighters. 167 747-100s were made.
After Japanese airlines requested an aircraft to fly routes between major cities in Japan, Boeing produced the -100SR. This model flies shorter distances, but is able to carry more passengers. The first -100SR started flying with Japan Air Lines (JAL) on October 7, 1973. The -100SR had four General Electric CF6-45A2 or Pratt & Whitney JT9D-7A engines. A total of 7 -100SR were produced.
Later, Boeing designed a type of -100SR with the ability of taking off with greater weight. This was the -100BSR. It was first delivered to All Nippon Airways (ANA) on 21 December 1978. 20 -100BSR were delivered to JAL and ANA.
In 1986, 2 -100BSR with stretched upper deck (SUD) from the -300 series were delivered to JAL. It was the last -100SR/BSR ever built. The last delivery was to JAL, in September 1986. There were a total of 29 -100SR/BSR made.
The 747SP (SP means special performance) is designed as Pan Am and Iran Air both wanted a wide-body plane that can fly long distances; from New York to the Middle East (for Pan Am) and Tehran to New York (for Iran Air). The first 747SP was produced on 19 May 1975. Its first flight was on 4 July. On this flight, it flew at a top speed of Mach 0.92 (). It started flying people on 25 April 1976, after being delivered on 5 March. Now, it is not often used.
A total of 45 747SP were made and used by airlines like Qantas, China Airlines, Air China and South African Airways.
After the -100 were made, Boeing started making -200. The -200 has a longer range, but still carries the same number of people. This is because airlines said the -100 could not fly long distances. The -200 is made in passenger type (-200B), freighter type (-200F), Combi type (A plane that carries both cargo and people; -200M) and convertible type (a plane that can be easily changed to carry cargo; -200C).
The first -200B was finished on 10th September, 1970 before its first flight on 11th October and finally, it started being used by KLM. Boeing then started making the other types of -200. The -200F first flight was on November 30, 1971, 7 days after it was finished. It was then delivered to Lufthansa.
The -200C first flew on March 23,1973 before being delivered to World Airways in May the same year. Finally, the -200M had its first flight on November 11, 1974 before being delivered to Air Canada.
There was a total of 393 -200 series ever made,which includes 225 -200B, 78 -200M, 73 -200F, 13 -200C and 4 military.

</doc>
<doc id="24108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24108" title="1081">
1081


</doc>
<doc id="24109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24109" title="Richard Trevithick">
Richard Trevithick

Richard Trevithick (April 13,1771 - April 22, 1833) was a Cornish inventor and engineer. He is best known for making the first working steam locomotive. However, it was designed to be a road vehicle, not a railroad one.
Trevithick was from the heart of a big mining area in Cornwall, U.K. His parents were Richard Trevithick (1735-1797) and Ann Teague (d. 1810.) In 1797, Trevithick married Jane Harvey. He died of pneumonia in 1833.

</doc>
<doc id="24110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24110" title="Wasilla, Alaska">
Wasilla, Alaska

Wasilla is a small city in the U.S. state of Alaska, about 43 miles from Anchorage. It is one of the ten largest cities in Alaska. Sarah Palin was once mayor and owns a house with her family there.

</doc>
<doc id="24111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24111" title="Rantoul, Illinois">
Rantoul, Illinois

Rantoul is a village in Champaign County, Illinois, United States. Almost 13,000 people were living in Rantoul as of 2000. Rantoul has an area of 7.4 square miles.

</doc>
<doc id="24112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24112" title="Winter Springs, Florida">
Winter Springs, Florida

Winter Springs is a city in Florida. It is sometimes considered a suburb of Orlando.

</doc>
<doc id="24113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24113" title="Fredericton, New Brunswick">
Fredericton, New Brunswick

Frederiction is the capital city of New Brunswick, Canada. It is filled with rich history. Fredericton is on the Saint John River. There is a playhouse. There are scenic walking trails. Frederiction is the capital of New Brunswick. The population of Fredericton was 1,886 at the 2011 census.
Fredericton is known as a cultural and artistic city in New Brunswick. The city hosts an annual Harvest Jazz & Blues Festival which attracts both regional as well as international jazz, blues, rock, and world musicians.

</doc>
<doc id="24115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24115" title="Clearwater, Florida">
Clearwater, Florida

Clearwater is a city in Florida, it is in the Tampa Bay area.
The first Hooters restaurant opened here in 1984. The Church of Scientology's international headquarters is also in the city.

</doc>
<doc id="24125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24125" title="Jordanhill railway station">
Jordanhill railway station

Jordanhill railway station is in a suburb of Glasgow, Scotland. It is a station where passenger trains stop on the First ScotRail railway line. The station opened on August 1, 1887 as part of a different railway line.
On March 2, 2006, a new article on the Jordanhill railway station became English Wikipedia's one-millionth article.

</doc>
<doc id="24137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24137" title="Googolplex">
Googolplex

A googolplex is the number 10(10).
Like the number "googol", "googolplex" was thought of by Milton Sirotta, the nephew of mathematician Edward Kasner.
The company Google named their headquarters, the Googleplex, after the number.

</doc>
<doc id="24141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24141" title="Flint">
Flint

Flint, or flintstone, is a kind of sedimentary rock, made of silica. 
Bands of flint are found in chalk, which is an Upper Cretaceous rock laid down in the continental shelves of a tropical sea.
When the chalk is eroded, the hard flint nodules survive as pebbles on a shingle beach. It may happen that the pebbles later get cemented into another rock, such as a puddingstone. In this way, they make up a sedimentary rock for the second time.
Flint is a cryptocrystalline (means you can't see the crystals) form of the mineral quartz. It is a variety of chert. It occurs as a line of knobbly masses in chalk and some limestones. Inside the nodule, flint is usually translucent, and can be various colours. A thin layer on the outside of the nodules is usually different in colour, typically white and rough in texture.
Flintstones often have a rough lumpy surface but when they are broken, they look like dark glass. It has been one of the most useful types of stone to humankind.
Flint was often used in prehistoric times to make stone tools. Flint handaxes were used by early man for about two million years. When flintstones are broken, they have a sharp edge which could be used as a knife, or a scraper. 
When two flintstones are hit together, they can make a spark. For many centuries, flint was one of the main ways for people in many countries to make fire. People would carry a little box called a "tinder box" which had some flintstones and tinder. The tinder was used to catch the spark and start a fire. Tinder could be sawdust, cloth, grass or bark. Flints were used to make a spark to fire a gun. A gun that used flint was called a "flint-lock" gun.
Flintstones are used in some countries for building. In England the flintstones used for building were often "knapped" which means they were broken to show the inside, like the stones used for the tower of Long Melford Church (below). This gave a better finish to the building that the dull knobbly stones would have made. 

</doc>
<doc id="24145" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24145" title="MediaWiki:Captcha-createaccount">
MediaWiki:Captcha-createaccount

To protect against spam robots, you need to type the exact words seen below, or answer the math problem correctly, to get your username account. 

</doc>
<doc id="24146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24146" title="MediaWiki:Captchahelp-text">
MediaWiki:Captchahelp-text

Web sites that accept postings from the public, like this wiki, are often abused by spammers who use automated tools to post their links to many sites. While these spam links can be removed, they are a nuisance.
Because of this, when making a new account, and sometimes also when adding new website links to a page, you may be shown an image of colored or twisted text, of or a simple number question, and be asked to type the words, or answer the question. Since it is harder for a robot to see an image, it will let most real humans make accounts and post links, while stopping spam robots from doing this.
Unfortunately, this may be hard for users with limited vision, who may be using text-based or speech-based browsers. Right now, we do not have a way to do this with audio. Please contact the site administrators for help if this is causing you any problem.
If you can't see any image, you may need to enable cookies in your computer's browser.
Hit the 'back' button on your browser to return.

</doc>
<doc id="24147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24147" title="Valley Center, California">
Valley Center, California

Valley Center is a census-designated place in San Diego County, California. It has a population of 9,277 people.

</doc>
<doc id="24148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24148" title="Newbridge, County Kildare">
Newbridge, County Kildare

Newbridge (Droichead Nua in Gaelic) is a town in County Kildare, Republic of Ireland. It is the second largest town in Kildare

</doc>
<doc id="24149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24149" title="Anaheim, California">
Anaheim, California

Anaheim is a city in the United States. It was founded by German immigrants in 1857. It is the home of Disneyland, and two professional sports teams, The Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim (baseball) and the Anaheim Ducks (ice hockey). In 2012, there was a riot following a police officer shooting a man.

</doc>
<doc id="24150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24150" title="Chair">
Chair

A chair is a piece of furniture. It is used for sitting on. They usually have four legs to support the weight. Some types of chairs, such as the barstool, have only one leg in the center. Those chairs are usually able to spin. Sometimes chairs have armrests. These chairs may be called armchairs. There are many types of chairs such as Windsor chairs and rocking chairs. There is another type of chair called a sofa or settee. This is often used for comfort and can fit more than one person on it.

</doc>
<doc id="24151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24151" title="1163">
1163


</doc>
<doc id="24153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24153" title="Hercules">
Hercules

Hercules is a hero in Roman mythology. He is a mortal son of Alcmene and Zeus. Hercules is known for his great strength. In Greek mythology he is named Herakles, but he has some different stories.
In one of the more well known stories of Hercules, he had to complete twelve tasks. These tasks were: 
Hercules is also a character in Marvel Comics. He was an ally of the mighty Thor. He is the leader and a founding member of the super team the Champions. He was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby in 1962.
Hercules also appears in the 1997 Disney movie of the same name, in which he is voiced by Tate Donovan.

</doc>
<doc id="24154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24154" title="Navigation">
Navigation

Navigation is how ships or aircraft find their way from one place to another. The word navigation came from the word "navgatih" from the Sanskrit language. The Latin word "navis" means ship; navigation is literally "art of ship mastery". The word is also used as a metaphor for 'finding one's way'. Today it also means knowing where to go when traveling.
One type of navigation was made by the Polynesians and is called Polynesian navigation. Polynesians used different things found all around them to find their way across large areas of open ocean. Other early people also learned how to travel large distances using the natural world. For example:
An example of people who used the stars were the Vikings. They knew that the star called Polaris (the North Star) does not change location and points to the north. They would then know the latitude (distance from the equator), by measuring the angle between Polaris and the horizon. They also used animals, especially birds, to know if land was nearby. They also knew that specific kind of clouds form near land and that waves are different near land than at high seas.
As time went by better methods of navigation were invented or discovered. Some of these methods are:

</doc>
<doc id="24155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24155" title="Hercules (1997 movie)">
Hercules (1997 movie)

Hercules is a 1997 American animated musical movie. It was produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and released by Walt Disney Pictures. It is the 35th animated movie in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series. The movie was directed by Ron Clements and John Musker. The movie is based on the legendary Greek mythology hero Heracles (known in the movie by his Roman name, Hercules), the son of Zeus, in Greek mythology.
"Go the Distance" was nominated for both the Academy Award for Best Original Song and the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song. It lost both to Celine Dion's hit "My Heart Will Go On" from "Titanic".

</doc>
<doc id="24157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24157" title="The Karate Kid">
The Karate Kid

The Karate Kid is a 1984 American drama movie starring Ralph Macchio and Pat Morita. It tells the story of a boy named Daniel (Macchio) who moves with his mother from New Jersey to Los Angeles, California. Daniel has trouble adjusting and is victimized by a gang of bullies at his school. Mr. Miyagi (Morita), the handyman from the apartment building Daniel lives in, teaches Daniel martial arts, so he can fight the bullies in a . In the song "You're the Best", the Roland Juno-106 patch "Brass" was heard. The movie was very successful and was compared to the boxing movie "Rocky". It was followed by three sequels: "The Karate Kid, Part II", "The Karate Kid, Part III" "The Karate Kid 4" and a remake in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="24159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24159" title="533">
533


</doc>
<doc id="24161" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24161" title="Crazy Horse">
Crazy Horse

Crazy Horse (born about 1838 – died September 5, 1877) was an Oglala Sioux Native American chief. There is a huge sculpture being carved of him in South Dakota, United States. 
When Crazy Horse was first born he was given the name 'Curly'. When he was young, he had a vision when he was not supposed to and his family did not know where he was. His father found him and was very unhappy at what young Curly had done.
As Crazy Horse grew into a man, he was given his father's name Crazy Horse. His father then changed his own name to Worm. 
Crazy Horse had good medicine, so he was never killed when he went into battle. He led his people to the Little Bighorn river in northern Montana to join forces with other Sioux bands like the Hunkpapa and Miniconjou, and with other tribes like the Cheyennes and Arapahos. There they fought General George Armstrong Custer, killing and defeating him and his many horsemen.
Eventually Crazy Horse made a tough decision to lead his people, the Oglalas, to a reservation because they were starving. Game was scarce and the bison (buffalo) were nearly gone. He had no choice but to leave the Black Hills. When he arrived at Fort Robinson, he was forced to give up his weapons and horses. This made him very unhappy. One day, even though he was granted time to go on a hunt, he was lied to and, trying to get away, he was stabbed in his liver and died later that night, thus ending the Great Sioux War.
"Once I moved about like the wind. Now I surrender to you and that is all"
Quote by Geronimo, Chief of the Apaches .
The Sioux Royal Family, the House of Thasunke Witko, are descendants of Crazy Horse. A queen, Queen Wakiyan, was elected Queen of the Kingdom of Lakota (in Sioux, "Oglala Oyanke") and of the Oglala Sioux, and tried to improve the economy at the Pine Ridge Reservation with creativity and imagination, and to bring the Sioux forward into modern times;however, a conspiracy of jealous chieftains who were both male chauvinists opposed to having a female leader and also a corrupt group of men jealous of their own power and who prefer to preside over the poverty of the Sioux People, ruthlessly trumped up false allegations in order to depose this good queen.
According to Frederick Hoxie's 'Encyclopedia of North American Indians' Crazy Horse was the third in his male line of descent to bear the name of Crazy Horse, which in Oglala is Tasunke Witko. Tasunke Witko III was the son of Rattling Blanket Woman and Tasunke Witko II. He married three times: 1st to Black Buffalo Woman, 2nd to Black Shawl, and 3rd to Nellie Larrabee (Laravie). Only his second wife, Black Shawl, bore him any children: a daughter named They Are Afraid of Her, who died aged three.

</doc>
<doc id="24162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24162" title="1185">
1185


</doc>
<doc id="24163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24163" title="1377">
1377


</doc>
<doc id="24164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24164" title="He-Man and the Masters of the Universe">
He-Man and the Masters of the Universe

He-Man and the Masters of the Universe was a cartoon series, that first came out in 1983. It aired in first run syndication. It was based on a popular toy line and told the story of Adam, who was prince of the planet, Eternia. Prince Adam had a magic sword that could turn him into He-Man, the most powerful man in the universe. He-Man along with, Battle Cat, Teela, Man-At-Arms, and Orko, fought Skeletor, who wanted to take over the universe. It was very popular and inspired 2 more shows, one made in the early 1990s and another in 2002. There was also a spin-off called "", which was about He-Man's sister.

</doc>
<doc id="24165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24165" title="Fantasia Barrino">
Fantasia Barrino

Fantasia Barrino (born June 30, 1984) is an American singer. She was the winner of the third season on "American Idol".

</doc>
<doc id="24174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24174" title="Cabrillo Beach">
Cabrillo Beach

Cabrillo Beach is a historic beach in San Pedro, California. 
Cabrillo has two separate beach areas.
Los Angeles City and Los Angeles County Lifeguards are responsible for the beach and ocean safety in and around the Cabrillo Beach area. 
Cabrillo Beach is next to the Los Angeles Harbor and is only a short boat ride away from Catalina Island.
Cabrillo Beach is a popular destination for those interested in water sports, such as windsurfing, kayaking and SCUBA diving. 
Cabrillo Beach is known by windsurfers as "Hurricane Gulch" because of its predictably strong winds.
It is also home to a few famous landmarks, namely the 1.75 mile Los Angeles Breakwater which ends at the Angeles Gate Lighthouse, the recently restored Cabrillo Beach Bathhouse, and the Cabrillo Marine Aquarium. The Angels Gate Lighthouse is home to the annual Angel's Gate Lighthouse Swim competition, held by Lifeguards and San Pedro residents each summer.

</doc>
<doc id="24176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24176" title="Chulalongkorn University">
Chulalongkorn University

Chulalongkorn University () is the oldest university in Thailand. It has been ranked as the number 1 university in Thailand. It is in Bangkok (the capital city of Thailand). It was founded in 1917. Currently, there are about 30,000 students. The name of the university comes from the name of one of the kings of Thailand, (Rama V).
QS World University Ranking by Subject 2016
27 subjects that CU tops in the country's list includes:
Arts & Humanities
Engineering & Technology
Life Sciences & Medicine
Natural Sciences
Social Sciences & Management
9 subjects that CU comes in second on the country's list includes:
Arts & Humanities
Engineering & Technology
Life Sciences & Medicine
Social Sciences & Management
3 subjects that CU ranks third in the country's list includes:
Arts & Humanities
Social Sciences & Management
Other Rankings
International Programs offered at Chulalongkorn University
for more details see Graduate School, Chulalongkorn University.
Normally, this university spends 4 years for studying the same as other universities but Faculty of Education, and Faculty of Architecture spends 5 years for studying. While Faculty of Veterinary Science, Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Faculty of Dentistry spends 6 years.

</doc>
<doc id="24184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24184" title="Khartoum">
Khartoum

Khartoum is the capital of North Sudan. This big city has over three million people. It is where the Blue Nile and main Nile come together. Its name means "elephant tusk". Two other big cities nearby are Omdurman and Khartoum North.

</doc>
<doc id="24188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24188" title="Konkani language">
Konkani language

Konkani is a language from India. Konkani belongs to Indo-Aryan family of languages. It is the official language of Goa, a state in India. 
Some people from the part of India known as Konkan speak Konkani language. Konkan is on the west coast of India.
The name "Konkani" means "from the Konkan". The word "Konkan" means corner (kona) and piece/part of earth (kana). The name of the language comes from the place where it is spoken.
People write Konkani in many different scripts(writing systems or alphabets). People from different regions use different scripts. Hindu Konkani people from Goa and Maharashtra use Devanagari script. Konkani people from Karnataka use Kannada script.Christains in Goa use Roman script. Konkani Muslims use Arabic script. Konkani people from Kerala use Malayalam script. Devanagari is the official script.

</doc>
<doc id="24191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24191" title="Trench">
Trench

A trench is a long, narrow ditch. It is like a tiny valley.
Trench warfare was used in World War I. It was supposed to be a short term barrier so that soldiers would be safe from enemy fire when they could no longer advance. However they ended up as a long term shelter throughout the war as they were easy to defend and neither side could successfully commandeer their oppositions trenches. The trench coat got its name from there. 
Trenches were built as a temporary shield. When armies had more time to prepare, the built more permanent fortifications such as castles. 
Several kinds exist:

</doc>
<doc id="24194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24194" title="Trench coat">
Trench coat

A trench coat (or trenchcoat) is a type of outdoor clothing. Trenchcoats are long coats made from stiff material, like heavy-duty cotton. They were invented for soldiers to wear in The First World War to keep them warm. Most trench coats also protect the wearer against rain.
In the 1950s, trench coats became a popular fashion item. In the 1980s and 1990s, trench coats were worn by punk rock musicians and gothic rock musicians. 

</doc>
<doc id="24195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24195" title="Trumpet">
Trumpet

A trumpet is a brass instrument used mainly in Classical music and jazz music. The most common type of trumpet is a B"b" trumpet, meaning that if the player plays a C, it will sound like a B"b" in concert pitch. The trumpet is played by blowing into the mouthpiece and making a "buzzing" sound. There are three keys called valves that the player can press to change the pitch.
The trumpet has been around for about 3000 years. An early example of a brass instrument like a trumpet is called a shofar, which is still used in religious ceremonies. Eventually people started making trumpet-like instruments with wood (for example, the cornetto), and later, with brass.
Many years ago, when the use of instrumental music was growing, trumpets became very important. Trumpets were long and without valves. This meant a player had to control the pitch of the sound with only his mouth, which was very difficult. Everyone respected trumpet players because trumpets were just so difficult to play.
The chromatic trumpet was developed in the late 18th century. Later on, valves were developed, and it became easier to play notes on the trumpet. Still, trumpet is a difficult instrument to master.
Classical music is written for solo trumpet, and trumpets are included in orchestras. Trumpets play an important part in Jazz music, and other various popular genres. Sometimes, they also play short parts to emphasize sections in rock songs.
Some famous classical trumpet players are Adolph Herseth, Sergei Nakariakov and Maurice Andre.
Some famous jazz trumpet players are Miles Davis, Louis Armstrong, Arturo Sandoval, Wynton Marsalis, Dizzy Gillepsie, and Maynard Ferguson.

</doc>
<doc id="24196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24196" title="Microwave">
Microwave

A microwave is a kind of high-frequency radio wave. Microwaves have many uses including communication, radar, radio astronomy, and to heat food in a microwave oven.
When something moves, it almost always has a wave pattern to its movement - this can be seen in water most easily, with ripples and ocean waves. A very common type of wave in the universe is electromagnetic waves. Light is an example of an electromagnetic wave, and so is a microwave. We can only see electromagnetic radiation in the visible light spectrum (which is why it's called the visible light spectrum), so microwaves are invisible.
Microwave ovens work because microwaves make polar molecules (that is, molecules that act like tiny magnets) all face the same direction - to visualize it, imagine that the microwave oven is telling all of the molecules to face left. Then, the microwave oven reverses the waves, so that all of the molecules have to face the other direction - right, in this case. 
Heat is just the movement of molecules, so when the microwave oven tells the molecules to turn left, then right, then left, over and over again, this makes them get hotter. 
Water is the most common polar molecule in food, which is why dry foods don't tend to heat as well, or at all, in microwaves. Microwaves get absorbed by these polar molecules, but are ignored by non-polar molecules, and this is why microwaves can penetrate deep into certain kinds of food faster than regular heat. This is also why microwaves don't heat many plastics - those plastics that are non-polar get ignored, so the microwaves go straight through to the food. 
Metals tend to spark in microwaves, rather than heating. The reason why is that metals like to give away electrons, so when the microwaves "push" at their magnet-like electrons, instead of turning, they just give the electrons away. A bunch of electrons running off on metal is called electricity, and we see it in the form of sparks.

</doc>
<doc id="24198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24198" title="Microwave oven">
Microwave oven

A microwave oven (commonly called a microwave) is a machine that cooks food using microwaves, a type of radio wave. The idea was invented when a scientist who was experimenting with radio waves saw his chocolate bar, which he was holding at that time, melt. He then knew that radio waves could cook food and invented the microwave oven. 
Food is placed inside the oven, and buttons on the screen are pressed to set how long the food should be cooked. A microwave oven is one of the fastest ways of cooking.
The microwave oven uses a magnetron. This is similar to a radio transmitter. It makes very short radio waves which go into the food to a depth of about 2.5cm (one inch). This makes water molecules swing to and fro at about 2.5 billion times a second. This heats up the molecules around it. As they heat up the heat goes to the inside of the food. This process is called conduction. This also happens in a normal oven, but microwave energy goes deeper so that the food cooks much faster. In an ordinary oven the energy stays mostly near the surface
Apart from this the oven has a wave guide, turntable, and a timer switch. When we place the food inside the chamber and turn the timer switch on, it sends a command to the magnetron to send microwaves as well as to the turn table to start turning. The microwaves mostly heat food which has water molecules. (Two atoms of Hydrogen and one atom of oxygen make water. H2O). When the oven is started it sends microwaves. These waves go and touch the water molecules. Then the water molecules start vibrating against each other at a very high speed this generates heat. Fats and sugars are heated less than water, and other foods much less. The turntable moves so that the food is heated evenly. 
Microwaves can go through fine China Bone, Glass or special plastic materials. Metal such as aluminum foil cannot pass the radiation because when the waves come to it they reflect from it and go away. The microwave oven can be used to cook food or only heat it up. 

</doc>
<doc id="24200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24200" title="Cobalt">
Cobalt

Cobalt (chemical symbol Co) is a chemical element. It has an atomic number of 27 and an atomic mass of about 59. It is a metal.
Cobalt is a transition metal. It is shiny and conducts electricity. It is magnetic. It is a hard metal. It is moderately reactive. Iron is more reactive and copper is less reactive. It dissolves slowly in acids. This reaction makes hydrogen and a salt of cobalt. Cobalt is normally in its +2 oxidation state as an ion. Some chemical compounds contain cobalt ions in its +4 oxidation state. Cobalt(II) chloride is one of the most common cobalt compounds. Many cobalt compounds are blue or pink. One of them is black.
Cobalt comes in two oxidation states, +2 and +3. Most soluble cobalt compounds are red. They can also be green, blue, brown, and black.
Cobalt is too reactive to occur as a pure element in the earth. It is found in certain minerals. It is found with copper and nickel deposits. Normally the three metals are bonded to arsenic and sulfur. It is found as a byproduct (left over substance) when copper and nickel are produced. It is made by reaction with the sludge from copper and nickel processing.
Cobalt is used in some types of steel. It hardens the steel. It is also used to make very strong tough alloys. These alloys are known as superalloys. Some cobalt compounds are used in the lithium-ion battery. Cobalt compounds were used as an artificial food coloring until 1971. It was discovered that it has harmful effects. It is used to make glass blue. It is also used as a catalyst. It is also used in some medicines.
The human body needs small amounts of cobalt for certain vitamins. Cobalt compounds are used to stop cyanide from poisoning the body.
People need cobalt compounds in small amounts, but cobalt is toxic in large quantities. Sometimes cobalt compounds were added to beer, and people that drank it were poisoned. It can cause skin irritation when touched.

</doc>
<doc id="24201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24201" title="Category:Nonmetals">
Category:Nonmetals


</doc>
<doc id="24206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24206" title="Canidae">
Canidae

Canidae is a family of carnivorous and omnivorous mammals of the order Carnivora. Animals that belong to the family Canidae are called canids. The family Canidae is divided into two tribes: Vulpini ("true foxes"), and Canini ("true dogs").
Canids of the tribe Vulpini (foxes) are called "vulpines". Canids of the tribe Canini (wolves, dogs, coyotes and others) are called "canines". Some people call all these canids "canines", but this is wrong.
Examples of canids are dogs, wolves, foxes, coyotes, and jackals.

</doc>
<doc id="24207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24207" title="Nickel">
Nickel

Nickel (chemical symbol Ni) is a chemical element. It has an atomic number of 28 and an atomic mass of about 58.69amu. It has 28 protons. It is a transition metal. 
Nickel is a silver-white metal. It is a little golden colored. It is easily polished (made shiny). It is magnetic. It is not magnetic when heated above . It is not soft like many other metals. It can be stretched into wires easily. It is not radioactive.
Nickel is not a reactive metal. It dissolves slowly in acids. It does not rust like iron. It makes a thin coating of nickel(II) oxide which stops more corrosion. Aluminium does a similar thing. 
Nickel is found in two oxidation states: +2, nickel(II); and +3, nickel(III). Nickel(II) is more common. Nickel(III) also is common. Nickel in its +2 oxidation state is green. Nickel(II) chloride is a common +2 oxidation state compound. Nickel(II) oxide is normally dark green, but sometimes it is gray. This is because some of the nickel is in the +3 oxidation state (nickel(III). Nickel(III) compounds are oxidizing agents. They also are grayish. Nickel compounds can be green, blue, gray, or black.
Nickel(II) compounds are not reactive. They are normally green or blue. They are toxic and irritate skin. Some of them are carcinogens.
Nickel(III) compounds are not well characterized (people don't know the properties of them). Some are black or gray.
Nickel is not normally found as a metal in the ground. Sometimes meteorites have nickel and iron metal in them. Normally nickel is in minerals. Nickel hydroxides, sulfides, and silicates are common ores. Russia makes the most nickel.
Nickel was found when a copper-coloured ore did not make copper metal. Later it was found out that the ore was actually a nickel ore. Nickel was isolated as a metal in 1751. At first, the copper colored nickel ore was the only source. Later, it was made as a byproduct of cobalt blue making.
Nickel is made from sulfide ores. They are heated to melt them and concentrate them. They are also separated by oils. Nickel is made from its sulfide by heating it in air. This oxidizes the sulfide to sulfur dioxide, leaving liquid nickel behind. This nickel is not pure. Only about 75% of it is nickel.
Nickel can be made purer. It can react with carbon monoxide to make nickel carbonyl, a gas when warm. All the impurities are left behind. The nickel carbonyl is blown into nickel pellets, where it coats the pellets with pure nickel and puts out carbon monoxide. The carbon monoxide is reused (used again). 
Another way to make the nickel pure is by dissolving it in an acid. Then it is electrolyzed to make nickel at the cathode.
Nickel is used in metal alloys. Stainless steel contains nickel. Nickel is also used in nichrome, a name for a nickel-chromium alloy. Nickel is used in coins such as nickels. It is used in magnets. Nickel is used in special expensive alloys called superalloys.
It is used in rechargeable batteries. They are also used to electroplate nickel on items. Nickel and some of its compounds are also used as a catalyst.
Nickel can irritate skin. That is why nickel jewelry is bad for some people. Some nickel salts are carcinogens. Nickel is not as toxic as other metals such as lead or mercury but it is still toxic.

</doc>
<doc id="24208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24208" title="Fox">
Fox

A fox is a small mammalian carnivore. They hunt and eat live prey, mostly rabbits and rodents (rats and mice). They may also eat grasshoppers, birds' eggs, and even fruit and berries. Sometimes they eat carrion. 
Foxes are the smallest members of the dog family Canidae. There are 27 species of fox. They are swift and agile runners, and live in family groups. A female fox is called a "vixen", and the male is called a "dog". 
Foxes' tails are multi-purpose organs. Their bushy tail helps them keep warm while they are sleeping in cold weather. It is also part of the animal's food store for wintertime. Foxes' plump bushy tail is easily seen, and is used for sending signals to its family members. The tail is also used for balance while running. 
Foxes are found on all continents (except Antarctica), mostly living in forest, shrubland, and desert regions. They were not native to Australia, but were introduced in some way. In the United Kingdom, it was a common sport for people to hunt foxes with horses and dogs. This is now banned.
The informal term 'true fox' refers to members of the Vulpes genus. 
There are 11 species of "Vulpus". They are:
Sometimes the arctic fox ("Alopex lagopus") is included in this genus (as "Vulpes lagopus"). This is because of the way it looks. There is also genetic evidence that shows that the arctic fox is probably a true fox.
Some species of true fox are extinct. Fossils have been found of:

</doc>
<doc id="24213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24213" title="Food pyramid">
Food pyramid

A food pyramid is a chart that can be used to see how many servings of each food should be eaten each day. It is for having good health.
Grains give carbohydrates and some vitamins and minerals. Vegetables and fruits give a lot of vitamins, some minerals, and few fats, but fruits often have more calories and sugar. Dairy products (like milk, cheese, yogurt, etc.) have protein, some fat, and a lot of calcium, an element that helps build strong bones. Meat have protein, some fat, and B vitamins. Fats, oils, and sweets give calories, fats, and sugars but not a lot of nutrition.

</doc>
<doc id="24215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24215" title="Torso">
Torso

The torso is the part of the human body where the limbs are attached. Some people also call it the trunk. It is made of chest, back, and abdomen.

</doc>
<doc id="24216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24216" title="Trunk">
Trunk

Trunk may be:

</doc>
<doc id="24218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24218" title="Age of Mythology">
Age of Mythology

Age of Mythology is a real-time strategy computer game made by Ensemble Studios. The game has an expansion to it named "". "Age of Mythology" is a spinoff of the "Age of Empires" game series.

</doc>
<doc id="24219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24219" title="Mississauga, Ontario">
Mississauga, Ontario

Mississauga, Ontario is the sixth-largest city in Canada. It is near the largest city in Canada, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. In fact, it is a part of the Greater Toronto Area. 
On August 2, 1805, Toronto Township was formed when officials from York (what is now the City of Toronto) purchased 84,000 acres (340 km²) of land from the Mississaugas. In January 2010, the Mississaugas and the federal government settled a land claim. The aboriginal people received $145,000,000 from that.
After the land was surveyed, much of it was given in the form of land grants to United Empire Loyalists. They emigrated from the Thirteen Colonies during and after the American Revolution, as well as loyalists from New Brunswick. A group of settlers from New York City arrived in the 1830s. In 1820, the government purchased additional land from the Mississaugas. Additional settlements were established, including: Barbertown, Britannia, Burnhamthorpe, Derry West, Elmbank, Malton, Meadowvale Village, Mount Charles, and Streetsville. European-Canadian growth led to the eventual displacement of the Mississaugas. In 1847, the government relocated them to a reserve in the Grand River Valley, near present-day Hagersville.
In 1873, the Toronto Township Council was formed to oversee the events of the various villages that were unincorporated at that time. The Council's responsibilities included road maintenance, and a police force. Most of present-day Mississauga was agricultural land: including fruit orchards, through much of the 19th and first half of the 20th century. Exceptions included small villages, some gristmills and brickworks served by railway lines, 
In the 1920s, cottages were constructed along the shores of Lake Ontario for people who lived in the city. 17 years later in 1937, 1,410.8 acres of land was sold to build the Malton Airport (later known as the Pearson Airport). It became Canada's busiest airport which also put the end to the community of Elmank.
The township settlements of Lakeview, Cooksville, Lorne Park, Clarkson, Erindale, Sheridan, Dixie, Meadowvale Village, and Malton were combined in 1968 to form the Town of Mississauga. At the time, both Port Credit and Streetsville were left out and remained separate. The town name was chosen by voting. In 1974, Port Credit and Streetsville became part of Mississauga. In that same year, the Square One Shopping Centre opened.
On November 10, 1979, a freight train left its tracks on the Canadian Pacific rail line while carrying explosive and poisonous chemicals just north of the intersection of Mavis Road and Dundas Street. One of the tank cars carrying propane exploded. Since other tank cars were carrying chlorine, the decision was made to evacuate nearby residents. With the possibility of a deadly cloud of chlorine gas spreading through Mississauga, 218,000 people were evacuated. Residents were allowed to return home, once the area was safe. It was one of the largest evacuations in North American history.
Mississauga covers of land, with of shoreline on Lake Ontario.
Mississauga is a quickly growing and multicultural city. Statistics Canada estimates that Mississauga now has 704,000 people, an increase of 150,000 from the previous decade and the population has almost doubled in the past twenty years.
Mississauga has only had three mayors in its past and it was created in 1974. This is because the mayor right now, Hazel McCallion, 93, has been mayor from 1978.
Mississauga is split into 11 wards (parts) each of them having their own councillor.
Also, Mississauga is the largest city in Canada where there are more women in the council than men. 
Mississauga has six legislative (government) ridings that are the same for the Canadian government and the Ontario government. The Canadian government has people in charge of those ridings called M.P.'s (Member of Parliament) and the Ontario government has M.P.P.'s (Member of Provincial Parliament) in charge of them.

</doc>
<doc id="24220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24220" title="Cambridge, Massachusetts">
Cambridge, Massachusetts

Cambridge is a city in the U.S. state of Massachusetts, just outside of Boston. 
It is the home of Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
The second Wikimania was hosted in this city in 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="24221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24221" title="1280s">
1280s


</doc>
<doc id="24222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24222" title="1087">
1087


</doc>
<doc id="24223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24223" title="1672">
1672


</doc>
<doc id="24224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24224" title="1684">
1684

Year 1684 was a leap year that started on Saturday when using the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="24225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24225" title="1713">
1713


</doc>
<doc id="24226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24226" title="1743">
1743


</doc>
<doc id="24227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24227" title="Coyote">
Coyote

Coyote ("Canis latrans") is an animal of the Canidae family. The word "coyote" comes from the Náhuatl (Aztec) word cóyotl.
The color of the coyote's fur is a grayish brown to yellowish gray on the upper parts, while the throat and underside are a more white color. The forelegs, sides of the head, muzzle and feet are reddish brown.
Coyotes live only in North America and some areas of Central America. They live in the countryside, but also in cities too. The coyote is found throughout North America from California up to as far as Alaska. They normally live in dens about 6 feet wide and four feet tall.
The coyote is an omnivore and can eat many kinds of food: fruits, grasses, and vegetables in the autumn and winter months along with small animals, for example rabbits, mice, shrews, voles, and foxes. They also eat birds, deer, snakes, and lizards. In the city, coyotes find food easily. They dig up plants in gardens and eat food out of garbage cans. 
Sometimes, they join small packs (groups), but normally hunt alone. Coyotes live in dens. They dig a tunnel under the ground and then dig out a larger area at the end of the tunnel where they sleep and have their babies or pups. They can have six pups at a time. Often a coyote den will have two entrances, with one that is hidden. Sometimes they dig more than one den, so they can move if an enemy finds the den.
Coyotes do not have many enemies. Wolves used to eat coyotes, but there are not many wolves left in North America compared to the number of coyotes. The biggest enemy of the coyote is people. They do not usually attack people, but sometimes eat small pets such as cats.
The coyote is a character of many myths from Native American peoples. The coyote is often portrayed as a joker, and stories are told to explain things he does. For example, why he barks at the moon.

</doc>
<doc id="24229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24229" title="Vole">
Vole

A vole is a small mouse-like mammal. It is a rodent from a subfamily called the Arvicolinae. They live in woodlands and grasslands.
There are about 155 species of voles. There are species in Europe, Asia, North Africa and North America. The closest relatives of voles are the lemmings and muskrats, which are in the same subfamily.
Adult voles, depending on the species, are 7.5 to 17.5 centimetres (three to seven inches) long. They eat seeds, grass or other plants, and insects.
Many animals hunt voles, for example owls, hawks, coyotes, foxes, weasels, cats and snakes.
The average life of the smaller vole species is three to six months. These voles rarely live longer than 12 months. Larger species, such as the European water vole "Arvicola", live longer. They usually die during their second winter. As many as 88% of voles die during the first month of life.

</doc>
<doc id="24230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24230" title="Isthmus">
Isthmus

An isthmus is a narrow strip of land, with water on either side, that connects two bigger landmasses. For example, the Isthmus of Panama connects the continents of The Americas (but some people say it has not been a true isthmus since the Panama Canal was built).

</doc>
<doc id="24244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24244" title="Rodent">
Rodent

Rodents are a very successful group of mammals. They form the order Rodentia. 
They have four incisors. These keep growing, and must be kept worn down by gnawing (eroding teeth by grinding them on something hard); this is the origin of the name, from the Latin "rodere", "to gnaw", and "dent", "tooth".
Most rodents are small. Examples of commonly known rodents are mice, rats, chipmunks, and squirrels. Some other small rodents sometimes kept as pets are Guinea pigs, hamsters, and gerbils.
Examples of larger rodents are porcupines, beavers, and the largest living rodent, the capybara, which can grow to between 105 and 135 cm (40-55 in) in length, and weigh 35 to 65 kg (75-140 lbs).
Almost half of all mammal species are rodents. More examples of rodents are voles, prairie dogs, groundhogs, and chinchillas.
Rabbits, hares, and pikas are sometimes called rodents, because they also have teeth that keep growing. But in 1912 biologists decided to put them in a new, separate order, Lagomorpha, because they have two extra incisors in their upper jaw.
Shrews are sometimes called rodents, because they look like mice, but that is not correct. They are in the order Insectivora.
There are more families than these. The list includes the more common families.

</doc>
<doc id="24245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24245" title="Category:Rodents">
Category:Rodents

These articles are about rodents, the mammals of the order Rodentia.

</doc>
<doc id="24265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24265" title="Titan (moon)">
Titan (moon)

Titan (Ancient Greek: "Τῑτάν") is one of Saturn's moons. It was found by Christiaan Huygens on 25 March 1655. 
Titan is the largest moon of Saturn and the second largest in the Solar System. Titan is larger than the planet Mercury. Its equatorial diameter (wideness at the equator) is 5,150 km. It orbits 1,221,865 km away from Saturn. 
Titan has the most atmosphere of any moon, more than Earth. But humans could not breathe it as it's very cold, and also poisonous. The air is made of nitrogen and methane. Titan is the only place in the Solar System, except Earth, that has lakes and much liquid on its surface. But the liquid is methane, not water.
Titan was discovered on 25 March 1655 by Christiaan Huygens, an astronomer from The Netherlands. Earlier, in 1610, Galileo Galilei had discovered four of Jupiter's moons. This inspired Huygens: he also wanted to discover new moons. Because Huygens had also improved the telescopes of the time, making them a lot better, he thought he might be able to discover a new moon.
Christiaan and his brother, Constantijn, started to build their own telescopes in 1650. Using the first telescope he ever built, Christiaan Huygens was able to see Titan. At first he called it "Luna Saturni", which means "Saturn's moon" (he did not know there was more than one). Through the years, lots of other moons have been discovered and today the moon is known as "Titan" or as "Saturn VI". The name "Titan", and all the names of Saturn's other moons, are from the Greek legends.
Titan is the only moon in the Solar System that has a thick atmosphere (the gases that surround a planet or moon). After the spacecraft Voyager I visited the moon on 12 November 1979, it showed that Titan's surface (the ground level) is hidden under an atmosphere that is 900 km thick. Before this, everyone thought that Titan was the biggest moon in the Solar System. Now we know that it is the second biggest, after Ganymede, one of Jupiter's moons.
Even though it is smaller, Titan is close in size to Ganymede. It is also close in size to the slightly smaller Callisto, another of Jupiter's moons. Not only is Titan a big moon, it is even bigger than the planet Mercury, but it only has half as much mass (it is much lighter). Because Titan does not have a lot of mass, scientist think that Titan is made of matter that is not very heavy, specifically frozen water and ammonia. Some scientists think that there is a lot of liquid water and ammonia underneath the surface, enough to fill an entire ocean. These scientists think that there might be a form of life inside this ocean.
At its centre, Titan has a rocky core that is about 3400 km thick. This core is made up of silicates and metals. The gravity (the force that keeps everything attached to the ground) is a lot weaker than here on earth. If you could jump 1m high on the Earth, you would be able to jump 7m high on Titan.
It takes Titan 15 days and 22 hours to orbit (travel) around Saturn. This is almost the same time it takes Saturn to rotate or spin around its own axis - one full spin. This is known as "synchronous rotation", which means that the same side of Titan is always pointed to Saturn.
The path in which Titan moves, its orbit, is very close to a circle, but not quite. We use the word "eccentricity" to describe the path that a moon or planet travels in. An image with an eccentricity of 0 (zero) has a path that is a perfect circle. If the eccentricity is more than 0, the path is less round (see image below). Titan's eccentricity is 0.028, very close to zero.
On July 1, 2004, the Cassini-Huygens probe entered into orbit around Saturn. On December 25, 2004, the Huygens probe separated from the Cassini probe and started to move towards Titan. It landed on Titan's surface on January 14, 2005. It landed on a dry surface, but it confirmed that large bodies of liquid exist on the moon. The Cassini probe continued to gain data of Titan and a number of the icy moons. It found evidence that the moon Enceladus had water erupting from its geysers. Cassini also proved in July, 2006 that Titan contained hydrocarbon lakes, located near its north pole. In March, 2007, it discovered a large hydrocarbon lake the size of the Caspian Sea near its north pole. The lake of liquid methane has been named Kraken Mare. In 2009, Nasa showed a photograph showing the sunlight reflecting off the surface of the lake. This was the first ever picture of liquid on another world.
In 2012 researchers at NASA discovered that Titan is giving off a faint glow of light. This is believed to be caused by complex chemical reactions occurring in Titan's atmosphere. This kind of light is called an airglow.

</doc>
<doc id="24266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24266" title="Computer numbering formats">
Computer numbering formats

Computer numbering formats are the ways that computers and calculators represent numbers. Most computers use a system of binary which is composed of ones and zeros.
Other systems in use are the octal (0,1-7) or the hexadecimal (0,1-9,A,B,C,D,E,F) systems.
So we can use codes, which the computer understands only, as well as other number systems.

</doc>
<doc id="24273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24273" title="1550">
1550


</doc>
<doc id="24274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24274" title="Columbus, Georgia">
Columbus, Georgia

Columbus is the third largest town, in the U.S. state of Georgia. Coca-Cola and RC Cola (Royal Crown Cola) were first made here. It is south of Atlanta. It is about one hour and thirty minutes to two hours away from Atlanta. 

</doc>
<doc id="24275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24275" title="Carthage">
Carthage

Carthage is an ancient city-state in what is now Tunisia. It began as a Phoenician colony. In the "Aeneid", an old story by Vergil, Aeneas visited Carthage. He made the Queen of Carthage, Dido, angry and she killed herself as she loved him but he was going to leave her. Carthage at the height of its power was the foremost power in the Mediterranean Sea, controlling parts of Spain, Sicily, North Africa, Sardinia, and the Balearic islands. 
Carthage was a rival for Mediterranean Sea power for the Roman Republic, who wanted to take over the whole western Mediterranean Sea. Carthage was a large obstacle to that. So, in 264 BC, the Romans responded to a plea for help by some rebels in Messina, and landed an army in Sicily. This started the First Punic War. The Romans then invaded the Carthaginian holdings in Sicily, and the Carthaginian generals could not stop them. Even at sea, the Romans were able to copy the Carthaginian bireme ships and win several major victories on the sea, even though the Carthaginians had long fought at sea and the Romans were new to this. 
Finally, a general named Hamilcar Barca took up the Carthaginian defense in place of the decidedly older, less energetic Hanno. Hamilcar immediately realized the futility of meeting the superior roman army in open battle, so he decided to use hit-and-run raids to wear down the Romans. This tactic was slightly more effective against the slow, heavily armored roman troops. Eventually, however the Romans were able to take lilybaeum, the Carthaginian's main stronghold in Sicily, effectively ending Carthage's power in Sicily and ending the First Punic War. 
In the Second Punic War, Hannibal Barca led the Carthaginian army through Spain, southern Gaul, and across the Alps, into Italy in 218 BC. There he clashed with the Roman Republic in 3 major battles: the battle of the River Trebia, the battle of lake Trasmine, and The battle of Cannae. Hannibal defeated the Romans in stunning victories in each of these battles. He failed, however, to take Rome, and eventually had to retreat back to Carthage, where he was defeated by Scipio Africanis in the battle of Zama. The Romans destroyed Carthage in 146 BC, in the third Punic war. The Carthaginians who survived, numbering about 50,000, were sold into slavery.

</doc>
<doc id="24276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24276" title="1102">
1102


</doc>
<doc id="24277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24277" title="Category:1901 births">
Category:1901 births


</doc>
<doc id="24278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24278" title="1569">
1569


</doc>
<doc id="24279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24279" title="1302">
1302


</doc>
<doc id="24280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24280" title="Brockton, Massachusetts">
Brockton, Massachusetts

Brockton is a town in Plymouth County in the U.S. state of Massachusetts. It and the town of Plymouth are the county seats of Plymouth County.
Brockton is also called the city of champions because world boxing champs Rocky Marciano n Marvin Hagler came from there.

</doc>
<doc id="24281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24281" title="Rabat">
Rabat

Rabat (, transliterated ar-Rabāṭ or ar-Ribāṭ, literally "Fortified Place"), population 627 000 hab. ("2005 estimate"), is the capital of the Kingdom of Morocco. It is also the capital of the Rabat-Salé-Kénitra region.
The city is on the Atlantic Ocean at the mouth of the river Bou Regreg. On the other side of the river is Rabat's bedroom community. Together the two cities with Temara have a population of 1.8 million. Silting problems have lowered the city's role as a port. However, Rabat and Salé still maintain somewhat important textile, food processing and construction industries. Some are from sweatshop labor by major businesses.
In addition, tourism and being home to all foreign embassies in Morocco help to make Rabat the second most important city in the country after the larger and economically more significant Casablanca.
Rabat's history began with a settlement, known as Chellah on the banks of the Oued Bou Regreg in the third century BC. In 40 AD, Romans took over Chellah and changed it to the Roman settlement of Sala Colonia. Rome held the colony until 250 AD. They gave it up to local rulers. In 1146, the berber Almohad ruler Abd al-Mu'min turned Rabat's ribat into a full scale fortress. It was used as a starting point for attacks on Spain. In 1170, due to its military importance, Rabat acquired the title "Ribatu l-Fath", meaning "stronghold of victory," from which it gets its current name. 
Yaqub al-Mansur (known as Moulay Yacoub in Morocco), another Almohad Caliph, moved the capital of his empire to Rabat. He built Rabat's city walls, the Kasbah of the Udayas and began construction on what would have been the world's largest mosque. However, Yaqub died and construction stopped. The ruins of the unfinished mosque, along with the Hassan Tower, still stand today.
Yaqub's death a period of decline at first. The Almohad empire lost control of its land in Spain and much of its African territory. Eventually this led to its total collapse. In the 13th century, much of Rabat's economic power shifted to Fez. In 1515 a Moorish explorer, El Wassan, reported that Rabat had declined so much that only 100 houses remained with people living in them. An increase of Moriscos, who had been removed from Spain, in the early 17th century helped boost Rabat's growth.
Rabat and neighboring Salé united to form the Republic of Bou Regreg in 1627. The republic was run by Barbary pirates who used the two cities as base ports for starting attacks on shipping. The pirates did not have to fight with any central authority until the Alaouite Dynasty united Morocco in 1666. They attempted to establish control over the pirates, but failed. European and Muslims authorities continued to attempt to control the pirates over many years. The Republic of Bou Regreg did not collapse until 1818. Even after the republic's collapse, pirates continued to use the port of Rabat. This led to the attack of the city by Austria in 1829 after an Austrian ship had been lost to a pirate attack.
The French invaded Morocco in 1912 and established a protectorate. The French administrator of Morocco, General Hubert Lyautey, decided to move the country's capital from Fez to Rabat. Among other factors, citizens had made Fez an unstable place because of their desire to rebel. Sultan Moulay Youssef followed the decision of the French and moved his home to Rabat. In 1913, Gen. Lyautey hired Henri Prost who designed the Ville Nouvelle (Rabat's modern quarter) as an administrative sector. When Morocco became independent in 1956, Mohammed V, the then King of Morocco, chose to have the capital remain at Rabat.
After World War II, the United States created a military presence in Rabat at the former French air base. By the early 1950s, Rabat Salé Air Base was a U.S. Air Force based hosting the 17th Air Force and the 5th Air Division. These divisions oversaw forward basing for Strategic Air Command (SAC) B-47 Stratojet aircraft in the country. With the destabilization of French government in Morocco, and Moroccan independence in 1956, the government of Mohammed V wanted the U.S. Air Force to pull out of the SAC bases in Morocco. He insisted on such action after Americans became involved in Lebanon in 1958. The United States agreed to leave as of December 1959. They were fully out of Morocco by 1963. SAC felt the Moroccan bases were much less critical with the long range capability of the B-52 Stratofortresses that were replacing the B-47s. It also had completed USAF bases in Spain in 1959. 
With the USAF leaving Rabat-Salé in the 1960s, the facility became a primary facility for the Royal Moroccan Air Force known as Air Base Nº 1, a status it continues to hold.
The biggest place for theatre is the Theatre Mohamed V in the centre of the town. The city also has a few official galleries and an archeological museum. Many organisations are active in cultural and social issues. Orient-Occident Foundation and ONA Foundation are the biggest of these. An independent art scene is active in the city. L'appartement 22, which is the first independent space for visual arts created by Abdellah Karroum, opened in 2002. 
Rabat was selected as a filming location for the war film "Black Hawk Down" (2001).
Rabat will bid to host the 2020 Summer Olympic Games.
Rabat is twinned with:
Rabat features a Mediterranean climate. Along the Atlantic Ocean, Rabat has a mild, temperate climate. It moves from cool in winter to warm days in the summer months. The nights are always cool (or colder in winter) Daytime temperatures generally always rise about +9/10 C° (+15/18 F°) every day. The winter highs usually reach only in December-January ("see weather-table below").

</doc>
<doc id="24283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24283" title="1222">
1222


</doc>
<doc id="24284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24284" title="Duke Kahanamoku">
Duke Kahanamoku

Duke Kahanamoku (August 24, 1890 – January 22, 1968), was a Hawaiian athlete who is called the inventor of modern surfing. He was also on the United States Olympic team as a swimmer, and won several silver and gold medals.
Contrary to some misinformation on the internet, Duke is not known as the Big Kahuna. He himself rejected that term, because he knew its meaning. The Big Kahuna is a character in the Gidget story, which is based on a portrayal of Tube Steak Tracy, a famous surfer of the '40s & '50s in Malibu.

</doc>
<doc id="24285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24285" title="Overland Park, Kansas">
Overland Park, Kansas

Overland Park is a city in the U.S. state of Kansas. It's a suburb of Kansas City. 

</doc>
<doc id="24286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24286" title="Bedford">
Bedford

Bedford is a markettown of Bedfordshire, England. It has a population of more than 79,000 people (100,000 if the people living in Kempston are included). It is formed of multiple districts, such as Putnoe, Goldington, Brickhill and Woodside. Many people also live in the smaller villages surrounding Bedford, such as Sandy, Willington, Cople and Cardington. It has many outstanding schools, both State and Public. It is one of only two places nationally that has a three tear school system, although it is currently undergoing the transition to two-tear. There are academies, Bedford Free School, community and an SEN schools. It is also a place with a large diversity of nationalities, such as Italians and Polish, stemming from the Brick works that used to stand in ...
The town of Bedford is about 1000 years old. There was a castle there, but it was destroyed in 1224. A small hill with a tower now stands in the place of the castle. It overlooks the river Great Ouse which flows through the town. Every four years a River Festival is held there, with stalls, a fair and dragon boat races. Bedford was a market town from the early Middle Ages. It was given its borough charter in 1166 by Henry II.
During the last century many people moved to Bedford because there were good schools there. There are four public schools which are governed by the Harpur Trust: Bedford Boys School, Bedford Girls School, Bedford Modern and Pilgrims Pre-Preparatory School. There are also some smaller private schools. 
Bedford also has various local authority schools. Bedford Borough operates a three-tier education system in some of the area, arranged into lower, middle and upper schools, as recommended in the Plowden Report of 1967. Many students study at the University of Bedfordshire, which is based in Bedford and Luton. Bedford College offers further education. Also, Stella Mann College is a private college which offers a range of further education courses for the performing arts.
Hundreds of school children can take part in Bedfordshire Youth Music courses during the holidays, have music lessons in school and participate in the orchestra. There is also a Bedfordshire Youth Theatre that runs activities for all age groups.
The town of Bedford has scenic routes to walk along the banks of the River Great Ouse. The banks of the river by the town centre are called The Embankment. There are nice gardens there and two bridges for pedestrians, one of which is called The Butterfly Bridge. The newer of these bridges is known as the “Butterfly Bridge” because it is shaped like a butterfly.
Every two years, an event called Bedford River Festival is held near the river in Bedford during early July. The event lasts for two days. About 250,000 people go there to enjoy all the events, the sports, food, funfairs and live music.
The big church in the centre of the town is called St Paul’s Church. It stands in St Paul’s Square. It has a tall spire which can be seen from a long way away. There was a church there in 1066. The present church was started in the early 13th century and gradually more parts were added. The tower and spire were completely rebuilt in the 1860s. John Bunyan and John Wesley both preached in the church. There is a stained glass window dedicated to Sir William Harpur who gave his money to charity in the 16th century allowing almshouses and schools to be built in Bedford.
There are museums in Bedford. The Cecil Higgins Art Gallery is in the Victorian home of the Higgins family who used to be brewers. A modern building next to it has paintings, ceramics, glass and lace. The Bedford Museum is next door and has things from Bedford’s history. Just round the corner is the John Bunyan museum showing things about Bedford’s most famous writer.
Bedford Hospital is split between two sites in the town. It serves people from the whole of Mid Bedford. Many discussions are still taking place about the future of the hospital and how it should be organized.
There are many shops in the town centre, as well as out-of-town shopping areas. The Aspects Leisure Centre has cinemas and other amusements. It is near the opposite end of the Embankment from the town centre.
There is a lot of opportunity to hear music in Bedford. Many local musicians play in the Bedfordshire Symphony Orchestra and the Bedford Sinfonia. They give their concerts in the Corn Exchange in St Paul’s Square, where one can also hear concerts given by the famous professional Philharmonia Orchestra who give a series of concerts during the year. There are several amateur choirs including the large Bedford Choral Society and the chamber choirs Cantamus and Concord Singers. The Bedford Music Club organizes chamber concerts on Thursdays during the year, and there are many other musical events including lunch hour concerts at St Paul’s Church. In August the 'Proms In The Park' takes place in Bedford Park. It is given by the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra and attracts thousands of people who take rugs and food and sit on the grass to listen to the music.
Although Bedford has no large theatre there are many amateur groups such as the Bedford Dramatic Club, Swan Theatre Company, Bedford Marianettes who perform in several places such as the Bowen West Theatre and Civic Theatre. There are also several local bands.
As Bedford has a river there is a lot of opportunity for rowing. Bedford has two rugby union teams called Bedford Blues and Bedford Athletic. Bedford Blues are now in the second tier of English rugby, although they have previously been in the top division. Bedford has an athletic stadium, home to many famous sports personalities and trains youth.
Bedford’s main railway station is in Midland Road. Capital Connect run trains from Bedford to Brighton passing through London, and Midland Main Line have trains that go from London, passing through Bedford on their way to Leeds. There are also trains to Bletchley in Milton Keynes, and the Marston Vale Line which also stops at Bedford St Johns railway station.
There is a lot of traffic in Bedford as several roads spread out from the centre of the town in all directions. The M1 is 8 miles to the west, and the Al is about the same distance to the east. Bedford now has a by-pass between Milton Keynes and the Black Cat Round About near St. Neots. 
Buses from Bedford travel to Northampton, Milton Keynes, Cambridge, Oxford and other towns in the region. Most of these services depart from the main bus station in the town. This bus station is currently undergoing renevation as part of a scheme to upgrade facilities in the town centre, including free car parking for two hours on Saturday.
There are many Italian people living in Bedford. Many of them came from the 1950s onwards to work at the brickworks of the London Brick Company. There are many Italian bars and restaurants and social clubs as well as a church and a vice-consulate. Many of the people who came in the 1950s now have grandchildren growing up in Bedford, and many of them have married people from other cultures. More recently many people have immigrated from other parts of the world such as South Asia and Eastern Europe (particularly in the last few years), Greece, Cyprus, the Middle East and Africa. Many languages are spoken in Bedford including Italian, Punjabi, Turkish, Polish, Portuguese, Cantonese and Mandarin Chinese. There is a big, new Sikh temple in the district known as Queen’s Park.
Bedford is twinned with:
The town of Kempston has now grown to be part of Bedford. The villages in the Borough of Bedford with populations of more than 2,000 are Biddenham, Bromham, Clapham, Elstow, Oakley, Sharnbrook, Shortstown, Wilstead, and Wootton. There are also many smaller villages in the borough. The villages in the borough are popular with commuters to Bedford, and also with people who commute to Milton Keynes, which is a bigger employment centre than Bedford, and to London.
The most famous person from Bedford was John Bunyan, the author of "The Pilgrim's Progress". He was born in Harrowden, near Elstow which is just outside Bedford. Later he lived in St Cuthbert Street, which is the next street east parallel to the High Street, but was still just at the edge of Bedford at that time. Bunyan Meeting is a church on the site where Bunyan, at the end of his life, was allowed to have a barn to preach. It is joined to the Bunyan Museum. There is a statue of Bunyan on the corner of the High Street by Bedford School. 
Other famous Bedfordians include Sir William Harpur, the philanthropist, John Howard, the prison reformer, Charles Wells, founder of Charles Wells Brewery, a company which is still in the town, Ronnie Barker the comedian, Media Personality and former 'Countdown' Co-host Carol Vorderman and John Le Mesurier, actor and comedian. People who went to school in Bedford include the politician Paddy Ashdown, the cricketer Alastair Cook, the playwright Christopher Fry and the athlete Paula Radcliffe.Also cricketer Monty Panesar and comedian Al Murray.

</doc>
<doc id="24287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24287" title="Pentomino">
Pentomino

A pentomino is a 2D shape made out of 5 side-by-side equal-sized squares. They can be found in the books "Chasing Vermeer" and "The Wright 3". It was created by Solomon W. Golomb.
These are the 12 pentominos:

</doc>
<doc id="24288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24288" title="Ejaculation">
Ejaculation

Ejaculation is when a male person (or other male mammal) shoots out fluid from his erect penis after it has been aroused or stimulated (excited sexually). It happens when he has an orgasm. This article is about ejaculation in human beings. 
When a man is stimulated, his penis becomes erect. When he has an orgasm, semen comes out from the end of his penis. Semen contains sperm and other substances. How long a man can be stimulated before ejaculating, how long the ejaculation lasts, the strength of the ejaculation, and the amount of semen that comes out, all vary from one man to another. When a man ejaculates, he has a very good feeling in his penis and his groin area (the part of his body where his torso joins the top of his legs). A man can ejaculate after he masturbates, is touched by someone else sexually and even if he is not touched (for example, if he looks at sexy pictures, watches sexy videos or thinks about sex). Ejaculation can also happen without control when a man is sleeping. Boys do not ejaculate until they reach puberty.
In a man, ejaculation is what happens when semen shoots out of the end of the penis. Slang terms for ejaculation are "blowing a load" or "blowing a wad", "busting a nut", "creaming", "cumming", "jizzing", "jazzing", "spurting", "squirting" and "skeeting". Ejaculation takes place when the man has an orgasm (the height of sexual excitement), usually after his genitals have been physically stimulated in some way. However, ejaculation can also happen if a man has not been touched, for instance if he becomes aroused or stimulated (made sexually excited) by looking at sexy pictures, watching sexy videos, or thinking about sex. When a man ejaculates while sleeping, it is called nocturnal emission.
Before a man can ejaculate, his penis needs to be stimulated. The penis is usually soft, quite short and hangs down. When a man is stimulated, for example by seeing another naked person, masturbating or being touched by someone else sexually, the inside of his penis fills with blood. This causes it to become longer, thicker, harder and to stand upright, and is called having an erection. Men can be stimulated for different amounts of time before they ejaculate.
Ejaculation takes place in two stages.
After a man has ejaculated, his penis usually becomes soft and shorter again. He may also have an enjoyable and relaxing feeling in his groin area. It takes some time before he can have another erection and ejaculation. This time is called the refractory period. The average refractory period is about half an hour. Younger men normally have a shorter refractory period than older men. Men who are 18 years old have a refractory period of about 15 minutes, while men in their 70s have one of about 20 hours. Some men's penises remain hard after one ejaculation, and they are able to have another ejaculation after some time without losing their erection. Most young and middle-aged men can probably have about two to three ejaculations in a few hours, but it has been said that some men are able to have up to nine ejaculations a day.
When a man ejaculates before he wants to, this is called premature ejaculation. If a man cannot ejaculate after having been aroused for a long time, even though he wants to, this is called delayed ejaculation or anorgasmia. A man who is unable to ejaculate at all is said to have anejaculation. Some men are able to have an orgasm without ejaculating. This is called a dry orgasm.
Apart from giving a man pleasure, ejaculation may help a man stay healthy. A study carried out in Australia seemed to show that men who ejaculate often have less chance of getting prostate cancer.
Semen is known informally as "cum", "jism" or "jizz". Men ejaculate different amounts of semen. Normally, an ejaculation makes between 1.5 and 5 millilitres (up to one teaspoonful) of semen. More semen tends to come out if a man has not ejaculated for many days, or if he has been stimulated for a long time. Older men produce less semen. If a man ejaculates an unusually small amount of semen, this is a medical condition called hypospermia.
Semen is usually a white or yellowish fluid. It starts off being slightly thick and sticky, then after a while it becomes more watery. Semen contains many chemicals. These include citric acid, fructose (a type of sugar), enzymes that speed up chemical reactions in the body, lipids (substances that fat is made of), and slippery fluids that help the semen to move through the urethra.
The number of sperm in an ejaculation of semen depends on many things. There may be more sperm if:
If there are an unusually low number of sperm in an ejaculation, this is called oligospermia. If there are no sperm at all, this is called azoospermia. A man with oligospermia or azoospermia is usually infertile, and cannot or finds it very hard to make a woman pregnant by having sex with her.
If a man has a sexually transmitted infection or STI (an infection that is passed from one person to another by sex), the germs that cause the disease can appear in his semen. If the person that the man has sex with touches the semen, he or she can become infected by the germs and pick up the disease. AIDS, gonorrhea, hepatitis B, herpes and syphillis are examples of STIs. One of the ways for a man to lower the chance of passing on an STI to his sexual partner is to wear a condom on his penis when having sex.
When a man has sexual intercourse with a woman, he places his penis within her vagina and moves his penis back and forth, typically in a thrusting motion, while the woman moves her hips. The vagina is warm and somewhat moist, and it places pressure on the man's penis. These sensations, combined with the friction caused by the in-and-out movements, stimulates the penis, which causes the man to have an orgasm and to ejaculate. If the woman is using birth control this will usually not cause her to become pregnant. Otherwise, the sperm in the semen can travel into the woman's uterus and Fallopian tubes. If there happens to be an ovum or egg cell in a Fallopian tube, a sperm may fuse with the ovum. This is called fertilization, and makes the woman pregnant.
However, before a man ejaculates, a clear, colourless, sticky fluid called pre-ejaculate (also known as pre-ejaculate fluid or informally as pre-cum) can come out of his penis. Pre-ejaculate is produced by the bulbourethral or Cowper's glands. Some tests have shown that pre-ejaculate does not contain any sperm. However, some sperm may have been left behind in the urethra from an earlier ejaculation and the pre-ejaculate may carry this sperm out of the penis. That is why a woman can become pregnant even if the man pulls his penis out of her vagina before he ejaculates. Also, if a man ejaculates near the woman's vagina and semen falls on her body, sperm can accidentally enter the vagina and cause a pregnancy. To avoid the woman becoming pregnant when she does not want to, the man and the woman can use methods of contraception or birth control. For example, the man can wear a condom on his penis, or the woman can take birth control pills.
Young boys cannot ejaculate. A boy's first ejaculation usually happens about one year after he begins puberty, which is when his body starts changing into a man's body. Most boys go through puberty in their teens. The first time a boy ejaculates usually happens when he is asleep. This is called a nocturnal emission (which means "an emission happening at night") or a wet dream. It happens without the boy's control, often when he is having a dream about sex. Scientists believe that wet dreams are the body's way of removing too much semen. When a boy begins masturbating, wet dreams usually stop happening.
When a boy starts to ejaculate, he usually produces only a small amount of semen. The semen is different from what an adult man produces. It is usually clear and stays sticky. It either has no sperm in it, or sperm that do not move properly or do not move at all. A boy's semen only becomes like an adult man's semen about two years after his first ejaculation.

</doc>
<doc id="24289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24289" title="Team">
Team

A team is a group of people who have a certain task to complete. In order to meet their target, the members of the group must work well with each other.
Successful team - a group of people who tend to meet their target despite barriers. The group members cooperate with each other and take other members' ideas into consideration.
Unsuccessful team - a group of people who have a very difficult time when attempting to complete a certain task. This may be because the members of the group think of only themselves and create an uncomfortable environment for other members of the team.

</doc>
<doc id="24294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24294" title="Emperor Shōwa">
Emperor Shōwa

, also known as , was the 124th emperor of Japan according to the traditional order of succession. His reign started on December 25, 1926 and ended with his death in 1989. 
The name "Shōwa" was given to Hirohito after he died. Emperors of Japan are normally renamed in this way; and people started using the new name in 1990. During his long reign, many people outside Japan call him Emperor Hirohito, or just Hirohito.
Prince Hirohito was named regent for his father in 1921. He became emperor after his father's death.
Hirohito was the emperor and dictator of Japan during the Second Sino-Japanese War which became World War 2. (1931 to 1945). His role in this period is very controversial.
After Japan's defeat in the war, the role of emperor changed. The emperor became a symbol of the state.
Hirohito was the first emperor to travel outside Japan. He visited Europe in 1971 and he traveled to the United States in 1975.
Emperor Showa died of small intestine cancer and was succeeded by his son, Prince Akihito. 
The state funeral for the late emperor was an international event. World leaders attending the funeral included U.S. President George H. W. Bush, French President François Mitterrand, the Duke of Edinburgh. 
Emperor Shōwa is buried in the Imperial Mausoleum in Hachiōji, along with Emperor Taishō.
In an overview of writings by and about Hirohito, OCLC/WorldCat includes roughly 900+ works in 1,500 publications in 15 languages and 31,000 library holdings . 

</doc>
<doc id="24297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24297" title="Human evolution">
Human evolution

Human evolution is about the origin of human beings. All humans belong to the same species, which has spread from its birthplace in Africa to almost all parts of the world. Its origin in Africa is proved by the fossils which have been found there.
The term 'human' in this context means the genus "Homo". However, studies of human evolution usually include other hominids, such as the Australopithecines, from which the genus "Homo" had diverged (split) by about 2.3 to 2.4 million years ago in Africa. The first "Homo sapiens", the ancestors of today's humans, evolved around 200,000 years ago.
It was known for centuries that man and the apes were related. At heart, their anatomy is similar, despite many superficial differences. This was the reason why Buffon and Linnaeus, in the 18th century, put them together in one family. Charles Darwin's theory of evolution says that such basic structural similarity comes from the common origin of the group. The apes and man are close relatives, and are primates: the order of mammals which includes monkeys, apes, lemurs and tarsiers. 
The great apes live in tropical rainforests. It is thought that human evolution started when a group of apes (now called the australopithecines) began to live more in the savannah. A savannah is more open, with trees, shrubs and grass. This group started walking on two legs. They began to use their hands to carry things. Life in the open was different, and there was a big advantage in having better brains. Their brains grew larger, and they began to make simple tools. This process began at least 5 million years ago. We have fossils of two or three different groups of walking apes, and one was the ancestor of humans.
The biological name for "human" or "man" is "Homo". The modern human species is called "Homo sapiens". "Sapiens" means "thought". "Homo sapiens" means "the thinking man". 
Paleoanthropology looks at ancient human fossils, tools, and other signs of early human life. It began in the 19th century with the discovery of a skull of "Neanderthal man" in 1856.
By 1859, zoologists had known for a long time that humans are, in their anatomy, similar to the great apes. There are also differences: humans can speak, for example. But the similarities are more basic than the differences. Humans also have features with a much older history, from early in the life of vertebrates. 
The idea that species are caused by evolution had been proposed before Darwin, but his book gave much evidence, and many were persuaded by it. The book was "On the Origin of Species by means of Natural Selection", published in November 1859. In this book, Darwin wrote about the idea of evolution in general, rather than the evolution of humans. "Light will be thrown on the origin of man and his history", was all Darwin wrote on the subject. Nevertheless, the implication of the theory was clear to readers at the time.
Several people discussed the evolution of humans. Among them were Thomas Huxley and Charles Lyell. Huxley convincingly showed many of the similarities and differences between humans and apes in his 1863 book "Evidence as to Man's Place in Nature". When Darwin published his own book on the subject, "The Descent of Man, and selection in relation to sex", the idea of human evolution was already well-known. The theory was controversial. Even some of Darwin's supporters (such as Alfred Russel Wallace and Charles Lyell) did not like the idea that human beings have evolved their impressive mental capacities and moral sensibilities through natural selection.
Since the 18th century, scientists thought the great apes to be closely related to human beings. In the 19th century, they speculated that the closest living relatives of humans were either chimpanzees or gorillas. Both live in central Africa in tropical rainforests. In fact, chimpanzees are closest to us. Biologists believed that humans share a "common ancestor" with other African great apes and that fossils of these ancestors would be found in Africa, which they have been. It is now accepted by virtually all biologists that humans are not only similar to the great apes, but actually are great apes.
The issue was confirmed by late 20th century studies on the sequences of proteins and genes in apes and man. These studies showed that man shares about 95 to 98% of these structures with chimpanzees. This is a much closer relationship than with any other type of animal, and fully supports the ideas put forward in the 19th century by Darwin and Huxley.
Primates have diversified in habitats such as trees and bushes. They have many features which are adaptations to this environment. Here are some of those traits:
Not all primates have these anatomical traits, nor is every trait unique to primates. Primates are frequently highly social, live in groups with 'flexible dominance hierarchies'.
Closely related animals almost always have closely related parasites. This usually comes about because parasites evolve with their hosts, and when host populations split, their parasites split also. It is also possible for parasites to get from one species to another. Two of the most serious parasitic infections of humans in Africa have originated in apes. Each may have been transferred to humans by a single cross-species event. 
There are several species of mosquito, and several species of the malarial parasite "Plasmodium". The most serious type, "P. falciparum", which kills many millions of people each year, originated in gorillas. It is now virtually certain that chimpanzees are the source of HIV-1, the major cause of AIDS. This information is got by the sequence analysis of ape and human viruses.
The relevance of this to evolution is that our physiology is so close to the apes that their parasites were able to transfer to humans with great success. Humans have much less resistance to these parasites, which are ancient in origin, but comparatively new to our species.
It was not until the 1920s that hominid fossils were discovered in Africa. In 1924, Raymond Dart described "Australopithecus africanus". The specimen was called the Taung Child, an australopithecine infant discovered in a cave deposit being mined for concrete at Taung, South Africa. The remains were a remarkably well-preserved tiny skull and a cast of the inside of the individual's skull. Although the brain was small (410 cm³), its shape was rounded, unlike that of chimpanzees and gorillas, and more like a modern human brain. Also, the specimen had short canine teeth, and the position of the foramen magnum was evidence of bipedal locomotion. All of these traits convinced Dart that the Taung baby was a bipedal human ancestor, a transitional form between apes and humans. 
It took another 20 years before Dart's claims were taken seriously. This was after other similar skeletons had been found. The most common view of the time was that a large brain evolved "before" bipedality, the ability to walk on two feet more or less upright. It was thought that intelligence similar to that of modern humans was necessary for bipedalism. This turned out to be wrong: bipedality came first.
The australopithecines are now thought to be immediate ancestors of the genus "Homo", the group to which modern humans belong. Both australopithecines and "Homo sapiens" are part of the tribe Hominini, but recent data has brought into doubt the position of "A. africanus" as a direct ancestor of modern humans; it may well have been a cousin. The australopithecines were originally classified as either gracile or robust. The robust variety of "Australopithecus" has since been reclassified as "Paranthropus", although it is still regarded as a subgenus of "Australopithecus" by some authors.
In the 1930s, when the robust specimens were first described, the "Paranthropus" genus was used. During the 1960s, the robust variety was moved into "Australopithecus". The recent trend has been back to the original classification as a separate genus.
It was Carolus Linnaeus who chose the name "Homo". Today, there is only one species in the genus: "Homo sapiens". There were other species, but they became extinct. 
The figure shows where some of them lived and at what time. Some of the other species might have been ancestors of "H. sapiens". Many were likely our "cousins", they developed away from our ancestral line. 
Anthropologists are still investigating the exact line of descent. A consensus on which should count as separate species and which as subspecies has not been reached yet. In some cases this is because there are very few fossils, in other cases it is due to the slight differences used to classify species in the "Homo" genus.
The evolution of the genus "Homo" took place mostly in the Pleistocene. The whole genus is characterised by its use of stone tools, initially crude, and becoming ever more sophisticated. So much so that in archaeology and anthropology the Pleistocene is usually referred to as the Palaeolithic, or the Stone Age.
"Homo habilils" was likely the first species of Homo. It developed from the Australopithecus, about 2.5 million years ago. It lived until about 1.4 million years ago. It had smaller molars (back teeth) and larger brains than the Australopithecines.
There are two proposed species that lived from 1.9 to 1.6 million years ago. Their relation has not been clarified. One of them is called "Homo rudolfensis". It is known from a single incomplete skull from Kenya. Scientists have suggested that this was just another habilis, but this has not been confirmed. The other is currently called "Homo georgicus". It is from Georgia and may be an intermediate form between "H. habilis" and "H. erectus", or a sub-species of "H. erectus".
"Homo erectus" was first discovered on the island of Java in Indonesia, in 1891. The discoverer, Eugene Dubois originally called it "Pithecanthropus erectus" based on its morphology that he considered to be intermediate between that of humans and apes. Homo erectus lived from about 1.8 million to 70,000 years ago. The earlier specimens (from 1.8 to 1.2 million years ago) are sometimes seen as a different species, or a subspecies. called "Homo ergaster", or "Homo erectus ergaster'. 
In the early Pleistocene, 1.5–1 mya, in Africa, Asia, and Europe, presumably, some populations of "Homo habilis" evolved larger brains and made more elaborate stone tools; these differences and others are sufficient for anthropologists to classify them as a new species, "H. erectus". In addition "H. erectus" was the first human ancestor to walk truly upright. This was made possible by the evolution of locking knees and a different location of the foramen magnum (the hole in the skull where the spine enters). They may have used fire to cook their meat.
A famous example of "Homo erectus" is Peking Man; others were found in Asia (notably in Indonesia), Africa, and Europe. Many paleoanthropologists are now using the term "Homo ergaster" for the non-Asian forms of this group. They reserve "H. erectus" only for those fossils found in the Asian region that meet certain requirements (as to skeleton and skull) which differ slightly from ergaster.
"Homo neaderthalensis" (usually called Neanderthal man) lived from about 250,000 to about 30,000 years ago. Also, less usual, as "Homo sapiens neanderthalensis": there is still some discussion if it was a separate species "Homo neanderthalensis", or a subspecies of "H. sapiens". While the debate remains unsettled, evidence from mitochondrial DNA and Y-chromosomal DNA sequencing indicates that little or no gene flow occurred between "H. neanderthalensis" and "H. sapiens", and, therefore, the two were separate species. In 1997, Dr. Mark Stoneking, then an associate professor of anthropology at Pennsylvania State University, stated: 
More investigation of a second source of Neanderthal DNA supported these findings.
A genetic analysis of a piece of finger bone found in Siberia has produced a surprise result. It dates to about 40,000 years ago, at a time when Neanderthals and modern man were living in the area. German researchers found its mitochondrial DNA did not match either that of our species or that of Neanderthals. If this result is correct, the bone belongs to a previously unknown species. The degree of difference in the DNA suggests this species split off from our family tree about a million years ago, well before the split between our species and Neanderthals.
"Homo floresiensis", which lived about 100,000–12,000 years ago has been nicknamed "hobbit" for its small size. Its size may be a result of island dwarfism, the tendency for large mammals to evolve smaller forms on islands. "H. floresiensis" is intriguing both for its size and its age. It is a concrete example of a recent species of the genus "Homo" that shows derived traits not shared with modern humans. In other words, "H. floresiensis" share a common ancestor with modern humans, but split from the modern human lineage and followed a different evolutionary path. The main find was a skeleton believed to be a woman of about 30 years of age. Found in 2003 it has been dated to approximately 18,000 years old. The living woman was estimated to be one meter in height, with a brain volume of just 380 cm This is small for a chimpanzee and less than a third of the "H. sapiens" average of 1400 cm.
There is an ongoing debate over whether "H. floresiensis" is indeed a separate species. Some scientists believe that "H. floresiensis" was a modern "H. sapiens" suffering from pathological dwarfism. Modern humans who live on Flores, the island where the skeleton was found, are pygmies. This fact is consistent with either theory. One line of attack on "H. floresiensis" is that it was found with tools only associated with "H. sapiens".
Stone artefacts have now been found on Flores which can be dated to a million years ago. These artefacts are "proxies"; which means there were no skeletons of humans, but only a species of "Homo" could have made the artefacts. The artefacts are flakes and other implements, 48 in all, some of which show signs of being worked to produce a cutting edge. This means that humans were present on Flores by that date, but it does not tell us which species that was.
"Homo sapiens" has lived from about 250,000 years ago to the present. Between 400,000 years ago and the second warm period in the Middle Pleistocene, around 250,000 years ago, its skull grew and more sophisticated technologies based on stone tools developed. One possibility is that a transition between "H. erectus" to "H. sapiens" occurred. The evidence of Java Man suggests there was an initial migration of "H. erectus" out of Africa. Then, much later, a further development of "H. sapiens" from "H. erectus" in Africa. Then a subsequent migration within and out of Africa eventually replaced the earlier "H. erectus". 
Studies of the human genome, especially the Y-chromosome DNA and mitochondrial DNA, have supported a recent African origin. Evidence from autosomal DNA also supports the recent African origin. The details of this great saga are not fully established yet, but by about 90,000 years ago they had moved into Eurasia and the Middle East. This was the area where Neanderthals, "Homo neanderthalensis", had been living for a long time (at least 500,000 years in western Europe).
By about 42 to 44,000 years ago "Homo sapiens" had reached western Europe, including Britain. In Europe and western Asia, "Homo sapiens" replaced the Neanderthals by about 35,000 years ago. The details of how this happened are not known.
At roughly the same time "Homo sapiens" arrived in Australia. Their arrival in the Americas was much later, about 15,000 years ago. All these earlier groups of modern man were hunter-gatherers.
Current research has established that human beings are genetically rather homogenous (similar). The DNA of individuals is more alike than usual for most species. This may have resulted from their relatively recent evolution or from the Toba catastrophe. Distinctive genetic have arisen as a result of small groups of people moving into new environmental circumstances. These adapted traits are a very small component of the "Homo sapiens" genome and include such outward 'racial' characteristics as skin color and nose shape, and internal characteristics such as the ability to breathe more efficiently at high altitudes.
"H. sapiens idaltu", from Ethiopia, about 160,000 years ago, is a proposed subspecies. It is the oldest known anatomically modern human.
This list is in chronological order by genus.

</doc>
<doc id="24298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24298" title="Ancient Rome">
Ancient Rome

Ancient Rome is the name for a civilization. It began as a small farming community in Italy in the 8th century BC. It grew to become the largest empire in the ancient world. It started as a monarchy, then became a republic, then an empire.
The Roman Empire was so big that there were problems ruling a territory which stretched from Britain to the Middle East. In 293 AD, Diocletian split the empire into two parts. A century later, in 395 AD, it was permanently split into the Western Roman Empire and the Eastern Roman Empire.
The Western Empire ended because of the Germanic tribe, the Visigoths in 476 AD. In the 5th century AD, the western part of the empire split up into different kingdoms. The eastern Roman Empire stayed together as the Byzantine Empire. The Byzantine Empire was defeated by the Ottoman Empire in 1453.
Roman culture spread to Western Europe and the area around the Mediterranean Sea. Its history still has a big influence on the world today. For example, Roman ideas about laws, government, art, literature, and language are important to European culture. The Roman language, Latin, slowly evolved, becoming modern French, Spanish, Italian, and Romanian. Latin also influenced many other languages like English.
Beginning with Emperor Nero in the first century AD, the Roman government did not like Christianity. At certain points in history, people could be put to death because they were Christians. Under Emperor Diocletian, the persecution of Christians became the strongest. However, Christianity became an officially supported religion in the Roman Empire under Constantine I, who was the next Emperor. With the signing of the Edict of Milan in 313, it quickly became the biggest religion. Then in 391 AD by an edict of Emperor Theodosius I made Christianity Rome's official religion.
The Byzantines were threatened by the rise of Islam, whose followers took over the territories of Syria, Armenia and Egypt and soon threatened to take over Constantinople. In the next century, the Arabs also captured southern Italy and Sicily.
The Byzantines survived during the 8th century and, beginning in the 9th century, took back parts of the conquered lands. In 1000 AD, the Eastern Empire was at its largest point, and culture and trade flourished. However, the expansion was suddenly stopped in 1071 at the Battle of Manzikert. This finally made the empire start becoming weaker. After centuries of fighting and Turkic invasions, Emperor Alexius I Comnenus called for help from the West in 1095.
The West responded with the Crusades, eventually resulting in the Fourth Crusade which conquered Constantinople in 1204. New countries including Nicaea took pieces of the now smaller empire. After the recapture of Constantinople by Imperial forces, the empire was little more than a Greek state confined to the Aegean coast. The Eastern Empire came to an end when Mehmed II conquered Constantinople on 29 May 1453.
Remains of Roman work and architecture have been found in the furthest corners of the late Empire.

</doc>
<doc id="24300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24300" title="Globalization">
Globalization

Globalization is the way that local or national ways of doing things become global, that is, done together around the world. It is about economics or trade, technology, politics, and culture. People feel differently about globalization: some think it helps everyone while others think it hurts some people.
It describes the way countries and people of the world interact and integrate. Globalization has many sides and can be economic, political and/or cultural.
Economic globalization is how countries are coming together as one big global economy, making international trade easier. In the late 20th century, many countries agreed to lower tariffs, or taxes on goods that are imported from other countries. The way Internet and other communication technologies makes it easier for people to buy and sell products from around the world is an example of globalization. Herman E. Daly has said that there is an important difference between internationalization and globalization. Internationalization is about nations working together for the same goals. These are things like treaties, alliances, and other international agreements. Globalization is about international trade being less obstructed by national borders.
Political globalization is how institutions and countries can influence the whole world. The United Nations are an example of globalization because most countries of the world are members of its General Assembly. This international organization can make countries follow rules and apply economic sanctions to a country that doesn't. This means the countries in the U.N will punish them by not talking or trading with them so they don't benefit from globalization. 
Cultural globalization is how culture is becoming homogeneous, which means that people from all over the world act in similar way. For example, many people around the world write with the Latin alphabet, wear T-shirts and jeans and watch Hollywood movies and other media.
Some people, like Noam Chomsky, do not like globalization because they feel it only helps rich people get richer by making poor people poorer. Offshore outsourcing, where companies hire workers in cheaper countries, is often a part of globalization. This sometimes means that some people lose their jobs. Joseph Stiglitz said that international groups like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) have made it harder for poorer nations to get richer. Globalization also means that problems from other countries will affect your country. For example the Great Depression of the 1930s started in the United States but affected the entire world.
Many countries also dislike it when international organizations such as the United Nations tell them what to do. However they obey to avoid sanctions. Many people also criticize the fact that globalization means that fewer people are deciding what happens to everyone when they don't always represent the people they're acting for.
Some critics of globalization also feel that it leads to global brands, like Coca-Cola and McDonald's, taking over smaller, local shops and businesses. They criticize the fact that powerful countries have bigger influence on world culture than others. For example, the United States is the biggest cultural exporter, which means that countries around the world are becoming like the United States. However, this hurts local cultures. Jean Baudrillard believes that globalization hurts local cultures and is the cause of most terrorism. He also believes that most supporters of globalization just want to stay in power.
Gregory Meyjes interprets globalization as a largely hegemonic, unequal process of socio-cultural imposition. Questioning the various processes (economic, political, cultural) by which globalization or globalisation has favored rapid Anglo-cultural dominance over a more gradual, egalitarian evolution towards an inclusive world civilization, Meyjes argues for cultural policies that support "ecological" relations between local ethnocultural traditions, by protecting cultural specificity in the short term and allow as many cultural groups as possible to organically contribute to the whole. At the global level, Meyjes therefore proposes the term universalization or universalisation  to denote a process of (largely) non-imposed socio-cultural exchange between state-level and sub-state-level groups and "nations" – i.e. a transnational process that informs the gradual emergence of a universal civilization.
Others, like Thomas Friedman, believe that globalization can bring people together and make everyone richer without getting rid of local cultures. People who support globalization also believe that it makes war less likely because it is bad for business. Francis Fukuyama also argued that globalization would eventually lead to a system of world governance which would cause wars to end.
Many believe that globalization helps out poorer nations by bringing them business. A report by the World Bank said that poverty in India and Indonesia was cut in half because of globalization. The report also said that people in poorer nations are living longer and better because they were making more money.

</doc>
<doc id="24301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24301" title="North Holland">
North Holland

North Holland is a province (area with a local government) of the Netherlands. It is in the northwest. The capital is called Haarlem. Other cities in the province are Amsterdam, Hilversum, Alkmaar, Zaandam, and Hoorn.

</doc>
<doc id="24302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24302" title="Folk music">
Folk music

Folk music is music that is played or sung by ordinary people (not professional musicians). It is traditional music that people learn by listening to other people playing it and then copying them. We say that the tradition is “orally transmitted” or “handed down orally”, meaning that the music is not written down but taught by speaking (“oral” means “belonging to the mouth”). Every country has its own traditional music. Folk song is part of folk music. A folksinger is a person who sings folk songs.
In the 1960s a new type of music was started by a book Bob Dylan who mixed traditional folk song with rock and roll. This music is sometimes called “folk rock” . 
Folk music is music for everybody to play and listen to. In this way it is different from classical music which is mainly developed by professional musicians for a smaller group of people. Folk music is part of a popular culture, although the term “popular music” or “pop music” today refers to a kind of music which people can hear through television, radio and other means of recording.
In many parts of the world nearly all music is folk music. The term “folk music” is usually used for European and American music which is part of an oral tradition. Folk music as an oral tradition, is much less important than before, in part because of new technology (radio, television etc, and recordings of music ). Folk tunes are now often written down, and they have influenced other kinds of music, so that the differences between various types of music are harder to see.
In older times folk music was part of “communal recreation”. This means that small communities such as villages or families would relax by playing and singing music together. People would often make up a new song or new piece of music, or make changes to music that they already knew. In this way music was always changing. People would get musical ideas from other groups nearby. This is why folk music from neighbouring countries often sound similar.
Ballads were a popular kind of folk music. These were folk songs which told a story (they were “narrative”). Sometimes they had a refrain after each verse so that everybody could join in. Ballads told stories of love, myths or folklore. This is how stories were handed down from one generation to another.
Instrumental folk music was used for dancing. Some of the instruments may have been very simple, such as a pair of sticks, rattle or a simple drum. Other instruments may include fiddle (the folk word for “violin”), bagpipes, harp, zither, or various wind instruments, depending on the time of history and the country.
Some singing was polyphonic, i.e. there were two or more parts (voices). Very often two voices would sing in parallel (going up and down together). In countries such as Russia people sang in three or four parts, e.g. in the tradition of “podgolosnaya” (“underneath the voice”). In countries such as Britain this polyphonic tradition did not exist. Folk songs there were sung by one singer, unaccompanied.
Folk music used different scales. These are called modes. The Ionian mode (like our major scale) was the most common in Western Europe. In some parts of Eastern Europe modes with several semitones were used, but for the most part, half steps were avoided. This results is the tunes being described as tetratonic (four notes per octave) or pentatonic (five notes per octave).
Folk music also includes simple children’s songs and lullabies.
Folk music was sung by people as they worked. In the early days of European immigration in America the pioneers sang as they travelled, cowboys sang as they worked, slaves sang in the cottonfields.
In the 18th century folk music started to have an influence on classical music (or “art music”). People from the higher classes started to be interested in folk music because they were conscious of being part of a tradition. Composers such as Mozart and Schubert wrote folk dances for orchestras or small groups of instruments.
Folk music was used by many composers in the Romantic period. Gustav Mahler used folk song in a lot of his music. In the early twentieth century some composers travelled around collecting folk music which was being played or sung by people in the country. They often used some of these ideas in their music. Bartok did this in Hungary as well as in Bulgaria and in the United States, and people such as Cecil Sharp and the composer Ralph Vaughan Williams collected folk music in England. In the United States the influence of jazz on classical music is all part of the story of folk music.

</doc>
<doc id="24304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24304" title="Abraham">
Abraham

Abraham (originally Abram) is a man in the Book of Genesis and the Qu'ran. There, he is said to be the father of all Jews. This is because he is their ancestor. Abraham is part of the Jewish, Christian and Islamic religions. Abraham is considered the father of these three religions, which are called Abrahamic religions.
Abraham is the father of Isaac with his wife Sarah. He also has Ishmael with Hagar, Sarah's handmaid, and he has other children with Keturah, whom he marries after Sarah's death. He is the grandfather of Jacob and Esau. Abraham is believed to be the founding patriarch of the Israelites, Ishmaelites and Edomites. Abraham was the third son of Terah and the grandson of Nahor. Abraham's older brothers were named Nahor and Haran.

</doc>
<doc id="24305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24305" title="Tao Te Ching">
Tao Te Ching

Tao Te Ching ( []) is the Chinese name of a book by a man named Laozi (or Lao Tzu, which literally means "old master"). Laozi was a sage (a wise man) and he was a record-keeper. The title can mean "The Book of the Way and its Virtue." People believe the book was written around 600 BC.
It is an important text to Chinese culture. It is very important in Chinese philosophy (way of thinking) and religion. It is the main book for Taoism, which is both a philosophy and part of Chinese folk religion. It also influenced other philosophies in and around China.
There are many ways to translate the book's title, because each Chinese word has a few meanings:
The book is constructed of a series of poems, each containing a rule, way or belief to becoming successful.
The Tao Te Ching is a short book of about 5,000 Chinese characters. It has 81 short chapters. It has two parts: Part One is the Tao Ching (道經), which is chapters 1–37; Part Two is the Te Ching (德經), which is chapters 38–81.
The Tao Te Ching is one of the most translated books in history, alongside the Bible and the Quran. Why are there thousands of translations? The text is short, the meaning is difficult. There are many interpretations, or ways to understand what the book says.

</doc>
<doc id="24306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24306" title="Bacon">
Bacon

Bacon is a type of meat that comes from pigs. It is taken from the sides, back, or belly of the pig. It is often cut in thin slices, unlike other cured or smoked pork products. It is usually fried or grilled. It can also be microwaved.
In the USA, back bacon and smoked ham is sometimes called Canadian bacon.
Bacon has lots of fat. Because bacon comes from pigs, some religions will not eat it. In some cultures and religions (such as Islam and Judaism), eating pork may be considered "unclean." Because of this, other varieties of bacon are also made out of turkey or chicken instead. Turkey bacon and chicken bacon usually contain half of the fat of pork-based bacon.

</doc>
<doc id="24308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24308" title="Molotov-Ribbentrop pact">
Molotov-Ribbentrop pact

The Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact (otherwise known as the Nazi-Soviet Pact) was signed by Vyacheslav Molotov (Russian foreign minister working for Hitler) and Joachim von Ribbentropp (German foreign minister working for Stalin) on 23 August, 1939. The pact promised that neither Russia nor Germany would attack the other. It also divided Poland between them.
However, after the pact (treaty) was signed, Hitler broke it in 1941. This was part of a series of conflicts in World War II.

</doc>
<doc id="24311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24311" title="Vyacheslav Molotov">
Vyacheslav Molotov

Vyacheslav Mikhailovich Molotov (; – November 8, 1986) was a Soviet politician and diplomat. He was a leading figure in the Soviet government from the 1920s, when he came to power. He was a protégé of Joseph Stalin, until the 1950s. Nikita Khrushchev dismissed him from office. He was the main Soviet signatory of the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact of 1939. This pact was signed between Germany and the USSR, and it was a promise not to attack each other. The pact lasted about two years, until Germany started the invasion of the Soviet Union on June 22, 1941. The Molotov Cocktail, which was invented by Finns fighting against the Soviet invasion of Finland, is named after him.

</doc>
<doc id="24322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24322" title="Babylonia">
Babylonia

Babylonia was a city state in Mesopotamia in the 2nd millennium BC, over 3000 years ago. Its capital city was Babylon, which meant "The Gate of the Gods". They built an empire out of the lands of the former Akkadian empire.
Mesopotamia is the region of the two rivers, Euphrates and Tigris. At that time the region also included the city states of Assyria to the north, and Elam to the south-east. It is part of the Fertile Crescent in the Middle East. It was there people first lived together in a civilization, with farming, cities and writing. 
The Babylonians had a written language that they used for trade and communication. They got it from the Sumerians, who invented it. The Babylonians used the same cuneiform system of pressing triangular shapes into soft clay. They wrote in two different languages: the Sumerian for religious purposes and Akkadian for official purposes.
Hammurabi was a king of Babylon who fought wars and made Babylonia into an empire by putting Assyria under a vassal (puppet) king. He created the earliest written set of laws, called the "Code of Hammurabi". It has 280 judgments and can be seen today in the Louvre, a museum in Paris. Whereas the earlier Sumerian punishments had not been harsh, Babylonian law was quite severe. The death penalty was given for theft, murder, and other crimes.
The houses in Babylon had open roofs, so that on hot nights, the family could sleep there. The living rooms, dining rooms, and the kitchens were, of course, downstairs. Lamps burned with olive oil, and every house had a chapel for burial and worship ceremonies. Since Mesopotamia had only clay for use in building, the strong wooden supports for the houses were imported from Lebanon. Eventually, people began baking their bricks and improved the strength of their buildings.
Later, Babylon was sacked by the Hittite king Musilis I, which led to the so-called 'Dark Ages' of the Bronze Age, where there is little evidence in writing. The date of the sacking of Babylon is debated by archaeologists, who have proposed no fewer than four chronologies. Possible dates for the sack of Babylon are:
The difficulty is to line up the Mesopotamian dates with the Ancient Egyptian dates.
After the Hittite destruction, Babylon was ruled by Kassites for 576 years. Next it was ruled by Elam, and then regained its independence for about three centuries. They were then conquered by the Neo-Assyrians. A century later they again became free, to form the Neo-Babylonian or Chaldean Empire. This constant conquest and re-conquest is partly due to geography. There are no natural boundaries except the rivers, and it is easy to get at the cities from north or south.
The king Nebuchadnezzar II, whose reign of 43 years made Babylon once more the mistress of the civilized world, conquered Phoenicia in 585 BC. 
The Babylonian empire was finally brought to an end by Cyrus the Great of Persia. 
It was in 549 BC that Cyrus put an end to the empire of the Medes. Three years later Cyrus had become king of the Achaemenid Empire (Persia), and was engaged in a campaign in northern Mesopotamia. 
In 539 BC Cyrus invaded Babylonia. A battle was fought at Opis in the month of June, where the Babylonians were defeated; and immediately afterwards Sippara surrendered to the invader. Two days after the capture of Sippara, "the soldiers of Cyrus entered Babylon without fighting". Cyrus did not arrive until the 3rd of "Marchesvan" (October), Gobryas having acted for him in his absence. Gobryas was now made governor of the province of Babylon.
Cyrus now claimed to be the legitimate successor of the ancient Babylonian kings and the avenger of their god Bel-Marduk. The invasion of Babylonia by Cyrus was doubtless helped by the presence of foreign forced exiles like the Jews, who had been planted in the midst of the country.
One of the first acts of Cyrus was to allow these exiles to return to their own homes, carrying with them the images of their god and their sacred vessels. The permission to do so was embodied in a proclamation, whereby the conqueror endeavored to justify his claim to the Babylonian throne. The feeling was still strong that none had a right to rule over western Asia until he had been consecrated to the office by Bel and his priests; and accordingly, Cyrus henceforth assumed the imperial title of "King of Babylon."
Like the Sumerians, the Babylonians ate vegetables, fruits, meat, and fish. They also ate bread and enjoyed toasting and eating the pesky but crunchy locusts which destroyed their precious crops.
The Babylonians loved art. Beautiful vessels ornamented with sparkling gold were buried with the kings. In those days books dealt with floods which were thought to be caused by sin, or about the journey of Abraham. 
Science, too, improved well: they invented the first calendar, the 60-minute hour, and the advance multiplication table.
Life was rich, full, and usually peaceful. People rarely thought about war or how to protect the city. As a result, Babylon was conquered in 730 BC by the Assyrians and Kassites. This great civilization then ended.

</doc>
<doc id="24323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24323" title="Joachim von Ribbentrop">
Joachim von Ribbentrop

Ulrich Friedrich Wilhelm Joachim von Ribbentrop (born Ulrich Friedrich Wilhelm Joachim Ribbentrop, 30 April 1893–16 October 1946) was Foreign Minister of Germany from 1938 until 1945. He was executed by hanging for war crimes after the Nuremberg trials.

</doc>
<doc id="24326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24326" title="Noise">
Noise

Noise is another word for sound. It usually means it is not wanted. Noise is perceived by our ears. They can be damaged by noise. Noise is created through any object, which produces vibration unnecessarily. 
Noise can also mean data (information) that typically does not have a meaning, like "white noise". Loudspeaker measurements can use white noise for measuring loudspeakers frequency response.
Noise can also refer to some math that makes random numbers. Click here to learn about it.
In electronics, heat produces noise in resistors. Depending on the type of resistor, the amount of noise may differ. Most audio devices are designed not to produce noise.

</doc>
<doc id="24328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24328" title="Karma">
Karma

Karma (car-ma) is a word meaning the result of a person's actions as well as the actions themselves. It is a term about the cycle of cause and effect. According to the theory of Karma, what happens to a person, happens because they caused it with their actions. It is an important part of many religions such as Hinduism and Buddhism.
Karma is about all that a person has done, is doing and will do. Karma is not about punishment or reward. It makes a person responsible for their own life, and how they treat other people.
The "Theory of Karma" is a major belief in Hinduism, Ayyavazhi, Sikhism, Buddhism, and Jainism. All living creatures are responsible for their karma - their actions and the effects of their actions.
 Karma is the universal principle of cause and effect. Our actions, both good and bad, come back to us in the future, helping us to learn from life’s lessons and become better people. In religions that include reincarnation, karma extends through one's present life and all past and future lives as well.
Karma is basically energy. One person throws out energy through thoughts, words and actions, and it comes back, in time, through other people. Karma is the best teacher, forcing people to face the consequences of their actions and thus improve and refine their behavior, or suffer if they do not. Even harsh karma, when faced in wisdom, can be the greatest spark for spiritual growth. The conquest of karma lies in intelligent action and unemotional response.
The process of action and reaction on all levels—physical, mental and spiritual—is karma. One must pay attention to thoughts, because thought can make karmas—good, bad and mixed.
“I say kind words to you, and you feel peaceful and happy. I say harsh words to you, and you become ruffled and upset. The kindness and the harshness will return to me, through others, at a later time.Finally, what I give is what I get back.”
“An architect thinks creative, productive thoughts while drawing plans for a new building. But were he to think destructive, unproductive thoughts, he would soon not be able to accomplish any kind of positive task even if he desired to do so.”
Hindus look at time as a circle, as things cycle around again. Karma is a very just law which, like gravity, treats everyone the same. The law of karma puts man at the center of responsibility for everything he does and everything that is done to him. Understanding the way karma works, Hindus try to live a virtuous life. This is called dharma.
There are three types of karma in Hinduism:
Karma is considered one of the natural laws of the mind, just as gravity is a law of matter. Just as God created gravity to bring order to the physical world, He created karma as a divine system of justice that is self-governing and infinitely fair. It automatically creates the appropriate future experience in response to the current action.
Several different views exist in Hinduism regarding the role of divine beings. In Hinduism, many see the deities or devas as playing some kind of role. Other Hindus, such as the Mimamsakas, reject such notions and see karma as acting independently, considering the natural laws of causation sufficient to explain the effects of karma.
Some interpretations of the Bhagavad Gita suggest an intermediate view, that karma is a law of cause and effect yet God can mitigate karma for His devotees. It is said in Bhagavad Gita that only the karma that is done with a sense of doership and with attachment to the karma could cause good or bad reactions. Karma that is done with an attitude of duty and without attachment to the results will not create any effect and will move one closer to God.
Another view holds that a Satguru, acting on God's behalf, can mitigate or work out some of the karma of the disciple.

</doc>
<doc id="24338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24338" title="Western hemisphere">
Western hemisphere

The western hemisphere is a geographical term for the half of the Earth that is west of the Prime Meridian. Pretend that the earth is cut in half, from the North Pole, through England, to the South Pole. The Western Hemisphere is the half to the west. The other half is called the Eastern Hemisphere.

</doc>
