<doc id="14835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14835" title="Lead">
Lead

Lead (pronounce: "lehd") is a chemical element. Its chemical symbol is Pb, which comes from "plumbum", the Latin word for lead. Its atomic number is 82, atomic mass is 207.2 and has a melting point of 327.8°C. It is a very poisonous and heavy metal.
Lead is a shiny, gray-blue poor metal. It gets tarnished easily to a dull gray color. It is soft and malleable. It is very shiny when it is melted. It is very heavy. It is very corrosion-resistant. It is made stronger by adding antimony or calcium. It can form an alloy with sodium. It is toxic to people and animals when swallowed.
Lead burns in air with a grayish-white flame, making toxic fumes of lead(II) oxide. Only the surface is corroded by air. It dissolves in nitric acid to make lead(II) nitrate. It does not dissolve in sulfuric or hydrochloric acid. It reacts with sodium nitrate to make lead(II) oxide and sodium nitrite. It reacts with chlorine to make lead(II) chloride. Lead(II) oxide reacts with lead sulfide to make lead metal and sulfur dioxide.
Lead makes chemical compounds in two main oxidation states: +2 and +4. +2 compounds, also known as lead(II) compounds or plumbous compounds, are weak oxidizing agents. +4 compounds, also known as lead(IV) compounds or plumbic compounds, are strong oxidizing agents. Lead compounds are toxic just like the element. The lead halides do not dissolve in water. Lead(IV) oxide is the most common lead(IV) compound. It is a black solid. The lead oxides are all colored, while the other salts are white or colorless. Lead nitrate and lead(II) acetate are the soluble compounds of lead.
This state is more common than the +4 state. These are weak oxidizing agents. All but the oxides are colorless or white.
Mixed oxidation state compounds contain lead in the +2 and +4 oxidation state.
These are less common. They are strong oxidizing agents. 
Lead is found very rarely in the earth's crust as a metal. Normally, lead is in the mineral galena. Galena is lead sulfide. Galena is the main lead ore.
Lead was used for thousands of years because it is easy to get from the ground and easy to shape and work with. The Romans used lead very commonly. They used it for pipes, drinking vessels, and fasteners.
Lead is made from galena. Galena is made pure by froth flotation to get all the impurities out. Then the lead sulfide is roasted in a furnace to make lead(II) oxide. The lead(II) oxide is heated with coke to make liquid lead metal.
Lead is used in the ballast of sailboats. It is also used in weight belts for scuba diving. It is also used to make shotgun pellets and bullets for small arms. Some printing presses use lead type because it can be easily shaped. It can be used outside because it does not corrode in water. 
Most lead is used in lead acid batteries, though. The lead is oxidized, making electricity. Sheets of lead are used to block sound in some places. Lead is used in radiation shielding. Molten lead can be used as a coolant in nuclear reactors. It used to be mixed with tin to make the pipes in pipe organs. Different amounts of lead make different sounds. In addition, lead has found its usage in solder.
It is used in some solder. It is used in covering for wires that carry high voltage. Some tennis rackets have lead in them to make them heavier. It is used to balance wheels of cars, to make statues, and to make decorative looks in buildings.
Many lead compounds are used to make colored glazes in ceramics. Lead can be used in PVC pipes. Lead compounds are added to candles to make them burn better. Lead glass has lead(II) oxide in it. Lead compounds are still used as pigments in some places. Lead compounds were added to gasoline, but are now outlawed. Some lead compounds are semiconductors and are used in photodetectors. 
Lead was used in many red, yellow, and white pigments in paints. Lead was also used in pesticides. Lead used to be used in pipes carrying water, but now it is not because lead can leach into the water.
Although it can be safely touched, exposure to lead should be avoided – it is very toxic to humans and other animals when swallowed, and its use is restricted in many countries. 
If someone is exposed to lead for a long time, it ruins their kidneys and gives them abdominal pains. Lead also ruins the nervous system. Lead paint was being eaten by children and they were getting lead poisoning.
The best way to understand lead and its properties is to read its MSDS.

</doc>
<doc id="14839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14839" title="Category:1788 births">
Category:1788 births


</doc>
<doc id="14840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14840" title="Bell">
Bell

A bell is a simple musical instrument. Most bells are made of metal. Bells are also in churches to announce the time between hours. Ships usually carry a ship's bell. Alarm bells warn of danger. Some bells are in bell towers.

</doc>
<doc id="14841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14841" title="Transformers (toy line)">
Transformers (toy line)

Transformers are robots that turn into other things. Usually they turn into vehicles, like cars or jets.
Transformers started in 1984 as a toy line, but then an animated series and a comic book were made. In 1986 a movie came out. In 2002 a new series and story line called Transformers Armada came out. this was followed by two more shows, Energon and Cybertron.
Transformers is about different things sometimes. Usually it is about the heroic Autobots fighting the evil Decepticons. The Autobots are usually led by Optimus Prime. The Decepticons are led by Megatron.

</doc>
<doc id="14842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14842" title="Simplicity">
Simplicity

When something is simple, it is very easy to understand or do. The opposite is hard or "difficult". Simplicity is the measurement of how simple something is. Examples:
"Simple" can mean something that is only made up of a few parts. It is not complicated:
"Simple" can mean that something or someone is humble (lowly) or common:
"Simple" can also be used to refer to someone whose mind thinks in a very simple way. Calling a person "simple minded" is usually rude.

</doc>
<doc id="14844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14844" title="Mathematician">
Mathematician

A mathematician is someone who studies mathematics, either as a hobby or as a job. Many mathematicians are math professors at universities. Euclid, Ramanujan, Sir Isaac Newton are some of the most famous early mathematicians.

</doc>
<doc id="14849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14849" title="West Virginia">
West Virginia

West Virginia is a state in the United States. Its capital and largest city is Charleston. It is often abbreviated W. Va. or simply WV.
West Virginia is bordered by Pennsylvania to the north, by Ohio to the north and west, by Kentucky to the west, by Maryland to the north and east, and by Virginia to the east and south. The Ohio and Potomac Rivers form parts of the boundaries.
West Virginia became a state in 1863.
West Virginia was once a part of Virginia. At the beginning of the American Civil War, Virginia and the other southern states seceded from the United States, which means they chose to not be a part of it anymore. The people in the western part of the state felt that they had very little power in the state's affairs, including its decision to secede. They seceded from Virginia and formed their own state, West Virginia. After the war, the United States was brought back together, but West Virginia never rejoined Virginia.
West Virginia is often called the "Mountain State" because it is entirely within the Appalachian Mountain Range, and there are many hills and mountains throughout the state. The highest one is Spruce Knob, which is 4,863 feet above sea level. There are many rivers, including the Ohio, the Potomac, the Kanawha, and the Monongahela.

</doc>
<doc id="14850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14850" title="Virginia">
Virginia

Virginia is a state in the United States. Its capital is Richmond and its largest city is Virginia Beach. The official name of Virginia is the "Commonwealth of Virginia".
Virginia is bordered (touching) by West Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia (across the Potomac River) to the north, by Chesapeake Bay and the Atlantic Ocean to the east, by North Carolina and Tennessee to the south, and by Kentucky and West Virginia to the west.
Virginia became a state in 1788 after the American Revolution.
Before it became a state of the United States, Virginia was one of the Thirteen Colonies of Great Britain. Virginia was founded (started) in 1607.
The state of West Virginia was part of Virginia until the American Civil War. Virginia then left (seceded from) the United States and joined the Confederate States of America. The western counties of Virginia seceded from Virginia to form a new state which was loyal to the Union. After the end of the Civil War, Virginia became part of the United States again in 1870, but the counties that had left to start West Virginia did not join Virginia again.
Virginia is the state where eight United States presidents were born. This is more than any other state.

</doc>
<doc id="14851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14851" title="Vermont">
Vermont

Vermont is a state in the United States. Its capital is the city of Montpelier, and its largest city is Burlington.
The states that border Vermont are Massachusetts to the south, New Hampshire to the east, New York to the west, and the Canadian province of Quebec to the north.
Vermont was home to the Abenaki and Iroquois Native American groups until France took control of the area when it was building colonies. Great Britain gained control after winning the French and Indian War. It is known for being one of only four states to be an independent nation before joining the United States. It was not a part of the 13 colonies and instead joined as the 14th state. Vermont became a state in 1791. It is world-renowned for its maple syrup industry, and many tourists go to see brilliant colors the trees become in the fall months. The tourism industry has become quite successful, with many tourists coming every year.

</doc>
<doc id="14852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14852" title="South Carolina">
South Carolina

South Carolina is a state in the southeast United States. Its capital and largest city is Columbia. The population of the state is about 4.2 million people, ranked 24th in the United States. The state is relatively small in land area, ranked 40th largest.
Other important cities in South Carolina are Charleston, Greenville, Spartanburg, Anderson, Sumter, and Florence.
Major landforms include beaches, "barrier islands", salt marsh, sand hills, rolling piedmont, and the Blue Ridge Mountains. Because of its natural beauty, the state attracts many tourists, especially to Myrtle Beach, Charleston, and Hilton Head Island.
South Carolina became a state in 1788. The economy was agriculture-based, known for cotton, rice, indigo, and tobacco. After the American Civil War, the state lost much of its political and economic power. Towards the end of the 20th century, the state began to strengthen its economy and add population. Today, the major industries are tourism, textiles (clothing materials), and manufacturing. South Carolina has the second highest number of workers employed by international companies per capita in the United States.
South Carolina is bounded to the north by North Carolina, to the south and west by Georgia, located across the Savannah River, and to the east by the Atlantic Ocean.

</doc>
<doc id="14853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14853" title="Rhode Island">
Rhode Island

Rhode Island is the smallest state in the United States. The capital and largest city is Providence.
Rhode Island was one of the original Thirteen Colonies, and became a state (the last of the thirteen to agree to the new United States Constitution) in 1790.
Rhode Island is bordered on the north and east by Massachusetts, on the west by Connecticut, and on the south by Rhode Island Sound and the Atlantic Ocean. It shares a water border with New York. It is named for a large island in Rhode Island Sound. Rhode Island was founded by Roger Williams for religious freedom.

</doc>
<doc id="14854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14854" title="North Carolina">
North Carolina

North Carolina is one of the fifty states in the United States. The capital of North Carolina is Raleigh and the biggest city in the state is Charlotte. North Carolina is split up into 100 counties and these counties are split up into many cities and towns.
North Carolina was one of the original thirteen colonies and was where the first English colony in America lived. As of July 1, 2007, there are about 9,061,032 people living in the state.
North Carolina is connected to South Carolina on the south, Georgia on the southwest, Tennessee on the west, Virginia on the north, and the Atlantic Ocean on the east. There are three main sections in North Carolina: the coastal plain, the piedmont, and the mountains. The coastal plain is the eastern part of the state, the piedmont is the middle, and the mountains are the western part of the state. North Carolina also has some islands that are called The Outer Banks. They are in the ocean to the east of the state.
North Carolina has many different kinds of weather in different parts of the state throughout the year.
The eastern part of the state is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean, and usually has comfortable temperatures all year long with the summer average high temperature usually not above 90 °F in the summer and not under 40 °F in the winter. However, it can get as hot as the low 100s °F and as cold as 20 °F. Most years there is less than one inch of snow and some years pass with no snow at all. The coastal plain usually gets a tropical storm every 3 or 4 years.
The average temperature generally does not go above 90 °F in most areas of the Piedmont in summer, however it go over 100 °F when there is a heat wave. Short lived episodes of sleet and freezing rain are common in this part of North Carolina, but the mountain ranges protect the Piedmont from most severe winter weather. Snow in this region rarely lasts more than 48 hours before completely melting. Weak tornadoes are often reported in the Piedmont, but only 140 people have died due to tornadoes from 1950-2012 across the entire state.
The average temperature almost never goes above 80 °F in the summer and is usually in the high 30’s or low 40’s in the winter in the mountain region of North Carolina. About 14 to 20 inches of snow fall each year with some of the higher elevations getting 50 inches each winter. The wettest part of the mountains gets 90 inches of rain.
Before being settled by the English, about 30 Native American groups lived across North Carolina. In 1584, Sir Walter Raleigh began two colonies in what is now known as North Carolina, but they did not last long. One of these, the Roanoke Colony later became known as the "Lost Colony" and remains as one of the great unsolved mysteries of early American history to this day. Virginia Dare, the first English child born in the New World, was born in the Roanoke Colony.
The first permanent settlers in North Carolina came from the state of Virginia in 1655 because there was not enough farmland in Virginia. Later the land was devided into present day North Carolina and South Carolina. The name Carolina comes from the Latin for Charles ("Carolus") after King Charles I.
North Carolina was an important state during the American Revolutionary War.
In 1860, North Carolina was a slave state. About 1/3 of the people in the state were slaves. North Carolina fought as part of the Confederacy during the Civil War, although it was the last of the states to leave the Union. The state sent about 125,000 troops to fight in the war and about 40,000 of them died. Even during the war some people in North Carolina did not support the Confederacy, mostly because the Confederacy believed in slavery. The first Confederate soldier to be killed was from North Carolina.
Farms in North Carolina produce various things including grapes, peanuts, Christmas trees, poultry and eggs, wheat, corn, cucumbers, apples, greens, tobacco, hogs, milk, cattle, sweet potatoes, and soybeans. North Carolina grows more tobacco then any other state in the country. Furniture making is an important industry in North Carolina, but over the past few years many jobs have moved to other countries like China and India.
Charlotte, the biggest city in North Carolina, is the second biggest banking center in the United States, making banking very important in North Carolina. BB&T and Bank of America have their main offices in the state.
Technology is also important in North Carolina. There are many companies that make computer software and video games in the state. Winston-Salem is the home to a hub for innovation in biomedical and material sciences and information technology called the Wake Forest Innovation Quarter. Research Triangle Park near the state capital of Raleigh is one of the largest research parks in the world. 
North Carolina has four hospitals that are nationally ranked with many NICUs at a IV rating (highest possible rating in the United States). Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center is reported by the U.S. News & World Report as one of the top hospitals in the nation. Brenner Children's Hospital and Health Services is designated a Nurse Magnet facility and it was rated in 2014 as one of America's best children's hospitals.
North Carolina has more state maintained roads than any other American state. The biggest roads are:
There are many major and international airports in North Carolina. These are:

</doc>
<doc id="14855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14855" title="New Jersey">
New Jersey

New Jersey is one of the 50 states of the United States of America. It is in the northeastern section of the country along the coast of the Atlantic Ocean. It is a small state, shaped like a letter [S], and bordered on the west by Pennsylvania and Delaware across the Delaware River, on the north by New York, on the northeast by the Hudson River and New York City, on the east and southeast by the Atlantic Ocean, and on the southwest by Delaware Bay.
The capital of New Jersey is Trenton and the largest city is Newark, though New Jersey is better known for bordering the large cities of New York City and Philadelphia. The state nickname is "The Garden State". The current governor is Chris Christie.
New Jersey is the fourth-smallest state, but has the eleventh-highest number of people. It therefore has the highest population density (number of people for the amount of land) in the United States. New Jersey is also well known for its beaches, industries, swamps, and pine forests.
The climate is hot & humid summers and cold winters. About 1200 mm of precipitation every year.
The average temperature in July is 25-30 degrees celsius and in January around freezing point.
Before Europeans came, the land that is now New Jersey was inhabited by the Lenape (also known as Delaware Indians by the English), who were nomads, hunters, and farmers. The Dutch came to the northern area of the state in the 1630's, after Henry Hudson explored the area, thought it was a nice place, and claimed it for the Dutch. Towns quickly spang up, occupied by the Dutch, Swedes, and Finns. People rushed in. The first towns, such as Bergen (now Jersey City), Trenton (the capitol), and Burlington developed. Many others started themselves upon the west bank of the Hudson. New Jersey was part of the area known at this time as New Netherland.
In 1664, English took New Netherland from the Dutch and added it to their colonies. This part was renamed New Jersey after an island in the English Channel known as Jersey. 
New Jersey took part in the American Revolutionary War, and was a scene of battles. On Christmas in 1776, George Washington's army entered New Jersey to attack British soldiers at Trenton and Princeton. The American army won, in two small but famous battles that were important in boasting American morale. 
Later the rebels drove the British residents out of Princeton and for a time established a national capital there. New Jersey would be the third state to join the United States of America and the first to approve the Bill of Rights.
New Jersey has 21 counties.

</doc>
<doc id="14856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14856" title="New Hampshire">
New Hampshire

New Hampshire is a state in the New England region of the United States. Its capital is Concord and its largest city is Manchester.
New Hampshire was a British colony before the American War of Independence. It became the ninth state on June 21, 1788, when it accepted the United States Constitution. New Hampshire was the 9th state to do so.
The state motto is "Live Free or Die" and the nickname is the Granite State. The state flower is the lilac and the state bird is the purple finch. New Hampshire is part of New England. It is bordered by Maine in the East, Massachusetts to the South, Vermont to the West, and Quebec, a Canadian province, to the North. 
New Hampshire's tourist attractions include the Lakes Region, the White Mountains, the autumn leaves, and the New Hampshire Motor Speedway in Loudon. Some famous people from New Hampshire are Franklin Pierce, Adam Sandler, and members of the band Aerosmith. New Hampshire is also famous for being the first state to vote in the Presidential primaries.
Its population was estimated to be 1,315,809 in 2008,making it the 9th least populous state in the United States and lies just south of Maine.

</doc>
<doc id="14861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14861" title="Watch glass">
Watch glass

A watch glass is used for temporary storage of solids and sometimes liquids (in small amounts).

</doc>
<doc id="14862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14862" title="Funnel">
Funnel

A funnel is an object with a wide top and a narrow tube at the bottom and this is used for pouring liquids into a container. A funnel is also a round metal chimney on top of a ship or train.

</doc>
<doc id="14875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14875" title="Constantinople">
Constantinople

Constantinople (, Konstantinoúpolis, or Πόλις, Polis) was the capital of the Roman Empire (330-395), the Byzantine/East Roman Empire (395-1204 and 1261-1453), the Latin Empire (1204-1261), and the Ottoman Empire (1453-1922). In 1930 it was renamed Istanbul. It is a city in present-day Turkey.
For centuries the city was not very large, and was called Byzantium. Constantine the Great renamed it for himself and made it his capital. In medieval times different sides tried to conquer it including Crusaders. In 1453 the Muslims won and made it their capital, calling it Istanbul.

</doc>
<doc id="14880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14880" title="Mormonism">
Mormonism

Mormonism is a religious movement that was founded by Joseph Smith in 1830. The people that belong to this religion are called Latter-day Saints, or Mormons. Their teachings are similar to many Christian churches, and they consider themselves to be Christian. A 2007 survey showed that 31% of the people polled do not agree that Mormons are Christians. Mormons have beliefs that are different from the beliefs of other Christian churches. The Mormon Church considers itself a restoration church. This means that members of the Church believe that it is the original Christian Church started by Jesus Christ and brought back ("restored") by Joseph Smith, Jr. in 1830. At first it was called The Church of Christ. Mormonism and Bahaism are sometimes called the "fourth Abrahamic religion".
Today there are about 70 groups who call themselves "Mormon" or "Latter day Saint", with the largest and most known of them being The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The name "Mormons" is simply a nickname. They believe in baptism by the person being completely underwater, such as explained in the Articles of Faith that was written in a letter by Joseph Smith. Most Mormons do not practice polygamy any more, as it says in the Doctrine and Covenants Official Declaration 1 (but some small groups, called "Mormon Fundamentalists", do).
Joseph Smith, Jr. said that he had visits from God the Father, Jesus Christ, and many angels. The first visit is called the First Vision. It happened when Joseph was a teenager. He had decided to pray about which religion to join. He said that he went to the woods behind his family's house in New York, prayed, felt evil powers fighting him, and was rescued when a bright light appeared above him. In the bright light, he said that he saw God the Father and Jesus Christ. They told him not to join any church, because none of the churches had all of the truth. They also told him that they had work for him to do.
Part of the work that Joseph did was translating the Book of Mormon. Joseph said that an angel named Moroni visited him and showed him where a very old book was buried. This book was written on pages of gold (sometimes called the Gold Plates). It was buried in a stone box in a hill near Joseph's home. Moroni visited Joseph once a year for four years until he told Joseph to take the Gold Plates. Since the book was written in a very old language, Joseph translated the book into English. He did this with help from God and by the tools called the "Urim" and "Thummim". The book was published as The Book of Mormon in 1830. It tells the story of two main groups of people who lived in North and South America hundreds of years ago (the Nephites and Lamanites), as well as a story of a group of people who came to the Americas thousands of years ago upon leaving the Tower of Babel (the Jaredites). It also teaches many things about Jesus. To members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, The Book of Mormon is a special book from God just like the Bible. Mormons believe that by reading The Book of Mormon and the Bible, people can learn how to get closer to God and how to find happiness in life. This book is also the reason Church members are sometimes called "Mormons".
Today the center of the church is in Utah, but there are more than 14 million Mormons living all over the world. The leader of the church is called the president, and Mormons call him a prophet. They believe that God guides the prophet, just like he guided Joseph Smith and the prophets in the Bible. Mormons believe that it is important for families to spend a lot of time together, and that after they die, they can live together forever. Mormons do not drink alcohol, coffee, or tea, or smoke tobacco. They meet once a week on Sunday for church, where they have the sacrament and listen to short talks or sermons. They also have Sunday School to learn more. The church also has activities during the week. Mormons also have buildings called temples. These are the most holy buildings in their religion. After a temple has been dedicated, only Mormons that are living good lives can go in the temple.
Today, there are three main movements in Mormonism, although one is by far the largest. They are represented by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the Community of Christ and the Church of Christ with the Elijah Message. When people talk about Mormons, they usually mean the followers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which is the largest Mormon movement. This movement also says that the term "Mormon" is a nickname given to members early in the church's history, and would prefer to be referred to as "Latter-day Saints" or "LDS".
Some people who call themselves Mormons are not part of "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." These people belong to other Mormon churches. Some of their beliefs are different.
When Brigham Young became the second president of the Church after Joseph Smith was killed, some people did not think he was the rightful president. When Brigham Young led most of the Mormons to Utah, these people stayed in Illinois. They believed that Joseph Smith's son should be the next president. Today, this church is called the Community of Christ. It is the second largest church to call themselves Mormons. They have more than 250,000 people in their church.
Other splits in the Church happened later. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS) teaches that a man should only marry one woman. This is called monogamy. In the beginning of the church, this was different. A man could be married to more than one woman at the same time (called polygamy). When the Church changed its position in 1890, some people left the official Church and continued with polygamy. These groups are very small compared to the LDS. The groups that did not want to abandon polygamy are sometimes still called "Mormon", even though in the official church, polygamy has been forbidden since 1890. Most of these smaller groups stay away from other people, since polygamy is illegal in the United States. The LDS tells people not to use the word "Mormon" or pictures of Church leaders and temples when talking about these groups, since it makes it seem like they are still connected to the LDS even though they are not.
There are many practices in Mormonism that are very similar to those used in Christian movements. There are some practices, however, where the Mormon movement is noticeably different from orthodox Christian movements, such as Catholic, Orthodox, or Protestant faiths. People who define Christianity as belonging to one of those denominations have to say that Mormonism is not a Christian movement.
In English, the LDS Church accepts the King James Version of the Bible as a part of its official scripture.
In the beginning, the Mormon movement said that it restored the Christian faith and that the other movements at the time held beliefs that were wrong. In the 1830s, the movement quickly gained members that had come from Christian movements. Many Christians of the time saw some of the practices and beliefs the Mormon movement held at that time as politically and culturally subversive. The most controversial of these included the idea that slavery was wrong, men being able to have more than one wife, and the church's wanting to run a government with laws based on Mormonism. Some of these beliefs are no longer held by most Mormon movements today. Such disagreements led to violent conflicts between Mormons and other Christian groups. Even though there is not really violence anymore, the movement's unique doctrinal views are still criticized.
Mormons believe in Jesus Christ as the literal firstborn Son of God and Messiah, his crucifixion as a conclusion of a sin offering, and resurrection. 
However, Latter-day Saints (LDS) reject the ecumenical creeds and definition of the Trinity taught by the Roman Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Church, the Anglican Communion, and Trinitarian Protestantism. 
In their view, the New Testament prophesied that people would turn away from Christian teachings, and that there would be a restoration to the situation before the second coming of Christ.
Some important differences with mainstream Christianity include: A belief that Jesus began his atonement from sin in the garden of Gethsemane and continued it until he was crucified, rather than the orthodox belief that the crucifixion alone was the physical atonement. In their view, heaven is divided into three degrees of glory, and hell (often called outer darkness). Additionally, Mormons do not believe in creation ex nihilo, they believe that matter is eternal, and that God organizes existing matter.
Much of the Mormon belief system is oriented geographically around the North and South American continents. Mormons believe the people of the Book of Mormon lived in the western hemisphere, that Christ appeared in the western hemisphere after his death and resurrection, that the true faith was restored in upstate New York by Joseph Smith, and that the Garden of Eden and location of Christ's second coming were and will be in the state of Missouri. For this and other reasons, including a belief by many Mormons in American exceptionalism, Molly Worthen speculates that this may be why Leo Tolstoy described Mormonism as the "quintessential 'American religion'".

</doc>
<doc id="14881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14881" title="Mohammad Khatami">
Mohammad Khatami

Seyyed Mohammad Khatami (سید محمد خاتمی), (born October 14, 1943) was President of Iran from August 2, 1997 to August 3, 2005 and was followed by Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Khatami studied Islamic theology in Qom, and philosophy in Isfahan. Khatami built upon the idea of a lawful state, called Rechtsstaat, of democracy and of social equality. He was the first Iranian president to officially do so. These tenets led to conflicts with the government of Iran. Khatami is seen as a reformist. He is currently a prominent supporter of the Iranian Green Movement, and a critic of the government. 

</doc>
<doc id="14903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14903" title="Cider">
Cider

Cider (or cyder) is a drink made from fruit juice, most often from apples.
In Europe and Oceania it is an alcoholic drink that is made from apple juice, through a process called fermentation. In the United States and parts of Canada, cider containing alcohol is called hard cider or alcoholic cider, while "cider" or "apple cider" means less-sweet, usually unfiltered, apple juice.
In the United States and Canada people drink a special kind of cider around Halloween and Thanksgiving. This cider is usually unfiltered, rather thick, and it is often heated and spiced with cinnamon before drinking it. This is different from the cider in Europe, which usually is not heated.
Usually to make cider, apples with a high concentration of tannins are chosen. The fermentation of the apples takes place at around 4-15° Celsius. The temperature influences the duration of the fermentation. The temperature at which the fermentation occurs also has an effect on the taste of the cider.
Shortly before all the sugar has been fermented away, the cider is put in a new barrel which is made air-tight. The rest of the sugar will then become carbonic acid. This will also add to the life-span of the cider (no pasteurisation is needed).
Cider is also the starting-point for distilling Calvados. This alcoholic drink is famous and very expensive.
Cider is made almost anywhere where there are cider-apple trees, most notably
In France, Normandy is the first region as to the production of cider-apples (300 000 tonnes), and the first in cider production (7000 kilolitres).
In France, some ciders can benefit from a protected naming. This is the "cidre normand" and the "cidre breton".
France is the country in the world that produces the biggest quantity of cider.
The United Kingdom produces the most varieties, and along with Ireland holds the biggest market for cider.
Hard cider contains alcohol, which affects the taste of the cider. This can be influenced by choosing the right moment when to stop fermentation:
In France, the most popular are the first, second and fourth categories. In the English-speaking countries, it is possible to find cider with up to 12° of alcohol.
The French and Spanish cuisines have recipes where cider is needed to make them. The French and Spanish also often drink cider instead of wine made from grapes.
In Europe, many young people drink cider. Cider costs less than wine, and is often served in pubs and other places where young people go.
The effects of cider are the same as those of any alcoholic drink.

</doc>
<doc id="14912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14912" title="1499">
1499

Year 1499 (MCDXCIX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="14915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14915" title="Bison">
Bison

Bison are a type of even-toed ungulate bovines. They are the biggest mammals in North America. They are often called buffalo, but are not closely related to African buffalo or water buffalo. They used to wander around the prairies of North America in huge herds. 
American bison are large, plant-eating mammals that are similar to cows. There used to be as many as 30 million bison in the United States, but because of hunting, by 1890, only 1,000 bison were left. Through conservation efforts, there are now more American bison than there used to be, but still far fewer than there were before the 1800s.
European bison (wisent) tend to live in lightly wooded to fully wooded areas and areas with increased shrubs and bushes, though they can also live on grasslands and plains.
They are classified in the subfamily Bovinae of the family Bovidae
Bison live in the northern part of the world. The American bison lives in North America, and the wisent lives in Europe. They can also live in rugged areas.
They live to be about 20 years old and are born without their "hump" or horns, which both males and females have. After shedding their light colored hair, and with their horns, they are grown at 2 to 3 years of age, but the males keep growing slowly until about age seven. Adult bulls are very dominant in mating season. Adult bison usually have one or two baby bison.

</doc>
<doc id="14920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14920" title="Baseball cap">
Baseball cap

A baseball cap is a kind of hat, worn by baseball players, when they play as part of their team’s uniform, but other people wear them, too. They were invented by Richard Branson in 1994. Steve Austin likes them. Bald men have to wear them in order to hide their deformity. Women are attracted to men who wear them backwards. They are a staple of American fashion.

</doc>
<doc id="14929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14929" title="Category:New Hampshire">
Category:New Hampshire


</doc>
<doc id="14930" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14930" title="Category:West Virginia">
Category:West Virginia


</doc>
<doc id="14931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14931" title="Category:Virginia">
Category:Virginia


</doc>
<doc id="14932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14932" title="Category:Vermont">
Category:Vermont


</doc>
<doc id="14933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14933" title="Category:South Carolina">
Category:South Carolina


</doc>
<doc id="14934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14934" title="Category:Rhode Island">
Category:Rhode Island


</doc>
<doc id="14935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14935" title="Category:North Carolina">
Category:North Carolina


</doc>
<doc id="14936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14936" title="Category:New Jersey">
Category:New Jersey


</doc>
<doc id="14937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14937" title="Category:Iowa">
Category:Iowa


</doc>
<doc id="14938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14938" title="Category:Kansas">
Category:Kansas


</doc>
<doc id="14939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14939" title="Category:Maryland">
Category:Maryland


</doc>
<doc id="14940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14940" title="Category:New Mexico">
Category:New Mexico


</doc>
<doc id="14941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14941" title="Category:North Dakota">
Category:North Dakota


</doc>
<doc id="14942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14942" title="Category:South Dakota">
Category:South Dakota


</doc>
<doc id="14944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14944" title="Category:Oklahoma">
Category:Oklahoma


</doc>
<doc id="14945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14945" title="Category:1548">
Category:1548


</doc>
<doc id="14946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14946" title="Windows 95">
Windows 95

Windows 95 is an operating system by Microsoft released in 1995. Windows 95 added many new features to the last Windows operating system, which was Windows 3.x. Windows 95 was the first Windows with the "Start" button. Since then it has been used in all Windows operating systems. Although Windows 95 is thought of as a full operating system, it works over MS-DOS. Windows 95 is like a visual version of DOS. This means that Windows 95 can run both MS-DOS programs and Windows ones, but programs made just for Windows 95 will not work in DOS.
Windows 95 was Microsoft's first operating system to support long file names. Before that, file names could only be eight characters (letters, numbers, or symbols) long, plus the file extension. Windows 95 was also Microsoft's first operating system to fully support CD-ROMs, though Windows 3.x could also access CD-ROMs.
It was popular from 1995 until 1998 when Microsoft replaced it with Windows 98. 

</doc>
<doc id="14948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14948" title="Otto von Bismarck">
Otto von Bismarck

Prince Otto Eduard Leopold von Bismarck-Schönhausen Duke of Lauenburg (1 April 1815 – 30 July 1898) was an aristocrat and statesman of the 19th century in Europe. As Prime Minister of Prussia from 1862 to 1890, he was mainly responsible for unifying the many independent German countries and founding the German Empire in 1871. He became the first chancellor of the new Empire.
He was "Graf von Bismarck-Schönhausen" (Count Bismarck-Schönhausen) in 1865, then since 1871 "Fürst" von Bismarck (Prince Bismarck) and since 1890 the "Herzog von Lauenburg" (Duke of Lauenburg). At first he did not want the duke title, but accepted it later.
In the 1860s he engineered a series of wars that unified the German states, but deliberately not Austria, into a powerful German Empire under Prussian leadership. He got that by 1871. Bismarck "remained undisputed world champion at the game of multilateral diplomatic chess for almost twenty years after 1871, [and] devoted himself exclusively, and successfully, to maintaining peace between the powers".
Bismarck conducted wars against Denmark (1864), Austria (1866) and France (1871). All were to get more land for the German Empire. The war against France was very significant in the long run. France lost AlsaceLorraine. The German victory, under the brilliant von Moltke, made Germany the most important country in central Europe. 
After the death of the Emperor and his son (Frederick III) in 1888, a new era began, without Bismarck and the elder von Moltke, and with Kaiser Wilhelm II on the throne. 
Bismarck was very conservative and he was strongly connected to the monarchy. He was not a big supporter of democracy. His most important goal was to make Prussia stronger and he achieved that through the unification of Germany. Bismarck tried to stop the socialist movement and to reduce the power of the Catholic Church. 
One way to stop socialism was to make the working class happy. He did that by introducing many social reforms like public health and accident insurance, as well as pensions for old people. Bismarck's pension scheme was the fore-runner of the modern welfare state.

</doc>
<doc id="14949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14949" title="Differential calculus">
Differential calculus

Differential calculus, a branch of calculus, is the process of finding out the rate of change of a variable compared to another variable, by using functions. It is a way to find out how a shape changes from one point to the next, without needing to divide the shape into an infinite number of pieces. Differential calculus is the opposite of integral calculus. It was developed in the 1670s and 1680s by Sir Isaac Newton and Gottfried Leibniz.
Unlike a number such as 5 or 200, a variable can change its value. For example, distance and time are variables. At an Olympic running race, as the person runs, their "distance" from the starting line goes up. Meanwhile, a stopwatch or clock measures the "time" as it goes up. We can measure the average speed of the runner if we divide the distance they travelled by the time it took. But this does not say what speed the person was running at exactly 1.5 seconds into the race. If we had the distance at 1 second and the distance at 2 seconds, we would still only have an average, although it would probably be more correct than the average for the whole race.
Until calculus was invented, the only way to work this out was to cut the time into smaller and smaller pieces, so the average speed over the smaller time would get closer and closer to the actual speed at exactly 1.5 seconds. This was a very long and hard process and had to be done each time people wanted to work something out. Imagine a driver trying to figure out a car's speed using only its odometer (distance meter) and clock, without a speedometer!
A very similar problem is to find the slope (how steep it is) at any point on a curve. The slope of a "straight" line is easy to work out—it is simply how much it goes up ("y" or vertical) divided by how much it goes across ("x" or horizontal). If a line is parallel to the "x" axis, then its slope is zero. If a straight line went through (x,y) = (2,10) and (4,18), the line goes up 8 and goes across 2, so its slope is 8 divide 2, which is 4.
On a 'curve', though, the slope is a variable (has different values at different points) because the line bends. But if the curve was to be cut into very, very small pieces, the curve at the point would look almost like a very short straight line. So to work out its slope, a straight line can be drawn through the point with the same slope as the curve at that point. If it is done exactly right, the straight line will have the same slope as the curve, and is called a tangent. But there is no way to know (without calculus) whether the tangent is exactly right, and our eyes are not accurate enough to be certain whether it is exact or simply very close.
What Newton and Leibniz found was a way to work out the slope (or the speed in the distance example) exactly using simple and logical rules. They divided the curve into an infinite number of very small pieces. They then chose points on either side of the point they were interested in and worked out tangents at each. As the points moved closer together towards the point they were interested in, the slope "approached" a particular value as the tangents approached the real slope of the curve. They said that this particular value it approached was the actual slope.
Let's say we have a function "y" = f("x"). f is short for function, so this equation means "y is a function of x". This tells us that how high y is on the vertical axis depends on what x (the horizontal axis) is at that time. For example with the equation "y" = "x"², we know that if "x" is 1, then "y" will be 1; if "x" is 3, then "y" will be 9; if "x" is 20, then "y" will be 400.
Choose a point A on the curve, and call its horizontal position "x". Then choose another point B on the curve which is a little bit farther across than A, and call its horizontal position "x + h". It does not matter how much "h" is, it is a very small number.
So when we go from point A to point B, the vertical position has gone from f("x") to f("x + h"), and the horizontal position has gone from "x" to "x + h". Now remember that the slope is how much it goes up divided by how much it goes across. So the slope will be:
formula_1
If you bring B closer and closer to A–which means "h" gets closer and closer to 0–then we get closer to knowing what the slope is "at" the point A.
formula_2
Now let's go back to "y" = "x"². The slope of this can be determined as follows:
formula_3
Applying the binomial theorem which states formula_4 we can reduce to:
formula_5
So we know without having to draw any tangent lines that at any point on the curve "f(x)" = "x"², the derivative "f'(x)" (marked with an apostrophe) will be 2"x" at any point. This process of working out a slope using limits is called differentiation, or finding the derivative.
Leibniz came to the same result, but called h "dx", which means "a tiny amount of x". He called the resulting change in f(x) "dy", which means "a tiny amount of y". Leibniz's notation is used by more books because it is easy to understand when the equations become more complicated. In Leibniz notation:
formula_6
Using the above system, mathematicians have worked out rules which work all the time, no matter which function is being looked at.

</doc>
<doc id="14955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14955" title="Category:1815 births">
Category:1815 births


</doc>
<doc id="14972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14972" title="Socialist country">
Socialist country

A Socialist country is a country where the government or the public as a whole has control over the economy. In a socialist country, the producing and dispersing of goods is owned by the government. Socialism is placed in between capitalism and communism. 

</doc>
<doc id="14973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14973" title="Hamster">
Hamster

Hamsters are rodents belonging to the subfamily Cricetinae. The subfamily contains about 25 species in six or seven genera. They have become established as popular small house pets. They are a bit like a mouse. Wild hamsters live in the desert, but people all over the world keep domesticated hamsters as pets. 
In the wild, hamsters are crepuscular and stay underground during the day. They feed on seeds, fruits, and vegetation, and occasionally eat burrowing insects. Hamsters are distinguished by their large cheek pouches, and relatively short tail. They use their long cheek pouches (extending to their shoulders) to carry food back to their burrows.
There are six main types of hamsters: the Syrian hamster (the kind most people have as pets), winter whites, campbells, the Russian dwarf hamster (a hybrid of winter white and campbell hamsters), winter whites and campbells are two type of Russian (
despite what many pet shops say), the Chinese hamster, and the Roborovski hamster. The Chinese hamster has a long tail. All Syrian hamsters are the descendants of 12 baby hamsters found in Syria in 1930. 
Pet hamsters like to live in cages with wood shavings or recycled newspaper (only if non-toxic). Fluffy bedding is dangerous for hamsters. Plain toilet paper is also a cheap, safe option, but not straw as it is very dry and they may choke on it. Hamsters eat mostly hamster food sold at a pet shop, but they also eat almost any vegetables and fruits in very tiny portions. Hamsters store food in the sides of their mouths. 
Hamster teeth grow constantly. Wooden blocks and some hard food can be used for this. Most hamsters also have a wheel to run on for exercise. A 6 inch (Syrian) wheel is recommended for most dwarf hamsters, and at least an eight inch wheel for Syrians. Some people get other kinds of exercise equipment for their hamsters, like an empty ball that the hamster can roll around the floor or a long network of tubes with air holes for it to crawl through. They should live in an aquarium (without water) or cage. When letting your hamster out always keep an eye on it. Hamsters may look slow, but are truly very fast. Keep your hamster away from any electric wires, since they like to chew on them. Hamster are not recommended for young children.

</doc>
<doc id="14975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14975" title="Watch">
Watch

A watch is a small clock carried or worn by a person. It makes it easy to see the time. It is also a fashion accessory for men and women, and expensive watches are designed for this purpose. A watch may be one of the few accessories worn by a man.
A wristwatch is designed to be worn on a wrist, attached by a strap or other type of bracelet. A pocket watch is to be carried in a pocket. There are other variations. Nurses often wear a watch attached to the front of their uniform. It hangs down from a short strap: when lifted by the user it is right side up. 
Watches evolved in the 17th century from spring-powered clocks, which appeared as early as the 14th century. In 1524, Peter Henlein created the first pocket watch. 
The first watches were strictly mechanical, driven by clockwork. 
As technology developed, mechanical watches were largely replaced by vibrating quartz crystals, producing accurately timed electronic pulses. Some watches use radio technology to correct the time and date. The first digital electronic watch was developed in 1970.
Electronic movements, also known as quartz movements, have few or no moving parts, except a quartz crystal which is made to vibrate by the piezoelectric effect. A varying electric voltage is applied to the crystal, which responds by changing its shape so it works as an oscillator. It resonates at a stable frequency, which paces a timekeeping mechanism. Most quartz movements are primarily electronic but are geared to drive mechanical hands on the face of the watch to give a traditional analog display of the time. Most consumers prefer this.
Some watches are smartwatches, mobile devices similar to smartphones but smaller.

</doc>
<doc id="14976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14976" title="Ed Gein">
Ed Gein

Edward Theodore "Ed" Gein (August 27, 1906 - July 26, 1984) was an American serial killer. While Gein was found guilty of only two murders, the actual number is not known. Gein is considered by many to be even more well known because of several movies that were based in part on him. He was also known as The Butcher of Plainfield, The Plainfield Butcher, The Mad Butcher and The Plainfield Ghoul.
Ed Gein and his brother Henry were raised by their mother on their 160-acre farm near Plainfield, Wisconsin. She was a very religious woman and was very protective about her boys. She kept them away from women and busy with farm work.
His alcoholic father died in 1940. A few years later his brother Henry died in 1944, officially while fighting a grass fire (though there was evidence he was murdered by Ed). Soon after that, his mother had her first stroke. In 1945 she had her second stroke and died. Ed was left alone.
Gein then closed off the upstairs and the parlour of the house as well as his mother’s bedroom. He lived in the one other bedroom, kitchen and shed of the large house. He stopped working the farm because a government program paid him a subsidy. He also made money by doing small jobs for people in the area.
Ed read books on human anatomy and Nazi concentration camp experiments. He was very interested in it all, especially the female anatomy. One day he saw a newspaper article of a woman who had been buried that day. The first corpse came from a grave very near the grave of Gein’s mother.
Gein continued to do this for the next ten years. He would check the newspaper often for fresh bodies. He always went to the graveyard at the time of a full moon. Gein would take the whole female corpse or just the parts he wanted, put the dirt back in the grave and take home what he took from the grave.
Gein did many strange things with the dead bodies. He would build objects from the bones and skin. The organs would be put into the refrigerator to eat later. It was claimed that he also had sex with the bodies ("necrophilia"), a charge he denied because they "smelled too bad". 
Gein did not tell anyone that he wanted to become a woman himself. This was the reason he had studied anatomy. He thought about the of an operation which would change his sex. He wanted to study a female corpse and learn more about its anatomy. The closest he would get to changing his sex was dressing up in his full woman bodysuit. This bodysuit was made entirely of human skin. It completely covered his body and included a mask and breasts.
Later, Gein thought that fresher bodies would be better for his collection, and turned to murder.
Ed Gein’s first victim was Mary Hogan, a 51-year-old divorcee and the owner of a local tavern in Pine Grove, six miles from his home. On the afternoon of December 8, 1954, he shot her in the head with his 32-caliber revolver. He put her body in his pickup truck and took her back to his shed.
A customer who dropped into the tavern found the place deserted, and a large bloodstain on the floor. A spent .32 cartridge lay near it. Bloodstains ran out the back door and into the parking lot, where they halted beside tire tracks that looked like those of a pickup truck. It looked as if Mary Hogan had been shot and taken away.
Police were not able to learn anything about what happened to her. A few weeks later, a sawmill owner named Elmo Ueeck talked to Gein about it. Gein replied, "She isn’t missing, she’s at the farm right now." Ueeck did not ask him what he meant by that.
There may have been other victims in the years that followed. Nothing is known for certain about Gein until November 16, 1957 when he shot & killed Bernice Worden in her store in Plainfield. He used a .22 rifle from a rack in the store and his own bullet which he carried with him. He then locked the store and took the body home in the store’s truck. Gein also took the cash register. He later explained that he did not take it to commit robbery. He wanted to see how it worked and planned to return it later.
Bernice Worden’s son, Frank, often worked with her in the store. That morning he had gone deer hunting. When he got back, he saw that the store was closed with the lights still on and his mother was missing. He also saw that the cash register was gone and there was blood on the floor.
Frank Worden talked to the sheriff, Art Schley and told him what he had seen. He checked the record of sales made that morning. One of them was for half a gallon of antifreeze. Worden remembered that Ed Gein had stopped by the night before at closing time. He had said that he would be back the next morning for antifreeze. Ed had also asked Worden if he was going hunting the next day.
With the cash register missing, he thought that Gein had planned a robbery once he learned Frank would not be there. Worden told this to the sheriff. The sheriff and captain Lloyd Schoephoester went to the farm, seven miles outside Plainfield.
The house was dark and Ed Gein was not there when the police arrived. They drove to a store where Gein usually bought groceries where they found Gein, who was just about to leave in his truck.
The sheriff stopped him and asked him to get into the police car for questioning. Sheriff Schley had not said anything about Bernice Worden’s death before Gein said that he thought someone had tried to frame him for the death, at which point Schley arrested Gein. 
Sheriff Schley & Captain Schoephoester went back to Gein's house with other officers. The doors to the house were locked, but the door to the shed behind the house was not. Inside they found a naked corpse of a woman hanging upside down from a crossbeam. The legs were spread wide apart and there was a long cut from the genitals almost to the throat. The throat and head were missing. The genitals and the anus were also missing. Bernice Worden had been cut open & dressed out like a deer.
There was no electricity in the dark house. They had to search it with oil lamps, lanterns, and flashlights. The place looked like it had not been clean in years. The few rooms that were not nailed shut were full of books, old papers, magazines, utensils, tin cans, cartons and other junk.
In the house they found
The bodies of 15 different women had been used to create Gein’s trophies. It is also said that sometimes Gein brought gifts of fresh venison to his neighbours but Gein said he had never shot a deer in his life.
Gein was sent to the Central State Hospital for the Criminally insane. He was proven insane. The doctors thought that he loved his mother but he hated her, so that is why he killed older women. It is said that Mary Hogan looked similar to his mother.
Gein said he was not a cannibal or necrophiliac. He did admit grave robbing.
Many people became interested because of the true nature of the crime. Thousands of people drove to Plainfield to look at the 'murder farm'. Eventually the place was burned down by the Plainfield citizens as they felt it as a place of evil.
At Christmas, 1957, Gein was judged insane. He was committed to Waupan State Hospital for the rest of his life. Gein died of cancer in Madison, Wisconsin on July 26, 1984, at the age of 78. He was buried in Plainfield next to the graves of his family.
Because of the true nature of Gein's crimes, Hollywood had a lot of ideas to work on.
The movie "Psycho" was based on the Robert Bloch book and made into a Hitchcock movie. Bloch got most of the ideas for "Psycho" from Gein's life. With the overpowering mother and horror of the movie, it was one of the first of a kind.
"The Texas Chainsaw Massacre" was based in some parts on Gein. The story is about a group of teenagers who go to a horror house. The people that live in the house are a family of strange homicidal cannibals who also like grave robbing and building furniture made of bones and skulls. The lead bad guy is called ‘Leatherface’. Leatherface likes chasing teens around with his chainsaw and wearing a mask made from the faces of his victims.
The Academy Award winning movie "The Silence of the Lambs" also uses part of Gein's life. It is about an FBI agent who is tracking down a serial killer. To find him she must get the help of an intelligent cannibal, Dr. Hannibal Lecter. The serial killer she is trying to catch is called ‘Buffalo Bill’. He likes to kill women and make clothes of their skin. He also wants to be a woman and made a skin costume like that of Gein.

</doc>
<doc id="14981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14981" title="Easter">
Easter

Easter, also called Resurrection Day and Pascha, is a holiday. Among Christians, it is a celebration of Jesus Christ returning from the dead. Christians believe that it is the holiest day in the year. Some people who are not Christians celebrate it as the beginning of Spring. 
Easter is not held on the same date every year. This is called a "moveable feast". Currently all Christian churches agree on how the date is calculated. Easter is celebrated on the first Sunday following the first full moon which is on or after March 21st. This means it is celebrated in March or April. It can occur as early as March 22 and as late as April 25. Western churches, like the Roman Catholic Church, use the Gregorian calendar, while Eastern churches, like the Eastern Orthodox Church, use the Julian calendar. Because of this the date of Easter celebrations is different for these two types of churches even though the way they calculate the date is similar. In 2015 Easter was celebrated on April 5 for both the Gregorian calendar and Julian calendar. 
The word "Easter" is derived from "Eastre", the name of the ancient German Goddess of Spring. Her festival occurred at the vernal equinox. The French word for Easter, "Pâcques", comes from the Greek word for Passover, which is the Jewish holiday celebrated at about the same time of the year.
Jesus died on the cross about 2000 years ago in a city called Jerusalem (most of Jerusalem is in the modern country of Israel). The people who killed him did so because they believed that he was causing trouble for the government, and because he was claiming to be the Messiah. When they crucified him (meaning they nailed him to a cross), they even hung a sign over his head, which said, "King of the Jews." The day he was crucified is known by Christians as Good Friday.
The New Testament states that on the Sunday after Jesus was killed, his body was no longer in the tomb where he was laid. Later, Jesus is said to have appeared to over 500 people and preached to them. The New Testament teaches that the resurrection of Jesus is what Christianity is based on. The resurrection made people believe that Jesus was the powerful Son of God. It is also spoken of as proof that God will judge the world fairly. Christians believe that God has given Christians "a new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead". Christians believe that through faith in God they are spiritually made alive with Jesus so that they may lead a new life.
Easter is celebrated in several ways in northern Europe and the United States. Most of these celebrations have nothing to do with the Christian meaning of the holiday. These celebrations are related more to the pagan festivals of ancient Germany. Children are given baskets filled with candy. Eggs are decorated and hidden for children to find. People wear new clothes and go to church. Greeting cards are exchanged. An Easter Egg Roll is held on the lawn of the White House on the day after Easter. Small leafless trees or branches are carried indoors and decorated with colored eggs, paper trims, and lights. Some shopping malls offer children a chance to visit with an adult costumed as the Easter Bunny. Forced tulips, hyacinths and lilies are given as gifts. Week-long vacations are taken following Easter Day, giving families the chance to visit with distant relatives. In America, many families leave the cold of northern states to visit amusement parks or sunny beaches in the south. Spring break for American high school and college students usually occurs about Easter time.

</doc>
<doc id="14984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14984" title="Agnosticism">
Agnosticism

Agnosticism is the philosophical view that it is unknown (or even, unknowable) whether any deities (god or gods) exist or not. Some people who call themselves "agnostic" say that it is not possible for anyone ever to know if there are any deities or not. Other agnostics, though, say only that they themselves currently do not know if there are any deities.
Thomas Henry Huxley, the English biologist, coined the word "agnostic" in 1869. In 1889 he wrote "Agnosticism... is not a creed, but a method... the fundamental axiom of modern science... In matters of the intellect, do not pretend that conclusions are certain which are not demonstrated or demonstrable".
There are several different kinds of agnosticism:
People often have difficulty telling agnosticism and atheism apart. Atheists do not believe in the existence of deities, and some say that they are sure that no deity exists. Some (perhaps most) atheists, though, say that it is up to theists (people who believe in a deity) to give the evidence for a god or to show why someone should believe in a god. They state that there is neither enough evidence nor a strong enough argument to believe any gods exist, and so they reject belief that any exist. While agnostics think we cannot "know for sure" whether any deities exist, some agnostics do "believe" at least one deity exists. These people are both agnostic and theistic—they believe at least one deity exists, but do not claim to know that to be true. Some people are both atheist and agnostic—they reject belief in any deities without claiming to know that deities do not exist. Some agnostics just cannot themselves decide whether to believe any deities exist or not.

</doc>
<doc id="14985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14985" title="Universal Media Disc">
Universal Media Disc

"UMD can also mean University of Maryland."
The Universal Media Disc (UMD) is an optical disc made by Sony for their PlayStation Portable handheld console. It can hold up to 900 megabytes (single layer) or 1.8 gigabytes (double layer) of data. The disc can store games, music, and video, along with updates for the PSP. It is the first optical disc format to be used for a handheld video game system. To prevent illegal copying, Sony has not made blank discs available for sale. This disc is not used with any other devices. The UMD is very fragile and can be broken from misuse.
The primary use for UMD discs is for a storage medium for PSP games, but the format is also used for the storage of movies.
Even though with the release of the PSP Go, most new games continue to be made via UMD, and, aside from those published by SCE, not all have been released on the PSN.

</doc>
<doc id="14986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14986" title="Georgia (country)">
Georgia (country)

"For the US State, please see Georgia (U.S. State)"
Georgia is a country in Eastern Europe, located on the coast of the Black Sea. During 1991-1995 its full name was the Republic of Georgia but since 1995 it is Georgia as written in the Constitution. Before, it was part of the Soviet Union, but now it is an independent republic. The capital city is Tbilisi. Its population is almost 5 million. 
Georgia is next to the countries of Russia, Turkey, Armenia and Azerbaijan. It also has a coast on the Black Sea. It lies at the edge of Europe and Asia.
Georgia has many mountains. Its highest point is 5,048 m above sea level. The mountains running through Georgia are called the Caucasus Mountains.
Highest mountain in Georgia is Mount Shkhara at 5,068 m. The coastline of Georgia is 310 km long. Georgia has about 25,000 rivers. Largest river is the Mtkvari.
The capital of Georgia is called Tbilisi.
The population of Georgia is about 5 million. About 1.3 million of these live in Tbilisi. People from Georgia are called Georgians. Most of them speak Georgian as their first language, though some people also speak Azerbaijani, Armenian, Russian or other languages. 
Georgians have their own unique three alphabets. They were invented by King Pharnavaz I of Iberia.
The most famous person to have come from Georgia is Josef Stalin.
Most Georgians are Christians, but there are some Muslims and Jews as well.
The currency of Georgia is called the "lari".
The Georgians are an ancient people. Their Capital Tbilisi was founded around AD 400, after the end of the Roman Empire . Western Georgia was part of the Roman empire before then. The Arabs captured it in 635 AD. The culture continued and they flourished through trade.
In the 900s Arabs were weaker and Georgia became their own country again. It was the major country in the region until the Mongols invaded in 1223. Georgia was part of the Mongolian empire for a century on and off until 1334, when King Giorgi V took over.
In the 1500s the Persians invaded Georgia four times from 1541-1544. In 1555 the Kings of Kartli ruled through the will of the Persian Shahs.
In 1783 The treaty of Georgievsk was signed between Catherine the Great of Russia and King Heraclius II , giving Russia the power to protect Georgia. Then, in 1798 the Persians burned Tbilisi to the ground.
From 1811 to 1918 Georgia was under the Tsar of Russia. Their culture survived intact. From 1918 to 1921 Georgia was independent, and then was part of the Soviet Union.
In 1991 Georgia declared their independence and they have been their own country ever since. There was a rough patch between 1994 and 1995 when the economy was poor, but now Georgia is a country with close ties with the United States. They are currently applying to NATO.
In 2008 Georgia was involved in the 2008 South Ossetia war.
Major statue of dicator joseph stalin removed for good on june 25 2010! 

</doc>
<doc id="14989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14989" title="First-person shooter">
First-person shooter

A first-person shooter (FPS) is a type of video game. In a first-person shooter, a player sees through the eyes of a character. The character uses a gun to shoot objects or enemies. The character travels and shoots in a three-dimensional world.
The first first-person shooters were made in the 1970s and 1980s.  In the 1970s, schools like the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and the University of Illinois made "Maze War" and "Spacism." These games were not sold. In 1980, arcades got a tank game called "Battlezone." In 1983, home computers got "Battlezone." It was the first successful first-person shooter sold to many people.
In the 1990s, first-person shooters were very popular. Many people played the first-person shooters "Wolfenstein 3D" and "Doom" because they were shareware. In 1998, "Half-Life" was made. "Half-Life" was different because it had a strong narrative.
First-person shooter examples:

</doc>
<doc id="14991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14991" title="Category:212 BC deaths">
Category:212 BC deaths


</doc>
<doc id="14992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14992" title="Category:287 BC births">
Category:287 BC births


</doc>
<doc id="14996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14996" title="Random-access memory">
Random-access memory

Random Access Memory (or simply RAM) is the memory or information storage in a computer that is used to store running programs and data for the programs. Data (information) in the RAM can be read and written quickly in any order. Normally, the random access memory is in the form of computer chips. Usually, the contents of RAM are accessible faster than other types of information storage but are lost every time the computer is turned off. Non-volatile random-access memory (NVRAM) keeps its data without using power, but is more expensive and works more slowly, so it is used in smaller amounts. 
Since the late 20th century, RAM uses transistors, usually MOSFETs, to store data. Before that, magnetic memory was the usual kind.
Dynamic random access memory (DRAM) is the majority in computers. Modern computers use several types of DRAM. Before 2002, most computers used single data rate (SDR) RAM. Most computers made since then use either double data rate (DDR), DDR2, DDR3, or RAM. The later types allow stored data to be moved and used more quickly, so that the computer's processor can keep working quickly without having to wait for data as long or as often. 
Different kinds of RAM usually will not work together in the same computer. Most computers can only use one kind of RAM. Some can use a small number of different kinds. Different kinds of RAM often have differently shaped connectors. This limits which RAM chips a particular computer model can use.
Static RAM (SRAM) needs power to keep its data, but doesn't need the computer to be active. Some SRAM chips are battery-backed. This type has a built-in battery to make sure no data is lost if the computer is turned off. Some computers have a little SRAM and mostly DRAM.
Information that the computer always needs, that does not often change, is normally kept in read-only memory (ROM), which does not lose its contents when the computer is turned off. Such items include the BIOS (Basic Input/Output System), which stores the most basic commands for the computer, telling it how it should start up. The BIOS also tells the computer how to input and output information. The BIOS can be compared to the part of your brain that tells your heart how to beat. This is an important part.

</doc>
<doc id="14998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14998" title="Read-only memory">
Read-only memory

Read-only memory (or simply ROM) is a type of computer memory. Unlike RAM, it keeps its contents even when the computer or device is turned off. Usually, ROM cannot be written to when the computer runs normally. ROM is used for the BIOS which tells the computer how to start, or important programs like the firmware of certain devices, which usually does not need to be modified. Usually, ROM comes on computer chips.
There are different kinds of ROMs:

</doc>
<doc id="15002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15002" title="Integrated circuit">
Integrated circuit

An integrated circuit (more often called an IC, microchip, silicon chip, computer chip, or chip) is a piece of specially prepared silicon (or another semiconductor) into which a very complex electronic circuit is etched using photographic techniques. Silicon chips can contain computer processors, memory and special devices. The chip is very fragile and so is normally surrounded by a tough plastic package, and electrical contact with the chip is provided through metal legs sticking out of the package.
There are two main advantages of ICs over discrete circuits: cost and performance. Cost is low because millions of transistors are printed as a complete unit by photolithography and not constructed as one transistor at a time. Performance is higher since the components switch quickly, consuming little power.
ICs are designed for different purposes. A chip may be designed as a calculator, which only works as a calculator. Integrated circuits can be classified into analog, digital and mixed signal (both analog and digital on the same chip).
A semiconductor such as silicon can be controlled to conduct much or little. This allows making transistors that control each other. They are found in many household items such as radio, computers, telephones and other devices. Other semiconductor devices include solar cells, diodes, and LED’s (light emitting diode).
In 1958 and 1959, two people had the idea for an integrated circuit at almost exactly the same time. Transistors had become an everyday thing used in computers. They affected everything from radios to phones and at the time manufacturers needed a better product. Transistors were smaller than vacuum tubes, but for some of the newest electronics, for example missile guidance, they weren't small enough. 
One day in July, Jack Kilby was working at Texas Instruments when it occurred to him that all parts of a circuit, not just the transistor, could be made out of silicon. At the time, nobody was making capacitors or resistors out of semiconductors. This would change the future and make it easier to produce and sell integrated circuits. Kilby's boss liked the idea, and told him to get to work. By September 12, Kilby had built a working model, and on February 6, Texas Instruments filed a patent. Their first "Solid Circuit" was the size of a fingertip. 
Meanwhile, in California, another man had the same idea. In January of 1959, Robert Noyce was working at the small Fairchild Semiconductor startup company. He also realized a whole circuit could be put into a single chip. While Kilby had worked out the details of making individual components, Noyce thought of a much better way to connect the parts. The design was called a ""unitary circuit." All that detail paid off because on April 25, 1961, the patent office awarded the first patent for an integrated circuit to Robert Noyce while Kilby's application was still being analyzed. Today, both men are acknowledged as having independently conceived of the idea.
※ The difference between VLSI and ULSI is obscure.
Integrated circuits can be packaged as DIP (Dual in-line package), PLCC (Plastic leaded chip carrier), TSOP (Thin small-outline package), PQFP (Plastic Quad Flat Pack) and other chip package types. Some small ones are packaged for surface-mount technology. The transistors inside can be bipolar transistors in unusual circuits, such as those needing unusually high switching speeds. Most, however, are MOSFETs.

</doc>
<doc id="15004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15004" title="Moss">
Moss

Mosses are Bryophytes, which are non-vascular plants. They apparently evolved from liverworts: evidence from mitochondrial DNA suggests that this is the stem group from which mosses, hornworts and all other land plants evolved. 
Mosses do not have cells that move water like other plants- water must soak into them, like a sponge. A patch of moss is made of many tiny moss plants packed together so that they can hold water for as long as possible. They do not have roots, and could not get water from them if they did. Because they cannot find water, they live in two ways. They can live in places that are always wet; like near a spring, a river, or in a place where there is a lot of fog. They can also dry up when there is no water. This means that they can never live in dry places. 
They cannot grow very large because they could not move water to the top of the moss. The largest moss grows in New Zealand, and is about 30 cm tall. 
A moss does not make seeds. A moss does not have fruit. The green fuzzy part of a moss that is always there has only half of the moss DNA. When the moss has made lots of food and there is enough water, cells from different moss plants swim inside a clump of moss. Two cells combine to make a cell with a full set of moss DNA. This cell grows into a different kind of moss plant- but it gets all of its food from a green fuzzy moss plant. When the cell grows, it makes tiny spores instead of seeds. The spores are like dust. They come from a little box that grows up out of the moss. The box has a lid that falls off. Then the spores come out and float away. They will make more moss.
Scientists divide the mosses into eight groups. Five of these groups are small, with just a few species; most mosses are in the group called Bryopsida.

</doc>
<doc id="15006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15006" title="Function (mathematics)">
Function (mathematics)

In mathematics, a function is a prescription that assigns to every object of one set an object of another (or the same) set. In many cases the objects are numbers. A function may be seen as producing an output - the assigned object -, when given an input - the object from the first set. So a function is like a process. Each input "x" that is in the set "X" of inputs is paired with one output "y" in the set "Y" of outputs. The set "X" of inputs is called the "domain" and the set "Y" of possible outputs is called the "codomain". Then it is said that "y" is a function of "x, "and we write "y" ="f"("x"). "f" is the name of the function and one writes formula_1 (function from X to Y) to represent the three parts of the function, the domain, the codomain and the pairing process.
An example of a function is the factorial: formula_2. One gives a natural number formula_3 as the input and gets a natural number formula_4 as the output with the property that formula_5. The idea of a function has been set up to cover all sorts of possibilities. It is not necessary that the pairing is given by an equation. The main idea is that inputs and outputs are paired up somehow even if the process is very complicated or not obvious.
The inputs and outputs can be put in a table like the picture; this is easy if there is not too much data.
In the picture it can be seen that both 2 and 3 have been paired with c; this is not allowed in the other direction, 2 could not output c and d,each input can only have one output.
All of the formula_6 (c and d in the picture) are usually called the "image" set of formula_7 and the image set can be all of the codomain or not. One can say that the subset A of the codomain with the image set is f(A).
If the inputs and outputs have an order it is easy to plot them on a graph:
In that way the image come on the image of the set A. This will make a both of 2 and 3 have paired with is not allowed in the other direction,even one can make between codomain or not. A conclusion can be made that subset A of the codomain is the image set is F(A).
In the 1690s Gottfried Leibniz and Johann Bernoulli used the word function in letters between them so the modern concept began at the same time as calculus.
In 1748 Leonhard Euler gave:
"A function of a variable quantity is an analytic expression composed in any way whatsoever of the variable quantity and numbers or constant quantities." and then in 1755:
"If some quantities so depend on other quantities that if the latter are changed the former undergoes change, then the former quantities are called functions of the latter. This definition applies rather widely and includes all ways in which one quantity could be determined by other. If, therefore, x denotes a variable quantity, then all quantities which depend upon x in any way, or are determined by it, are called functions of x."
which is very modern.
Usually, Dirichlet is credited with the version used in schools until the second half of the 20th century:
"y is a function of a variable x, defined on the interval a < x < b, if to every value of the variable x in this interval there corresponds a definite value of the variable y. Also, it is irrelevant in what way this correspondence is established."
In 1939, the Bourbaki generalized the Dirichlet definition and gave a set theoretic version of the definition as a correspondence between inputs and outputs; this was used in schools from about 1960.
Finally in 1970, the Bourbaki gave the modern definition as a triple formula_8, with formula_9 (i.e. formula_10 and formula_11).
 

</doc>
<doc id="15007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15007" title="Category:1390s births">
Category:1390s births


</doc>
<doc id="15008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15008" title="Category:1468 deaths">
Category:1468 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15009" title="Category:1468">
Category:1468

Articles and events that is related to the year 1468.

</doc>
<doc id="15010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15010" title="Category:1460s deaths">
Category:1460s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15017" title="Miami">
Miami

Miami is a city in the U.S. state of Florida. It is a known tourist stop and it is well known for its Cuban, Puerto Rican and Haitian culture. Miami is the county seat (and largest city) of Miami-Dade County. 
Miami has a tropical monsoon climate. Summers have average temperatures of during the day and at night, with average monthly rainfall around . Winters have average temperatures of during the day and at night, with average monthly rainfall around .
Miami-Dade County Public Schools is the school district for public schools in Miami. There are also some private schools there. There are many colleges and universities in and around Miami. A few of these include: Florida International University, University of Miami, Miami Dade College, Florida Atlantic University.
There are several professional sports teams that play in and around Miami, including Major League Baseball's Miami Marlins, the National Basketball Association's Miami Heat, the National Hockey League's Florida Panthers, and the National Football League's Miami Dolphins.
Also, three universities in and around Miami are members of NCAA Division I, the top division of college sports in the U.S.:
The population of Miami, Florida as of 2011 is 1.3 Million, with 41.4% suffering from poverty. According to the DNA North American Studies Institute, the racial-makeup of Miami is:
The Information there **Others** includes Asians, Arabs, and among others.

</doc>
<doc id="15018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15018" title="Grunge music">
Grunge music

Grunge music or Seattle sound (as it is called sometimes) is a style of rock music that has elements of punk rock and heavy metal. It started in the mid- 1980s in the Pacific Northwest of the United States, especially in the states of Washington and Oregon. It became more popular in the early 1990s. Grunge songs often had lyrics with nihilism, depression, unhappiness, or apathy as themes. The widespread use of heroin as a recreational drug found its way into the lyrics and careers of numerous grunge rockers, notably Kurt Cobain and Layne Staley of "Alice in Chains". 
The songs often had light (or clean) guitar sounds in the verses, and the high energy boost of distorted (or dirty) guitars in the choruses. The line-up for these bands was the typical rock band of guitars, bass, drums and vocal.
Although grunge as a movement became less popular by the last 1990s, its influence is still heard in many bands today.
Some well known grunge artists were:

</doc>
<doc id="15019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15019" title="Carly Simon">
Carly Simon

Carly Simon (born June 25, 1945) is an American singer-songwriter and occasional children's book author. She was born in New York City to businessman Richard L. Simon (1899-1960) and Andrea Heinemann Simon (1909-1994). She was raised in Riverdale, The Bronx. She has two sisters: singer Joanna Simon (born 1940) and composer Lucy Simon (born 1943). She also has a brother, photographer Peter Simon. 
Simon's songs include: "You're So Vain", "Nobody Does It Better", "Coming Around Again" and "Let the River Run".

</doc>
<doc id="15020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15020" title="Toto">
Toto

Toto is a soft rock group that formed in Los Angeles in 1978, that was popular in the early 1980's.
The current band members are Joseph Williams, Steve Lukather, David Paich, Steve Porcaro, Keith Carlock and David Hungate (as a touring musician).
The former band members were Fergie Frederiksen, Mike Porcaro, Jeff Porcaro, Simon Phillips, Greg Phillinganes and Bobby Kimball.

</doc>
<doc id="15030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15030" title="Jim Jones">
Jim Jones

James Warren "Jim" Jones (May 13, 1931 – November 18, 1978) was an American preacher and religious leader. His church was called the "People's Temple". It began as a Christian church (a member church of the Disciples of Christ), but over time became a cult. Jones and most of the members of his group died on November 18, 1978 in Guyana. In Jones' case, it was genuine suicide.
In November 1978, U.S. Congressman Leo Ryan led a fact-finding mission to Jonestown to investigate allegations of human rights abuses. Ryan's delegation included relatives of Temple members, Don Harris, an NBC network news reporter, an NBC cameraman and reporters for various newspapers. The group arrived in Georgetown on November 15. On November 17, Ryan's delegation traveled by airplane to Jonestown. 
The delegation left hurriedly the afternoon of November 18 after Temple member Don Sly attacked Ryan with a knife. The attack was thwarted, and the visit ended. Congressman Ryan and his people took with them fifteen People's Temple members who had expressed a wish to leave. At that time, Jones made no attempt to prevent their departure.
As members of Ryan's delegation boarded two planes at the airstrip, Jones' "Red Brigade" armed guards arrived in a tractor-pulled trailer and began shooting at the delegation. The guards killed Congressman Ryan and four others near a twin engine Otter aircraft. At the same time, one of the supposed defectors, Larry Layton, drew a weapon and began firing on members of the party that had already boarded a small Cessna. An NBC cameraman was able to capture footage of the first few seconds of the shooting at the Otter. The five killed at the airstrip were Congressman Ryan; Don Harris, a reporter from NBC; Bob Brown, a cameraman from NBC; San Francisco Examiner photographer Greg Robinson; and Temple member Patricia Parks. Surviving the attack were future Congresswoman Jackie Speier, then a staff member for Ryan; Richard Dwyer, the Deputy Chief of Mission from the U.S. Embassy at Georgetown; Bob Flick, a producer for NBC News; Steve Sung, an NBC sound engineer; Tim Reiterman, a "San Francisco Examiner" reporter; Ron Javers, a "San Francisco Chronicle" reporter; Charles Krause, a "Washington Post" reporter; and several defecting Temple members.<
Later that same day, 909 inhabitants of Jonestown, 303 of them children, died of apparent cyanide poisoning, in and around a pavilion. This was the greatest single loss of American civilian life in a non-natural disaster until the September 11, 2001 attacks. No video was taken during the mass suicide, though the FBI did recover a 45 minute audio recording of the suicide in progress.
On that tape, Jones tells Temple members that the Soviet Union, with whom the Temple had been negotiating a potential exodus for months, would not take them after the Temple had murdered Ryan and four others at a nearby airstrip. The reason given by Jones to commit suicide was consistent with his previously stated conspiracy theories of intelligence organizations allegedly conspiring against the Temple, that men would "parachute in here on us," "shoot some of our innocent babies" and "they'll torture our children, they'll torture some of our people here, they'll torture our seniors". Parroting Jones' prior statements that hostile forces would convert captured children to fascism, one temple member states "the ones that they take captured, they're gonna just let them grow up and be dummies".
Jones and several members argued that the group should commit "revolutionary suicide" by drinking cyanide-laced grape-flavored Flavor Aid. However, later released video made to show the best of Jonestown shows Jones opening a storage container full of Kool-Aid in large quantities. This may have been what was used to mix the "potion" (as was referred to in several statements on the tape recordings) along with a sedative. 
One member, Christine Miller, dissents toward the beginning of the tape. When members apparently cried, Jones counseled, "Stop this hysterics. This is not the way for people who are Socialists or Communists to die. No way for us to die. We must die with some dignity". Jones can be heard saying, "Don't be afraid to die," that death is "just stepping over into another plane" and that it's "a friend". At the end of the tape, Jones concludes: "We didn't commit suicide; we committed an act of revolutionary suicide protesting the conditions of an inhumane world". According to escaping Temple members, children were given the drink first and families were told to lie down together. Mass suicide had been previously discussed in simulated events called "White Nights" on a regular basis. 
Jones was found dead in a deck chair with a gunshot wound to his head that Guyanese coroner Cyrill Mootoo stated was consistent with a self-inflicted gun wound. However, Jones' son Stephan believes his father may have directed someone else to shoot him. An autopsy of Jones' body also showed levels of the barbiturate Pentobarbital which may have been lethal to humans who had not developed physiological tolerance. Jones' drug usage (including LSD and marijuana) was confirmed by his son, Stephan, and Jones' doctor in San Francisco.

</doc>
<doc id="15031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15031" title="Saludemos la Patria orgullosos">
Saludemos la Patria orgullosos

"Saludemos la Patria orgullosos" ("Salute the Motherland Proudly") is the national anthem of El Salvador.

</doc>
<doc id="15032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15032" title="Eritrea">
Eritrea

Eritrea is a country on the eastern coast of Africa. Its official name is The State of Eritrea.
Eritrea is located on the coast on the Red Sea. It is north of the Bab-el-Mandeb and the Horn of Africa. Eritrea has borders with the countries of Sudan, Ethiopia, and Djibouti. The land area of Eritrea is 101,000 km², and it is one of the smallest countries in Africa.
The population of Eritrea is about 5.6 million. About 0.5 million people live in Asmara. People from Eritrea are called Eritreans. Most of them speak "Tigrinya" or "Tigre" as their first language. The people usually use Tigrinya or Arabic for official business.
Eritrea has nine ethnic groups. These are the Afar people, the Bilen people, the Hedareb people, the Kunama, the Nara, the Rashaida, the Saho, the Tigre, and Tigray-Tigrinya.
The currency of Eritrea is called the Nakfa. Eritrea is a very poor country. Almost half of Eritrea's economy comes from Eritreans who live abroad. They send money home to their families. Most of the rest comes from farming.
Football and cycling are the most popular sports in Eritrea. In recent years, Eritrean athletes have also seen increasing success in the international arena.
Eritrea became an independent country on 24 May 1993. It is one of the newest countries in the world.
Many different countries have ruled the land that is now called Eritrea. Between 1885 and 1941 it was a colony of Italy. Between 1941 and 1952, the United Nations put it under the protection of United Kingdom. After 1952, Eritrea became a part of Ethiopia. This was the reason for a long civil war between the Eritreans and the government of Ethiopia.
Eventually, in 1993, Eritrea became an independent country after a vote by its people.
Eritrea is known for being the most oppressive country in Africa, sometimes considered to be the "North Korea of Africa". The nation has been accused of many human rights violations, severely limited freedoms, and many arbitrary (made-up) arrests.

</doc>
<doc id="15033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15033" title="Sanford Dole">
Sanford Dole

Sanford Dole (April 23, 1844 – June 9, 1926) was an American politician. Dole was a part of a group of businessmen who first forced a new Hawaiian national constitution on the country during King David Kalakaua's reign and then after his death removed Queen Liliuokalani from the throne and took control of the country in 1893. They removed the queen by threatening to use the warships of the U.S. Navy had in Honolulu harbor. 
Queen Liliuokalani did not want her people to be harmed so she agreed to do what the revolutionists wanted. The Queen went to Washington and talked to the American President, Grover Cleveland. Cleveland decided that this had been an act of war against the Hawaiian Kingdom. Cleveland ordered Sanford Dole, the President of the newly formed republic, to make Liliuokalani the queen again. 
Dole refused to do this. He said that President Cleveland was interfering. Dole remained the president of Hawaii from 1894 until 1900 after Cleveland was elected out of office. The newly elected American president William McKinley signed the Newsland Resolution. The Newsland Resolution made Hawaii a territory of the United States. This ended any legal or military chance of restoring the Queen and the Hawaiian Kingdom.
Dole served as governor of Hawaii from 1900 until 1903, he was the first when he accepted a position as United States District Court judge. He remained a judge until 1915.

</doc>
<doc id="15034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15034" title="Ancient Egypt">
Ancient Egypt

Ancient Egypt, or the Egyptian Empire, was a society that began about 3150 BC, and lasted until 20 BC when it was invaded by the Roman Empire. 
It grew along the River Nile and was at its most powerful in the second millennium BC. Its land went from the Nile delta to Nubia, a kingdom which today is mostly in the Sudan.
For most of its history, Egypt was prosperous, since the water from the Nile made sure that the Egyptians would have good crops. Crops were grown after the Nile flood water went down. 
The Egyptians created a way of writing using hieroglyphs, built huge temples and tombs, traded with other areas, and had a powerful army. Their religion had many gods, and its priests were powerful and rich. Their rulers, called Pharaohs, were thought to be close to the gods.
Archaeologists, who study objects left by ancient people, have found that people have lived along the Nile for a very long time. The fertile flood plains of the Nile allowed people to begin farming. By the 10th millennium BC, the people in Egypt had begun growing cereal grains like wheat and barley. Because they were farming, they stayed in one place, and because they were settled, their society became more complex. This was an important step in the history of human civilization.
This period in Egyptian history is called "predynastic", as it happened before the large dynastic kingdoms were formed.
By about 5500 BC, small tribes living in the Nile valley had developed into a series of cultures. Each had begun farming crops and animals. Each had their own types of pottery and personal items, such as combs, bracelets, and beads. In Upper Egypt, the south part of the country, the Badarian was one of the earliest cultures. It is known for its high quality pottery, stone tools, and its use of copper. They were followed by the Amratian and Gerzian cultures. 
The different periods of ancient Egyptian history are:
The Intermediate periods included times when the traditional system broke down, the country was split, or invaded by foreign rulers. Egypt's culture and climate was relatively stable, compared to other parts of the Middle East. Nevertheless, they had some periods when their government was challenged and sometimes overthrown.
Ancient Egypt was split up into many different districts called "sepats". The first divisions were created during the Predynastic Period, but then, they were small city-states that ruled themselves. When the first pharaoh came to power, the sepats remained and were much like the counties in many countries today. They stayed basically the same for a long time – there were 42 of them, and each was ruled by a governor chosen by the pharaoh. In later years the districts were called nomes and the governor was called a nomarch.
Ancient Egypt had a lot of different taxes, but there was no real money, so people paid each other with goods or work. The person who watched the tax collection was a "scribe", and every tax collector in Egypt had to tell him every day how many taxes they had collected. Each person paid different taxes based on the work that they did: craftsmen paid in goods, hunters and fishermen paid with food, and every single household in the country had to pay a labour tax every year by helping with work for the country like mining or for canals. A lot of rich Egyptians paid poorer people to do this for them.
The language can be divided into six time periods:
Egypt had writing called hieroglyphics, which is one of the two oldest written languages (the other is Sumerian cuneiform). 
Hieroglyphic writing dates to c. 3200 BC, and is composed of some 500 symbols. A hieroglyph can represent a word, a sound, or a silent determinative (which makes clear what the sign means). The same symbol can serve different purposes in different contexts. Hieroglyphs were for public purposes, used on stone monuments and in tombs. It was art, and often it was political propaganda.
The script used by priests for everyday writing on papyrus, wood or cloth.
In day-to-day writing, scribes used a cursive form of writing, called hieratic, which was quicker and easier. While formal hieroglyphs may be read in rows or columns in either direction (though typically written from right to left), hieratic was always written from right to left, usually in horizontal rows.
The script used by ordinary people. A new form of writing, Demotic, became the main writing style. It is this form of writing and formal hieroglyphs which accompanies the Greek text on the Rosetta Stone.
The Coptic script is a modified Greek alphabet. The Coptic language is the last stage of the Egyptian language (modern Egyptians speak a dialect of Arabic).
Some ancient Egyptian literature has survived to the present day. There are teaching texts, such as the "Maxims of Ptahhotep", the "Instructions of Amenemope", and the Ebers papyrus. The Ebers papyrus is one of the earliest medical texts ever found.
There are also poems and stories. 
Religion was very important to Ancient Egyptians. To Egyptians, animals were holy and were worshipped. Because of this, Egyptians domesticated, or made pets of, animals very early and took very good care of them. The centre of any Egyptian town was the temple, and this building was used for everything from the town hall to a university in addition to its religious services. 
Because they were so religious, Egyptians created a lot of art of their gods. This art shows all different kinds of divine, or holy, creatures including the pharaoh, who was thought to be a god. 
The afterlife was also very important to Egyptians and they are known for mummifying their dead. These mummies are important to scientists today because they tell them about how the Egyptians lived.
All the gods were important but some were more important than others.
The rich fertile soil came from annual inundations of the Nile River. The ancient Egyptians were thus able to produce an abundance of food, allowing the population to devote more time and resources to cultural, technological, and artistic pursuits. In ancient Egypt taxes were assessed based on the amount of land a person owned.
Farming in Egypt was dependent on the cycle of the Nile River. The Egyptians recognized three seasons: "Akhet" (flooding), "Peret" (planting), and "Shemu" (harvesting). The flooding season lasted from June to September, depositing on the river's banks a layer of mineral-rich silt ideal for growing crops. After the floodwaters had receded, the "growing season" lasted from October to February. Farmers plowed and planted seeds in the fields, which were irrigated with ditches and canals. Egypt received little rainfall, so farmers relied on the Nile to water their crops. From March to May, farmers used sickles to harvest their crops, which were then threshed with a flail to separate the straw from the grain. Winnowing removed the chaff from the grain, and the grain was then ground into flour, brewed to make beer, or stored for later use.
Flax plants were grown for the fibers of their stems. These fibers were split along their length and spun into thread, which was used to weave sheets of linen and to make clothing. Papyrus growing on the banks of the Nile River was used to make paper. Vegetables and fruits were grown in garden plots, close to habitations and on higher ground, and had to be watered by hand. Vegetables included leeks, garlic, melons, squashes, pulses, lettuce, and other crops, in addition to grapes that were made into wine.
The Egyptians believed that a balanced relationship between people and animals was an essential element of the cosmic order; thus humans, animals and plants were believed to be members of a single whole. Cattle were the most important livestock; livestock were taxed; the size of a herd reflected the prestige and importance of the estate or temple which owned them. In addition to cattle, the ancient Egyptians kept sheep, goats, and pigs. Poultry such as ducks, geese, and pigeons were captured in nets and bred on farms, where they were force-fed with dough to fatten them. The Nile provided a plentiful source of fish. Bees were also domesticated from at least the Old Kingdom, and they provided both honey and wax.
The ancient Egyptians used donkeys and oxen as beasts of burden. They plowed the fields and trampled seed into the soil. The slaughter of a fattened ox was part of an offering ritual. Horses were introduced by the Hyksos in the Second Intermediate Period, and the camel, although known from the New Kingdom, was not used as a beast of burden until the Late Period. There is also evidence to suggest that elephants were briefly used in the Late Period, but largely abandoned due to lack of grazing land. Dogs, cats and monkeys were common family pets, while more exotic pets imported from the heart of Africa, such as lions, were reserved for royalty. Herodotus observed that the Egyptians were the only people to keep their animals with them in their houses. During the Predynastic and Late periods, the worship of the gods in their animal form was extremely popular, such as the cat goddess Bastet and the ibis god Thoth, and these animals were bred in large numbers on farms for the purpose of ritual sacrifice.
Ancient Egyptians had some advanced medical knowledge for their time. They performed surgery, set broken bones and even knew about medicines. Some medicines the Ancient Egyptians used are honey and breast milk or gazelle's milk. Not only did they have medicinal values, they also are believed to have been used to ward off evil spirits and demons. The easiest way to see how good they were at medicine is to look at the medical papyri which have survived to the present day. The Edwin Smith papyrus is the world's oldest surviving surgical document, from about 1600 B.C. The text describes anatomy, and the examination, diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis of 48 types of medical problems in detail.
Ancient Egyptian pyramids are shaped stone masonry structures. They are the best known pyramid structures, and are some of the largest ever buildings. Over 130 pyramids have been discovered in Egypt. Most were built on the western side of the River Nile in desert areas. Egyptian pyramids are often contain chambers and passages. The pyramids were built as the burial places of the Egyptian kings before the start of the old kingdom until the end of the middle kingdom. Because the Egyptians kept written records, we know about the building of some pyramids.
The Great Pyramid at Giza is the largest and most famous pyramid. It was built for Pharaoh Khufu. It is over 140 metres high and took 20 years to build. It is listed as one of the seven wonders of the world. The step pyramid at Saqqara is the earliest pyramid which is still standing today. This was built in 2630 BC. It was a burial place of the Pharaoh Djoser. The architect of the step pyramid was Imhotep.
Engineering was an important activity in Egypt. Engineers were able to measure and survey the distance between two points. They designed and made the pyramids, which are nearly perfect geometrically. They could make cement, and developed large irrigation networks. 
Science was also important. Mathematics was used in Egypt, and the golden ratio was used in the construction of the Pyramids.
Another ability of the Egyptians was glass making. Archaeologists have found many pieces of beads, jars, figures and ornaments in tombs across the nation. In 2005, the remains of an ancient glassmaking factory was found.

</doc>
<doc id="15035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15035" title="Alexander the Great">
Alexander the Great

Alexander the Great (356 BC323 BC) is also known as Alexander III of Macedonia. He was King of Macedonia and conqueror of the Persian Empire. He is considered one of the greatest military geniuses of all time. Alexander was born in 356 BC in Pella, the ancient capital of Macedonia. He was the son of Philip II, King of Macedonia, and Olympias, the princess of neighboring Epirus. Alexander spent his childhood watching his father transform Macedonia into a great military power, and watching him win victory after victory on the battlefields throughout the Balkans. 
When he was 13, Philip hired the Greek philosopher Aristotle to be Alexander’s personal tutor. During the next three years, Aristotle gave Alexander a training in rhetoric and literature, and stimulated his interest in science, medicine, and philosophy, all of which became important in Alexander’s later life. 
In 340 BC, Philip assembled a large Macedonian army and invaded Thrace. He left 16 year old Alexander with the power to rule Macedonia in his absence as regent. But as the Macedonian army advanced deep into Thrace, the Thracian tribe of Maedi bordering north-eastern Macedonia rebelled and posed a danger to the country. Alexander assembled an army, led it against the rebels, and with swift action defeated the Maedi, captured their stronghold, and renamed it Alexandropolis. 
Alexander became king of Macedonia in 336 BC when his father was assassinated. A meeting of Greek cities made him General (supreme commander). He used this authority to launch his father's military expansion plans. In 334 BC, he invaded Persian-ruled Asia Minor. He began a series of campaigns that lasted ten years. Alexander broke the power of Persia in a series of decisive battles, most notably the battles of Issus and Gaugamela. He overthrew the Persian King Darius III and conquered the entire Persian Empire. At that point, Alexander's empire stretched from the Adriatic Sea to the Indus River.
He invaded India in 326 BC, and defeated , who ruled a region in the Punjab. Afterwards they became allies.
Alexander died in Babylon in 323 BC, of unknown causes. Poison, murder, or a fever after a battle have all been suggested. At his death, he was planning a series of campaigns that would have begun with an invasion of Arabia. In the years following his death, a series of civil wars tore his empire apart. Several states were then ruled by the Diadochi, Alexander's surviving generals and heirs. They fought and conquered each other. The largest surviving piece was the Seleucid Empire.
 

</doc>
<doc id="15037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15037" title="Brisbane">
Brisbane

Brisbane (local nickname "Brissie") is the capital city and biggest city of Queensland in Australia. It has a population of 2.2 million people and is the third biggest city in Australia, after Sydney and Melbourne.
The central city is on the Brisbane River, inland from Moreton Bay.
Brisbane is named after the Brisbane River, which is named after Sir Thomas Brisbane who was Governor of New South Wales from 1821 to 1825. 
A penal colony was founded at Redcliffe, to the north, in 1824. It was moved to North Quay in 1825. The first free settlers moved to Brisbane in 1842. Brisbane became the capital city when Queensland became a separate colony from New South Wales in 1859.
Brisbane has more than 50 skyscrapers more than tall.
Brisbane has a humid subtropical climate. Summers are hot and wet. Winters are warm and quite dry.
Thunderstorms happen a lot from November to March every year. Very heavy thunderstorms caused big floods and a lot of damage in February 1893, January 1974, January 2011 and January 2013.
The warmest recorded temperature in Brisbane was on 26 January 1940 and the coldest was on 2 July 1896.
Sunshine hours are not typical for a location in the southern hemisphere. While the sunniest month, November sees over 250 bright hours, the dullest month, February, equivalent of August in the northern hemisphere, has less than 200 hours.
The City of Brisbane, run by Brisbane City Council, covers a big part of the suburbs close to the city. The outer suburbs are part of Logan City to the south, Moreton Bay Region to the north, the City of Ipswich to the south west, Redland City to the south east, with a small part in the Scenic Rim Region to the west.
Brisbane has many universities and colleges including University of Queensland, Queensland University of Technology and Griffith University. The Australian Catholic University, Central Queensland University, James Cook University, University of Southern Queensland and the University of the Sunshine Coast each have a campus in Brisbane.
There are three big vocational school in Brisbane - Brisbane North Institute of TAFE, Metropolitan South Institute of TAFE and Southbank Institute of TAFE.
Most primary schools and secondary schools are run by the Queensland Government. There are also private, Catholic and other Christian schools.
Brisbane hosted the 1982 Commonwealth Games, the 1988 World Exposition (called World Expo 88), and some games at the 1987 Rugby World Cup and 2001 Cricket World Cup.
Big sports stadiums include the Brisbane Cricket Ground, Lang Park, Ballymore Stadium and the Queensland Sport and Athletics Centre.
Brisbane has teams in all Australian sports competitions.

</doc>
<doc id="15039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15039" title="Hawaiian language">
Hawaiian language

The Hawaiian language () is the language of native Hawaiians. "Aloha" and "mahalo" are probably its most recognized words. The word "lanai" is also used in English. (That is different from "Lanai", the name of one of Hawaii's islands.)
There are related languages in the Marquesas, Raratonga, Samoa, some islands of what is now Fiji and New Zealand. Their languages have changed a lot over the last two thousand years or so. However, native speakers of all these languages can still understand each other.
The language has only 12 letters (A, E, H, I, K, L, M, N, O, P, U, W). There are 13 if you count the okina. The okina is a real letter and came from some "K" sounds in old Polynesian languages. The okina is pronounced as a glottal stop, like the break in the middle of the word "Uh-oh". The okina is written as a backward apostrophe (small numeral 6 above and before a vowel).
The Niihau dialect still uses some T, S, R and "hints" of B sounds. People who live on that island are the only people who still speak Hawaiian only and their dialect is the most true to its roots.
Every Hawaiian syllable ends with a vowel. There are some who think that makes the language sound "musical". Some think that final vowels helped the speakers remember chanted traditional stories and genealogies. Most linguists, however, think it's because of internal phonological processes.
There are two forms of each of the five vowels. One is regular, where the vowel is pronounced as a Spaniard would say it. The other is extended, in written form, where a horizontal bar called a kahako is over the vowel. The meanings (and pronunciations) of words spelled the same but with or without the appropriate kahakos or okinas can be very different, sometimes even embarrassing.
One might think that learning the language would be relatively easy, but that only applies to na keiki (children) who have never learned the 26 letters that English speakers use. There is a children's rhyme that goes on for a couple minutes (and written, probably a couple dozen lines) that consists of nothing but both versions of the letters a, i and the okina. It talks of him (ia) eating (ai) his (iaia) fish (ia). 
When the missionaries made a written form of Hawaiian Language, they did not write the kahakos or okinas; leaving it to the context to make the meanings evident. 
Since the intent was to translate the Bible ("Paipala"), natives forgave some of the confusion created. They still learned how unintended "double entendres" could be funny in written form. When Hawaiian language newspapers started, native-speaking writers and editors were careful to avoid these (the type that was available to "set" did not include such "specialty" characters).

</doc>
<doc id="15041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15041" title="Skinhead">
Skinhead

Skinheads, named after their short haircuts, are members of a subculture that originated in Britain in late 1960s, where they were closely tied to the Rude Boys and the Mods. They shave their heads, because originally most of them were workers in factories and they had to be bald, so their hair could not get caught in the machines. 
Traditional skinheads identify with the original skinhead movement ("The Spirit of '69") in music, style, and/or working class pride. Skinheads listen to ska, rocksteady, reggae, Oi! and punk music.
People who are not part of the group often see Skinheads as being politically close to the Neo-Nazi (or White Power) movement. Often Skinheads are seen as part of that movement. This is wrong, given that there are many young people in the movement who have no political views at all. Many Skinheads are also not violent, unless they are provoked.

</doc>
<doc id="15044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15044" title="Anime">
Anime

Anime (アニメ) is Japanese for 'animation' or 'cartoon'. In Japan, anime is the word used for all animation. Outside of Japan, the term anime refers to Japanese animation, which this article is about.
Some anime is drawn by hand, but anime can also be made with computers. There are many types of anime; you can find anime about sports, magic, or romance. These are just some examples. Anime are shown on television, on DVD and VHS, and are used in video games. Also, some anime cartoons are just movies, but they have cartoon characters and animation instead of real people and places. Anime is often based on Japanese comics that are called manga and graphic novels. Sometimes live action (not animation) movies and television series are based on an anime.
The history of anime begins around 1900, when Japanese filmmakers tried out ways of animation at the same time as the United States, Russia, Germany and France.
The filmmakers in Japan did not have a lot of money to make their movies and not a lot of places where they could film their movies. The people that the filmmakers could use as actors in their movies was also a problem for making Japanese movies. Japanese people look different from people in other places in the world, and it was hard for filmmakers to make a movie about places other than Japan with Japanese actors. Movie makers liked animation because then they could have animator draw other places and people that could not be filmed in a normal movie, and the animators could be very creative with the cartoons they made.
During the 1970s, more and more people started to like manga. At the same time, manga were used as the starting point to make anime with the same characters and stories. Animators would take the drawings done by a manga artist and the stories the manga artist wrote, and turn them into the stories and characters of a similar anime. At that time Osamu Tezuka became very popular. Now he is called a "legend" and the "god of manga". Tezuka and other pioneers of anime made a lot of types of stories and styles that are common to anime today. The giant robot genre (known as "mecha" outside Japan) began with manga and anime from Tezuka's ideas. Robot anime like Gundam and Macross became classics in the 1980s. Today, the robot genre is still very popular in Japan and worldwide. In the 1980s, anime became very popular in Japan, and saw an increase in production. (Manga is much more popular than anime in Japan). There are a lot of different kinds of anime that many different kinds of people like besides Mecha, and there are types of anime based on the age of the people who might like it or the subject of the anime.
Very popular stories in anime and manga are often translated into other languages, and the words used in the anime or manga will be put into another language where they mean the same thing. That way, people who live outside of Japan and who do not understand Japanese (the language used for dialogue in anime and manga in Japan) can also understand the stories. If a manga or anime is not translated by a company in another country, sometimes people in that country will translate the story to share with other people for free before a company translates it for the general public. This is good because it allows more people to watch animes, but some companies think it is stealing.
In the late 1980s, lots of people in countries other than Japan started to like anime too. In the United States, giant robot anime became popular. In Europe, anime for children became popular. Today, many different kinds of anime are popular all around the world. Anime helped spread in popularity thanks to the internet.

</doc>
<doc id="15047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15047" title="Sudan">
Sudan

Sudan is a country in Africa. The official name of Sudan is The Republic of Sudan. Its capital is Khartoum.
Sudan borders by Egypt to the north, the Red Sea to the northeast, Eritrea and Ethiopia to the east, South Sudan to the south, the Central African Republic to the southwest, Chad to the west, and Libya to the northwest.
Sudan used to have the largest area of all the countries in Africa. However, on July 9, 2011, the southern part of the country left and became a new country, South Sudan. Sudan now has an area of 1,861,484 km, and is the third largest country in Africa by area.
The Nile flows through Sudan, providing water to crops. There are many different tribal and ethnic groups of people, though the country is mainly divided between the north, which has more Arabic people, and the south, which has more people of African descent.
People from Sudan are called Sudanese. About 45 million people live in Sudan. About 4 million of these live in Khartoum or in towns that are joined to it.
Arabic is the official language of Sudan, but people also speak "Nubian", "Nilotic" and English. Many other languages are spoken in different parts of the country as well.
Most Sudanese people have Islam as their religion. A small number are Christian. Some people have other religions that are called tribal (local) beliefs.
The currency of Sudan is called the Sudanese Pound (Jinneh).
The leader of Sudan right now is President Omar Hassan al-Bashir.
For several years, the Darfur conflict has been going on in Sudan. Over 400,000 people have died in it.
<noinclude>

</doc>
<doc id="15048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15048" title="OpenBSD">
OpenBSD

OpenBSD is a secure, free computer operating system. It can run on many types of computers, including Intel PCs and Apple Computer's PowerPCs.
Like the other open source BSDs and unlike with most Linux operating systems, the whole operating system is developed by the same group of people with OpenBSD. Programmes from other sources are available separately.
OpenBSD is often the first to add new security tools to make it harder to break, developers have also carefully read through the programming code to check for mistakes more than once. The project is led by Theo de Raadt from Calgary, Alberta, Canada and is released under conditions which put few restrictions on people that use the source code, the BSD licence.
OpenBSD releases new versions every six months, each version is supported for one year after release. OpenBSD 4.4 was released November 1, 2008.
OpenBSD's first mascot was a BSD daemon with a halo, it was replaced with Puffy, a pufferfish, on June 15th, 2000, with the release of OpenBSD 2.7.
The operating system's developers add in many new technologies to make the system more secure, technologies like W^X, Stack Protection, malloc reconfigurations and ssh to replace telnet and rlogin.
Because it is so secure, OpenBSD is often used as a firewall and for other security-related jobs. It is also usable for on a desktop computer, it can act and look like one of several other operating systems like Mac OS X, Microsoft Windows, and others.

</doc>
<doc id="15049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15049" title="1170">
1170


</doc>
<doc id="15050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15050" title="1883">
1883


</doc>
<doc id="15051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15051" title="1638">
1638


</doc>
<doc id="15056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15056" title="1741">
1741

1741 was a common year starting on Sunday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="15059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15059" title="Civil war">
Civil war

A civil war is a war that takes place between two or more groups in one country. While civil wars can take place for many of reasons, there are two common reasons.
The first is because the different groups disagree about who should be in charge, or how the country should be run. If two political parties disagree about the result of an election, this might lead to a war if the two sides cannot or would not come to an agreement.
The second is because one group of people does not want to be part of the country anymore. This is known as a war of secession. Lots of people living in a certain area might decide that they want independence to make their own country. Very few national leaders would be happy to give up land that is part of that country, and a war could result.
Sometimes the people who want to break away do not necessarily want to form a whole new country, but they might want more autonomy over their affairs. This happens sometimes when different ethnic groups belong to the same nation.
Civil wars can be just as destructive and damaging as international wars. Civil wars can continue on for many years. This is because civil wars tend to become complicated very quickly and differ. A civil war might start between two sides, but groups might break up and the new, different sides could start fighting each other. Groups of people who were not involved at the beginning can easily be sucked in, as they start getting weapons to defend themselves against both sides. Civil wars with many different sides all fighting each other have occurred. Sometimes foreign countries help one side.
Civil wars include:

</doc>
<doc id="15060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15060" title="1175">
1175


</doc>
<doc id="15061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15061" title="Crocodile">
Crocodile

A crocodile is a large amphibious reptile. It lives mostly in large tropical rivers, where it is an ambush predator. One species, the Australian saltie, also travels in coastal salt water. In very dry climates, crocodiles may aestivate and sleep out the dry season.
The modern type of crocodile appeared first in the Eocene period, but its ancestors go much further back, to the Upper Triassic. The name "Crocodile" is also used for any member of the order "Crocodilia". They are basically Archosaurs, a group which also includes the dinosaurs. There are many species of Crocodiles including the American, slender-snouted and Orinoco crocodile.
The crocodile can snap its jaw shut quickly and with much power. But crocodiles have very little strength opening their jaws and a person could hold the jaw shut with their hands.
Crocodiles range in size from African Dwarf crocodiles that measure rarely over 5 feet to saltwater crocodiles which can approach 23 feet.
Crocodiles live in rivers, lakes and dams in parts of America, Asia, Africa and Australia. Some of the crocodiles from Australia live in salt water. These saltwater crocodiles are normally bigger than the ones that live in fresh water. While crocodiles spend most of their time in water, they can come out and move around on the land. Crocodiles cannot breathe underwater: they breathe air, just like people. They can hold their breath for a maximum of about two hours underwater. Some people feel threatened by crocodiles because they can be violent. However, some people find them fascinating.
Their colors range from brown to grey and have different patterns covering them.
They have many shapes and they differ in color. They have sharp claws and teeth.
They can also be a greenish-brownish color.
Crocodile tongues are not free. They are held in place by a membrane that can not move. Crocodiles are unable to stick out their tongues.
Although there is not much difference in their life-style, biologists put alligators in a separate family. Gharials are also in a separate family, and Caimans are a sub-family of alligators.
The difference between an alligator and a crocodile is that one can not see the fourth tooth in the lower jaw of an alligator when the alligator's mouth is closed. One can see the fourth tooth in the lower jaw of a crocodile when its mouth is closed.
Crocodiles are said to have narrower snouts than alligators, but there are also some crocodiles with wide snouts.

</doc>
<doc id="15068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15068" title="ZZT">
ZZT

ZZT is a computer game made by Tim Sweeney. People can make other games with this game's engine.

</doc>
<doc id="15070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15070" title="Centre">
Centre

Centre (British spelling) or center (U.S. spelling) means the middle of something.
The word "centre" often means places or buildings where an activity takes place. Common examples are:

</doc>
<doc id="15071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15071" title="Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky">
Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky

Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky (, "Pëtr Il’ič Čajkovskij"; ) (born Kamsko-Votkinsk, 7 May 1840; died St Petersburg, 6 November 1893) was a Russian composer who lived in the Romantic period. He is one of the most popular of all Russian composers. He wrote melodies which were usually dramatic and emotional. He learned a lot from studying the music of Western Europe, but his music also sounds very Russian. His compositions include 11 operas, 3 ballets, orchestral music, chamber music and over 100 songs. His famous ballets ("Swan Lake", "The Nutcracker " and "Sleeping Beauty") have some of the best known tunes in all of romantic music.
Tchaikovsky’s father was a Ukrainian who worked as a mining engineer. His mother’s grandfather was a Frenchman who had moved to Russia. She was a nervous woman and Tchaikovsky may have gotten his nervous character from her. Tchaikovsky was only five when he started taking piano lessons. He was soon better than his teacher. The family had an orchestrion (a kind of musical box) which played some tunes from classical music by Mozart, Bellini, Donizetti and Rossini.
In 1848 the family moved to St. Petersburg. Tchaikovsky was unhappy and unsettled as he was often separated from his family who moved several times. In 1854 his mother died. He tried to comfort himself by playing music. He spent nine years at the School of Jurisprudence. When he left school, he had to get a job. For four years he worked as a clerk in the Ministry of Justice. Then the composer and pianist Anton Rubinstein helped him to become a music student at the newly opened conservatory in St. Petersburg. He learned to play the flute and the organ as well as the piano and learning all about composition. In 1866 he moved to Moscow where Nikolai Rubinstein, the brother of Anton, encouraged him to write music with a Russian character. He worked very hard, and was often exhausted, but he managed to finish his First Symphony, which was performed in 1868.
Tchaikovsky met some famous musicians including the French composer Berlioz who was visiting Moscow. He also became friendly with the Russian composer Mily Balakirev who was very helpful and persuaded him to rewrite one of his works several times until it was very good. The result was a piece for orchestra called "Romeo and Juliet" which soon became internationally known. Balakirev had four friends who were composers. This circle of friends is often called “The Five” or “The Mighty Handful”. They were interested in using Russian folktunes in their music. Tchaikovsky was never a member of the group, although he liked their ideas. Tchaikovsky was different to them: he had learned music at the Conservatoire where he had studied Western music. The harmonies that he used in his works were often not suitable for Russian folktunes. He wrote many songs which are romantic in character. One of them, "None But the Lonely Heart", is especially well known in English.
By now, Tchaikovsky was writing works which were to make him very famous. He wrote two more symphonies, and his First Piano Concerto, one of the most popular of all piano concertos, was given its first performance in Boston. He was also writing operas and chamber music.
In 1875, Tchaikovsky began making a long tour of Europe. He liked Bizet’s opera "Carmen", but Wagner’s operas from the "Ring cycle " bored him. In 1877 he finished "Swan Lake", the first of his three ballets. The audience did not like it at first because the dancers were not very good.
Tchaikovsky was a closeted homosexual. In the summer of 1877 Tchaikovsky decided to marry. His wife was called Antonina Milyukova. The marriage was a disaster. A few weeks after the marriage, he ran away and never lived with her again.
Another woman was to become important in his life, but in a very different way. It was to be a very unusual relationship. Her name was Nadezhda von Meck. She was the wife of a rich man. She loved Tchaikovsky’s music and promised him that she would pay him a lot of money every month so long as he promised her that he would never try to meet her. Tchaikovsky no longer needed to work. He was able to give up his teaching job at the Conservatory. For several years he spent the winters in Europe and the summers in Russia. Nadezhda and Tchaikovsky wrote long letters to one another, often quite passionate and dreamy; they talked about love, life and how they wanted it to change, but they never saw one another. He had plenty of time to write music: he wrote several operas including "Eugene Onegin" and his Fourth and Fifth Symphonies, the Violin Concerto, the Serenade for Strings, "Capriccio Italienne" and the "1812 Overture". Tchaikovsky loved Nadezhda very much but never actually told her his true feelings.
By 1885, Tchaikovsky had got tired of travelling around. He rented a country house in Klin, just outside Moscow. He lived a regular life, reading, walking in the forest, composing during the day and playing music with his friends in the evenings. He started to have more confidence as a conductor and toured Europe twice, conducting in Leipzig, Berlin, Prague, Hamburg, Paris and London. In 1889 he finished his second ballet, "The Sleeping Beauty" and the next year, while staying in Florence, he wrote his famous opera "The Queen of Spades" based on a story by Pushkin. Later that year Nadezhda von Meck wrote to him that she had lost nearly all her money and could not continue to support him.
In the spring of 1891 he was invited to conduct in New York where the Carnegie Hall was being opened. He also conducted concerts in Baltimore and Philadelphia. When he returned to Russia he wrote his last ballet "The Nutcracker" and his , known as the “Pathétique” which was dedicated to his nephew with whom he was passionately in love. This work is often considered his best. It was performed in St Petersburg on 16 October 1893. Five days later he suddenly became ill with cholera, a disease many people were catching in the city. Tchaikovsky died four days later. Many people think that he committed suicide by deliberately drinking contaminated water. He may have wanted to (or even been forced to) commit suicide in order to avoid a scandal because he was having a relationship with a nephew of an important aristocratic man. Exactly what happened is still a mystery.

</doc>
<doc id="15078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15078" title="BBC Radio 1">
BBC Radio 1

BBC Radio 1 (often known as Radio 1) is an international radio station that is based in the United Kingdom. It is owned by BBC and BBC Radio. Radio 1 started broadcasting at 7.00 am on September 30, 1967. Tony Blackburn presented the first programme on the station.
Radio 1 mainly plays popular music throughout the day, and often plays alternative music genres after 7 pm. This includes electronic dance, rock or just interviews. The station is meant to be listened to mainly by people aged 15–29. 
Before the launch of Radio 1, the BBC ran three radio stations (the BBC Light Programme, the BBC Home Service and the BBC Third Programme), but these were considered old fashioned and were closed down in 1967. They were replaced with Radio 1, 2, 3 and 4. 
The launch of Radio 1 in 1967 was because of the popularity of pirate radio stations such as Radio Caroline. They had been outlawed by Act of Parliament, and the BBC needed to provide alternative radio stations.
Radio 1 also has a sister station, BBC Radio 1Xtra.

</doc>
<doc id="15081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15081" title="1232">
1232


</doc>
<doc id="15082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15082" title="1910">
1910

1910 (MCMX) was a common year starting on Saturday of the Gregorian calendar. It was the first year of the 1910s.

</doc>
<doc id="15083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15083" title="1443">
1443

1443 was a common year. It started on a Tuesday.

</doc>
<doc id="15086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15086" title="1558">
1558


</doc>
<doc id="15087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15087" title="Sea level">
Sea level

The sea level is the average height of the ocean (informally called the "sea"). The word 'average' must be used because the height of the sea changes with the tides. The height of mountains, countries, and so on, is almost always given as "above sea level".
Sea level is generally used to refer to mean sea level (MSL). This is the an average level for the surface of one or more of Earth's oceans. 
MSL is a type of standardised geodetic reference point. It is used, for example, as a chart datum in cartography and marine navigation. In aviation it is the standard sea level at which atmospheric pressure is measured. This is used to calibrate altitude, which influences aircraft flight levels. A common mean sea-level standard is the midpoint between a mean low and mean high tide at a particular place.
Sea levels can be affected by many factors. They have varied greatly over geological time scales. The careful measurement of variations in MSL offers insights into ongoing climate change. The present slight rise in sea levels is offered as proof of ongoing global warming.
In Earth's long history, the continents and sea floor have changed due to plate tectonics. This affects global sea level because it alters the depths of various ocean basins, and also changes the distribution of glaciers. 
Over most of geologic time, the long-term mean sea level has been higher than today (see graph). Only at the Permian-Triassic boundary ~250 million years ago was the long-term mean sea level lower than today. 
Long term changes in the mean sea level are the result of changes in the oceanic crust, with a downward trend expected to continue in the very long term.
Rapid changes may happen by huge lakes breaking through into seas. This has happened on a number of occasions. When the latest ice age was ending, melting caused huge lakes in central North America. This eventually broke through into the Atlantic. Melting ice in the North Sea are also broke through into the English Channel. The largest known example of marine flooding was when the Atlantic breached the Strait of Gibraltar about 5.2 million years ago. This restored Mediterranean sea levels, which had dried up.
The present rise in sea level is taken from tide gauges. It is about 1.8 mm/yr. Active research continues in this field. 

</doc>
<doc id="15093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15093" title="Fear Factory">
Fear Factory

Fear Factory is an American death/industrial metal group. They were formed in Los Angeles, California in 1989 and disbanded in early 2002. They have reformed in the following year adding Byron Stroud (of Strapping Young Lad) as their current bass player. Their classic line-up was Burton C. Bell (vocals), Dino Cazares (guitars), Christian Olde Woblers (bass) and Raymond Herrera (drums) between 1994 and break up time.

</doc>
<doc id="15095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15095" title="Sublime">
Sublime

Sublime was a popular punk/ska rock band. The band was formed in 1988 in Long Beach, California. They have released popular hit singles like "Date Rape", "Doin' Time", "Santeria" and "What I Got".
Sublime broke up 1996, because singer, guitarist and songwriter Bradley Nowell died. He died in a hotel room in San Francisco, California on May 25th of the same year from a heroin overdose. He was 28 years old. Their third and final album "Sublime" was released two months after Nowell's death. The album's song "What I Got" was what made Sublime famous.
Sublime has sold over 8 million albums around the world.
A few of Sublimes songs have been used in video games. "Santeria" was included in "Guitar Hero World Tour". 
The song "Seed" was included in "Tony Hawk's Underground" and the song "What I Got" was included in "Dave Mirra Freestyle BMX".

</doc>
<doc id="15096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15096" title="Crass">
Crass

Crass was one of the first anarcho-punk bands. The band was formed in Essex, England in 1977. The band split up in 1984.
The group was first of all made up of Penny Rimbaud (playing drums) and Steve Ignorant (who sang). Later they were joined by other people who also lived together in their shared house (or commune) called Dial House.
Crass did their first concert at a squatted festival in Huntley Street, North London. Soon after they played at the famous punk club The Roxy in London's Covent Garden area. However the group were made to come off of the stage because they were very drunk. They also did early concerts with punk band the UK Subs, but not many people went to watch these concerts.
After this members of Crass decided to be more serious about what they were doing. They decided to wear black clothes all of the time, whether or not they were on stage. This was so that no member of the band would be seen as the group 'leader'. They also made a banner that they hung up behind them when they were playing live. This had a logo on it that was made up of symbols like the Christian cross, the swastika and the British flag, as well as a snake with two heads that is eating itself. The meaning of this logo was the idea that "power will destroy itself".
Crass released their first record in 1978. It was called "The Feeding of the 5000". It was meant to have 18 songs on it, but one song was banned by the people who worked at the factory where the records were made. This was because they thought it was blasphemous. This song was called "Asylum". The band instead released the record with a 2-minute gap where that song had been, which they called "The Sound of Free Speech". After this they set up their own record label, Crass Records. This was so that they could control what was on their own records in the future. They re-recorded and released the song that had been banned as a single. They also re-released the first LP with the banned song put back on it.
The second LP released by Crass was the double album "Stations of the Crass". It was released in 1979. One side of this LP was a recording of a live concert that the band played at the Pied Bull pub in Islington, London on August 7, 1979.
Their next LP was released in 1981. It was called "Penis Envy". The band had deliberately changed their sound for this record. The lyrics and the record cover artwork had a strong feminist message. Steve Ignorant did not appear upon it. Instead only the women members of the band, Eve Libertine and Joy DeVivre sung the songs.
The Crass Records label also released many other records by other musicians and bands. These included Flux Of Pink Indians, Conflict, Poison Girls, Zounds, Honey Bane, Rudimentary Peni and others.

</doc>
<doc id="15097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15097" title="Black Flag">
Black Flag

Black Flag was an American hardcore punk band. They formed in California in 1976 and broke up in 1986. There were many different members in the band, but the leader was Greg Ginn. Ginn was the guitarist and wrote many of the songs.
Black Flag was one of the groups that created the hardcore punk style. They toured the United States and Canada to play many live shows. They influenced many other musicians and fans to make their own hardcore bands. The band's first album, "Damaged" (1981), has been recognized as a classic punk album and one of the most influential punk records ever made.
After breaking up, the lead singer Henry Rollins formed a new band by himself, Rollins Band and guitarist Greg Ginn worked on a separate career in the early 90s.

</doc>
<doc id="15106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15106" title="Category:1785 births">
Category:1785 births


</doc>
<doc id="15107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15107" title="Category:1869 deaths">
Category:1869 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15110" title="Tarika">
Tarika

Tarika is the Arabic word for a Sufi order in Islam. The first Tarikas were founded in the 12th and 13th century and many of them still exist today. The head of a Tarika is called a "sheikh", the disciples are called "dervishes".

</doc>
<doc id="15117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15117" title="Crazy Frog">
Crazy Frog

The Crazy Frog is a 3D animated creature, featured on music albums.
Before becoming a ringtone to download onto mobile phones, The Crazy Frog started as a TruboForce 3D animated creature. It was called “The Annoying Thing” in 2003 by its creator, Erik Wernquist of Sweden. With big eyes and a bigger mouth, the high resolution anthropomorphic “thing” is dappled grey-blue and nude save for a helmet, goggles and biker vest. All original videos and images also show small male humanoid genital in a relaxed state that move realistically. Some sources pixel out or remove the genitals.
Members of Bass Bumpers had a dance remix of Harold Faltermeyer’s “Axel-F” the Beverly Hills Cop theme, adding Daniel Maldemahl’s impression of a moped engine (Ring-a-ding-dong) and a Max Headroom, “What’s going on?” (among other dubbed words). In the music video for that remix the “Thing” says featured bites from Daniel’s bit (Ding, ding.) and zooms around on a mimed bike to escape a robot minion on a hover bike. 
The internet and media dubbed it both a Frog and crazy. Erik went along with it.
First, it was simply a vocal imitation of a two stroke, internal combustion engine. Daniel Malmedahl of Sweden created a recording of his imitation in 1997 that eventually spread through peer to peer file sharing on the Internet.
The company that sells Crazy Frog ringtones (Jamba!) has made £14 million from it.

</doc>
<doc id="15119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15119" title="Surrey">
Surrey

"For the city in British Columbia, see Surrey, British Columbia."
Surrey is a county in southern England. The size of Surrey is about 1,663 km² and it has about 1,059,000 people (2002). It is near London. Surrey's largest town is Guildford. In Guildford there is also a university. The River Thames forms part of Surrey's north border.
Surrey is a setting of "War of the Worlds" by H. G. Wells (Woking, Leatherhead in particular).
Surrey is near London's Heathrow and Gatwick airports. It has access to major road routes (including the M25, M3 and M23). It has frequent rail services into Central London.

</doc>
<doc id="15128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15128" title="Universal Serial Bus">
Universal Serial Bus

The Universal Serial Bus (USB) is technology that allows a person to connect an electronic device to a computer. It is a fast serial bus. 
It is mostly used on personal computers. USB is also used on other devices, like the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, the Xbox 360, and others. USB connects different devices using a standard interface.
Most people use USB for computer mice, keyboards, scanners, printers, digital cameras, and USB flash drives. There are over six billion USB devices around the world.
The standard was made to improve plug and play devices. This means that a device can be plugged into a free socket, and simply work. The computer will notice the device. The computer sometimes installs special software so that the device can directly be used. The device can be removed after it stops being used. This technology is called "hot swapping". "Hot swapping" means it can be plugged and unplugged while the power is on. The computer does not need to be turned off for people to change the devices.
USB can also provide a small amount of power to the attached device through the USB cord. Devices that only need a little power can get it from the bus, and do not need a separate electric power plug. That allows gadgets like USB battery chargers, lights, and fans.
As of 2015, USB has replaced several older standards. Those include the parallel port, serial port and SCSI. Some special purposes still need those old connection methods.
The first version of the Universal Serial Bus was created in 1995. This new technology became an instant success. Since the introduction of USB, people that make electronic devices thought about how it could be used in the future. Today, USB connects a computer or other devices like laptops and MP3 players to peripheral devices.
The bus was introduced by seven companies which represent the leaders in the industry of information technology: Compaq, IBM, Intel, Microsoft, NEC, Northern Telecom, and Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC).
Several years earlier, adopters and developers of USB held a meeting called "Plugfest" at a special hotel in California to test their devices. They selected a hotel that included rooms for sleeping and for testing. The meeting lasted three days. During the meeting, the representatives of about 50 companies connected their USB devices to one general host system.
The logo of the USB device also has its own history. The USB logo was in development for several months. 
Currently, five different USB standards are used: USB 1.0, USB 1.1, USB 2.0, USB 3.0 and USB 3.1. USB 3.1 was released in 2016 and will double the speed of 3.0. It will optionally use a different connector called USB Type-C, which is reversible (meaning you can plug it in both ways). USB 1.0 is now rarely used.
USB offers five different transfer speeds: 1.5 MBit per second (called "low speed"), 12 MBit per second ("Full Speed"), 480 MBit/second ("Hi Speed"), 5Gbit per second (called "super speed"), and 10 Gbit/s (“super speed+“). Hi speed is only available in USB 2.0 and later, and Super speed is only available in USB 3.0. These speeds are raw data speeds (in Million bits per second). The actual data rate is usually lower due to protocol overhead.
In order to use the "hi speed" transfer rate, the USB controller and the connected device both need to support it. USB is backwards compatible. Faster and slower USB devices and controllers can be connected together, but they will run at the slower speed.
Almost all computers sold today have USB ports, and most of them support USB 2.0. The number of ports they have is usually limited, though. Between two and six ports are common. USB allows connecting USB hubs to add more USB ports.
The hubs themselves are also USB 1.1 or USB 2.0 compliant. On an USB 2.0 controller, standards can be mixed. Devices connected to a USB 1.1 hub will only go as fast as USB 1.1 rates.
USB was designed to be easy to use. The engineers learned from from other connectors before they designed USB connectors. There are 3 connectors. 
A USB system has an asymmetric design. It is made of a host, several downstream USB ports, and multiple peripheral devices connected in a star topology. Additional USB hubs may be included in the tiers, allowing branching into a tree structure with up to five tier levels.
A USB host can have multiple host controllers. Each host controller provides one or more USB ports. Up to 127 devices, including the hub devices, may be connected to a single host controller.
USB devices are linked in series through "hubs". There is always one hub known as the root hub. The root hub is built into to the host controller. There are special hubs, called "sharing hubs". These allow multiple computers to access the same peripheral devices. They work by switching the access between PCs, either manually or automatically. They are popular in small-office environments. In network terms, they converge rather than diverge branches.
A physical USB device can have several logical sub-devices that are referred to as "device functions". A single device may provide several functions, for example, a webcam (video device function) with a built-in microphone (audio device function).
USB device communication is based on "pipes" (logical channels). Pipes are connections from the host controller to a logical entity on the device named an endpoint. The term "endpoint" is occasionally used to incorrectly refer to the pipe. A USB device can have up to 32 active pipes, 16 into the host controller and 16 out of the controller.
Each endpoint can transfer data in one direction only, either into or out of the device, so each pipe is uni-directional. Endpoints are grouped into "interfaces" and each interface is associated with a single device function. An exception to this is endpoint zero, which is used for device configuration and which is not associated with any interface.
When a USB device is first connected to a USB host, the USB device enumeration process is started. The enumeration starts by sending a reset signal to the USB device. The speed of the USB device is determined during the reset signaling. After reset, the USB device's information is read by the host, then the device is assigned a unique 7-bit address. If the device is supported by the host, the device drivers needed for communicating with the device are loaded and the device is set to a configured state. If the USB host is restarted, the enumeration process is repeated for all connected devices.
The host controller polls the bus for traffic, usually in a round-robin fashion, so no USB device can transfer any data on the bus without an explicit request from the host controller.
The computer hardware that contains the host controller and the root hub has an interface for the programmer. It is called "Host Controller Device" (HCD) and is defined by the hardware implementer.
For USB 1.0 and 1.1, there were two different HCD implementations, "Open Host Controller Interface" (OHCI) and "Universal Host Controller Interface" (UHCI). OHCI was developed by Compaq, Microsoft and National Semiconductor, UHCI by Intel.
VIA Technologies licensed the UHCI standard from Intel; all other chipset implementers use OHCI. UHCI relies more on software. This means UHCI is slightly more processor-intensive than OHCI but easier and cheaper to make. Because there were two different implementations, operating system vendors and hardware vendors needed to develop and test on both of them. This increased cost.
The USB specification does not specify any HCD interfaces and is not concerned with them. In other words, USB defines the format of data transfer through the port, but not the system by which the USB hardware communicates with the computer it sits in.
During the design phase of USB 2.0, the USB-IF insisted that there was only one implementation. The USB 2.0 HCD implementation is called the "Enhanced Host Controller Interface" (EHCI). Only EHCI can support hi-speed (480 Mbit/s) transfers. Most of PCI-based EHCI controllers have other HCD implementations called 'companion host controller' to support Full Speed (12 Mbit/s) and may be used for any device that claims to be a member of a certain class. An operating system is supposed to implement all device classes, so it can provide generic drivers for any USB device. Device classes are decided upon by the Device Working Group of the USB Implementers Forum.
Device classes include:

</doc>
<doc id="15129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15129" title="Punk rock">
Punk rock

Punk rock (or "punk") is a music genre related to rock music. It is often described as harder, louder, and cruder than other rock music. Many punk rock songs have lyrics (words) which tell angry stories or which use rude or controversial words.
Punk rock is a style of music. Many musicians and punk rock music listeners ("punk rockers") want to protest or rebel against the norms or rules of society. Punks say that people should "Do It Yourself", which means that people should try to accomplish their goals using the materials in their own communities. Many punk bands make their own music recordings and distribute them without using a major record company.
Many punks have strong political beliefs. Punk rock musicians are often mad at the government, the police, and laws. Many punk rock songs protest injustice, lies, and unfairness in countries. Almost all punks are leftists, who believe that a country should share the products and food that it produces with all the people in the country. Some punks are vegetarian or vegans, because they believe that animals should not be killed for food. Some punks are anarchists. Very few punks are conservative, libertarian, or Republican.
Many punk musicians put colored hair dye in their hair or put gel to make it stand up. They wear distinctive clothes as a form of protest or rebellion against the norms and rules of society.
Punk rock developed in New York City in the mid-1970s. Bands like The Ramones, Television, The Heartbreakers, Blondie, and Patti Smith played loud, angry songs. Many bands played at a club called CBGB's. The music soon spread to Australia and Britain, were bands started playing punk rock in 1976-1977. British bands like Buzzcocks, The Clash, The Damned, Generation X, The Jam, and Sex Pistols played punk rock music that was inspired by the music being played in New York, as well as by garage rock, pub rock, and other protopunk music.
These early "punks" rejected the excesses of mainstream 1970s rock. They created fast, hard-edged music, with short songs, stripped-down instrumentation, and often political, anti-establishment lyrics. They often did controversial things, such as saying bad words in public. Many newspapers wrote articles about the "bad" behavior of punk rock musicians.
In the 1980s, a new type of punk rock called "hardcore punk" or "hardcore" developed. It was louder, harder, and faster than the original punk rock. By the mid-1980s, hardcore punk rock began being mixed with Heavy Metal rock music. Many hardcore bands began playing in the United States and in the UK.
In the 1990s, punk rock began being mixed with pop music to create a new lighter style of music called pop-punk. Pop-punk bands include Green Day and Good Charlotte. Some pop-punk bands mixed punk rock stars 
ska music.
Pop-punk was still popular in the 2000s. Some people who like the 1970s-style punk rock criticize pop-punk because pop-punk is commercialized.
Some people say that punk rock is dead. But that is not true, because the spirit lives on and many punk rockers are around today.

</doc>
<doc id="15132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15132" title="Edip Yuksel">
Edip Yuksel

Edip Yüksel (who was born 1957) is an American thinker and activist. He has written many books on the Qur'an and is very an influential figure in modern Islamic reform. Yüksel was a student of Rashad Khalifa and was a member of his group United Submitters International. He sometimes works as a legal researcher and a community college teacher, but is mostly a supporter to change the Islamic religion. He lives in Tucson, Arizona.

</doc>
<doc id="15134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15134" title="Epididymitis">
Epididymitis

Epididymitis is a painful inflammation of the epididymis, usually resulting from bacterial infection, but also occasionally caused by injury or viral infection.

</doc>
<doc id="15173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15173" title="Category:1893 deaths">
Category:1893 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15174" title="Category:1840 births">
Category:1840 births


</doc>
<doc id="15175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15175" title="Category:1840">
Category:1840


</doc>
<doc id="15186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15186" title="Perth, Western Australia">
Perth, Western Australia

Perth is the capital city of the state of Western Australia. It is built on the banks of the Swan River. Almost 1.7 million people live in the city.
It is the fourth biggest city in Australia, behind Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Perth was founded in 1829 by Captain James Stirling.
Perth is famous for its beautiful white, sandy beaches, and numerous bogans. Popular local beaches include Cottesloe and Scarborough. These beaches are ideal for swimming and bodysurfing. A popular local tourist attraction is Fat Rodent Island, which is populated by small native mammals called Fat Rodents.
Perth is a sister city with many other cities. Sister cities can share students and business contacts. Perth is a sister city to these cities:
Perth also has some other agreements with Perth, Perth and Kinross in Scotland and formerly Grenoble, France.
Perth is home to four public and one private university. These are:
Perth has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate. It is the windiest city in Australia. It is also considered to be the third windiest capital city in the world. Perth is also the sunniest city in Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="15187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15187" title="Osama bin Laden">
Osama bin Laden

Osama bin Mohammed bin Awad bin Laden ""; 10 March 1957 2 May 2011) was the founder of al-Qaeda, the Sunni militant islamist organization, that claimed responsibility for the September 11 attacks on the United States, along with numerous other mass-casualty attacks against civilian and military targets. He was a Saudi Arabian, a member of the wealthy bin Laden family, and an ethnic Yemeni Kindite. 
He was born in the bin Laden family to billionaire Mohammed bin Awad bin Laden in Saudi Arabia. He studied there in college until 1979, when he joined the mujahideen forces in Pakistan against the Soviets in Afghanistan. He helped to fund the mujahideen by funneling arms, money and fighters from the Arab world into Afghanistan, also gaining popularity from many Arabs. In 1988, he formed al-Qaeda. He was banished from Saudi Arabia in 1992, and shifted his base to Sudan, until US pressure forced him to leave Sudan in 1996. After establishing a new base in Afghanistan, he declared a war against the United States, initiating a series of bombings and related attacks. Bin Laden was on the American Federal Bureau of Investigation's (FBI) lists of Ten Most Wanted Fugitives and Most Wanted Terrorists for his involvement in the 1998 U.S. embassy bombings.
From 2001 to 2011, bin Laden was a major target of the War on Terror, as the FBI placed a $25 million reward on him in their search for him. On May 2, 2011, bin Laden was shot and killed inside a private residential compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, by members of the United States Naval Special Warfare Development Group and Central Intelligence Agency operatives in a covert operation ordered by U.S. President Barack Obama.
Bin Laden probably believed that the restoration of Sharia law would set things right in the Muslim world, and that all other ideologies—"pan-Arabism, socialism, communism, democracy"—must be opposed. These beliefs, along with violent expansive jihad, have sometimes been called Qutbism. 
He believed Afghanistan under the rule of Mullah Omar's Taliban was "the only Islamic country" in the Muslim world. Bin Laden had consistently talked about his belief in the need for violent jihad to make right what he believed are injustices against Muslims perpetrated by the United States and sometimes by other non-Muslim states, the need to eliminate the state of Israel, and the necessity of forcing the US to withdraw from the Middle East. He had also called on Americans to "reject the immoral acts of fornication and homosexuality, intoxicants (e.g. alcohol), gambling, and usury" in an October 2002 letter.
One of Bin Laden's most infamous beliefs was that civilians, including women and children, are legitimate targets of jihad. Bin Laden was antisemitic, and had delivered warnings against alleged Jewish conspiracies: "These Jews are masters of usury and leaders in treachery. They will leave you nothing, either in this world or the next". Shia Muslims have been listed along with "Heretics... America and Israel," as the four principal "enemies of Islam" at the ideology classes of bin Laden's Al-Qaeda organization.
In keeping with Wahhabi beliefs (the Saudi type of Islam), bin Laden opposed music on religious grounds, and his attitude towards technology was mixed. He was interested in "earth-moving machinery and genetic engineering of plants" on the one hand, but rejected "chilled water" on the other.
His viewpoints and methods of achieving them led to him been designated as a terrorist by scholars, journalists from the New York Times, the British Broadcasting Corporation, Qatari news station Al Jazeera, analysts such as Peter Bergen, Michael Scheuer, Marc Sageman, and Bruce Hoffman and he was indicted on terrorism charges by law enforcement agencies in Madrid, New York City, and Tripoli. He stayed in hiding until he was killed by the United States in Pakistan, in May 2011.
Osama bin Laden's name can be transliterated in several ways. Usāmah bin Muhammad bin 'Awad bin Lādin (Arabic: أسامة بن محمد بن عوض بنلادن), shortened to Usama bin Laden (أسامة بن لادن).
The form used here, Osama bin Laden, is used by most English-language mass media. This includes CNN and the BBC. The FBI and Fox News use Usama bin Laden. Often the name is abbreviated to UBL. 
The bin Laden family (or "Binladin," as they like to be called) usually use the name as a surname in the Western style. The family company is known as the "Binladin Brothers for Contracting and Industry". It is one of the largest corporations in Saudi Arabia. 
Bin Laden had many aliases and nicknames, such as "the Prince", "the Emir", "Abu Abdallah", "Mujahid Shayekh", and "the Director".
Bin Laden was first married at the age of 17 to a Syrian cousin. Her name was Najwa Ghanem. She was probably two years younger than he. They had 11 children. Najwa left bin Laden just before 9/11.
He was married to Khadijah (1983–1995, divorced). His next wife was Khairiah (1985–2011, his death). His fourth wife was Siham (1987–2011, his death). He was married to unknown woman in 1996 but the marriage was annulled with a few days. His last wife was Amal (2000–2011, his death). There were a total of nine children from these later marriages, making 20 in all.
U.S. President Barack Obama launched a mission, "Operation Neptune Spear", where United States Special Operation forces raided bin Laden's hideout compound. On the night of 2 May 2011 (Pakistani time; 1 May 2011 U.S. time), bin Laden was killed by bullets to the chest and head. His body was buried at sea later that day so there would be no grave.

</doc>
<doc id="15188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15188" title="Mayflower (ship)">
Mayflower (ship)

The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620 transported 102 passengers, including a group of people seeking religious freedom. Their original destination was the Virginia Colony but they were forced to land instead at the Cape Cod hook. Their story is one of suffering and survival in a harsh environment. The voyage is one of the most famous in early American history.
The "Mayflower" left England with the ship "Speedwell" on 15 August 1620. It carried Pilgrims from England and Holland. The "Speedwell" turned out to be unseaworthy. Both ships were twice forced to return to England. The "Mayflower" finally left Plymouth, England on 16 September 1620. On 19 November 1620, they spotted land. Their destination was the Virginia Colony but the ship was damaged so were forced to land Cape Cod on 21 November. They wrote the Mayflower Compact, which made rules on how they would live and treat each other.
The Passengers lived on the ship for a few months. They went ashore to build shelters in the day, then returned to the ship at night. About half the people died in the winter of 1620-21. In March 1621, there were enough shelters for everyone to live on land. 

</doc>
<doc id="15189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15189" title="800">
800


</doc>
<doc id="15190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15190" title="Reykjavík">
Reykjavík

Reykjavík is the capital city of the island country of Iceland. It is also the largest city in that country. The population of Reykjavík is over 117,000 people. There is a geothermal bath, both natural and unnatural in appearance. It is situated in the capital and people relax in this hot spring during the cooler months. Björk, an Icelandic singer, is from Reykjavik.

</doc>
<doc id="15195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15195" title="Uniform">
Uniform

Uniforms are special clothes to show that a group of people belong together. The group of people will all be dressed in the same way ("uni" means "one" so the word means "one form").
People may wear uniforms for several reasons. The uniform will help the people to feel a team spirit so that they work well together. They may also help members of the public to know who they are, e.g. in a department store a customer can tell who is a member of staff, or in the street people will recognize a police officer. Uniforms may also be worn because they are practical, e.g. it might keep them safe when operating machinery or keep them clean when doing their work.
In the army soldiers wear uniform. They also wear extra things such as badges on their uniform which show how important they are (what rank they are).
Nurses in hospitals wear uniform. Sometimes domestic workers wear uniform when working for their employers. Important domestic workers may wear special smart uniforms called "livery" e.g. porters (doormen) at luxury hotels.
In some countries such as India, Japan, China, Korea, Australia and United Kingdom many school children wear uniform. The uniform would be a set of clothes with the school crest or symbol. It helps them to feel proud of their school and children from rich families and poor families all look the same. In Britain, for example, most young children wear school uniform. In state schools the children may wear polo-necked T shirts with a school logo. Other schools, especially private schools, may have a formal uniform, or they may be free to choose their own clothes so long as they are the school colour.

</doc>
<doc id="15196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15196" title="Battle of Trafalgar">
Battle of Trafalgar

The Battle of Trafalgar was a sea battle fought on 21 October 1805 between the navies of France and Spain on one side, and Great Britain on the other. The battle took place near Cape Trafalgar (a cape is a piece of land sticking out into the sea), which is in southwest Spain. The battle ended with a clear victory for the British forces. This allowed Britain to become the world's largest sea power for 100 years. The Battle of Trafalgar was the most important sea battle of the 19th century.
France and Britain had been at war for some time. France had built the strongest army in Europe, and controlled much of the land. Because it was an island, Britain had built a strong navy, and had used this to try to prevent French ships from leaving their ports. (This is called a "blockade".) Because the French leader Napoleon Bonaparte wanted to invade (capture) Britain, he knew that he would have to sink the British navy first, otherwise it would be able to prevent his army from landing.
The British knew that France might try to attack them, and had placed ships outside the important French ports, like Toulon. The admiral (chief sailor) in charge of the British fleet was Lord Horatio Nelson. He had become famous in Britain for his victories over the French, such as at the Battle of the Nile in 1798.
But the French navy managed to avoid Nelson's fleet and leave Toulon during a storm and met up with a group of Spanish ships. Spain at the time was an ally (partner) of France. This small fleet first sailed to the West Indies, then returned across the Atlantic Ocean to the Spanish port of Cadiz. They wanted to join up with more French ships to make a stronger fleet. The British had chased them both ways across the ocean.
The French then learned that some British ships had been seen in Gibraltar, and thought this meant that the British fleet was not as strong as it had been before. So they decided that this was the best time to leave Cadiz.
The next day, the 33 ships of the French and Spanish fleet were met by the 27 ships of the British. Nelson had put his ships into two lines. Before the battle started, he sent a message which was to become famous: "England expects that every man will do his duty".
The two British lines sailed through the French and Spanish line, splitting it, and was able to cause great damage to its ships.
However, Admiral Nelson, on board his ship, "HMS Victory", was hit by a musket bullet fired by a sniper from the French ship "Redoutable". The bullet entered via his shoulder, went into his lung and lodged in his spine. He was taken below the deck and died later, shortly before 4.30pm, as the battle died down. The French and Spanish had lost 22 ships, the British lost none. 
Because France was unable to invade Britain, British soldiers were able to fight on the European continent together with the armies of other countries against the armies of Napoleon. In the end, Napoleon was finally defeated, in 1815, at the Battle of Waterloo. With control of the seas, Britain was able to build up a large empire during the years that followed and its navy was the world's largest for over a hundred years.
Nelson's body was brought back to Great Britain and he was given a hero's funeral. In 1843, the famous Trafalgar Square and Nelson's Column were built in London to honour him.

</doc>
<doc id="15197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15197" title="Peter Frampton">
Peter Frampton

Peter Frampton (born April 22, 1950) is an English guitarist. He is best known for the album "Frampton Comes Alive".

</doc>
<doc id="15198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15198" title="1537">
1537


</doc>
<doc id="15199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15199" title="Nairobi">
Nairobi

Nairobi is the capital and largest city of Kenya.Its name comes from The Masai word 'Enkare Nyorobi' meaning 'place of cool waters' It is far from the coastline of Kenya. About three million people live there. The city was founded in 1899 as a railway depot linking Uganda to Mombasa. Nairobi is the fourth largest city in Africa. Nairobi is also very sunny at most times. Nairobi is a good place in to go for a ride in a car, although traffic is often bad. There are several popular shopping malls, including the Yaya Center,The Thika Road Mall, The Hub Karen, Junction Mall, the Village Market, and the Sarit Center. The Israeli owned, Westgate Mall was another popular destination until it was attacked by al Shaabab terrorists in 2013.
Nairobi has become very highly populated due to high rural to urban migration rates. Violent crime is also fairly common in many areas, leading to the nickname "Nairobbery." 

</doc>
<doc id="15201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15201" title="Derek and the Dominos">
Derek and the Dominos

Derek and the Dominos was an American blues rock band. The band's members were Eric Clapton, Carl Radle, Bobby Whitlock, Jim Gordon, and Duane Allman. They made the album "Layla and Other Assorted Love Songs". "Layla", with the well-known guitar riff, came from that same album. The band broke up after one album.

</doc>
<doc id="15202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15202" title="Carl Radle">
Carl Radle

Carl Dean Radle (born June 18, 1942 Tulsa, Oklahoma, died May 30, 1980) was an American musician, best known for being the bassist in Derek and the Dominos. Radle worked with many well-known artists and worked on many gold and platinum singles and albums. Radle is thought by many to have been the best bass guitar sideman in the music business.
In May 30, 1980, Radle died at age 37, of problems from a kidney infection caused by his alcoholism and drug addiction.

</doc>
<doc id="15204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15204" title="Nineteen Eighty-Four">
Nineteen Eighty-Four

Nineteen Eighty-Four is a novel written by George Orwell in 1948. The main character is Winston Smith, who lives in Oceania, under the rule of The Party and Big Brother. He becomes friends with the character O'Brien. He also falls in love with Julia, who hates Big Brother and The Party.
Winston's job is to change or "rectify" printed news stories and articles. No one in Oceania can look at the old changes. They are not allowed to even think about them again, or else they will be in big trouble. This is called "thoughtcrime". Thoughtcrime and Facecrime are punished by death. Another thing they are trying to do is cut all the hard words out of the English language. They are changing it to make it more simple so that people will not be too clever or think too much. They are not allowed to have families. Other people who live on the outside of the system have more freedoms. They are called "proles". There is an endless war going on with another nation, Eurasia. In other parts of the world, large wars are being fought to keep the people busy. The sides in the wars sometimes change. When this happens, they pretend there was no change and that the sides were always the same. This means that all the articles will have to be changed by people like Winston who are not supposed to think about what they are doing. When news is "rectified", the old copies are destroyed.
Orwell got the idea for the book when he saw in the newspapers of London that they listed how much the country's supplies increased (more supplies) during World War II when they were actually very low on supplies and were getting smaller. He started writing a political satire of the possible condition of Britain in 50 years. He wrote the book over several years, finishing, mostly in Jura, Scotland. At last he sent the manuscript to his publishers in December 1948.
The book was not an attack on socialism, which Orwell supported, but on communism. He once wrote Later he repeated that idea, writing about "1984" 
At the end of "Nineteen-Eighty Four", Winston is taken to the "Ministry of Love". This is the prison of Oceania. While he is there, he is tortured and constantly watched by four telescreens, which he can not escape from. The only place he is safe is in his own mind. Soon he loses control over it as well. At the start he thought that O'Brien was an ally (friend) against the Party. This is not true because O'Brien is his questioner. He thinks O'Brien betrayed him. So that he is not executed, Winston must answer many questions. He also worried about the bond (agreement) of love he made with Julia. He is not sure if she betrayed him or not. In the end, Winston is faced with his worst fear: a cage filled with rats, which can eat his face. He then breaks down (stops fighting). He dies as only another member of the Party.
Details of the Endless War:
Newspeak is a fictional (not real) language that appears in the book "Nineteen Eighty-Four". It is the official language of Oceania. At the end of his book, George Orwell described Newspeak. It started out as the English language, but the number of words gets smaller each year. The Party are trying to stop people from rebelling, so it destroys words like "freedom" and "love", saying that people can not think of it if there is no word for it. In the society, this is supposed to prevent thoughtcrime, which is thinking against the Party, or thinking about the past. For example, a person could not say "I want to be free", because there was no word for "free" any more, so the person could not describe what he or she was feeling. At the time, it was supposed to make fun of what was later called "politically correct" speech, and "thoughtcrime" made fun of censorship. "Newspeak" is also used for military reasons, such as Oceania's Ministry of Peace (in Newspeak: "Minipax"), really the war department. Words like "Peace", "Truth", "Love", and "Plenty" were used in Newspeak a lot to mean their exact opposites. Another "Newspeak" word, "joycamp", means "forced labor camp". Other "Newspeak" words were used for political reasons. Words like "crimethink" were defined by the "Party", and became laws of the land.
"Book" magazine ranked the character of Big Brother as #59 on its "100 Best Characters in Fiction Since 1900" list.

</doc>
<doc id="15206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15206" title="Grover Cleveland">
Grover Cleveland

Stephen Grover Cleveland (March 18, 1837 - June 24, 1908) was the 22nd (1885–1889) and also the 24th (1893–1897) President of the United States. He was the only president to serve a second term that did not begin as soon as the first had ended. Cleveland was the first Democrat elected as President after the Civil War.
He was known for his honesty, integrity, and having a firm stance against corruption. He believed in small government (he wanted the government to tax less and spend less). He used the presidential veto power over 500 times, far more than most other presidents, to reject bills he disagreed with. He did not want the United States to get its military involved in Latin America.
Cleveland was born on March 18, 1837 in Caldwell, New Jersey. He was raised in Cleveland, Ohio. Cleveland studied at New York Institute for the Blind. He was married to Frances Folsom. He was the first President to marry in the White House. They had one child, Ruth Cleveland. During his second term, he had an emergency surgery for jaw cancer on a boat in the middle of a river to avoid publicity. Cleveland died on June 24, 1908 from a heart attack in Princeton, New Jersey, aged 71.

</doc>
<doc id="15208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15208" title="Bassist">
Bassist

A bassist is a musician whose musical instrument is a bass guitar or a double bass. In rock, pop, country, metal, jazz fusion, and funk music, most bassists play a bass guitar. In some types of jazz, and in rockabilly, bluegrass, and in symphony orchestras, bassists play a double bass.
Many professional rock, pop, country, metal, and funk, rockabilly, and bluegrass, bassists learn to play by performing in groups for many years and by taking private lessons with bass teachers. 
Bassists who play in symphony orchestras, or who play jazz or jazz fusion often learn to play the bass in a conservatory, music school, college, or university. College or university degrees in double bass include the Bachelor of Music degree (which takes four years) and the Master of Music degree (which takes two years).
There are fewer Bass players than traditional guitar players. Some believe the bass is harder to play, although it has fewer strings
Bassists, like other musicians, have a much lower average income than many other job categories, such as accountants or administrators. Although a tiny number of famous bassists make a large amount of money, and a small number of bassists have full-time jobs in bands or orchestras, most bassists have low incomes. Many bassists do not earn enough from playing, so they do other music-related jobs, such as teaching bass.

</doc>
<doc id="15209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15209" title="President of the United States of America">
President of the United States of America

The President of the United States (of America) is the head of state and leader of the government of the United States of America. The current President is Barack Obama.
The Presidents of the United States of America may also refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="15210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15210" title="Fascism">
Fascism

Fascism is a form of government which is a type of one-party dictatorship. Fascists are against liberal democracy. They work for a totalitarian one-party state. This aims to prepare the nation for armed conflict, and to respond to economic difficulties. Such a state is led by a strong leader—such as a dictator and a martial government. Fascism is an extreme right-wing political movement. It tends to be militaristic, and racist. In the Third Reich, German society was pictured as a racially unified hierarchy, the "Volksgemeinschaft".
Fascist leadership might also be similar to an oligarchy, such as in Italy where the fascist party was ruled by its "grand council" from 1922 until the end of World War II.
Fascism appeared in Italy in the 1920s and developed fully in the 1930s. Its supporters thought that democracy was weak and full of moral perversions, that multiparty capitalism was too materialistic and unfair to the people. Communism, although unifying and fair, did not care about the needs of the nation and hampered business initiative. The two first fascist leaders were Mussolini and Hitler. After World War II, fascism continued in the form of military dictatorships in Portugal, Spain, Latin America and some parts of Asia.
Fascism was supposed to be the answer for that need, with national unity and solidarity instead of the divisions of class struggle and party politics. Liberals and believers in democracy generally consider fascism and communism as two facets of totalitarianism, and that they are unified by the urge to control everything and allow no freedom. But, believers in Marxism-Leninism think that capitalism either creates or uses fascism as a tool to destroy the workers' movements and secure rule by the upper classes if it is challenged. It does so by appealing to the people and to their most primitive needs, while actually pursuing the interests of the already rich.
There is more than one reason why people living in democratic states oppose fascism, but the main reason is that in a fascist dictatorship the individual citizen has no guaranteed rights. If you say the wrong thing or oppose the wrong person, you can be arrested or killed without a fair trial. 
Many people believe that fascism would not be a terrible system if you always do your duty and you never oppose the government. However, the problem is that people can be corrupt. Everything looks good in theory, but in real life innocent people can get into serious trouble with the government when there is no guaranteed right to a fair trial.
Fascist governments are different from communist ones in that fascists, in theory, support the right of labor representatives and corporate representatives (CEOs, company presidents, etc.) to negotiate - through a system called corporatism. Fascists usually work closely with corporations and economic elites, and use the resources to build up the military and other parts of the fascist state. Fascist states take over schools and other parts of civil society in order to promote nationalism and propaganda. All adults are expected to either join the fascist party or support it as the government. Fascist governments, similar to the Nazis in Germany, pursue racist policies of segregation and/or extermination in opposition to cultural and ethnic pluralism.
Communism, on the other hand is viewed as totalitarian in the sense that it calls for complete economic control and ownership of the economy by the people, in common. 
It is always a big crime in fascist countries to speak against the leader or ruling party. Fascist leaders often give themselves a high military rank, or appear in public in an army or navy uniform, because fascist countries consider the army and warfare the most important part of the struggle for survival.
The first fascist government was run by Benito Mussolini in Italy from 1922 until 1943. The governments of Engelbert Dollfuss in Austria and Adolf Hitler in Germany are also iconic examples of fascism. Other examples are Greece under Ioannis Metaxas, Spain under the rule of Francisco Franco, and Portugal when António de Oliveira Salazar was the head of the government. All of these governments were much like Italian fascism, especially before and during World War II.
Fascism is named after the "fasces", which is an old Roman name for a group of sticks tied together. It is easy to break one stick in half. It is very hard to break many sticks tied together in half. Fascists think that everyone following rigidly following the same leader and nationalist ideas makes the country strong the same way the sticks are.
In countries led by fascist governments, the government tries to control all areas of life, including work, school, and family life. Fascist ideas were most common around the time of World War II. Many people were killed by fascist governments because the government did not like them or because they opposed fascism. Even more were killed in wars started by fascist governments. However, the fascist governments of Portugal and Spain did not take part in World War II, and stayed in power until the 1970s. Many scholars consider these governments to have been or evolved into traditionalist and conservative rather than fascist. Fascism, while supporting order and stability as conservatism does, wants to transform society in new ways.
After World War II, fascism lost much of its influence, although movements and politicians inspired by fascism have had success in several countries, such as Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="15211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15211" title="Erection">
Erection

An erection () of a body part such as a man's penis, a woman's clitoris or a nipple refers to it becoming larger and harder.
The term "erection" is most often used to refer to an erection of the penis. It is widely believed that a man's penis needs to be erect in order for him to take part in sexual intercourse and penetrate his partner's vagina and to ejaculate semen, but all are possible without an erection. For an erection to take place, a man must be sexually aroused (made sexually excited) or stimulated. This can happen if he is touched sexually, or even if he is not touched – for example, if he sees a naked person or thinks about having sex with someone else. Tissues in the penis called the corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis fill with blood, causing the penis to become longer, thicker, harder and to stand upright. A man's erection usually stops if he is no longer sexually aroused, or after he has had an orgasm and has ejaculated. 
Erect penises have appeared in erotic (sexually exciting) art for a very long time. Pictures of men with erections appear on ancient objects and in paintings. In the past, the erect penis was also a symbol or sign of health and fertility (the ability to give life). Ancient Egyptians, Greeks and Romans believed in gods that had erect penises. Today, erect penises do not often appear in artworks or movies because many people think that showing a man's penis when it is erect is obscene (not decent). Men with larger penises are often thought to be more handsome, manly and powerful. A lot of people also believe that men with bigger penises are better at making their partners feel good when they are having sex. However, this is not always true.
Like a man's penis, a woman's clitoris can also become erect. This happens in a similar way to an erection of the penis. The clitoris also has a corpora cavernosa, and when a woman is sexually excited this part of the clitoris fill with blood. This causes the clitoris and other parts of the woman's sex organs to become larger, harder, redder in colour, and very sensitive to being touched.
The nipples of men and women can also become erect. Women's nipples become erect when they are breastfeeding (giving milk to their babies from their breasts). Men and women may also have an erection of their nipples when they are sexually excited, or if they feel cold. Nipples do not have any tissue in them that fills with blood. Instead, the body's nervous system makes muscles in the nipples contract (become shorter), causing them to stand up and become slightly harder.
Blood flows out of the corpus spongiosum and corpora cavernosa penis, and the penis goes back to its normal size. A man who often has problems having or keeping an erection of his penis is said to have erectile dysfunction (ED). On the other hand, an erection that lasts too long is also a dangerous condition called priapism.
The term "erection" is most often used to refer to an erection of the penis. A man's penis is usually soft, quite short and hangs down. When the penis is like this, it is said to be flaccid (). In order for the man to take part in sexual intercourse by putting his penis inside a woman's vagina, his penis needs to become longer, thicker, harder and to stand upright. When this happens, it is said that the penis is erect, or that the man has an erection. The penis needs to be at least mildly erect before the man can have an orgasm and ejaculate semen.
The scientific name for an erection is "tumescence" (which means "swelling"). Some slang terms for having an erection are "getting hard", "getting wood" and "having a hard-on", and an erect penis is informally called a "boner", "hard-on", "stiffy", "wood" or "woody".
The penis is shaped like a banana or sausage. It has a duct or tube called the urethra running right through it. Semen and urine pass along the urethra to get out of the body. Around the whole urethra is tissue called the corpus spongiosum penis (which is Latin for "body of the penis that is like a sponge"). It is near the lower surface of the penis. Also inside the penis near its upper surface are two cylindrical tissues called the corpora cavernosa penis (Latin for "bodies of the penis that are like caves"). (One of these tissues by itself is called a corpus cavernosum.) The corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis are filled with many blood vessels called arteries which carry blood.
When a man is sexually aroused or stimulated (made sexually excited) by touch – for example, if he masturbates or another person touches him in a sexual way – the touching is picked up by nerves in the arteries of the corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis. The nerves then cause a chemical called nitric oxide to be released into the arteries. This makes the arteries dilate (become wider), and they fill up with blood. Thus, the corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis all fill with blood and become larger and harder. This makes the penis grow longer, thicker and harder. The corpora cavernosa penis press against blood vessels called veins that let blood flow out of the penis. Since less blood can flow out of the penis through the veins, more of it stays in the penis, which remains hard. During an erection, a valve stops urine from entering the urethra so that only semen flows along it. This is why it is very difficult for a man to urinate when he is having an erection.
A man can also become sexually aroused without being touched, for example, if he sees a naked person or thinks about having sex with someone. In this case, his brain sends messages through his spinal cord (which is inside his vertebral column or backbone) to his penis and makes an erection happen. The brain can also stop an erection from happening, even if the man is being touched sexually.
After a man has had an orgasm and has ejaculated, his erection usually ends. How long this takes depends on the length and thickness of his penis. A man can also stop having an erection without having an orgasm and ejaculating, if he is no longer sexually aroused. Nerves in his body cause the arteries in the penis to constrict (become narrower). This forces blood out of the corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis. As they go back to their normal size, they do not press so much on the veins leading out of the penis. This lets blood flow faster out of the corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis. The scientific term for this process is "detumescence".
The angle that an erect penis makes varies from one man to another. If it is imagined that a man is standing upright and there is a horizontal line stretching out from the base of his penis, most men's erect penises point upwards from the line at a certain angle (as shown in the photograph on the left). However, it is common and normal for an erect penis to point nearly vertically upwards, nearly vertically downwards, or even horizontally forward. The angle depends on how long a man's suspensory ligament is. The suspensory ligament is a band of tough, stringy tissue that joins a man's penis to the front of his pelvis.
Few men's penises are completely straight when they are erect. It is common for an erect penis to have a slight curve in it. The curve can be up or down, or to the left or right. A curve of up to 30° is considered normal, and medical treatment is usually not needed unless the angle of curvature is more than 45°. A curved penis does not usually cause a man any problems when he is having sex. However, if the curvature of a penis changes, this could be caused by an illness called Peyronie's disease (see below).
A survey of 300 men over the age of 18 carried out between 11 March and 17 March 2001 in Cancún, Mexico, found that among those men the average erect human penis was about 14.928 centimetres (5.877 inches) long, and that most of them had an erect penis length of between 14 and 16 centimetres (5.5 and 6.3 inches). The typical girth or circumference (the length around the outside of the penis) was about 12.63 centimetres (4.972 inches), and most erect penises had a girth of between 12 and 13 centimetres (4.7 and 5.1 inches). As this survey was only done in one city, its findings may not apply to men from other countries.
The size of an erect penis generally does not change after puberty, the time when a boy becomes sexually mature. Some people have surgery to make their penises larger. However, a study that came out in 2006 found that only 35% of men who had gone for such surgery were happy with the results.
An erection of the penis can also happen by itself when a man is asleep, often when he is dreaming. The scientific term for this is "nocturnal penile tumescence" (which means "swelling of the penis at night"). It is also common for a man to wake up after a night's sleep to find that he has an erection. This is often caused by his bladder being full of urine, which presses on the tissues in the penis. Such an erection is sometimes informally called a "morning glory" or "morning wood".
Unexpected erections are involuntary and are normal. Such erections can be embarrassing if they happen in public. Erections can occur unexpectedly at any time of day.
A man who often has problems having or keeping an erection of his penis is said to have erectile dysfunction. Erectile dysfunction is also known as ED, impotence or male impotence. The study of erectile dysfunction comes within andrology, the field of science dealing with men's health.
ED is not uncommon. For example, about 10% of all men in the United Kingdom will have ED happening to them regularly at some time in their lives. It can be due to both physiological and psychological reasons. Physiological reasons are those dealing with how the body works. Psychological reasons are those involving human behaviour and how people think.
These are some common physiological reasons for ED:
ED can also happen for psychological reasons. For example, a man can find it difficult to have an erection:
Having erections is seen by many people as a very important part of being a man. Therefore, a man who has ED often feels that he is not manly enough and not successful in life. This can lead to him feeling ashamed and not as good as other men. The matter is made worse because men often do not like talking about their personal problems with other people, so they keep their unhappy feelings to themselves. However, talking to a doctor or psychiatrist (a doctor who knows a lot about mental problems) is helpful, as he or she may be able to suggest ways of dealing with the problem.
How ED may be treated depends on the cause. If it is caused by a disease, sometimes treating the disease will reduce the problem. For example, if a man is unable to have erections because his body does not make enough testosterone, he can be given pills to take which help his body to do so. If the blood vessels or nerves in the corpora cavernosa penis are damaged, a full cure may not be possible. However, there are some temporary treatments that allow a man to have an erection for long enough to have sex:
If a man's erection lasts for more than four hours even though he is no longer sexually excited, this is a medical problem called priapism (). The condition is named after the Greek god Priapus, whose penis was believed to always be erect (see below). Priapism is painful, and is a medical emergency because the blood stuck in the penis can become thick and form clots. This can damage the blood vessels of the penis and lead to erectile dysfunction (ED). In serious cases the tissues of the penis can die, and the penis may have to be amputated (cut off) so that the tissue death does not spread to the rest of the body.
It is not really known what causes priapism. Men who suffer from priapism sometimes have blood diseases like leukemia (a type of cancer of the blood; in the United Kingdom and some other countries it is spelled "leukaemia") or sickle-cell disease (which makes the blood cells crescent-shaped). Problems with the nervous system such as injury to the spinal cord or abnormal growths on it can also lead to priapism. Certain medicines can make priapism happen, including some used to treat ED such as alprostadil. A 2008 study suggests that too much of the chemical adenosine in the body may cause priapism since it makes blood vessels widen which lets more blood flow into the penis.
When a man with priapism is brought to the emergency department of a hospital, a doctor will usually try to remove blood from the corpora cavernosa penis by aspirating it (sucking it out) using a syringe. If this is not enough, a chemical called phenylephrine may be injected into the penis to try and make the blood vessels become narrower. If this also does not work, the doctor will make a shunt (a hole or passage) between the corpora cavernosa penis and corpus spongiosum penis. This allows blood to flow away from the corpora cavernosa penis into the corpus spongiosum penis. For men who have priapism again and again, it has been found that medicines such as sildenafil (Viagra) and tadalafil (Cialis) may help.
When an erect penis is shown in art, it is often called a phallus. Erotic (sexually exciting) art has shown phalluses for a very long time. Pictures of men with erections appear on ancient objects and in paintings.
The erect penis was also a symbol or sign of health and fertility (the ability to give life). The Hohle Fels phallus was found in a cave in Germany. It is a piece of stone carved to look like a penis that archaeologists believe is about 28,000 years old. (Archaeologists are scientists who study the past by looking for things that people have left behind.) From the fourth millennium B.C. (4000–3001 B.C.), Ancient Egyptians worshipped Min as the god of reproduction and the maker of all things. Min was shown in statues and on wall carvings as having an erect penis.
The Ancient Greeks believed in a god called Priapus who had a very large penis that was always erect. He was thought to protect livestock (animals kept by humans for food, milk, leather or wool), fruit plants and gardens, and men's sex organs. He was also seen as able to chase away evil, and as a protector of sailors, fishermen and others needing good luck. 
Long after the Roman Empire ended and many people became Christian, Priapus was still seen as a symbol of health and fertility. A 13th-century book called the "Lanercost Chronicle", which is a history of northern England and Scotland, talks about someone putting up a statue of Priapus to try and stop a disease from spreading among cattle. 
Some Native Americans in the Southwestern United States believe in a fertility god called Kokopelli who is in charge of childbirth and agriculture (the growing of plants and animals for food and other uses). He also plays tricks and is a symbol for the spirit of music. Kokopelli is sometimes shown as a man playing a flute with a humpback (a back that is bent forwards), things like feathers sticking out from his head, and a very big penis.
Today, phalluses do not often appear in artworks or movies (except in pornographic movies which show people having sex with each other). This is because many people think that showing a man's penis when it is erect is obscene (not decent).
Men with larger penises are commonly thought to be more handsome, manly and powerful. In 2006, it was reported that an Internet survey of 52,031 heterosexual (straight) men and women showed that men who thought that their penises were larger than the average size believed they were more good-looking. Of the men, 55% of them were happy with their penis size, but 45% wanted to be larger. Only 0.2% wanted a smaller penis. On the other hand, 85% of women were happy with how big their partner's penis was. Another study that also came out in 2006 in the Netherlands found that out of 251 homosexual (gay) men who were asked, most felt it was better to have a large penis, and those who thought they had one were happy about their bodies. However, just because a man has a large penis does not always mean he is sexier or stronger than other men, even though many people think this.
A lot of people also believe that men with bigger penises are better at making their partners feel good when they are having sex. For heterosexual men, this is because it is thought that when the penis can go further into the vagina, this helps the woman have a better orgasm. Scientists are not sure whether this is true or not. Some research shows that the most sensitive area of the female sex organs includes the vulva, clitoris and the part of the vagina nearest the outside of a woman's body. There are also parts of the clitoris inside the vulva and vagina. Therefore, most men's penises are long enough to make their partners feel good during sex. Also, some studies say it is not how long but how thick a penis is that decides how well it excites a woman sexually.
However, other research seems to say that a long penis that touches and sexually excites the fornix, which is the deepest part of the vagina near the cervix (the opening of the uterus into the vagina), helps a woman to have an orgasm. A study from the Netherlands of 375 women came out in 2002. This study said that although 77% of the women felt that the length of a man's penis was not important to them, quite a large number – 21% – felt it was important.
The clitoris () is part of a woman's sex organs. It makes a woman's orgasms happen, which gives her very good sexual feelings. Like a man's penis, a woman's clitoris also becomes bigger and harder, moving out and away from the body, when she is sexually excited. However, because the clitoris is much smaller than the penis, and most of the clitoris is inside the woman's body, only part of its entire length can be seen from the outside. Some clitoral erections cannot be seen as well as an erection of the penis.
An erection of the clitoris happens in the same way as an erection of the penis. The clitoris has a corpus cavernosum similar to the penis. However, instead of the corpus spongiosum it has two vestibular bulbs. When a woman is sexually excited, the corpus cavernosum and vestibular bulbs fill with blood. This causes the clitoris and other parts of the woman's sex organs to become larger, harder, and redder in colour. When this happens, they become very sensitive to being touched.
If an erection of the clitoris does not go away after a long time, even though the woman is not being made sexually excited any more, this is a medical problem called clitorism. Like priapism which can affect a man's penis, it is painful. A woman who thinks she may have clitorism should see a doctor.
Clitorises range in size. From a small pea to fingertip-section(s) when still soft. They engorge with blood and become much larger in all dimensions, and firmer when aroused. They can range into even 4-5 inches in some. A penis has a tubular shape while a clitoris has a hood covering and C curvature shape, and yet still tubelike, and rides along the body. The tip can lift upward more when aroused. The tip can also be referred to as the pearl. Sometimes, it can be uncomfortable to the entire clitoris, from its sensitivity, if treated rashly, mistaking erection for pleasure. This is known mentally by the participant if pleasurable or uncomfortable. It can be hard, or midfirm as well, and climb to a shudder, then do a sharp firm up and an outward move right before, and then a tingling jingle inside and to the g-spot on in the other - and this is an orgasm. Orgasms vary in intensity. The body and mind can be relaxed and passionate afterwards to continue with love making or setting itself.
The nipples of men and women can also become erect. Women's nipples become erect when they are breastfeeding (giving milk to their babies from their breasts). Men and women may also have an erection of their nipples when they are sexually excited. This is caused by the release of a hormone called oxytocin in the body. Nipples can also become erect when a person feels cold or sexually excited.
Unlike the penis and clitoris, nipples do not have any tissue in them that fills with blood. Instead, the body's nervous system makes muscles in the nipples contract (become shorter), causing them to stand up and become slightly harder.

</doc>
<doc id="15213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15213" title="Methamphetamine">
Methamphetamine

Methamphetamine (also called crystal meth or just meth) is a man-made stimulant drug. Many people use it illegally, but it is occasionally used legally by prescription to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) or obesity as "Desoxyn".
Methamphetamine has two isomers, "left-handed" and "right-handed". Left-handed methamphetamine helps fight stuffy nose and is legal. Right-handed methamphetamine makes people feel high and is mostly illegal. This page is mostly about the right-handed form.
Methamphetamine is very addictive. This means that when people start taking the drug, they will want to keep taking more, even if it is making them sick.
Methamphetamine can be in powder or crystal form, and can be snorted, smoked, injected, or eaten. In its smoked form, methamphetamine is known as "ice," "crystal," "crank," or "glass".
When meth is snorted, the methamphetamine crystals are ground up and made into little lines (also called rails). Then they are inhaled through the nose with rolled-up paper, rolled-up dollar bills, empty plastic pen tubes, short plastic straws, or other things that can be made into a small "tube" shape.
When meth is snorted, its effects last longer than when it is smoked or injected. The effects can last as long as twelve hours. However, it takes longer to feel the effects, and there is not as strong of a "rush" (a very happy feeling called euphoria).
Snorting methamphetamine can damage the nasal septum on the inside of the nose. Also, if people share the same snorting tube, they can get infections.
When meth is smoked, the crystals are placed into a glass pipe (called a "meth pipe") or a hollowed-out lightbulb. The crystals are warmed up from underneath by a flame (like from a lighter or matches). The methamphetamine is not actually "smoked" this way; it is heated up until it melts. When it melts, it turns into a gas that the user then breathes in.
Smoking meth causes euphoria to happen very quickly, and causes strong euphoria. However, the vapor (gas) can damage the lungs.
Methamphetamine can be mixed with water, then put into a needle and injected. Meth can be injected under the skin (this is called "skin-popping); into a muscle; or into a vein. Injecting meth into a vein causes the quickest, strongest euphoria.
Injecting meth can damage the body in many ways. It is very addictive. People can get infections (including HIV, hepatitis C, and many others) from dirty needles.
If methamphetamine is eaten, it gets absorbed into the body from the digestive system. The effects take longer to start, but they last longer.
Desired effects are the things people want to feel when they take methamphetamine. These include:
Adverse effects are the bad things that using methamphetamine can cause. Meth has many adverse effects. For example:
Methamphetamine is very addictive. This means that when people start taking the drug, they will want to keep taking more, even if it is making them sick.
One of the reasons meth is so addictive is that people feel very bad when the effect begins to wear off. Many users claim to have an uncontrollable urge to get more of the drug after using it.
When people are addicted to meth, they will have withdrawal symptoms when they do not take meth. This means they will feel sick when they do not have the drug. For example, without meth, people will feel anhedonia. This means they cannot feel good without taking meth.
Overdosing on meth (taking too much) can make a person very sick. Some of the symptoms of methamphetamine overdose are very dangerous, and can even kill a person. For example, overdosing on meth can cause:
"Meth Mouth" is a term used to describe destroyed teeth in people that use methamphetamine. Meth mouth can happen very quickly. A new addict can go from having healthy teeth to losing all of their teeth in as little as one year. The decay (rotting teeth) is not caused by methamphetamine itself, but by meth users not brushing their teeth, having a lot of sugary drinks, and having dry mouth.
Life expectancy
The life expectancy of a meth addict is 5-10 years.
Methamphetamine's effects on the body can include:
Methamphetamine's effects on feelings and behavior can include:
Taking meth over a long time can cause Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. In fact, a teenager taking methamphetamine can show symptoms similar to Alzheimer's.
People who take meth over a long time often have serious psychological problems, like:

</doc>
<doc id="15216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15216" title="Mother">
Mother

A mother is a female parent (a male parent is called a father). A mother gives birth to a child.
"Madre" is Mother in Spanish. "Mamma" or "Mor" is Mother in Norwegian. "Mater" is Mother in Latin. ' Mutter" is Mother in German. "Mat" is Mother in Russian.

</doc>
<doc id="15217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15217" title="Democrat">
Democrat

Democrat may refer to: 

</doc>
<doc id="15218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15218" title="Caribbean">
Caribbean

The Caribbean or Caribbean Area (Dutch: "Cariben" or "Caraiben", French: "Caraïbe" or more commonly "Antilles"; Spanish: "Caribe") is a region of the Americas. It includes the Caribbean Sea, its islands (more than 7,000 islands, small islands and cays, most of them surrounding the sea), and the coasts of north South America and east Central America.
The Caribbean is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean to its east and north, the coast of South America to its south, the coast of Central America to its southwest, and by the Gulf of Mexico to its northwest.
The West Indies is the name for the group of the islands of the Bahamas and the "Antilles". The Antilles are divided into two groups: the larger "Greater Antilles", on the north limit of the Caribbean Sea, and the "Lesser Antilles", on the east and south.
The Caribbean islands have many different types of land. Because of this, the islands have many different kinds of plants and animals, even uncommon ones.
Famous islands in the Caribbean include Cuba, Jamaica, Puerto Rico and Hispaniola. The countries of Dominican Republic, and Haiti are on Hispaniola.
There is also a lot of white sandy beaches and hot sun there.
The name Caribbean comes from "Carib", indigenous people living in the Lesser Antilles and north South America when the Europeans came to the Americas. 
The 18th century saw many countries trying to colonize the islands. Because of this, Caribbean culture is very similar to those of Africa, India, and many countries in Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="15220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15220" title="Caribbean Sea">
Caribbean Sea

The Caribbean Sea is a tropical sea in the center of the Caribbean area. The body of water is part of the Atlantic Ocean. The sea is southeast of the Gulf of Mexico. The Caribbean Sea has many islands, which are popular among North American tourists because of their tropical climate. The Caribbean Sea is famous around the world as a tourist destination. 
Christopher Columbus came across a group of islands in the Caribbean region. When he did so, he thought he had reached another part of the world. Because of this, he named the islands the ‘West Indies’. However, later it was realized that he found an entire region. It still had its natural resources. The name ‘Caribbean’ was later given to it by the Amerindian tribe, the Caribs. That is how it got its name: the Caribbean Sea.
This entire region covers an area of 1,063,000 sq. miles. It covers from Mexico to the boundaries of South America.
This sea is just as deep as it is wide. Its deepest point is believed to be even lower than 25,220 ft, 7,686 m. That makes this point one of the lowest points on the surface of the earth, and the Caribbean Sea one of the deepest seas in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="15221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15221" title="Category:Battles">
Category:Battles


</doc>
<doc id="15222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15222" title="Gibraltar">
Gibraltar

Gibraltar is an Overseas Territory of the United Kingdom. This means it shares the British King or Queen and has the protection of the British Armed Forces. It is located in southwest Europe on the Mediterranean Sea. It has a population of about 28,000 people, who are called Gibraltarians.
Gibraltar has always been important as a military base because this is where the Mediterranean Sea narrows to only 14 kilometres (9 miles) at the Strait of Gibraltar. This meant that whichever country controlled Gibraltar could see all ships that came into the Mediterranean Sea. 
Gibraltar is most famous for "The Rock of Gibraltar", a 426 meter high limestone rock rising out of the sea. The rock can be seen for many miles. It is home to the "Barbary Apes", a type of tail-less monkey which are the only wild monkeys in Europe.
Gibraltar belonged to Spain between the years 1501 and 1704, and it was captured by a group of Dutch and British marines during the War of the Spanish Succession (1704). In 1713, Spain signed papers called the "Treaty of Utrecht". These papers said Gibraltar would be British permanently. However, according to this treaty, if the Crown of Great Britain ever wants to leave the territory, the Crown of Spain will have a prior position in order to claim the sovereignty.
Gibraltar was very important in World War II. Since it was in such a good position, it was the perfect place for the British army and navy to have its base. In World War II the people living in Gibraltar were taken to different parts of the world like Jamaica so they could be protected from the war and also leave the Rock for the soldiers. The Rock of Gibraltar was used by these soldiers, and long tunnels were made inside it. These tunnels even had a hospital and living areas for the soldiers. 
Since 1704 when Spain lost Gibraltar, Spain began trying to get it back. They attacked the Rock several times in the 18th century. 
However, since the 1950s, Spain has tried get Gibraltar by diplomacy (international relations) by putting different kinds of pressure and restrictions on the people of Gibraltar.
In 1969 Britain gave Gibraltar a new constitution. This meant that it gave the people of Gibraltar a large amount of self-government. 
In 2002 the people of Gibraltar were asked to vote whether they wanted Spain to share Gibraltar with the United Kingdom; almost everyone voted and 98.97% said they did not. 
In 2006 Gibraltar voted to approve a new constitution which gave full self government to the people meaning they can independently create their own laws.
Spain recently stopped interfering with Gibraltar telephone lines and daily flights to Madrid started. 

</doc>
<doc id="15223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15223" title="Windows 2000">
Windows 2000

Windows 2000 (also known as Win2K, W2K, codenamed Windows NT 5.0, Memphis, Neptune, Oddysey) is an operating system that was designed to work with computers that have either single or multiple processors. It was designed for 32-bit Intel x86 computers. It is part of the Microsoft Windows NT line of operating systems and was released on February 17, 2000. Windows 2000 comes in four versions: Professional, Server, Advanced Server, and Datacenter Server. Additionally, Microsoft offers Windows 2000 Advanced Server - Limited Edition and Datacenter Server - Limited Edition, which were released in 2001 and runs on 64-bit Intel Itanium processors. Windows 2000 was designed for businesses, but it was also popular with home users. A Home Edition of Windows 2000, codenamed Neptune, was planned, but was never released.
Windows 2000 uses two 'modes' - a 'User Mode' and a 'Kernel Mode'. The Kernel Mode is specially for hardware drivers (drivers tell the computer how to 'speak' to something) and allows drivers to 'speak' to things in the computer. The User Mode is for computer programs to run in without fear of causing harm to the computer.
All versions of Windows 2000 have things in common, including many system utilities such as the Microsoft Management Console (MMC) and standard system management applications such as a disk defragmentation utility. There is lots of support for different languages and for people with disabilities. Windows 2000 supports the Windows NT filesystem NTFS 5, the Encrypted File System (EFS), as well as basic and dynamic disk storage. Dynamic disk storage allows different types of volumes to be used (a volume is an area of storage on a hard disk that has been formatted with its own file system structure). The Windows 2000 Server version has many more features, including the ability to provide Active Directory services (a way of organising resources such as printers, users and group), a distributed file system (a file system that supports sharing of files) and fault-redundant storage volumes.
Windows 2000 can be installed and deployed to an enterprise through either an attended or unattended installation. Unattended installations rely on the use of answer files to fill in installation information, and can be performed through a bootable CD using Microsoft Systems Management Server (SMS), by the System Preparation Tool (Sysprep).
Windows 2000 was created from the Microsoft Windows NT operating system versions. It was originally called Windows NT 5 but Microsoft changed the name to Windows 2000 on October 27th, 1998. It was also the first Windows version that was released without a code name. The first software test version (also known as a beta version) for Windows 2000 was released on September 27, 1997. Several more test versions were released until Beta 3, which was released on April 29, 1999. Microsoft further issued three more test versions from between July to November 1999. They then finally released Windows 2000 to partners on December 12, 1999 . The public received the full version of Windows 2000 on February 17, 2000 and the press immediately called it the most stable operating system Microsoft had ever released. Novell (a competitor of Microsoft) did not think that Microsoft's new directory service product (part of Windows 2000) was as good as their own Novell Directory Services (NDS) technology . On September 29, 2000, Microsoft released Windows 2000 Datacenter. Microsoft released Service Pack 1 (SP1) on August 15, 2000, Service Pack 2 (SP2) on May 16, 2001, Service Pack 3 (SP3) on August 29, 2002 and its last Service Pack (SP4) on June 26, 2003. Microsoft has said that they will not release a Service Pack 5, but instead, have offered an "Update Rollup" for Service Pack 4. Microsoft stopped developing their Java Virtual Machine (JVM) for Windows 2000 in Service Pack 3.
Microsoft has replaced Windows 2000 Server products with Windows Server 2003, and Windows 2000 Professional with Windows XP Professional. Windows Neptune started development in 1999, and was supposed to be the home-user edition of Windows 2000. However, the project took a long time to create and only one pre-test (alpha version) release was created. Windows Me was released instead and the Neptune project was incorporated into the development of Windows XP. The only elements of the Windows project which were included in Windows 2000 were the ability to upgrade from Windows 95 or Windows 98, and support for the FAT32 file system.
Several notable security flaws have been found in Windows 2000. Code Red and Code Red II were famous computer worms that used problems with indexing service of Windows 2000's Internet Information Services (IIS) to caused a security problem. In August 2003, two major worms named the Sobig worm and the Blaster worm began to attack millions of Microsoft Windows computers and caused many problems for system administrators and computer operators who used Windows 2000. This was very embarrassing for Microsoft, and caused many corporations and governments to look carefully at Microsoft's security problems. 
Windows 2000 is the last version of Windows that does not require any Pentium instructions, and is therefore the last version that will run on a 486.

</doc>
<doc id="15224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15224" title="Junior Certificate">
Junior Certificate

The Junior Certificate is earned by passing a required exam that takes place in secondary schools in the Republic of Ireland.
The exams take place every June, with English always the first exam. For example, the English exam took place on June 8 this year (2005). Exams usually end with the subjects that the fewest people take. For example, Italian took place on June 24 this year (2005).
Three exams must be passed in order to receive a certificate: They are English, Mathematics, and Irish. If a student has not lived in Ireland for at least seven years before the exam, he is not required to sit for the Irish exam. A student may then take 3-6 other subjects to get his certifcate.
The results of the exams are given in mid-September.

</doc>
<doc id="15225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15225" title="Leaving Certificate">
Leaving Certificate

The Leaving Certificate is the final exam in the Republic of Ireland secondary school education system. Students have to do the Junior Certificate before they can take the Leaving Certificate. Students also have to take Maths and English. If they took Irish during the Junior Certificate, they also have to take Irish.
Students have to take exams on at least six subjects. They can take either High or Ordinary level tests. In Irish and Maths, there is also a Foundation level. This is for people who have trouble with that subject.
The results are given out in the middle of August. A leaving certificate is required in order to go on to college or university.

</doc>
<doc id="15226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15226" title="Empire">
Empire

An empire is a set of lands or regions that are ruled by an emperor. Usually the emperor will have governors, viceroys or client kings who each rule one land or region. An empire will usually also have many different cultures.
Well-known empires include the Persian Empire, the Roman Empire, the Russian Empire, the Ottoman Empire, and the British Empire. 
Today, the only monarch to use the title "emperor" is the Emperor of Japan, although his power is mostly ceremonial.

</doc>
<doc id="15228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15228" title="Writer">
Writer

A writer can mean anyone who makes a written work or who writes, but the word more usually means people who write creatively or as a job, or those who have written in many different forms. Skilled writers demonstrate skills in using language to portray certain ideas and images, whether in fiction or non-fiction.
This list is only a few examples of the many types of writing there are.

</doc>
<doc id="15229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15229" title="Inventor">
Inventor

An inventor is a person who makes new inventions, devices that perform some kind of function. The devices are mostly electrical or mechanical. Someone that invents new ideas or methods on how to do things may also be called an inventor.
Many inventors make small changes to old inventions. For example, people have invented new ways to make clocks over history. Early clocks were sundials, later clocks used water, and pendulums. Modern clocks are often electronic. Other machines such as vehicles are made of many inventions.

</doc>
<doc id="15230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15230" title="Bear">
Bear

Bears are a group of large mammals. They form the family Ursidae, in the suborder Caniformia of the order Carnivora. There are 9 living bear species.
Bears usually have a big body with short and thick legs. They only have a very short tail. They have small eyes and round ears. They usually have longer, shaggy fur. On each foot they have five claws, which they cannot pull back. They have very good senses of smell and hearing. They can stand up on their back legs. Usually bears can climb and swim very well.
They are mostly active at night (except for the Polar Bear). Some bears hibernate, that means they sleep during the winter to save energy.
Bears are usually omnivorous, which means that they eat plants and meat. They eat berries, grass, and fish. An exception is the polar bear, which eats mostly meat.

</doc>
<doc id="15231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15231" title="Meteorology">
Meteorology

Meteorology is the science that focuses on the Earth's atmosphere. People who study meteorology are called meteorologists. Meteorologists record air pressure, wind speed and direction, temperature, humidity, weather patterns, and other information. Meteorologists use this data to understand weather and to predict it. Meteorology is a major branch of earth science.Meteorologists study the causes of particular weather conditions using information obtained from the land, sea and upper atmosphere.
They use computerized and mathematical models to make short and long-range forecasts concerning weather and climate patterns. A variety of organizations use meteorological forecasts including:
•transport services, particularly air and sea travel;
•the shipping and sea fishing industries and sailing organisations;
•the armed forces;
•government services, e.g. for advice on climate change policy;
•farmers;
•public services;
•the media;
•industry and retail businesses;
•insurance companies;
•health services.
In addition to forecasting, meteorologists study the impact of weather on the environment and conduct research into weather patterns, climate change and models of weather prediction.
Written by AGCAS editors

</doc>
<doc id="15232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15232" title="Technology">
Technology

Depending on when the word technology is used, technology is:
Genetic engineering (GE), also called genetic modification, is a branch of applied biology. It is the changing of an organism's genome using biotechnology.

</doc>
<doc id="15233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15233" title="Wonders of the World">
Wonders of the World

The Seven Wonders of the World (or the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World) is a widely-known list of seven great buildings or structures from the classical time period.
This is a list put together in the 2nd century BC by 
Antipater of Sidon and Philon of Byzantium. This explains why it only lists monuments of the Mediterranean world. There are other slightly different versions: this is the most usual one.
Out of those structures only the Great Pyramid still exists in the 21st century. Most of the wonders were built by the Greeks. Earlier versions listed the Walls of Babylon and the Palace of Cyrus the Great.
This version was decided by the American Society of Civil Engineers. 
There is no single list of seven natural wonders of the world. One of the many lists was compiled by CNN:
New7Wonders of the World was an idea to choose new wonders of the world from a selection of 200 existing monuments. The mission began in 2001 and ended in 2007 with the announcement of the winners. The popularity poll was led by Canadian-Swiss Bernard Weber and organized by the New7Wonders Foundation in Zürich, Switzerland. Voting took place through the Internet or by telephone. 
The program caused different reactions from countries and organisations. Some countries praised their finalist and tried to get more people to vote for it. Others criticized the contest or did not think it was very important. 
Among the strongest criticism was from UNESCO, who said in a press release in 2007:
Winners:
From a variety of modern lists of wonders made by man, some items occur several times:

</doc>
<doc id="15236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15236" title="Daughter">
Daughter

A daughter is a female child. The opposite of a daughter is a son. A daughter would be a sister, if she has siblings.

</doc>
<doc id="15237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15237" title="Son">
Son

A son is the male child of a mother and father. The opposite of a son is a daughter. If the child has siblings then the son is a brother.

</doc>
<doc id="15241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15241" title="1516">
1516


</doc>
<doc id="15242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15242" title="Category:Fish">
Category:Fish

Fish are vertebrate animals that live in the water. Individual genera or species should be distributed to lower categories.

</doc>
<doc id="15243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15243" title="Oliver Stone">
Oliver Stone

William Oliver Stone (born September 15, 1946) is an American movie director, producer, writer and actor. He was born in New York City and raised in Manhattan and Stamford, Connecticut. Stone became well known in the late 1980s and early 1990s for directing a series of movies about the Vietnam War. He was in the war as an infantry soldier. Stone's movies are often about political and cultural issues.

</doc>
<doc id="15244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15244" title="Whale shark">
Whale shark

The whale shark ("Rhincodon typus"), is a large filter feeding shark, and is the largest shark in the world, reaching lengths of up to 12 metres long, and weighing as much as 47, 000 pounds. 
The Whale shark has a very wide distribution, found in all tropical and warm temperate seas, except in the Mediterranean
The whale shark has a streamlined body and a wide, flattened head. The mouth is transverse, very large and is nearly at the tip of the snout. The gill slits are also very large, and are designed as filtering screens. The first dorsal fin is much larger than the second dorsal fin, and is located at the back of the body. The caudal fin is semi-lunate (crescent-shaped) in adults, and with the young, the upper lobe is quite longer than the lower lobe. The Whale shark has a unique "checkerboard" colour pattern of light spots and stripes on a dark background.
Whale sharks are grey, blue or brown above, with a surface pattern of creamy white spots between pale, vertical and horizontal stripes. The belly is white. The use of the strange pattern on the Whale shark is unknown, although many bottom-dwelling Whale sharks use these markings as a camouflage against their backgrounds. 
They can be as long as 41 feet (12.3 metres) in length, and weigh as much as 47,000 pounds (21.5 tonnes). However, it is believed that there are some Whale sharks which can reach lengths of up to 67 feet (20 metres). The smallest free-living individuals are around 55cm (21.7 inches) long. Whale sharks reach maturity at lengths of around 9 metres 
The whale shark has a very widespread distribution, found in all tropical and warm temperate seas, except in the Mediterranean. It is found throughout the Atlantic Ocean, from New York, through the Caribbean, to central Brazil, and from Senegal to the Gulf of Guinea. It also is found in the Indian Ocean, throughout the region, including the Red Sea and the Arabian Gulf. In the Pacific Ocean it is found from Japan to Australia, off Hawaii, and from California to Chile. 
Although other shark species of the order Orectolobiformes are benthic (live on or near the bottom), the Whale shark lives in the pelagic zone. Studies show that this shark prefers warm waters, with surface temperatures of around 21-30°C. It is often seen offshore but commonly comes close inshore, sometimes entering lagoons or coral atolls. Whale sharks sometimes swim deeper than 700 metres 
Although the whale shark has no real predator, young Whale sharks have been found in the stomachs of Blue sharks and Blue marlin. 
In spite of it's large size, the Whale shark has a nature of being very timid. Divers usually hold onto the tails of these sharks and swim with them, and the Whale sharks never seem to attack. However, the large size can be dangerous due to the fact of the great force they give out if they accidentally bump into a diver.
There is also the risk that a diver getting too close to a Whale shark could get sucked into the filtering system that the sharks use for feeding. Another risk is that they can create problems for small boats that they may accidentally knock into. For the sharks, contact with very large boats can result in severe injuries. 
Along with the Basking shark and the Megamouth shark, the Whale shark is one of the three known species of filter feeding sharks. It feeds mainly on plankton and nekton, small crustaceans, schooling fish, and sometimes on tuna and squids. Whale sharks may also sometimes feed on phytoplankton and macroalgae. Unlike most plankton-feeding vertebrates, the Whale shark does not depend on slow forward motion to operate its filtration mechanism. Instead, it relies on a versatile suction filter-feeding method, which allows it to draw in a larger amount of water than other filter-feeders, like the Basking shark. This allows the Whale shark to capture larger amounts of plankton. Whale sharks are always seen feeding in a vertical or near vertical position with the head at or near the surface. 
Other food items for the Whale shark can include krill, and the larvae of Christmas Island red crab. 
There is very little information that has been documented about Whale sharks mating and giving birth to young. Some Whale sharks which live in captivity are studied by scientists but the Whale shark is not very common in aquariums due to its large size. 
However, it is believed that they can have up to 300 pups at a time. This would be a lot more than other shark species. Yet, only a small fraction of them live to the age of maturity. It is believed that this species of shark doesn’t take part in mating until around 30 years old. They can live from 70 to 100 years of age. 
In the past, the whale shark has been of little interest to fisheries. Now, commercial fishing for Whale sharks are limited, but may expand from an increased demand for food products. In Taiwan around 100 Whale sharks are caught annually. The meat of the Whale shark is sold for high prices in this country, and since of this, there have been larger harvests of Whale sharks over the last few years. Fishing for this shark also occurs in the Philippines, particularly in the Visayas and Mindanao areas, providing food for the local fishing communities. Whale shark fins are sold in the Orient, especially in Hong Kong. Occasionally, Whale sharks are captured accidentally along the coast of India. Sometimes the flesh is eaten and the liver oil is used for waterproofing wooden fishing boats and for the manufacture of shoe polish, and it is also used as a treatment for some skin diseases. The fins of Whale sharks are also sold in India. Often, the Whale shark is used as an indicator of waters which are rich in plankton-feeding fish that will, in turn, attract more valuable species, such as tuna. Whale sharks have been kept in aquaria in Japan, but their large size and their diet has made it hard to keep a Whale shark in an aquarium. Some locations where the presence of Whale sharks appears to be predictable, are increasingly targeted by commercial tourist operations. 
Some biological characteristics, such as the slow growth, and long time to mature, makes the Whale shark vulnerable to overfishing. These characteristics also suggest that populations are slow to recover from any overfishing. The Whale shark is listed as Vulnerable by the IUCN. The Whale shark is listed by the AFS (American Fisheries Society) as "Conservation dependent" (meaning that the Whale shark's population has reduced but it is recovering under conservation plans) in both the Atlantic waters of the U.S.A, and the Gulf of Mexico. However, it is considered not at risk in the Gulf of California. In the Maldives and Philippines there has been a ban on the fishing of Whale sharks. This protection was introduced because of the serious impact that the fisheries may be making on Whale shark numbers. The predictable occurrence of Whale sharks in a few areas, such as western Australia, has led to the development of an expanding tourism industry. In this area the Whale shark is a protected species and its tourism has been managed through a controlled system, including the licensing of a limited number of operators tours. Also, divers have been stopped from riding, chasing, or harassing any marine animal in any way, including Whale sharks. Recently, some studies made on the Ningaloo Reef's Whale sharks provided information that regular diving is a normal behaviour of these sharks, and there is no avoidance reaction during contact with humans. 

</doc>
<doc id="15245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15245" title="Qatar">
Qatar

Qatar (, , or ; ' ; local vernacular pronunciation: ), officially the State of Qatar ( '), is a sovereign country located in Western Asia, occupying the small Qatar Peninsula on the northeastern coast of the Arabian Peninsula. Its sole land border is with Saudi Arabia to the south, with the rest of its territory surrounded by the Persian Gulf. A strait in the Persian Gulf separates Qatar from the nearby island country of Bahrain, as well as sharing maritime borders with the United Arab Emirates and Iran.
Following Ottoman rule, Qatar became a British protectorate in the early 20th century until gaining independence in 1971. Qatar has been ruled by the House of Thani since the early 19th century. Sheikh Jassim bin Mohammed Al Thani was the founder of the State of Qatar. Qatar is a hereditary monarchy and its head of state is Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani. Whether it should be regarded as a constitutional or an absolute monarchy is a matter of opinion. In 2003, the constitution was overwhelmingly approved in a referendum, with almost 98% in favour. In 2013, Qatar's total population was 1.8 million: 278,000 Qatari citizens and 1.5 million expatriates.
Qatar is a high income economy and is a developed country, backed by the world's third largest natural gas reserves and oil reserves. The country has the highest per capita income in the world. Qatar is classified by the UN as a country of very high human development and is the most advanced Arab state for human development. Qatar is a significant power in the Arab world, supporting several rebel groups during the Arab Spring both financially and through its globally expanding media group, Al Jazeera Media Network. For its size, Qatar wields disproportionate influence in the world, and has been identified as a middle power. Qatar will host the 2022 FIFA World Cup, becoming the first Arab country to do so.
Qatar is either a constitutional or an absolute monarchy ruled by the Al Thani family. The Al Thani dynasty has been ruling Qatar since the family house was established in 1825. In 2003, Qatar adopted a constitution that provided for the direct election of 30 of the 45 members of the Legislative Council. The constitution was overwhelmingly approved in a referendum, with almost 98% in favour. 
The eighth Emir of Qatar is Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, whose father Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani handed power to him on 25 June 2013. The supreme chancellor has the exclusive power to appoint and remove the prime minister and cabinet ministers who, together, constitute the Council of Ministers, which is the supreme executive authority in the country. The Council of Ministers also initiates legislation. Laws and decrees proposed by the Council of Ministers are referred to the Advisory Council (Majilis Al Shura) for discussion after which they are submitted to the Emir for ratification. A Consultative Assembly has limited legislative authority to draft and approve laws, but the Emir has final say on all matters. The current Council is composed entirely of members appointed by the Emir, as no legislative elections have been held since 1970 when there were partial elections to the body. Legislative elections are expected to be held in 2016.
Qatari law does not permit the establishment of political bodies or trade unions.
Sharia law is the main source of Qatari legislation according to Qatar's Constitution. In practice, Qatar's legal system is a mixture of civil law and Sharia law. Sharia law is applied to laws pertaining to family law, inheritance, and several criminal acts (including adultery, robbery and murder). In some cases in Sharia-based family courts, a female's testimony is worth half a man's. Codified family law was introduced in 2006. Islamic polygamy is allowed in the country.
Flogging is used in Qatar as a punishment for alcohol consumption or illicit sexual relations. Article 88 of Qatar's criminal code declares the punishment for adultery is 100 lashes. In 2006, a Filipino woman was sentenced to 100 lashes for adultery. In 2010, at least 18 people (mostly foreign nationals) were sentenced to flogging of between 40 and 100 lashes for offences related to "illicit sexual relations" or alcohol consumption. In 2011, at least 21 people (mostly foreign nationals) were sentenced to floggings of between 30 and 100 lashes for offences related to "illicit sexual relations" or alcohol consumption. In 2012, six expatriates were sentenced to floggings of either 40 or 100 lashes. Only Muslims considered medically fit were liable to have such sentences carried out. It is unknown if the sentences were implemented. More recently in April 2013, a Muslim expatriate was sentenced to 40 lashes for alcohol consumption. In June 2014, a Muslim expatriate was sentenced to 40 lashes for consuming alcohol and driving under the influence. Judicial corporal punishment is common in Qatar due to the Hanbali interpretation of Sharia Law.
Stoning is a legal punishment in Qatar. Apostasy is a crime punishable by the death penalty in Qatar. Blasphemy is punishable by up to seven years in prison and proselytizing can be punished by up to 10 years in prison. Homosexuality is a crime punishable by the death penalty.
Alcohol consumption is partially legal in Qatar; some five-star luxury hotels are allowed to sell alcohol to their non-Muslim customers. Muslims are not allowed to consume alcohol in Qatar and Muslims caught consuming alcohol are liable to flogging or deportation. Non-Muslim expatriates can obtain a permit to purchase alcohol for personal consumption. The Qatar Distribution Company (a subsidiary of Qatar Airways) is permitted to import alcohol and pork; it operates the one and only liquor store in the country, which also sells pork to holders of liquor licences. Qatari officials have also indicated a willingness to allow alcohol in "fan zones" at the 2022 FIFA World Cup.
Until recently, restaurants on the Pearl-Qatar (a man-made island near Doha) were allowed to serve alcoholic drinks. In December 2011, however, restaurants on the Pearl were told to stop selling alcohol. No explanation was given for the ban. Speculation about the reason includes the government's desire to project a more pious image in advance of the country's first election of a royal advisory body and rumours of a financial dispute between the government and the resort's developers.
In 2014, Qatar launched a modesty campaign to remind tourists of the modest dress code. Female tourists are advised not to wear leggings, miniskirts, sleeveless dresses and short or tight clothing in public. Men are advised against wearing only shorts and singlets.
According to the U.S. State Department, expatriate workers from nations throughout Asia and parts of Africa voluntarily migrate to Qatar as low-skilled laborers or domestic servants, but some subsequently face conditions indicative of involuntary servitude. Some of the more common labor rights violations include beatings, withholding of payment, charging workers for benefits for which the employer is responsible, restrictions on freedom of movement (such as the confiscation of passports, travel documents, or exit permits), arbitrary detention, threats of legal action, and sexual assault. Many migrant workers arriving for work in Qatar have paid exorbitant fees to recruiters in their home countries.
, certain provisions of the Qatari Criminal Code allows punishments such as flogging and stoning to be imposed as criminal sanctions. The UN Committee Against Torture found that these practices constituted a breach of the obligations imposed by the UN Convention Against Torture. Qatar retains the death penalty, mainly for threats against national security. Use of the death penalty is rare and no state executions have taken place in Qatar since 2003.
Under the provisions of Qatar's sponsorship law, sponsors have the unilateral power to cancel workers' residency permits, deny workers' ability to change employers, report a worker as "absconded" to police authorities, and deny permission to leave the country. As a result, sponsors may restrict workers' movements and workers may be afraid to report abuses or claim their rights. According to the ITUC, the visa sponsorship system allows the exaction of forced labour by making it difficult for a migrant worker to leave an abusive employer or travel overseas without permission. Qatar also does not maintain wage standards for its immigrant labourers. Qatar commissioned international law firm DLA Piper to produce a report investigating the immigrant labour system. In May 2014 DLA Piper released over 60 recommendations for reforming the kafala system including the abolition of exit visas and the introduction of a minimum wage which Qatar has pledged to implement.
In May 2012, Qatari officials declared their intention to allow the establishment of an independent trade union. Qatar also announced it will scrap its sponsor system for foreign labour, which requires that all foreign workers be sponsored by local employers. Additional changes to labour laws include a provision guaranteeing that all workers' salaries are paid directly into their bank accounts and new restrictions on working outdoors in the hottest hours during the summer. New draft legislation announced in early 2015 mandates that companies that fail to pay workers' wages on time could temporarily lose their ability to hire more employees.
In October 2015 Qatar's Emir signed into law new reforms to the country's sponsorship system, with the new law taking effect within one year. Critics claim that the changes could fail to address some labour rights issues.
The country enfranchised women at the same time as men in connection with the 1999 elections for a Central Municipal Council. These elections—the first ever in Qatar—were deliberately held on 8 March 1999, International Women's Day.
As a small country with larger neighbors, Qatar seeks to project influence and protect its state and ruling dynasty. The history of Qatar's alliances provides insight into the basis of their policy. Between 1760 and 1971, Qatar sought formal protection from the high transitory powers of the Ottomans, British, the Al-Khalifa's from Bahrain, the Arabians, and the Wahhabis from Saudi Arabia. Qatar's rising international profile and active role in international affairs has led some analysts to identify it as a middle power. Qatar was an early member of OPEC and a founding member of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC). It is a member of the Arab League. The country has not accepted compulsory International Court of Justice jurisdiction.
Qatar also has bilateral relationships with a variety of foreign powers. Qatar hosts the Al Udeid Air Base, a joint U.S.-British base, which acts as the hub for all American and British air operations in the Persian Gulf. It has allowed American and British forces to use an air base to send supplies to Iraq and Afghanistan. Despite hosting this strategic military installation, Qatar is not always a strong Western ally. Qatar has allowed the Afghan Taliban to set up a political office inside the country and has close ties to Iran, including a shared natural gas field. According to leaked documents published in "The New York Times", Qatar's record of counter-terrorism efforts was the "worst in the region". The cable suggested that Qatar's security service was "hesitant to act against known terrorists out of concern for appearing to be aligned with the U.S. and provoking reprisals".
Qatar has mixed relations with its neighbors in the Persian Gulf region. Qatar signed a defence co-operation agreement with Iran, with whom it shares the largest single non-associated gas field in the world. It was the second nation, the first being France, to have publicly announced its recognition of the Libyan opposition's National Transitional Council as the legitimate government of Libya amidst the 2011 Libyan civil war.
In 2014, Qatar's relations with Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates came to a boiling point over Qatar's support for the Muslim Brotherhood and extremist groups in Syria. 
This culminated in the three aforementioned countries withdrawing their ambassadors from Qatar in March 2014. When the ambassadors withdrew, the GCC was reportedly on the verge of a crisis linked to the emergence of distinct political blocs with conflicting interests. Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Bahrain were engaged in a political struggle with Qatar, while Oman and Kuwait represent a non-aligned bloc within the GCC. Relations between the countries improved after the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) announced Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, and the UAE returned their diplomats to Qatar. Islam Hassan, a researcher in Persian Gulf Studies at Qatar University, claims that, with the resolution of the GCC crisis, Qatar reached a new level of political maturity. He goes on to assert that Qatar managed to bring an end to the crisis without changing any of its foreign policy principles or abandoning its allies.
In recent years, Qatar has been using Islamist militants in a number of countries including Egypt, Syria, Libya, Somalia and Mali to further its foreign policy. Courting Islamists from the Muslim Brotherhood to Salafist groups has served as a power amplifier for the country, as it believes since the beginning of the Arab Spring that these groups represented the wave of the future. David Cohen, the Under Secretary for terrorism and financial intelligence at the U.S. Treasury, said that Qatar is a "permissive jurisdiction for terrorist financing." There is evidence that these groups supported by Qatar include the hard-line Islamic militant groups active in northern Syria. , Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Turkey are openly backing the Army of Conquest, an umbrella group of anti-government forces fighting in the Syrian Civil War that reportedly includes an al-Qaeda linked al-Nusra Front and another Salafi coalition known as Ahrar ash-Sham.
Qatar supported the democratically elected President Mohamed Morsi with diplomatic support and the state-owned Al Jazeera network before he was deposed in a military coup. Qatar offered Egypt a $7.5 billion loan during the year he was in power.
Qatar's alignment with Hamas, first reported in early 2012, has drawn criticism from Israel, the United States, Egypt and Saudi Arabia, "who accuse Qatar of undermining regional stability by supporting Hamas." However, the Foreign Minister of Qatar has denied supporting Hamas, stating "We do not support Hamas but we support the Palestinians." Following a peace agreement, Qatar pledged $1 billion in humanitarian aid to Gaza.
Qatar has hosted academic, religious, political, and economic conferences. The 11th annual Doha Forum recently brought in key thinkers, professionals of various backgrounds, and political figures from all over the world to discuss democracy, media and information technology, free trade, and water security issues. In addition, the forum has featured the Middle East Economic Future conference since 2006. In more recent times, Qatar has hosted peace talks between rival factions across the globe. Notable among these include the Darfur Agreement. The Doha Declaration is the basis of the peace process in Darfur and it has achieved significant gains on the ground for the African region. Notable achievements included the restoration of security and stability, progress made in construction and reconstruction processes, return of displaced residents and uniting of Darfur people to face challenges and push forward the peace process. Qatar donated £88.5million in funds to finance recovery and reconstruction in Darfur.
The Qatar Armed Forces are the military forces of Qatar. The country maintains a modest military force of approximately 11,800 men, including an army (8,500), navy (1,800) and air force (1,500). Qatar's defence expenditures accounted for approximately 4.2% of gross national product in 1993. Qatar has recently signed defence pacts with the United States and United Kingdom, as well as with France earlier in 1994. Qatar plays an active role in the collective defence efforts of the Gulf Cooperation Council; the other five members are Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, the UAE, and Oman. The presence of a large Qatari Air Base, operated by the United States and several other UN nations, provides a guaranteed source of defence and national security. In 2008 Qatar spent US$2.355 billion on military expenditures, 2.3% of the gross domestic product. Qatari special forces have been trained by France and other Western countries, and are believed to possess considerable skill. They also helped the Libyan rebels during the 2011 Battle of Tripoli.
The Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, SIPRI, found that in 2010–14 Qatar was the 46th largest arms importer in the world. However, SIPRI writes, Qatar's plans to transform and significantly enlarge its armed forces have accelerated. Orders in 2013 for 62 tanks and 24 self-propelled guns from Germany were followed in 2014 by a number of other contracts, including 24 combat helicopters and 3 AEW aircraft from the USA, and 2 tanker aircraft from Spain.
Qatar's military participated in Saudi Arabian-led intervention in Yemen against the Shia Houthis. In 2015, "Al Jazeera America" reported: "Numerous reports suggest that the Saudi-led coalition against opposition groups in Yemen has indiscriminately attacked civilians and used cluster bombs in civilian-populated areas, in violation of international law."
Since 2004, Qatar has been divided into seven municipalities (Arabic: baladiyah).
For statistical purposes, the municipalities are further subdivided into 98 zones (), which are in turn subdivided into blocks.
Qatar is a peninsula (a strip of land sticking out into the sea). It is joined to Saudi Arabia to the south, and all the other sides of it are surrounded by the waters of the Arabian Gulf.
Qatar is quite a small country and has an area of only 10,360 km². The peninsula is 160 km long. Much of the country is a low, barren plain, covered with sand. The Jebel Dukhan area has Qatar’s main onshore oil deposits. The natural gas fields lie offshore, to the northwest of the peninsula.
The capital of Qatar is Doha. Over 90% of the people live in Doha. The other large city is Al Wakrah.
Qatar has an unelected, monarchic, emirate-type government. The position of emir is hereditary.
The Emir is the only one who can appoint and remove the prime minister and cabinet ministers. Together the ministers make up the Council of Ministers. They are the highest executive authority in the country.
People from Qatar are called Qataris. They are Arabs. The official language of Qatar is Arabic, but many people also speak English, especially when they are doing business.
About 2,2 million people live in Qatar; however, about 88% of these are "guest workers" (people from another country who are living and working there for a short time), mostly coming from South Asia, South East Asia and other Arab countries. 545,000 are Indians, 400,000 Nepalis, 200,000 Filipinos among a lot of other nationalities. 
Nearly all of Qatar's economy comes from producing petroleum and natural gas.
The currency of Qatar is called the Qatari Riyal.
Almost all Qataris follow the religion of Islam. However, many of the guest workers follow other religions.
Football is the most popular sport in Qatar, closely followed by cricket. The Qatar under-20 national football team finished second in the 1981 FIFA World Youth Championship.
The Asian Football Confederation's 2011 AFC Asian Cup finals were held in Qatar in January 2011. It was the second time it has been hosted by Qatar, the other being the 1988 AFC Asian Cup.
Doha, Qatar, is also home to Qatar Racing Club a Drag Racing facility. 
Khalifa International Tennis and Squash Complex in Doha, Qatar, hosted the WTA Tour Championships in women's tennis between 2008 and 2010. Doha holds the WTA Premier tournament Qatar Ladies Open each year.
On 2 December 2010, Qatar won their bid to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup. 
Nasser Al-Attiyah of Qatar won the 2011 Dakar Rally and the Production World Rally Championship in 2006. In addition, he has also won gold medals at the 2002 Asian Games and 2010 Asian Games as part of the Qatari skeet shooting team.
Since 2002, Qatar has hosted the yearly Tour of Qatar, a cycling race in six stages. Every February, riders are racing on the roads across Qatar's flat land for six days. Each stage covers a distance of more than 100 km.

</doc>
<doc id="15247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15247" title="Salt water">
Salt water

Saline water (also called salt water, salt-water or saltwater) is water with salt in it. It often means the water from the seas (sea water) and oceans.
Salt water used for making or preserving food, is usually saltier than sea water and is called brine. Drinking sea water alone is dangerous. A summary of 163 life raft voyages showed the risk of death at 39% for those who drank seawater, compared to 3% for those who did not. Experiments on rats showed the danger.
When scientists measure salt in water, they usually say they are testing the salinity of the water: salinity is measured in "parts per thousand" or "ppt". Most sea water is about 35 ppt salt. Salt lakes can be up to ten times as salty. Above that level precipitation creates a salt plain.
Brackish water, in contrast, is less salty than seawater.
Salt water is more dense than fresh water. This means that it has more matter per its volume. Fresh water has a density of 1 g/ml, while salty seawater has an average density of about 1.025 g/ml.

</doc>
<doc id="15248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15248" title="Oceanography">
Oceanography

Oceanography (also called oceanology or marine science) is the study of the ocean, its properties and its characteristics. This can include, and is not limited to, studying the marine life, the geography of the ocean floor, and the water itself. The branch of science dealing with physical and biological aspects of the oceans. It is mainly studied by boats using drills and moon pools to study the rock floor.
The study of oceanography may be divide branches:

</doc>
<doc id="15250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15250" title="Diamanto Manolakou">
Diamanto Manolakou

Diamanto Manolakou, born on 1 March 1959, is a Greek politician and member of the European Parliament for the Communist Party of Greece; part of the European United Left–Nordic Green Left.

</doc>
<doc id="15252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15252" title="Arthur C. Clarke">
Arthur C. Clarke

Sir Arthur Charles Clarke (Minehead, Somerset, 6 December 1917 – Colombo, Sri Lanka, 19 March 2008) was a British author and inventor. He was most famous for his science fiction novel "", and for working with director Stanley Kubrick on the movie of the same name. Clarke and Isaac Asimov were probably the two best-known science fiction writers of their day.
Some of Clarke's novels include "Childhood's End", "A Fall of Moondust", "The Songs of Distant Earth", "The Sands of Mars", and "Meeting with Medusa". He also wrote many short stories, and several serious works on science. 
Clarke served in the Royal Air Force as a radar instructor and technician from 1941–1946. He proposed a satellite communication system in 1945 which won him the Franklin Institute Gold Medal in 1963. 
He was the chairman of the British Interplanetary Society from 1947–1950 and again in 1953.
Clarke emigrated to Sri Lanka in 1956 largely to pursue his interest in scuba diving; That year, he discovered the underwater ruins of the ancient Koneswaram temple in Trincomalee. He lived in Sri Lanka until his death. He was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 1998, and was awarded Sri Lanka's highest civil honour, Sri Lankabhimanya, in 2005.
Clarke died from heart and respiratory failure at the age of 90.
Arthur C. Clarke Award

</doc>
<doc id="15253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15253" title="Anthony Burgess">
Anthony Burgess

Anthony Burgess (25 February 1917 – 22 November 1993) was an Englishman who wrote many long stories, called novels.
One of these was named "A Clockwork Orange". It was about evil. He had the idea for the story after a group of bad young men raped and beat his wife for no reason.
Burgess also made songs and music. And he wrote a lot about writers he loved, such as James Joyce, a novelist, and Gerard Manley Hopkins, a poet.
Burgess was born in Harpurhey, Manchester, in the north of England. Before he became a writer, he was a soldier, then a teacher. When he was 37 years old, he left his home country to work in Malaysia and Brunei. Later, he lived in the USA, Italy, and France.
He was born very poor, the son of a man who made a meagre living out of selling cigarettes to workmen. But when Burgess died, he had grown rich. This was because he worked so hard at his art, which is the art of literature. He wrote at least 1,000 words every day of his life. But he always found time to be kind to other writers. He was friendly to the many people who came to visit with him at his seaside home in Monaco.
Burgess died of lung cancer aged 76, in St John's Wood, London.
The books by Burgess that people say they like the most are called "Earthly Powers", about the Pope; "Enderby", about a poet; and "Nothing Like the Sun", about William Shakespeare.

</doc>
<doc id="15254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15254" title="Rape">
Rape

Rape is usually defined as having sexual intercourse with a person who does not want to, or cannot consent. Consent is when someone agrees of their own choice without being forced to. In France it is more widely defined as 'unwanted sexual penetration'. Rape is a form of sexual assault. In most countries, rape is one of the most serious crimes. The International Criminal Court can also condemn it as a "crime against humanity", if done by a group. A person who rapes someone is a rapist. Rapists may use violence, drugs, or threats to get their way. People of any gender can be raped. This was not recognized by the United States law until 2011. Girls and women or boys and men may stay quiet about a rape because they might feel ashamed about it. Rapists can be both male or female.
A person may be unable to consent (say yes to) to sexual intercourse or other sexual activity. Having sex with a person who cannot consent is rape.
Some adults are unable to consent to sex.
Marital rape is where the victim of rape is married to the person committing the rape. Unconsenting sex with a married partner is thought to be rape under the laws of some countries but not others. In the United Kingdom, marital rape was determined to be a crime in the case of "R v. R" (1991). Marital rape being illegal does not mean that the law is enforced. For example, in Ireland marital rape was made illegal in 1990, but by 2006 only one person had been convicted of it.
Rape is a medical emergency. People who are raped may be injured or have a sexually transmitted disease (STD). People may not know they are hurt or sick. Doctors can give medicine to treat an STD. HIV, an STD, can be prevented by early treatment. If seen quickly, a doctor can give medication called emergency contraception to prevent pregnancy. Rape is at least twice as likely to cause pregnancy as consensual sex. The reason for this is not known.
At the hospital, police can collect evidence from the victim and his/her clothing. Evidence may help find the rapist, and can help him/her go to jail. Waiting too long makes it hard to collect evidence. Also, taking a shower before telling the police or going to a hospital can wash off some of the DNA evidence.
Victims of rape often feel scared, sad, and/or guilty. They may think about the rape a lot, even when they do not want to. They may have nightmares about the rape. Many have post-traumatic stress disorder. People who are raped during childhood or adolescence often get borderline personality disorder. They may binge drink to cope. Talking to someone, like a counselor, can help. Rape counselors are trained to help rape victims. Sometimes doctors can give medicine to decrease fear and sadness. Calling a rape crisis center or hotline can help a victim find help.
Some people believe in 'rape culture'. For example, they say that the United States has a rape culture. Rape culture is a culture that lets rape happen. It even encourages it. In the US 97% of rapists are never put in prison for their crimes. Some people are worried about women lying about being raped and men getting unfairly punished. This happens much less often than people think. In a study of college athletes, they thought that women lie about being raped 50% of the time. A 2005 study by the British Home Office found that 2.5% of rape reports were false.
Part of rape culture is victim blaming. This is when people say that someone who has been raped is the person to blame for their rape. An example of this is people saying that a rape victim was 'asking for it' because they were wearing a short skirt. It can also be more subtle. Victim blaming has been linked to the just world fallacy. This is when people think that the world is fair, so bad things only happen to people who have done something wrong. Victim-blaming is also related to 'slut-shaming'.
The idea of rape culture has been criticized. Christina Hoff Sommers argues that rape is just one type of violent crime and America's culture of violence in general is what should be fought.
It is not easy to find out how many people have been raped or how many people have raped. A lot of rape victims don't tell anyone that they were raped. They may be scared that they will not be believed or feel too ashamed to talk about what happened. The conviction rate for rape is very low so they might think reporting to police is a waste of time. The 2006-07 British Crime Survey found that 1 in every 200 women suffered from rape in that period. The same year 800 people were convicted of rape. This means less than 1 in every 100 reports of rape led to a conviction. A survey by Mumsnet found that 68% of women would hesitate reporting a rape to the police because of low conviction rates.
So rape report statistics are not reliable. A person may be raped but deny or not realize that what happened to them is rape, so would not say 'yes' if they were asked in survey if they had been raped. A person is more likely to say they were raped or raped someone if the word 'rape' is not used in a survey question. Different countries have different legal definitions of rape. Marital rape or rape that is not male-female is not always counted in the law or statistics.
Some studies ask what people think about rape instead of or as well of if they have raped or been raped. This comes from the idea that rape is a social problem.
One in five women in the U.S. say they have been raped in their lives. One in three Native American women has been a victim of rape or attempted rape.
One in six men in the U.S. say they were raped or sexually abused before age 18.
Prostitutes have possibly the highest rape rate in the population. A 1996 study in San Francisco found that 70% of a sample of 200 female prostitutes had been raped.
Opinion Matters surveyed a random sample of 1061 people in London aged 18 to 50 online. 20% had been raped (23% of 712 women and 15% of 349 men).
In a 2005 poll 26% of people thought that a woman is partly or fully responsible for her rape if she was wearing sexy clothing. 4% thought that there are more than 10,000 women raped a year.
60% of 1000 women in a Rape Crisis survey thought that rape is not rape if the woman does not say 'no'. 16% had been raped.
A 2009 study by NSPCC found that 1 in 16 girls between the age of 13 and 17 who were in relationships had been raped.
In a survey between 2010 and 2012 of adults living in Britain, 9.8% of women said they had been raped and 1.4% of men said they had been raped.
In 2013 the 'Savile effect' was described in the media. In 2012 there was a lot of media coverage about claims of child sexual abuse against Jimmy Savile. The number of sex crimes reported to police increased 9%. This was linked to the sexual abuse scandal.
In Finland convicted rapists get very short sentences compared to other countries. Between 2001 and 2003 the average sentence for rape was two years in prison.
In 2013 a study by the United Nations was published that asked 10,178 men in six countries (Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea and Sri Lanka) if they had raped a woman who was not their partner. Over one in 10 said yes. When they were asked if they had raped a woman who was their partner, 1 in 4 said yes, making headlines. The highest rate was 62% of men in Bougainville Island, Papua New Guinea who said they had raped a woman. 7.6% had raped a man. 14% of men from the area had took part in gang rape.
2.8% of the whole sample reported having raped another man.
The lowest rate was 10 per cent in urban Bangladesh. The majority of the men who had raped did not face any legal consequences. 42.7% had first raped between the age of 15 and 19.
73% said they raped because of sexual entitlement. 59% said they did it for fun. 38% said they had raped a woman to punish her. Alcohol was the least common reason. Men who had been sexually abused were more likely to rape.
20.8% of 1,863 Cambodian men had raped. Gang rape was the least common kind of rape in Cambodia. In Cambodia it was more common than non-partner rape by a rapist on their own. 81.7 percent of Cambodian women said that if a woman does not physically fight back it is not rape.
Other research found that 87% of Cambodian girls and 87% of Cambodian boys don't think that gang rape of a prostitute by a group of men is wrong or actually rape.
96.5% of Sri Lankan men who raped experienced no legal consequences.
20% of 8000 Indian men in a survey by ICRW had committed marital rape.
In a survey by IUSSP 32% of Indian women said they had been raped in their lives. The conviction rate for rape in India is 24.21%.
South Africa has been described as the rape capital of the world. In a study in the Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal by the South African Medical Research Council over one in four of 1737 anonymously surveyed men said that they had raped. 4.6% had raped and 5.3% had attempted rape in the last year. 16.8% had attempted rape ever. 8.9% had engaged in gang rape in their lives. 46.3% of men who had raped had raped more than one woman or girl and 53.9% had raped more than once. 7.1% raped 6-10. 7.7% said they had raped more than ten women or girls. 45% did not feel guilty. 9.8% of rapists were under 10 years old and 16.4% were 10–14 years old the first time they raped a girl of woman. However the sample contained more young men than the general population. The men who raped were much more likely to have experienced bullying and bad relationships with their parents. The most common reason given by the rapists for raping was entitlement.
In another study in Gauteng, South Africa's wealthiest province, over 1 in 3 (37.4%) of the 487 men asked admitted to rape. Two thirds of men said they raped because of feeling entitled to sex. Other reasons given were that they wanted to have fun or to punish a woman. 25.3% of 511 women said they had been raped.
Community Information, Empowerment and Transparency (CIET) Africa says that in 1998, one in three of the 4,000 women they asked in Johannesburg were raped.
A 2013 study of grade-nine boys at 46 secondary schools in Cape Town and Port Elizabeth found that 17.2% had raped.
A study of 1370 rural South African men aged 15–26 from 70 villages found that 21% had raped. The average age of first rape was 17.
Other very different statistics have been reported.
In "The South African demographic and health survey of 1998" 4% of women aged 15 to 49 said they had been raped. The reason for the differences in the statistics are not known. Rape between men is not part of the legal rape definition in South Africa.
In a study of 1,049 women in Lesotho, 33% said they had been raped by the age of 18. In 66% of cases the rapist was a boyfriend.
A study in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania's largest city, found that 1 out of 5 women over the age of 12 (the age group studied) have been raped. 10% had reported their rapes to police.
A 2010 study estimated that 1,100 women are raped every day in the Democratic Republic of Congo, a statistic 26 times higher than the previous estimate.http://www.aljazeera.com/news/africa/2011/05/2011511231649539962.html
An analysis of 2,565 patients who received medical care in the Médecins Sans Frontières sexual violence clinic in Ituri found that 96% were female. 73% were raped by armed men. 95.2% of the male victims were raped by armed men. 35.9% of females who were asked if they had became pregnant as a result of their rape said yes. 74.5% experienced gang rape (89.3% of male and 73.9% of female victims), usually involving 2-4 rapists. 48.6% of victims were raped while doing daily chores outside the home like collecting water and 12.3% in their own homes.
10.3% of women in Botswana said that they had been raped in a 2011 study. 3.9% of men said they had raped.
5% of Swaziland men in a study had raped. 11.4% of women had been raped.
A study in Addis Ababa of high school boys found that 4.3% had been raped in their lives.
In a sample of street females in Bahir-Dar town 24.3% had been raped in their lives and 11.4% were raped in the last year. 93.8% of the rapes were not reported. 19.1% became pregnant as a result of their rape.
A study of 374 female students at Wolaita Sodo University found that 23.4% had experienced attempted rape and 8.7% had been raped.
The World Health Organization (WHO) found among a sample of women in rural Ethiopia who had had sex, 17% said that the first time they had sex it was forced.
In a survey 8% of 2011 Ghanian women had been raped. 5% of men had raped a wife or girlfriend.
Out of a sample of 295 female students from Ebonyi State University Abakaliki in Southeast Nigeria, 10.8% had been raped on campus. In another study of 12-19 year old students from schools in Oyo State found that 68.3% of intellectually disabled females with sexual experience had been raped.
In a 2013 poll, 34% of 585 randomly chosen Nigerians said that 'indecent dressing' is the most common cause of rape in their society. 79% agreed with the statement 'most rapes in Nigeria go unreported'. In Nigeria raping someone you are married to (marital rape) is not recognized as a crime.

</doc>
<doc id="15255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15255" title="Emmet D. Boyle">
Emmet D. Boyle

Emmet Derby Boyle (July 26, 1879 - January 3, 1926) was a Governor of Nevada. He was a Democrat.
Boyle was born in Virginia City, Nevada in 1879. He was a mining engineer, and was the Governor between 1915 and 1923. He died in 1926 at the age of 46.

</doc>
<doc id="15256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15256" title="Carp">
Carp

The Carp is a fish that lives in fresh water, such as rivers and lakes. In Europe and Asia carp are loved as a fishing and eating fish. However, carp are a really big problem in countries such as the U.S. and Australia. They make the water dirty by causing the mud at the bottom to move and in these countries people hate them.
Some popular ornamental fishes like the koi and goldfish are also carp. 

</doc>
<doc id="15257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15257" title="Christopher Walken">
Christopher Walken

Ronald Walken (born March 31, 1943), known as Christopher Walken, is an American movie, television, and theatre actor. He is best known for playing evil or mentally damaged characters. He has sometimes used that image for comedic effect. He was born in Queens, New York to a German father and Scottish-born mother. Walken has been married to casting director Georgianne Walken since 1969.
Walken is a skilled dancer who in many of his movies dances, because he requests it. He has been in nearly one hundred movies and television shows since 1953, including "The Dead Zone" (1983), "Brainstorm" (1983), "A View to a Kill" (1985), "Batman Returns" (1992) "True Romance" (1993), "Pulp Fiction" (1994), "Nick of Time" (1995), "Catch Me If You Can" (2002), "Around the Bend" (2004) and "The Jungle Book" (2016). He was George Lucas' second choice for Han Solo after Harrison Ford.
He won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor in "The Deer Hunter" (1978) where he played a disturbed Vietnam veteran with Robert De Niro. He was nominated again in 2002 for "Catch Me if You Can". 
Walken has been guest host on Saturday Night Live many times. He has played many well known characters on that show.

</doc>
<doc id="15261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15261" title="Gene Hackman">
Gene Hackman

Eugene Alden Hackman (born January 30, 1930) is an American retired actor and novelist. Hackman was born in San Bernardino, California. His parents divorced while he was a child, and he moved from one place to another until he settled finally in Danville, Illinois, where he lived with his English-born grandmother. At the age of 16 he left home to join the Marines, where he served 3 years as a radio operator. Having finished his service, he moved to New York, where he worked in several minor jobs. He then studied television production and journalism at the University of Illinois.
Already over 30 years old, Hackman decided to become an actor, and joined the Pasadena Playhouse in California. It was in that school that Hackman became friends with another person who wanted to be an actor named Dustin Hoffman.
After working hard in many roles he became a well-respected actor. He has won two Academy Awards, and has played many well-known roles.

</doc>
<doc id="15264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15264" title="Brian Russell">
Brian Russell

Brian Russell (born February 5, 1978) is an American music producer. He is the former husband of musician Brenda Russell. He is currently married to Cheryl Ladd.

</doc>
<doc id="15266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15266" title="Cod">
Cod

Cod is a teleost fish that lives in the ocean, where it is one of the larger predators. There about 12 different genera. 
Cod is an important type of fish for professional fishing. It is also popular to eat, because it is mild in taste. The livers of cods are processed to get cod liver oil. Along with Haddock and Plaice, cod is a very common fish to use for Fish and Chips.
Cod has been traded about since the period of the Vikings. Cod grows to about 5 ft long. The biggest one ever caught weighed about 104 pounds.

</doc>
<doc id="15267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15267" title="U.S. 1st Infantry Division">
U.S. 1st Infantry Division

The 1st Infantry Division of the United States Army—nicknamed the "Big Red One" after its shoulder patch—is the oldest division. Since the Division was made, it has served in almost all wars the American Army has been in. The division's official motto is "Duty First". Their unofficial motto is "No Mission Too Difficult, No Sacrifice Too Great".

</doc>
<doc id="15270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15270" title="Charles Manson">
Charles Manson

Charles Milles Manson (born on November 12, 1934) is an American leader of a Californian cult which murdered several people. This was in the late 1960s and early 1970s. His cult, of young women and men, was known as "The Family". 
He planned and ordered the Family to commit several brutal murders. Most known is the murder by his followers on August 8, 1969 of movie actress Sharon Tate. She was expecting a baby, already seven/eight months. The same night they also murdered Steven Parent, a friend of the groundskeeper at the house; Jay Sebring, a hair stylist; Abigail Folger, an heiress and social worker; and Wojciech Frykowski; a Polish writer and actor. The next night, Manson and some of his followers murdered Leno La Bianca, a grocery store owner and his wife Rosemary. Manson and his followers were arrested for stealing cars, but soon it was found out that they were the ones who committed the murders. 
Manson is in jail for life in California. He and four Family members were sentenced to death, but the death penalty was abolished in California shortly after that. He has been diagnosed with schizophrenia and paranoid delusional disorder. Because of his violent, murderous, antisocial behavior and unstable mental state, he was refused parole in 2012, for the 12th time. The chance is small that he will ever be free from prison. His next hearing is set for 2027.
Manson released an album entitled "Lie: the Love and Terror Cult", it features Manson's music and all profits of the 2006 revived ESP-Disk label version would go to the family of Wojciech Frykowski. Allmusic rated the album 4 out of 5 stars.
Manson was a convicted criminal long before the infamous murders. When he was released for the second time, on March 21, 1967, he had spent more than half his 32 years in prisons and other institutions. He told the authorities that prison had become his home and he asked to stay. This fact was disclosed in a 1981 television interview.
On his release day, Manson was allowed to move to San Francisco. With the help of a prison friend. he moved into an apartment in Berkeley. While in prison, a bank robber taught him to play the steel guitar. Living mostly by panhandling, he soon met Mary Brunner, a 23-year-old graduate of the University of Wisconsin–Madison. Brunner was working as a library assistant at University of California, Berkeley, and Manson moved in with her. Someone said in a secondhand report that he managed to talk her into allowing other women to live with them, even though she was against it. Before long, they were sharing Brunner's home with 18 other women.
Manson set himself up as a guru in San Francisco's Haight-Ashbury. During 1967's "Summer of Love" it was becoming the most popular place for hippies to live and hang out. Preaching a philosophy that included some of the Scientology he had studied in prison, he soon had his first group of young followers, most of them female. When Manson had been put in prison in July 1961 at the U.S. penitentiary in McNeil Island, Washington, Manson put "Scientologist" as his religion on a questionnaire.
Before the summer ended, Manson and eight or nine of his followers began to travel around in an old school bus. They went as far north as Washington state, then south through Los Angeles, Mexico, and the southwest. Returning to the Los Angeles area, they lived in Topanga Canyon, Malibu, and Venice—western parts of the city and county.
In the late spring of 1968, in some reports of the events, Dennis Wilson, of The Beach Boys, picked up two hitchhiking Manson followers. They were Patricia Krenwinkel and Ella Jo Bailey. Wilson brought them to his house in a rich neighborhood of Los Angeles for a few hours. After an all-night recording session, he came home in the early hours of the next morning. Wilson was greeted in his driveway by Manson, who came out of the house. Feeling afraid, Wilson asked the stranger if he was going to hurt him. Saying no, Manson then began kissing Wilson's feet.
Inside his house, Wilson found 12 strangers, mostly women, who had moved in. Over the next few months, the number of members moving in continued to grow. The Family members who had made themselves part of Wilson's Sunset Boulevard household cost him about $100,000. This included a large doctor's bill for treatment of their gonorrhea and $21,000 for wrecking his uninsured car, which they had borrowed. Wilson spent a lot of time singing and talking with Manson, whose women were treated like domestic workers.
Wilson paid for recording studio time to work on songs written and performed by Manson. He also introduced Manson to friends of his in the entertainment business. One was Terry Melcher, (the son of Doris Day), who was also a musician and record producer. Gregg Jakobson, another friend, also paid to record Manson material. He later wrote about this experience with Manson for "Rolling Stone" magazine. He used a fake name of "Lance Fairweather" for the article.
In his book, "Manson in his own words", Manson says he first met Wilson at a friend's San Francisco house, where Manson had gone to buy cannabis. The drummer then gave Manson his Sunset Boulevard address and invited him to stop by when he would be in Los Angeles.
Manson established a base for the group at Spahn's Movie Ranch, not far from Topanga Canyon, in August 1968 after Wilson's manager told the Family to move out of Wilson's home. The entire Family then relocated to the ranch.
Family members did helpful work around the grounds. Also, Manson ordered the Family's women, including Lynette "Squeaky" Fromme, to have sex occasionally with the nearly blind, 80-year-old owner, George Spahn. The women also acted as seeing-eye guides for Spahn. In exchange, Spahn allowed Manson and his group to live at the ranch for free.
In the first days of November 1968, Manson established the Family at alternative headquarters near Death Valley, where they occupied two unused or little-used ranches. 
While back at Spahn Ranch, no later than December, Manson and Watson visited a Topanga Canyon acquaintance who played them the Beatles' "White Album", then recently released. Manson was obsessed with the group. At McNeil, he had told fellow inmates, including Alvin Karpis, that he could surpass the group in fame; to the Family, he spoke of the group as "the soul" and "part of 'the hole in the infinite'. "
For some time, Manson had been saying that racial tension between blacks and whites was growing and that blacks would soon rise up in rebellion in America's cities. He had emphasized Martin Luther King, Jr.'s assassination, which had taken place on April 4, 1968. On a bitterly cold New Year's Eve at Myers Ranch, the Family members, gathered outside around a large fire, listened as Manson explained that the social turmoil he had been predicting had also been predicted by the Beatles. The "White Album" songs, he declared, told it all, although in code. In fact, he sad the album was directed at the Family itself, an elect group that was being instructed to preserve the worthy from the impending disaster.
In early January 1969, the Family escaped the desert's cold and positioned itself to monitor L.A.'s supposed tension by moving to a canary-yellow home in Canoga Park, not far from the Spahn Ranch. Because this would allow the group to remain "submerged beneath the awareness of the outside world", Manson called it the Yellow Submarine, another Beatles reference. There, Family members prepared for the impending apocalypse, which, around the campfire, Manson had termed "Helter Skelter", after the song of that name.
By February, Manson's vision was complete. The Family would create an album whose songs, as subtle as those of the Beatles, would trigger the predicted chaos. Ghastly murders of whites by blacks would be met with retaliation, and a split between racist and non-racist whites would yield whites' self-annihilation. Blacks' triumph, as it were, would merely precede their being ruled by the Family, which would ride out the conflict in "the bottomless pit"—a secret city beneath Death Valley.
At the Canoga Park house, while Family members worked on vehicles and pored over maps to prepare for their desert escape, they also worked on songs for their world-changing album.
A total of eight people are known to have been killed by the Manson Family, and two other killings are suspected. 
On July 25, 1969, Manson sent Bobby Beausoleil, Mary Brunner and Susan Atkins to the house of acquaintance Gary Hinman, to persuade him to turn over money Manson thought Hinman had inherited. The three held the uncooperative Hinman hostage for two days, during which Manson showed up with a sword to slash his ear. After that, Beausoleil stabbed Hinman to death, probably on Manson's instruction. Before leaving the Topanga Canyon residence,one of them used Hinman's blood to write "Political piggy" on the wall and to draw a panther paw, a Black Panther symbol.
On the night of August 8, Manson directed Charles Watson to take Susan Atkins, Linda Kasabian, and Patricia Krenwinkel to "that house where Melcher used to live" and "totally destroy everyone in [it], as gruesome as you can". He told the women to do as Watson would instruct them. Unknown to Manson, the tenants were now Sharon Tate and Roman Polanski. Polanski was in Europe at the time, and Tate was at home with three other people. They were all killed, as was a delivery boy who turned up at an inopportune moment.
This event was the murder of a supermarket owner and his wife. On this occasion Manson himself took charge of the murders, and six Family members accompanied him. As with the other killings, there was no particular reason for the crime, and the victims were unknown to the Family other than Manson.
On January 1, 2017, Manson was taken from Cochran State Prison to Mercy Hospital in downtown Bakersfield. He was suffering from gastrointestinal bleeding. The "Los Angeles Times" reported that Manson was seriously ill. Some reports suggest Manson was too weak for surgery. He was returned to prison by January 6. There was no report about whether he received any treatment.

</doc>
<doc id="15271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15271" title="Herring">
Herring

A herring is a small teleost fish of the genus "Cluptea". Best-known of this family is probably the Atlantic Herring. There are 15 different species of herring. When herrings migrate in the water they usually do this in large numbers; this is then called a "school" of herring. Like other fish, they do this for protection: see shoaling and schooling. 
Herrings can be eaten. They are often smoked or pickled. 
A red herring is used to describe a plot device in mystery fiction that leads the reader to a wrong solution.

</doc>
<doc id="15275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15275" title="Ray">
Ray

The rays are a group of Batoid cartilaginous fish containing more than 500 described species in thirteen families. The batoids include four orders. 
They are mostly flattened in shape, and usually demersal, living and eating at the bottom of the sea. The group first appears in the Triassic period, after 95% of marine species had been wiped out by the P/Tr extinction event.
Rays look like bats in the water, and this is probably why they are called batoids. They have pectoral fins that are attached to their bodies from back to front, similar to the way a bat's wings attach from its shoulder to its feet. 
The fins of the ray create a disk shape that can be round, triangular, or diamond-shaped. Rays use their pectoral fins to fly through the water. Though a bony fish takes in water with its mouth, rays do not because they live at the bottom of the ocean. If they took in water through their mouths, they would probably just get a mouthful of sand. Because of this, they have breathing holes on top of their bodies called "spiracles". Rays use spiracles to take in water that is then sent over the gills. 
Also, because they do not have a swim bladder, rays sink when they are not actively swimming.
Interestingly, rays are usually curious and social animals. Though they often live alone, they like swimming together in groups with other rays. Despite the fact that they are able to swim, most rays live at the bottom of the sea, eating benthic animals. In fact, they often flick sand on their backs to camouflage (disguise, or hide) themselves as they lie in the sand at the bottom of the ocean.

</doc>
<doc id="15276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15276" title="Tuna">
Tuna

Tuna, sometimes called tunafish, are several species (kinds) of fish. They are in the family Scombridae, mostly in the genus Thunnus.
Tuna are fast swimmers. People have seen tuna swim at up to 77 km/h. Several species of tuna are warm-blooded. Most species of fish have white flesh. The flesh of the tuna is different. It is pink to dark red. This is because tuna muscle tissue contains greater quantities of myoglobin. Myoglobin is a molecule that binds oxygen. Some of the larger tuna species such as the Northern bluefin tuna can raise their blood temperature above the water temperature with muscular activity. This enables them to live in cooler waters and survive a wider range of circumstances.
Tuna is an important commercial fish. Some varieties of tuna, such as the bluefin and bigeye tuna are threatened by overfishing, dramatically affecting tuna populations in the Atlantic and northwestern Pacific Oceans. Other populations seem to support fairly healthy fisheries (for example, the central and western Pacific skipjack tuna), but there is mounting evidence that overfishing threatens tuna fisheries world-wide.
Some fishermen in Australia now grow Southern bluefin tuna in fish farms. Fish farms are areas of water with nets around them, where farmers raise (keep and grow animals) fish. Some tuna farms are circular nets forty meters in diameter and twenty meters deep. The fishermen catch the tuna at sea, and then they keep the tuna in these farms. The tuna grow and get fatter for from three to six months. There are also tuna farms in the Mediterranean, North America, and Japan that raise Northern bluefin tuna. Some environmental groups say that tuna farms use too much fish as food for the tuna, and that the farms pollute the water (make the water dirty).
Tuna are high up in the food chain. They eat animals that ate animals. Their diet leads to the accumulation of heavy metals in their flesh. Mercury levels can be relatively high in some of the larger species of tuna such as bluefin and albacore. As a result, in March 2004 the United States FDA issued guidelines recommending pregnant women, nursing mothers, and children to limit their intake of tuna and other types of predatory fish . However, most canned light tuna is skipjack tuna and is very low in mercury.
Sport fishermen like to catch tuna using rods and hooks.
There are eight species:
Species of several other genera (all in the family Scombridae) have common names containing "tuna":

</doc>
<doc id="15279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15279" title="Fishing hook">
Fishing hook

Fishing hook is a hook used to catch fish. There are many types of fishing hooks. Most have a sharp point which sticks into the fish when it is caught. There are lots of types of fishing hooks, and they all depend on how powerful they can hold the line and the size.
Many hooks have different sizes for different fish.

</doc>
<doc id="15281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15281" title="Fishing rod">
Fishing rod

A fishing rod is a tool used for catching fish. The rod is often used to cast a lure to where the fish are. This is the way people catch fish for fun or sport. Commercial fishing is usually done using fishing nets.
A fishing rod is basically a line with bait on it, fixed on a pole. There is usually some way to make the line longer or shorter, and the pole it is fixed on can bend a little.

</doc>
<doc id="15282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15282" title="Mammalia (taxonomy)">
Mammalia (taxonomy)

"See Mammals for more info"
"Class:" Mammalia: 

</doc>
<doc id="15290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15290" title="Nottuln">
Nottuln

Nottuln is a town in Coesfeld county, 20 km west of Münster, Germany.
It consists of
A church was founded in 860 by Ludger Liudger, as well as the first monastery in Westphalia.
After a big fire 1748 it was built up by Johann Conrad Schlaun.
The county of Nottuln is at the A43 and a railway.

</doc>
<doc id="15291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15291" title="Coesfeld">
Coesfeld

Coesfeld is a town in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany and the capital of Coesfeld county.
Nepomucenum and St.-Pius-Gymnasium are highschools in Coesfeld.
Coesfeld was founded by the holy Ludgerus. Coesfeld has been a town since 1197.
Big villages in county Coesfeld:

</doc>
<doc id="15292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15292" title="St.-Pius-Gymnasium">
St.-Pius-Gymnasium

St.-Pius-Gymnasium is a catholic private highschool in Coesfeld near Münster in Germany. It is held by the diocese of Münster and named after Pope Pius X. . Until 1976 the school was a boarding school only for boys. Since then it has been a "Gymnasium". Today, there are 791 pupils.
There is a statue of Pius X on the school ground to express solidarity with the patron. The school has a chapel and a pastor. There is a modern, well-equipped assembly hall, too.
St.-Pius-Gymnasium is associated with the Lyceé Notre-Dame in Guingamp (France), offers trips to Poole (England) and tries to establish a partnership with a school in Orlando (Florida, USA). 
In Advent, the school publishes a yearbook named "Piusbrief". Its pupil magazine "Fünf vor Acht" got multiple honours. 
The whole school is a non-smoking area.

</doc>
<doc id="15293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15293" title="Cell membrane">
Cell membrane

The cell membrane is a thin flexible layer around the cells of all living things. It is sometimes called the plasma membrane or cytoplasmic membrane. 
Its basic job is to separate the inside of cells from the outside.
In all cells, the cell membrane separates the cytoplasm inside the cell from its surroundings. In animal cells, that is all there is. Bacteria, fungi and plants have cell walls as well, which support the cell and block the passage of large molecules.
The membrane is made up of a thin layer called the 'phospholipid bilayer'. This has two layers of phospholipid molecules with phosphate heads on the surfaces and lipid (oil) tails on the inside. The outside heads mix with water, but the tails reject water.
Other proteins and lipids can be added to the cell membrane. By these changes, the cell can adjust what it brings in or puts out. Some proteins are always stuck into it, these are called "integral" membrane proteins. It also has some which are only sometimes stuck onto it. These are called peripheral membrane proteins.
The cell membrane is active and regulates (adjusts) what comes in and what goes out of the cell. The movement of substances across the membrane can be either "passive", occurring without the input of cellular energy, or "active", requiring energy. 
Proteins within the membrane are key to its working. These proteins mainly transport chemicals and information across the membrane. 
The membrane contains many proteins. The surface proteins can act as gates. They let some chemicals into the cell and let other chemicals leave the cell. It is estimated that up to a third of the human proteome may be membrane proteins. Some of these proteins are linked to the exterior of the cell membrane. An example of this is the CD59 protein, which identifies cells as “self” and thus inhibits their destruction by the immune system.

</doc>
<doc id="15294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15294" title="Morocco">
Morocco

Kingdom of Morocco (Berber: Tagldit n Murakuc, Arabic: المملكة المغربية) is a country in North Africa.
Morocco is a constitutional monarchy. The political powers are shared between the king Muhammad VI (the sixth) and the Head of the Government. The King is the head of state (Person in charge of the country) and the most important person.
The people of Morocco vote for Members of Parliament to speak for them and to help make laws for them. The Council of Ministers defines what must be done. He makes all the important decisions. Today, the Head of Government is Abdelilah Benkirane.
Morocco is next to the countries of Algeria to its east and Mauritania to its south. The Mediterranean Sea lies to the north of Morocco, and the Atlantic Ocean to the west.
Morocco has a diverse geography from fertile plains, to forests, cold mountains, dry lands, and deserts. Most people live in areas close to the coast, or in fertile farms. Morocco has an area of 446,550 km². Morocco also controls most of the Western Sahara which is 266.000 km² big.
The capital of Morocco is Rabat. About 1.2 million people live in Rabat. The biggest city in Morocco is however Casablanca, with nearly 4 million people living there. Both Rabat and Casablanca have large ports and industrial zones. The third biggest city is Marrakesh from which the word "Morocco" is made.
The population of Morocco is about 34 million. People from Morocco are called Moroccans. Moroccans are Arab, indigenous Berber, Sub-Saharan African and European.
The official languages of Morocco are Arabic and Berber. French is also very used in companies, universities, and in some TV channels. Morocco was part of the French colonial empire for 44 years. Some people in the north (close to Spain) speak Spanish as well. Spain also occupied parts of Morocco before leaving them in 1956 and in 1975.
Most educated Moroccans do not speak English well, or do not know it at all. In the 21st century English is being taught to students in an increasing number of schools.
Most Moroccans follow Islam as their religion. There are very small numbers of Christians, Jews, and non-believers. Morocco is home to the oldest university in the world, the University of Karaouine.
Morocco is divided into 12 regions. The regions are divided into 62 prefectures and provinces.
As of 2015 the regions are:
Morocco is divided into 37 provinces and 2 wilayas : Agadir, Al Hoceima, Azilal, Beni Mellal, Benslimane, Boulemane, Casablanca, Chefchaouen, El Jadida, El Kelaa of Sraghna, Errachidia, Essaouira, Fez, Figuig, Guelmim, Ifrane, Kenitra, Khemisset, Rommani, Khenifra, Khouribga, Laayoune, Larache, Marrakech, Meknes, Nador, Ouarzazate, Oujda, Rabat, Sale, Settat, Safi, Sidi Kacem, Tangier, Tan-Tan, Taounate, Taroudant, Tata, Taza, Tetouan, Tiznit. Three additional provinces of Dakhla (Oued ed Dahab), Boujdour, and Es-Smara as well as parts of Tan-Tan and Laayoune fall within Moroccan-claimed Western Sahara.
Mining, agriculture, fishing, and tourism are the 4 main parts of Morocco's national economy. Also, Moroccans working in Europe (about 2 million) send billions of Euros of money home to their families every year.
Tourism is becoming very important too. Many Americans and Europens come to see the historical places of Morocco, live the Berber countryside life, or enjoy the warm sun and the long and clean beaches. Marrakesh is the most liked city by tourists.
The currency of Morocco is called the Dirham, its code is MAD.

</doc>
<doc id="15295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15295" title="Andrew Johnson">
Andrew Johnson

Andrew Johnson (December 29, 1808 – July 31, 1875) was the 16th Vice-President and 17th President of the United States.
Johnson was born in Raleigh, North Carolina in 1808. He was apprenticed as a tailor.
Before becoming Vice-President, he was a Governor and U.S. Senator from Tennessee. When Tennessee and ten other Southern slave states declared they were no longer part of the United States, he was the only member from such a state to not quit his seat in the U.S. Congress. A southern Democrat, he was elected as Abraham Lincoln's vice-president on a "National Union" ticket in 1864.
He became president in 1865 after Abraham Lincoln was killed. Congress was then run by Republicans, and after Lincoln's assassination, they wanted stricter terms than Johnson did for the Reconstruction of the Southern states that had rebelled. As a result, he vetoed 29 bills passed by Congress, and is the president to have the most vetoes overridden (15) by Congress.
He was also the first President to be impeached, but was later acquitted by one vote, and finished the rest of his term. The only U.S. president never to have gone to school, he was later taught to read by his wife, Eliza McCardle Johnson. The U.S. purchased Alaska from Russia for $7.2 million (the price was 2 cents per acre) while he was president.

</doc>
<doc id="15296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15296" title="1808">
1808

1808 was a leap year starting on Friday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="15297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15297" title="Starfish">
Starfish

Starfish, or sea stars, are Echinoderms of the Class Asteroidea.
All live in the ocean, on the sea floor. Some live in deep water, others in shallow water. Some live in the intertidal zone, between low and high tide. They have five or more arms and can be quite large. The Sunflower sea star ("Pycnopodia helianthoides") is the largest: fully grown, its arm-span is about a metre. This is a bit larger than the famous Crown-of-thorns starfish, which lives on coral polyps.
Although starfish are invertebrates, they do have a kind of skeleton. The bodies of starfish are composed of calcium carbonate plates, known as 'ossicles'. These form the endoskeleton, which takes on a variety of forms such as spines and granules. 
They have a primitive nervous system, but not a brain. They also do not have blood, instead they use sea water to pump things around their bodies.
There are over 1500 different species of sea star. Most sea stars are predators. They eat mussels, clams, and other bivalves. Occasionally, they catch small fish.
Most starfish have five arms, called "rays" that come out from a center circle (disk). If a starfish has more than five rays, it will often have rays in multiples of five; there could be 10, 15, 20, or even 30 rays on one starfish. This is called pentameral (five-fold) symmetry.
The degree of protection offered by the skeleton differs between species. If the skeleton becomes more rigid, it offers better protection against predators. However, this will tend to limit its feeding alternatives. Great flexibility is required for the process of external digestion used by many species to eat bivalves. The less well armoured species may adopt a life in places where they are not so open to predation. The heavily armoured ones can tough it out in the most competitive habitats:
The movement of starfish is guided by their senses of touch and sight. There are five 'eyes', light-sensitive cushions, one at the end of each arm. These and the tube feet are connected to nerve fibres, so these animals are more complex than might appear.
Although starfish started off as filter-feeders, they evolved to become major predators of shell-fish (the brachiopods and bivalves). They can also eat small crustacea and fish. Their tube feet developed suckers, perhaps originally to improve movement. Later, they were used to open shell-fish.
The shells of brachiopods and bivalves are held together by strong muscles. What the starfish does is clamp hold of them on either side with its tube feet, and apply a steady pull. The starfish, with its muscles and hydraulic system, can pull for much longer than any bivalve muscle can withstand. Apparently, ten minutes are usually enough to open the shell a bit. Then the starfish slips its stomach inside the shell. The stomach can get through a slot as narrow as 0.1mm. The starfish then dissolves the mollusc where it lives, absorbing the nutrients. This digestion process takes much longer than opening the shell, perhaps a couple of days.
Some species swallow the shell whole, and dissolve the contents inside their stomach, then push out the shell afterwards.
The ability of starfish to eat brachipods and bivalves developed in the Mesozoic, especially in the Jurassic and Cretaceous. This was part of the "Mesozoic marine revolution", which transformed the sea-floor fauna. Weakly defended and static shellfish disappeared, and more heavily armoured or more mobile shellfish flourished.
Starfish, like many sea creatures, are able to "regenerate" (grow back) parts of their bodies. Starfish are better at regeneration than most other creatures. Not only can a new ray grow when a ray is torn off, but if the torn off ray has even a small piece of the central disk still attached, a whole new starfish can grow from the one ray.
Because starfish like to eat clams and oysters, fishermen who gather shellfish have tried for years to get rid of them. To kill the starfish, fishermen would catch them, slice them right in half, and throw them back in the ocean. However, because starfish can grow back parts of their bodies, they were actually increasing the number of starfish.

</doc>
<doc id="15298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15298" title="1582">
1582

Gregorian calendar switch: The year 1582 (MDLXXXII) involved conversion to the Gregorian calendar. It had only 355 days. It began as a common year starting on Monday, in accordance with the Julian calendar. It continued as normal through Thursday, October 4. But the next day, it became October 15 (like a common year starting on Friday) in Italy, Poland, Portugal, and Spain. Other countries continued to use the Julian calendar, switching over to the Gregorian in later years.

</doc>
<doc id="15300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15300" title="Jellyfish">
Jellyfish

Jellyfish are animals of the phylum Cnidaria. They are a monophyletic clade, the Medusozoa. Most of them live in the oceans, in salt water, where they eat small sea animals like plankton and little fish, and float in the sea. Only a few jellyfish live in fresh water. 
They have soft bodies and long, stinging, venomous tentacles that they use to catch their prey, usually small plankton animals or small crustaceans or tiny fish. Some jellyfish hunt other jellyfish. Venom is injected by stinging cells called "nematocysts". A jellyfish is 97% water.
Most jellyfish have a bell-shaped body and long tentacles at the underside of the body. Tentacles are long "arms" with special stinging cells called nematocysts. They move by contracting their bodies, but they do not have much control over where they go: most of the time, they drift with the water current. The largest type of jellyfish is the Lion's mane jellyfish, which has tentacles that can be as long as 60 meters, but most jellyfish are much smaller.
The Medusozoa are four classes of the Cnidaria: 
There are many types of jellyfish. The smallest jellyfish are just a few inches across. The largest jellyfish is the Lion's mane ("Cyanea capillata"), whose body can be over 3 feet (1 m) across, with much longer tentacles. Some jellyfish in the dark (this is called phosphorescence). Some of the most dangerous jelly fish include the box jelly (Genuses "Chironex", "Chiropsalmus" and "Carybdea") and the tiny, two-cm-across Irukandji jelly ("Carukia barnesi"); the venomous sting of these jellyfish can kill a person.
Many animals eat jellyfish, including sea turtles and some fish (including the sun fish). Humans eat jellyfish too; especially in Asia jellyfish are considered a delicacy. Jellyfish spoil very quickly after they are caught. Sometimes they are dried to preserve them. There is a different process in which they are cleaned, which can take up to 40 days. They are often eaten in a kind of salad, with soy sauce or vinegar.
Most jellyfish undergo two distinct life history stages (body forms) during their life cycle. The first is the polypoid stage, when the animal takes the form of a small stalk with feeding tentacles. Very often, this polyp is attached to the sea floor, or to another hard surface; it rarely moves around. A polyp that lives that way is called sessile. In some cases, the polyp is free-floating. Polyps generally have a mouth surrounded by upward-facing tentacles. Polyps may be on their own or in groups, and some bud asexually, making more polyps. Most are very small, measured in millimeters.
In the second stage, the tiny polyps asexually produce jellyfish, each of which is known as a medusa. Tiny jellyfish swim away from the polyp and then grow and feed in the plankton. Jellyfish reproduce both sexually and asexually. Well-fed adult jellyfish spawn daily. In most species, spawning is controlled by light, so the entire population spawns at about the same time of day, often at either dusk or dawn. Jellyfish are usually either male or female (with occasional hermaphrodites). In most cases, adults release sperm and eggs into the surrounding water, where the (unprotected) eggs are fertilized and mature into new organisms.
Medusae have a radially symmetric, umbrella-shaped body called a bell, which is usually supplied with marginal tentacles that capture prey. A few species of jellyfish do not have the polyp portion of the life cycle, but go from jellyfish to the next generation of jellyfish through direct development of fertilized eggs. Jellyfish at the medusa stage usually lives only up to six months, after which it dies.
Jellyfish eat plankton and small fish, which they catch using their venomous tentacles. Jellyfish may live in symbiosis with algae. The jellyfish transports them into sunlight and get nutrients from the algae's photosynthesis. Both forms of jelly fish have small tentacles with nematocysts (stinging cells) that sting and can hurt people on contact.
A group of jellyfish is called a "smack"; an occurrence of many jellyfish simultaneously is sometimes called a "bloom".

</doc>
<doc id="15301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15301" title="Tilapia">
Tilapia

Tilapia is a fish that is often farmed for food, or kept as pets in aquariums. They live in warm, fresh water, but some species live in brackish water. The fish are found in Africa, North and South America, India, and Sri Lanka.
They are listed as one of the worlds worst introduced species. They can quickly take over from native fish in rivers. This has happened in places like in the Endeavour River, in Queensland, Australia. These fish are thought to have been released into the river from an aquarium.

</doc>
<doc id="15302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15302" title="Sardine">
Sardine

Sardine is a name of several kinds of fish, especially oily fish. Another name for these fish is Pilchard. All of those fish are quite small and are related to the herring. The Latin name of the family of these fish is Clupeidae. However, the naming is not precise. Fishbase, a database about all kinds of fish, has six species just named "pilchard". There are over a dozen with the name of "sardine". Many more exist, with the basic names qualified by adjectives.
The fish are named after the Island of Sardinia. In the past, they could easily be fished there.
Many shops and supermarkets sell canned (or tinned) "sardines". Very often, those fish are not sardines, but rather sprats or round herrings.

</doc>
<doc id="15304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15304" title="Bone">
Bone

Bones are parts of the human or animal skeleton of vertebrates. They are stiff organs which make up the endoskeleton. Our body is made of flesh and blood built on a framework of bones. Without our bones, we could not stand up or move about. They also protect organs inside our body. The skull protects the brain and the ribs protect the heart and lungs. The jaw and cheekbones support the facial muscles, which help us smile. The number of bones in a human's neck is the same as a giraffe's.
The bones are the framework of the body. Without them we would be a pile of organs on the ground and would not be able to move. The bones are also very important for our protection, that is, the rib cage protects the heart and lungs, cranium (skull) protects the brain, pelvis protects the reproductive organs, vertebrae protect the spinal cord. Bones need to be maintained by taking regular exercise and by having lots of calcium from foods like milk, and dark leafy greens such as spinach. The red bone marrow in the middle of the bigger bones is what makes the red blood cells that we need.
Osteons are the parts of the haversian system. They are found in the bone in most mammals, and many reptiles, birds and amphibians. Inside the osteons are bone cells called osteocytes, each living in its own small space. Osteocytes make contact with each other by cytoplasmic processes through a network of tiny canals. This allows the exchange of nutrients and metabolic waste. Collagen fibers in each ring of cells ('lamellae') give them structure.
Osteons have a hole down the middle, called the haversian canal. This canal contains the bone's blood supply. It contains capillaries, and nerve fibres.
Inside long bones is a central core which is not there to give strength and structure. It contains the bone marrow, one of the most important tissues in the vertebrate body. It produces blood cells for the blood system, and lymphocytes for the immune system.

</doc>
<doc id="15305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15305" title="Category:1875 deaths">
Category:1875 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15306" title="Category:1808 births">
Category:1808 births


</doc>
<doc id="15307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15307" title="Category:1808">
Category:1808


</doc>
<doc id="15310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15310" title="Category:1926 deaths">
Category:1926 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15311" title="Category:Photography">
Category:Photography

These articles are about Photography.

</doc>
<doc id="15312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15312" title="Category:1582">
Category:1582


</doc>
<doc id="15313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15313" title="Category:1741">
Category:1741


</doc>
<doc id="15314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15314" title="Category:1910">
Category:1910


</doc>
<doc id="15316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15316" title="Anteater">
Anteater

Anteaters are mammals of the family Myrmecophagidae and the suborder Vermilingua. Anteaters live in South America and Central America.
Anteaters eat ants and termites. They have long, sharp claws and a long, sticky tongue. The tongue can be up to 60 cm long, as long as a person's arm. The anteater opens an ant nest with its claws. Then it licks up the ants with its tongue.

</doc>
<doc id="15318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15318" title="Sorghum">
Sorghum

Sorghum is a genus in the grass family "Poaceae". The plants are grown in warmer climates. Species grow naturally in tropical and subtropical regions of all continents in addition to Oceania and Australasia. Because many species of Sorghum are resistant to drought and high temperatures, it is a very important food source in the desert areas of Africa. 

</doc>
<doc id="15321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15321" title="Polar bear">
Polar bear

The polar bear ("Ursus maritimus") is a large bear which lives in the Arctic. It is also called white bear or northern bear. It has black skin under the white fur. They are strong and fast, and can run as fast as 25 miles (40 km) an hour for a short distance. 
Polar bear fur is made up of a layer of dense underfur and an outer layer of "guard hairs", which appear white to tan but are actually translucent. The fur keeps them very warm. The skin is not white; it is black. Therefore, they can absorb sunlight efficiently. They are strong and can swim very well. Polar bears are similar in size to a normal bear but have a slimmer neck, longer legs and fur.
They are mostly carnivorous. They eat mostly seals and fish. When Polar bears hunt, they often wait at holes in the ice, where the seals come up to breathe. They can live off of one seal for many days, but it will make them hungry if they do.
Polar bears live alone. Polar bears are black with clear fur, so in daylight, they appear white; at night, they are invisible. 
Young Polar bears stay with their mothers for 1–2 years, and they become mature when they are 5–6 years old. People think Polar bears can become 25–30 years old in nature, but in captivity (for example, in zoos), they can become up to 45 years old.
Polar bears live in countries in the Arctic Circle, including these:
The breeding time is 8 months. The babies are born six weeks after their mother mates. At birth, a baby cub weighs less than 2 pounds (0.9 kilograms).
The mother feeds the babies milk, which makes them grow fast, and after 10 weeks, the cubs weigh about 20 to 25 pounds (9.1 to 11.4 kilograms).
Young polar bears wrestle in the snow to build their strength and skills. They practice using their strong paws, and they show off their big, sharp teeth.
Mother polar bears will do anything to protect their young. They can kill a predator with just one swat of their powerful front paws. Scientists have even seen a mother polar bear stand up and leap at a helicopter to keep it away from her cubs.
During the first year, the cubs begin to eat solid food but still nurse from their mother. They begin to learn to hunt and swim. But they cannot live on their own.
By the time they are two years old, the cubs have grown into large bears. They leave their mother and strike off into territory of their own. They hunt and live alone. But they play with other bears they meet.
Polar bears are ready to mate when they are five or six years old. They are adults by this time and weigh 330 to 660 pounds (150 to 300 kilograms).
Both male and female polar bears live to be as much as 30 years old (in a zoo). Polar bears have 42 teeth.
As adults, male bears fight with each other over a female. Each male fluffs out his coat of fur to make himself look bigger. Then, he swaggers along, growling, to scare off his rival. Polar bear scientists call this "the cowboy walk."
The polar bear eats seals, fish and fruits (berries).
They can be up to 250cm long and 160cm tall and weigh up to 600kg. 
When two polar bears meet, they have a special way of greeting each other. They circle around each other for a while, grunting. Then they come closer and touch noses.
The polar bear was the most dangerous animal to hunt. It was also greatly respected for its strength and spirit. The bear's blubber, meat, and fur all help the Inuit survive. The Inuit gave thanks and respect in turn. After a hunt, they held a celebration that lasted for several days. Then, a polar bear dance was held. Finally, the bear's skull was set on an ice floe to release its spirit back into the Arctic.
A polar bear's paws are perfect snowshoes for them. The bottoms are wide and covered with fur to help keep the bear from slipping. The sharp claws help grip the ice.
A polar bear can crawl across ice too thin for a human to walk on. They spread out their legs and lay their bellies flat on the ice. Then they use their claws to slowly push themselves across the ice.
Polar bears mate in April or May. The cub is born in December, when the mother is hibernating. The cub stays in the den with the mother until March, then, they all come out. They eat immediately after hibernating. Sometimes, because of global warming, this is impossible and the cubs die before they have had a chance to live. The cub leaves its mother in 2-3 years.
The polar bear's liver contains a lot of vitamin A. Inuit people knew that eating the liver could cause sickness and death. Several groups of European polar explorers were seriously ill after eating livers. The symptoms included drowsiness, wanting to sleep, being irritable, headaches, and vomiting. After 24 hours, people's skin began to peel off.

</doc>
<doc id="15322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15322" title="The Blues Image">
The Blues Image

The Blues Image was a late 1960s rock band formed in Tampa, Florida in 1966, and their only hit was the song "Ride, Captain, Ride". Members are singer and guitarist Michael Pinera, drummer Manuel Bertematti, and drummer Joe Lala. They were later joined by bassist Malcolm Jones and keyboardist Frank "Skip" Konte.

</doc>
<doc id="15323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15323" title="Drummer">
Drummer

A drummer is a person who plays the drums as a job or as a hobby. This can be someone who plays drums in the military, in a band or as a session musician. A session musician is someone who plays an instrument in a band when no one else is available. A drummer keeps the beat so their role is a hard and important job. Without a drummer, the band would find it hard to keep in time.

</doc>
<doc id="15324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15324" title="Singer">
Singer

A singer is a person who sings. Anyone who is singing is a singer. Some people do it as a job (professional singer), others may sing without being paid (amateur singer). Singers may sing anything: songs, opera etc. They may be accompanied by an instrument or an orchestra. Some singers also play a musical instrument such as piano, guitar or harp while they sing (they accompany themselves). Singing is important in movies and in the theatre.
The lead vocalist (lead vocal or lead singer) is the member of a band who sings the main solo vocal portions of a song. The lead vocalist may also play one or more instruments, and is usually the "leader" of their group, often the spokesperson in interviews and before the public. The lead vocalist is sometimes referred to as the frontman. For example, Jerry Garcia was the lead singer and frontman for the Grateful Dead.
A good singer will have to think of a lot of different things in a performance. Good vocal technique, a large vocal range, as well as "feeling the song" through emotional language and breathing, and also acting to provide a song with meaning. A good singer may be able to learn a song quickly, but it may take some time before they really feel it has become "part of them". A lead singer has to be a strong singer since other vocalists must sing accordingly.
Singers can sing as a solo, or in a group or a choir. Choirs can include gospel, church music and even pop songs where there are usually two groups of singers, soprano and alto. Sopranos have a higher range and altos have a lower range. Combining these two can create various harmonies which add textures to songs and make them more interesting to listen to.
People who want a career in singing should start young. This means having lots of experience in music, including being able to read music and learning to perform music with other people. Serious vocal training should only begin when the body is more mature (mid- or late teenager).
People may feel like singing for various reasons. They may want to share their feelings with other people. They may be feeling happy about something, or sad, or excited, frustrated or angry. Singing is an art in which mood is expressed through the voice.

</doc>
<doc id="15325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15325" title="Keyboardist">
Keyboardist

A keyboardist is a musician who plays one or more of the musical instruments called keyboard instruments, such as the piano, organ, or electronic synthesizer. A person who plays piano is also called a pianist. A person who plays organ is called an organist. Many types of music use keyboardists, such as rock, pop, funk, and classical music.

</doc>
<doc id="15326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15326" title="Category:1232">
Category:1232


</doc>
<doc id="15327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15327" title="Category:1230s">
Category:1230s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1230s which begins in the year 1230 and ends in the year 1239.

</doc>
<doc id="15362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15362" title="Mao Zedong">
Mao Zedong

Mao Zedong (26 December 1893 – 9 September 1976) was a Chinese Communist leader. He was the leader of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) from its establishment in 1949 until his death in 1976.
Mao Zedong is the most common (used by the most people) version of Mao's name. His name used to be spelt "Mao Tse-Tung". "Mao" is his surname - in China, surnames are placed first. Mao is also called Chairman Mao, a nickname, because he was the Chairman of the Communist Party.
Mao was born on 26 December 1893 in the Hunan province of China. He grew up in a farming family, and became a Communist while working at a library. Throughout the 1920s, his power increased in the Communist Party of China, and by 1933, he was its leader. In 1923 the Communists and the Kuomintang joined together with the help of the Soviet Union. Later in the 1920s, the groups fought each other. This fight was called the Chinese Civil War. Mao said that Chiang Kai-shek was corrupt and unfit to rule China. Mao also wanted to make China follow communism, a way of thinking that opposed private property and supported common ownership.
Chiang Kai-shek's group, the Nationalists, had more fighters in 1935. They beat Mao's Communists and made them move out of the country. The Communists went to a fort that they owned, in a distant part of China called Yenan. This move was called the Long March. Mao escaped from the Nationalists with other Communists. By this time, in 1935, the Chinese Civil War caused 500,000 deaths.
When Japan invaded China in 1937, Mao and Chiang stopped fighting. The United States defeated Japan in 1945 and made the Japanese Army leave China. The Chinese Civil War had been stopped during Second Sino-Japanese War but after the war it became very violent. Chiang Kai-shek and the Nationalists had supporters in the cities and among the middle class. Mao and the Communists had many supporters in the farms and the countryside. In those days in China there were more farmers than city people, so Mao had more supporters than Chiang, and others supported Mao because they thought Chiang's government was bad.
By 1949, Mao had chased the Nationalists to the island of Taiwan, and told the people that China would be Communist, with him as leader. Mao named the new China the "People's Republic of China".
In the 1950s, Mao had many plans for how China could move forward in technology very fast and catch up with countries like the United Kingdom and United States. Mao was responsible for the First Five Year Plan and also, The Second Five Year Plan. The Second Five Year Plan had some ideas that did not work the way that Mao had wanted them to. Farms could not produce, or make, much food because of bad farming plans, and cities did not make many things like clothes and machines. Because of the lack of food, many people died of starvation.
In the 1960s, Mao wanted to change everything about China, such as the way Chinese people thought about China, and the way they remembered history. Because of this, he forced people to change things very fast, even if they did not want to. These changes were called The "Cultural Revolution". Mao and his supporters, the Red Guards, did not like it if someone talked about his ideas a bad way, but many people in Chinese cities did not like Mao's ideas because of the food problems. There was also no freedom to do many different things when the Red Guards were running the country. To keep people from saying bad things about Mao and trying to get rid of him, Mao told all of China's best and brightest people to quit their jobs, and go into the farms. China became poorer and weaker because of this.
About the same time Mao became the leader in China, Nikita Khrushchev became the leader in the Soviet Union. Before this, Joseph Stalin was the leader in the Soviet Union, and Mao liked Stalin and respected his way to lead, and China and Russia were allies with each other. Khrushchev thought Stalin was a criminal dictator, and led the country very differently. Mao and Krushchev did not like each other, so the Soviet Union was no longer allies with China. China now had only a few allies like Albania, North Korea, Democratic Kampuchea, and Pakistan. This change of friends was called the Sino-Soviet split. "Sino" is another way to say "Chinese".
During the 1970s, Mao became more friendly with the United States. In 1972, American president Richard Nixon visited China and met Mao. Mao died in 1976, and the "Cultural Revolution" ended that year. Mao's supporters were jailed, and Deng Xiaoping, who followed Mao, changed Mao's policies so that Chinese people could have more private ownership.
Some Chinese mainlanders still believe Mao Zedong was a great leader, but they also knew that he did many unwise and bad things. According to Deng Xiaoping, Mao was "seven parts right and three parts wrong", and his "contributions are primary and his mistakes secondary." Some people think Mao made China lose its important ally, or friend, the Soviet Union, in the Sino-Soviet Split. The Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution were two of the things that Mao did that many people disliked. Most historians, people who study history, think that about tens of millions of people died because of Mao's bad ideas and neglect. That is the biggest number of people to ever die without a war. Some people disliked Mao because he did not support family planning, and this caused too many babies to be born, making too many people in too small places. Leaders of China after Mao had to make a new rule called one child policy.
Mao also made several changes to the Chinese language, such as switching from the Wade Giles system of Romanization to Pinyin, which is different. For this reason, Nanking is now called Nanjing on modern maps. Taiwan still uses Wade Giles, so its capital is called Taipei instead of the pinyin Taibei. He also simplified the Chinese characters, in theory it would make them easier to read and write so that more people would be literate.
Mao Zedong disliked Shaoqi because he was afraid that Liu Shaoqi would overthrow him, and take over the CCP. As in the result, Mao blamed Liu Shaoqi for being a capitalist, and placed him in jail. As in the result, Liu Shaoqi died in prison from brutal treatments, hunger, and the terrible conditions.
Mao had been in poorer health for several years and had declined visibly for at least six months prior to his death. There are unconfirmed reports that he possibly had ALS or Lou Gehrig's disease. Mao's last public appearance was on 27 May 1976, where he met the visiting Pakistani Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto during the latter's one-day visit to Beijing.
At around 5:00 pm on 2 September 1976, Mao suffered a heart attack, far more severe than his previous two and affecting a much larger area of his heart. X-rays indicated that his current lung infection had worsened, and his urine output dropped to less than 300 cc a day. Mao was awake and alert throughout the crisis and asked his team of doctors, several times, whether he was in danger. His condition kept changing and his life hung in the balance. Three days later, on 5 September, Mao's condition was still critical, and Hua Guofeng called Jiang Qing back from her trip. She spent only a few minutes visiting him in Building 202 (where Mao was staying) before returning to her own residence in the Spring Lotus Chamber. On the afternoon of 7 September, Mao's condition took a turn for the worse. Jiang Qing went to Building 202 where she learned the news. Mao had just fallen asleep and needed the rest, but she insisted on rubbing his back and moving his limbs, and she sprinkled powder on his body. The medical team protested that the dust from the powder was not good for his lungs, but she instructed the nurses on duty to follow her example later. The next morning, September 8, she went again. She demanded the medical staff to change Mao's sleeping position, claiming that he had been lying too long on his left side. The doctor on duty objected, knowing that he could breathe only on his left side, but she had him moved nonetheless. Mao's breathing stopped and his face turned blue. Jiang Qing left the room while the medical staff put him on a respirator and gave him CPR to keep his heart alive. Mao barely revived and Hua Guofeng urged Jiang Qing not to interfere further with the doctors' work, as her actions were detrimental to Mao's health and helped cause his death faster. Mao's organs failed quickly and he fell into a coma shortly before noon where he was put on life support machines. He was taken off life support over 12 hours later quarter to midnight and was pronounced dead at 12:10 am on 9 September 1976. This was chosen as the day to let Mao die because it was seen as an easy day to remember, being the ninth day of the ninth month of the calendar.
His body lay in state at the Great Hall of the People. There was a three-minute silence observed during this service. His body was later placed into the Mausoleum of Mao Zedong, even though he had wished to be cremated and had been one of the first high-ranking officials to sign the "Proposal that all Central Leaders be Cremated after Death" in November 1956.

</doc>
<doc id="15368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15368" title="Opus Dei">
Opus Dei

Prelature of the Holy Cross and Opus Dei (more commonly known as Opus Dei) is an organization of the Roman Catholic Church. ("Opus Dei" means "Work of God" in Latin.) Opus Dei says that the Catholic Church gave them a special job: to tell everyone that God wants them to be close to him. This means that everyone is called by God to become a saint.
Opus Dei was started by St. , a Roman Catholic priest, in 1928. It was approved by Pope Pius XII in 1950. Now, Opus Dei has around 85,000 members in 80 different countries.
In 1982, Pope John Paul II decided to make Opus Dei into a personal prelature. Usually, in the Catholic Church, there are separate dioceses in different areas. Each area has its own bishop who is in charge of just that diocese. But because Opus Dei is a personal prelature, its bishop is not limited to any specific area. He is in charge of members of Opus Dei wherever they are, around the world. 
Opus Dei was started by a Roman Catholic priest, Josemaria Escrivá, on 2 October 1928 in Madrid, Spain. He said that God showed him what to do. On that day he "saw Opus Dei."
Escrivá said that the goals of Opus Dei are:
Opus Dei gives classes, talks, and other help so that people can practice these teachings.
Pope John Paul II has said that Escrivá was led by God when he started Opus Dei.
In 2002, Pope Benedict XVI said that Opus Dei is God's work, not Escrivá's. He said that God just used Escriva as a tool to start his own work.
Escrivá and Opus Dei teach that a person can get close to God by doing these things:
Escrivá said that the basis of a Christian life is being a child of God. If people are aware of this, then they will always be very happy. He wrote that joy comes from knowing we are children of God.
According to the Catholic Church, people can find God in their daily work and activities. There they can be very close to him. They do not have to become priests or monks to become a saint. God wants them to become a saint by doing their ordinary duties and activities well. The Catholic Church gave Opus Dei the job of spreading this knowledge, and teaching people that they can be real saints just by doing ordinary things and offering them to God.
Pope John Paul II praised Opus Dei and said that its aim of bringing God into the place of work is something great. Cardinal Albino Luciani, who later became Pope John Paul I, said that Escriva brought about a big change in how people deal with God. Before, people saw prayers as the only way to be close to God. Luciani said that Escriva also gave importance to work. The work one does can become prayer.
But when Escriva started teaching this, some Jesuits in the 1940s did not understand him. They said his beliefs were against the Catholic faith, because at that time Catholics thought that only priests and nuns could become holy. Some Jesuit leaders started saying that Opus Dei had secrets which it did not want the world to know, and that Opus Dei was dangerous. In fact, they said, Opus Dei just wanted to become very powerful and to control the world.
All these accusations were cleared up by the Popes and Catholic officials. These officials say that Opus Dei is doing something good for the world, by teaching people how to practice good habits, like telling the truth, working hard, keeping promises, loving people, and being concerned with those who are in need. 
However, since the Jesuits are well-respected, a lot of people in the world believed what they said. Opus Dei has gotten a lot of criticism from Catholics and non-Catholics. They say that the members develop a strong drive to gain influence, and that the behaviour resembles that of a sect. Critics of Opus Dei also say there is a lot of gender inequality in the organization. They say Opus Dei has a very traditional view of the role of women in a Christian society. According to these critics, for Opus Dei the duty of the woman is to busy herself about the house and to raise the children of the family.
In 2005, a writer named John L. Allen, Jr. wrote a book which argued against these accusations. He said that these claims are mainly based on not understanding Opus Dei. He argued that:
Another writer, Massimo Introvigne, said that Opus Dei is now being attacked by people who do not believe in God and people who think that God should not be present in the world of human beings. These people, he says, do not want religion to come back to the lives of many people in society.

</doc>
<doc id="15416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15416" title="Superhero">
Superhero

A superhero is a fictional character who protects innocent people and fights for good.
Modern superheroes usually have superhuman powers, for example have better senses, are stronger and faster than normal humans. Usually a superhero is courageous and noble. They usually have a colorful name and costume.
Some well known superheroes include Superman, Batman, Aquaman, Spider-Man, Iron Man, Captain America, Hulk ,The Thing, Thor and Wonder Woman.
Some superheroes don't actually have super powers but are merely strong individuals who want to do good in the world. For example, Batman does not have any superpowers, but has been through years of training to be physically and mentally stronger than his enemies. 
Most superheroes keep their identities a secret by wearing masks or helmets. This is because superheroes don't want for villains to know who they are because then they would be able to hurt superheroes' friends and family. Also, because superheroes don't fight within the regulations of the law like police officers do, they would have to be arrested for vigilantism if they revealed their identities. 
Also, many superheroes have tragic backstories that play into why they're superheroes in the first place. Batman, for example, saw both of his parents murdered in front of him and dedicated himself to fighting crime to prevent things like that happening to other people. Another example of this is Spider-Man who let a thief go that he could've easily stopped; that same thief later broke into his home and killed Spider-Man's uncle. After this, Spider-Man realized that he had to be responsible with his power and use it to help others.

</doc>
<doc id="15420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15420" title="Paul Karrer">
Paul Karrer

Paul Karrer (April 21, 1889 – June 18, 1971) was a Swiss biochemist best known for his work on vitamins. He and Walter Norman Haworth won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1937.

</doc>
<doc id="15421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15421" title="Smush Parker">
Smush Parker

William "Smush" Parker (born 1 June 1981 in New York, New York) is a professional player in the American National Basketball Association.
Parker was not selected in the NBA player draft after a college career at Fordham University, and has played for the Cleveland Cavaliers, Detroit Pistons and Phoenix Suns, signing a contract with the Los Angeles Lakers during the 2005 offseason.
He last played in the NBA for the Los Angeles Clippers in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="15423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15423" title="1462">
1462

Year 1462 (MCDLXII) was a common year starting on Friday of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="15428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15428" title="Half-Life (video game)">
Half-Life (video game)

Half-Life is a science fiction first-person shooter computer game developed by Valve Software and published by Sierra Entertainment in 1998, based on a very changed "Quake" game engine. It was first published for PCs running Microsoft Windows, and was later ported to Sony's PlayStation 2 video game console. It is the first game in the Half-Life (Series)
"Half-Life", often shortened to "HL", has been thought to be very great by computer game critics for its gripping in-depth storyline, which has influenced the development of many other first-person shooters after it. It became very popular after it was released and still has many fans.
The story of the game revolves around a science research facility in the United States named Black Mesa. In the game, you are Gordon Freeman, a scientist who works at Black Mesa. A test goes wrong, causing portals to open to another world. Aliens from the dimension, Xen, come through the portals and kill many of the scientists and workers. Gordon Freeman (the player) must escape Black Mesa and get help before it's too late.
"Half-Life: Opposing Force" is the first Expansion for Half-Life, which was made by Gearbox Software, and released on November 1,1999. Half-Life: Opposing Force happens during the same time as Half-Life and in the same setting. It revolves around a Marine, who was sent to Black Mesa, and must escape after being shot down.
"Half-Life: Blue Shift" is the second Expansion for Half-Life, which was made by Gearbox Software, and released on June 12, 2001. Half-Life: Blue Shift happens during the same time as Half-Life and in the same setting. It revolves around a security guard, who must escape Black Mesa.
"Half-Life: Decay" is the final Expansion for Half-Life. It was exclusive to the PlayStation 2 version of Half-Life. It featured Co-op multiplayer.

</doc>
<doc id="15429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15429" title="1681">
1681

Year 1681 was a common year that started on a Wednesday when using the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="15430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15430" title="Anonymity">
Anonymity

Anonymity means "namelessness" and comes from Greek words meaning "without name". It is when a person's identity or name is unknown. If a person is called anonymous, nobody knows who he or she is, or the anonymous person does not want to be found out. 
The concept of anonymity has some important uses. It is vital for a democracy that votes cast in an election are anonymous. In that way, no-one can find out how a person voted in an election.

</doc>
<doc id="15431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15431" title="Spectroscopy">
Spectroscopy

Spectroscopy is the study of light as a function of length of the wave that has been emitted, reflected or shone through a solid, liquid, or gas. Many times it is analyzed when the chemical is heated, because it makes a special color of flame. Most chemicals make a different color or spectrum than other chemicals. This can be used to see what chemicals are in a substance. Spectroscopy allows scientists to investigate and explore things that are too small to be seen through a microscope, such as molecules, and the even smaller subatomic particles like protons, neutrons and electrons. There are special instruments to measure and analyse these light waves.
Infrared spectroscopy measures light in the infrared electromagnetic spectrum. The highlight of IR spectroscopy is that it is very useful in identifying functional groups of organic molecules. The absorption of infrared light by organic molecules causes molecular vibrations. The vibrational frequencies are unique to the individual functional groups. IR spectra is given graphically by transmittance(%) vs. wavenumber (cm-1)
X-ray crystallography can look at the structure of a crystalline molecule. The electron cloud of each atom diffracts the X-rays thus revealing the positions of the atoms. Various inorganic and organic molecules can be crystallized and used in this method including DNA, proteins, salts and metals. The sample used for analysis is not destroyed.
Ultraviolet–visible spectroscopy uses visible and ultraviolet light to look at how much of a chemical is in a liquid. The colour of the solution is the basis for how UV-Vis works. The color of the solution we are working with is colored because of its chemical composition. So the solution absorbs some light colors and reflects other colors, the light it reflects is the color of the solution. UV-Vis spectroscopy works by passing light through a sample of your solution then determining how much light gets absorbed by the solution.
Nuclear magnetic resonance can look at nuclei. It uses the magnetic properties of certain nuclei, the most common being C and H. The NMR instrument generates a large magnetic field that makes the nuclei act like tiny bar magnets. The nuclei either align with the instruments magnetic field or against it. At this point we have two possible orientations the nuclei could be in α or β. Next the nuclei are exposed to radio waves that make α go to the β orientation. When this change occurs energy is given off and detected. The data is interpreted graphically (Intensity vs. chemical shifts in ppm) by a computer system. NMR does not destroy the sample you use for analysis. Below is a 900 MHz NMR system.

</doc>
<doc id="15432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15432" title="Category:1681">
Category:1681

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the year .

</doc>
<doc id="15433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15433" title="Category:800">
Category:800


</doc>
<doc id="15434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15434" title="Category:800s">
Category:800s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 800s which begins in the year 800 and ends in the year 809.
Note that 800 is actually the last year of the 8th century; 801 is the actual first year of the 9th century.

</doc>
<doc id="15437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15437" title="Equestrianism">
Equestrianism

Equestrianism (or horse riding) is the sport of riding a horse. It is a popular sport in countries like the United States, Australia, the United Kingdom and other countries in Europe. Horses are used in many different competitions.
Within the sport, there are several types of riding, such as English and Western. In English riding, there are three Olympic events: cross country, dressage and show jumping (in which competitors ride horses over obstacles). There are no forms of Western riding in the Olympics.
In show jumping, a rider rides a horse over a set course of horse jumps while being timed. The horse and rider must also try not to knock down any of the jumps. Riders win by having the fastest time without knocking any jumps down. There are many types of horse jumps such as the vertical (a jump with only height), oxer (a jump with height and width), and combinations (2 or 3 jumps put right after each other). 
Not every type of horse can jump well, just like not all horses are able to do well at horse racing or farm work. Most horses seen in show jumping competitions are warmbloods, a type of horse that was bred for equestrian sports. The riding has been popular since 1900.
Dressage is an event where horses do not jump, but must be very obedient to their riders. There is usually a sequence that the horse and rider must complete. Letters are placed around an arena to show where movements should happen. In dressage the horse and rider can also perform a freestyle, which is also known as "Dancing on Horseback". Dressage riders usually wear tight pants called breeches, as well as a blouse, a top coat and a top hat. The moves the horse performs are very graceful and fun to watch. Horses that compete at the olympics in dressage have had many years of training to learn all the moves they must do for the competition.
Eventing combines dressage, show jumping, and the horse version of cross country into one sport. This combined training is based on the old military tests of the cavalry where the rider's life depended on the horse listening to what the rider told it to do. Cross country makes this sport different from the other equestrian sports. It requires the horse to canter at a high speed over solid and interesting jumps. These jumps may be logs, stone walls, water, ditches, or banks. The cross country course is very long, and at the Olympics it may take as long as 10 minutes to complete the course.
The dressage test makes sure that the horse is listening to the rider. It tests that the horse is very well trained. The cross-country course makes sure that the horse is fast and brave, since cross-country fences may be very scary. The show jumping makes sure that the horse is in good shape, since he must do it the day after running over the long cross country course. If the horse is too tired, he will hit the show jumps and make it harder for the rider to win.
Stock work began when horses were ridden on a ranch to round up cows, sheep, or other animals. Today, horse shows also have competitions for horses to show these skills. These include Cutting, Reining, Barrel Racing, Cattle Penning, Calf Roping, and Pole Bending.
Driving in the horse world means that a horse is pulling a type of wagon. It knows where to go by a person sitting on the wagon that tells them which direction they should turn. A horse used to pull a wagon is usually bigger and heavier than most other horses. The hooves are also much larger than a racing horse. Large horses are calm, trustworthy and good-natured. Types of heavy horses are: Belgians, Shires, Clydesdale, Friesian horse, and Gypsy Vanners. Also a beginner is able to communicate with these well tempered horses.
Races of horses pulling carts are called harness racing. The horses are smaller.
Barrel racing is a sport where the rider rides the horse in a pattern around 3 barrels. The rider must be able to turn the horse very quickly around the barrels. The horse that does the pattern the fastest is the winner.
Pleasure riding is riding for enjoyment, not for awards. People ride horses on trails in the forest, along quiet roads, or in an arena near their homes or barns. Horse back riding lessons could be considered pleasure riding. Pleasure riding can be called trail riding. Pleasure riding does not have to be for any specific reason, just for fun and enjoyment. Riding in a horse carriage may also be for pleasure. Endurance riding is an equestrian long-distance race. There are two main types of endurance rides which are competitive trail riding and endurance rides. 
Horse racing tests the speed of a horse. Different breeds do different types of races. The most popular type in the U.S. is Thoroughbred racing, where only horses of this breed can participate in galloping around a track. There are also endurance races, trotting races and steeplechases (horses galloping around a track with jumps). Most horses that are used for racing are ridden by professional riders called jockeys. Usually the people that own or train the horse do not ride it in the races.
In Hunter-jumpers, people ride horses in various classes. Some of those are Show jumping or Hunter-under-saddle. They are judged on the rider, not the horse. Any type of horse or pony can compete.

</doc>
<doc id="15439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15439" title="United States Virgin Islands">
United States Virgin Islands

The United States Virgin Islands are a group of islands in the Caribbean Sea. They are currently owned and under the authority of the United States Government. They used to be owned by Denmark (and called "Danish West Indies"). They were sold to the U.S on January 17, 1917, because of fear that the Germans would capture them and use them as a submarine base in World War I. They are the only part of the U.S. where vehicles drive on the left hand side of the road. 

</doc>
<doc id="15440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15440" title="Chester A. Arthur">
Chester A. Arthur

Chester Alan Arthur (October 5, 1829 – November 18, 1886) was an American politician and the 21st President of the United States. Before becoming president, he was most noted as the Collector of Customs for the port of New York, a job he got from his political friendships. Arthur was the first President of the United States to take oath of office at his own house. 
Arthur was a lawyer in New York City. Two of his cases were famous. One confirmed that any slave brought to New York was automatically set free. The other ended the racial segregation of streetcars in the city. 
After President James A. Garfield died, vice-president Chester Arthur replaced him. During his term a major problem was that people were appointing their friends (such as himself) into high political offices instead of people who were most qualified to do the job. The problem was solved after he passed the Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act which required people to pass tests before they could be appointed to a public job.

</doc>
<doc id="15446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15446" title="Wizardry">
Wizardry

Wizardry is a series of computer role-playing games that were popular in the 1980s. First, made for the Apple II, they were later moved to other platforms. The latest game in the series, "Wizardry 8", is only for Windows.
"Wizardry" began as a simple dungeon crawl by Andrew C. Greenberg and Robert Woodhead. It was written when they were students at Cornell University and then published by Sir-Tech.
David W. Bradley took over the series after the fourth game. 
Ultimately the single game became a series:
The first and last three games were trilogies (Three parts of one story). 
"Wizardry" inspired many games which were almost exactly like it. Some notable series that are very much like "Wizardry" include "The Bard's Tale" and "Might and Magic".

</doc>
<doc id="15451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15451" title="United States Army">
United States Army

The United States Army is a branch (or section) of the United States Armed Forces.
An army mainly deals with land based missions and operations. The army started as the Continental Army from 1775 to August 7, 1789 when the War Department (now known as the Department of Defense) was formed. Officially, a person (or member) in the army is called a soldier. The soldier must take orders from a person in charge known as a CO or commander. When a person joins the Army, they must serve for a certain amount of time or a "tour of duty". A new soldier or recruit must go through training called Basic Training to become a soldier. Each soldier is trained in a variety of weapons and equipment to carry out commands.
The United States Army serves as the land-based branch of the U.S. Military. 

</doc>
<doc id="15452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15452" title="Charlemagne">
Charlemagne

Charlemagne (Latin: Carolus Magnus, English: Charles the Great, German: Karl der Große, Dutch: Karel de Grote) (ca. 742 or 747 – 28 January, 814) was the king of the Franks who started the Holy Roman Empire. He was crowned as the Emperor in 800. He was the older son of King Pippin III of the Carolingian dynasty. When Pippin died, Charlemagne and his brother Carloman ruled together. When Carloman died in 771 Charlemagne became the only ruler of the Franks. In 800, on Christmas Day, Pope Leo III made him an emperor.
The Franks—one of the Germanic peoples who had moved their homes over the River Rhine into the Roman Empire as it was falling apart—were, by the year 700, the rulers of Gaul, and a lot of Germania east of the Rhine. They also protected the Papacy and the Roman Catholic faith. When their king Pepin the Short died, his sons, Charlemagne and Carloman were chosen to share the kingdom. They divided it into two parts: one half for Charlemagne, and the other for Carloman. Carloman died on December 4, 771, leaving Charlemagne as the leader of the whole Frankish kingdom.
He was king of the Franks from 768, and king of the Lombards from 774. He was crowned Imperator Augustus (Emperor) in Rome on Christmas Day by Pope Leo III in 800, starting the Holy Roman Empire, that they hoped would be a kind of second Western Roman Empire (while the Byzantines in Constantinople were still keeping up the Eastern Roman empire). With many wars, Charlemagne spread his empire across much of Western Europe.
Charlemagne fought in many wars over the course of his reign. He is known for using his sword, “Joyeuse”, in each of the thirty years of war and the 18 battles he fought in. He also finally managed to conquer Saxony, something the Roman Emperor Augustus could not do 800 years earlier. He was able to convert the Saxons to Catholic Christianity. He also had many schools built so his people could learn. However, he also killed thousands of those who failed to convert.
Charlemagne's politics and plans failed, which led to low self-esteem. His last years were spent in bed in deep depression. He died in 814, leaving his kingdom to his only son, Louis the Pious. The descendants of Charlemagne are called "Carolingians". His family line died out in Germany in 911 and in France in 987.

</doc>
<doc id="15454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15454" title="Marlow, Buckinghamshire">
Marlow, Buckinghamshire

Marlow is a town on the banks of the River Thames, on the southern tip of Buckinghamshire, England.

</doc>
<doc id="15455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15455" title="Italian unification">
Italian unification

Italy used to be many different, smaller countries. Between 1815–1871 Italy started to form from these smaller states and became one country, the Kingdom of Italy, led by Vittorio Emanuele II of Italy (Called Victor Emanuel II in English). Starting around 1848, nationalism and patriotism became popular throughout Europe. Many people wanted the smaller countries with similar culture, language, or ethnicity to join together. This resulted in two major countries being formed. The first was Italy in the Italian unification. The second was Germany in the German unification. 
Risorgimento (also called Italian unification or unification of Italy or 'the resurgence) refers to the Italian movement for independence. Risorgimento literally means resurgence in the Italian language. The movement truly began in 1848, when there were many revolts occurring throughout Italy after Klemens Wenzel von Metternich lost his office of Austrian Chancellor. The movement for independence succeeded in 1859 through the efforts of Count Cavour, the Piedmontese prime minister, as well as Giuseppe Garibaldi. - an Italian national hero, who united the South, which allowed King Victor Emmanuel to become the first King of Italy.
Napoleon invaded Italy in 1796 and later controlled it, but when he was defeated in 1815, in the battle of Waterloo. it became possible for the now free states to join together.
Victor Emmanuel of Piedmont-Sardinia saw a great vision of a unified Italy. He wanted Piedmont-Sardinia to be a model for the unification of Italy. To do so, he started many public works, projects, and political reforms. Piedmont-Sardinia was soon recognized as an emerging power. The next step for Piedmont-Sardinia 's conquest was to get Austria out of the Italian Peninsula. With the Crimean War breaking out between France and Britain on one side, and Russia on the other, Piedmont-Sardinia saw a chance to earn some respect and make a name for itself. Britain and France proved victorious, and Sardinia was able to attend the peace conference. As a result of this, Piedmont-Sardinia gained the support of Napoleon III.
In 1858, Sardinia and France secretly plotted a plan of attack against Austria. The following year, Sardinia put its plan into action and provoked Austria into declaring war on Sardinia. By Sardinia's encouraging nationalist revolts in Austrian-held territories in Italy, Austria was provoked into the war. Following the battles of Magenta and Solferino, France drove Austria out of Lombardy, but Austria still held onto Venetia.
At this point, France dropped out of the war, fearing a unified Italy might be a threat, as well as realising that Austrian Strength would eventually crush them. This ended the war, with Austria keeping Venetia.
Meanwhile, the Italian nationalist Giuseppe Garibaldi led a nationalist uprising, combining the states and territories into a full Republic. As Sardinia ended the war, Garibaldi gave most of the provinces to Sardinia. In March 1861, a parliament of all of Italy except Rome and Venetia, agreed on unifying Italy with Victor Emmanuel as its first king.

</doc>
<doc id="15457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15457" title="Meditation">
Meditation

Meditation is to try to get past the "thinking" mind, and into a deeper state of relaxation or awareness.
Meditation is a common practice in many religions including Buddhism, Christianity (sometimes), Hinduism (where Yoga is important) 
and other religions.
In Buddhism, three things are very important: being a good person, making the mind stronger, and understanding why people are in pain (Dukkha). 
Buddhist meditation is not just used for spiritual reasons. Research shows that Buddhist meditation lowers stress, anxiety and depression. 
For Buddhists, meditation is used to calm the mind so that the mind can better see the cause of pain. Buddhists believe that this type of seeing can end pain.
Most types of Buddhist meditation focus on something. The most popular things to focus on include the breath, love, other emotions, and religious images and sounds.
Christians sometimes meditate by thinking about small parts of the Bible, or by saying the words of a prayer to themselves over and over.
Hare Krishna

</doc>
<doc id="15460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15460" title="Nobel Peace Prize">
Nobel Peace Prize

The Nobel Peace Prize is one of six awards in the memory of Alfred Nobel, the inventor of Dynamite. Every year the organization gives out six awards for the people "who best benefit mankind through their actions" in one of the six subjects; peace, literature, physics, chemistry, economics, and medicine.
The Peace Prize is given out in Norway, but the other Prizes are given out in Sweden. This is because Norway and Sweden were one country when the prizes were started.
Its list of winners includes Martin Luther King, Jr., Elihu Root, Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, Henri la Fontaine, Mikhail Gorbachev, Aung San Suu Kyi, Nelson Mandela, Kofi Annan, Jimmy Carter, Wangari Maathai, Barack Obama and Liu Xiaobo. There is often a lot of controversy about the award of the prize. The 2013 winner is the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, making it the second year in-a-row that an organization has won the prize, after the European Union did so in 2012.
Here are the winners of the Nobel Peace Prize:

</doc>
<doc id="15463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15463" title="Category:814 deaths">
Category:814 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15464" title="Category:810s deaths">
Category:810s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15465" title="Category:814">
Category:814


</doc>
<doc id="15466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15466" title="Category:810s">
Category:810s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 810s which begins in the year 810 and ends in the year 819.

</doc>
<doc id="15467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15467" title="Category:740s births">
Category:740s births


</doc>
<doc id="15468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15468" title="Category:740s">
Category:740s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 740s which begins in the year 740 and ends in the year 749.

</doc>
<doc id="15472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15472" title="Celtic Park">
Celtic Park

Celtic Park is a football stadium in Parkhead, Glasgow, Scotland. It is the home ground of Celtic Football Club.

</doc>
<doc id="15473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15473" title="Romanian language">
Romanian language

The Romanian language is a Romance language, meaning it comes from Latin like French, Spanish and Italian. It has 66% Latin-based words and 20% Slavic-based words. The rest are newer and come from Dacian, Turkish, Greek or English. There are about 28 million speakers: 24 million who speak it as their mother tongue and 4 million who have learned it as their second language.
Romanian is also the most spoken language in Moldova, which is northeast of Romania. In Moldova, they refer to Romanian as Moldavian. However, there are certain differences, such as the dialect and a Moldavian accent.

</doc>
<doc id="15483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15483" title="Ealing">
Ealing

Ealing is a town in the London Borough of Ealing, most famous for the Ealing Studios, a movie studio. In 2011, the population was estimated at 339,300 and contains seven distinct town centres – Ealing, Hanwell, Acton, Southall, Greenford, Perivale and Northolt. 
The borough of Ealing has a total of 91 state-run schools and nurseries as well as four Non-League football clubs. 

</doc>
<doc id="15485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15485" title="Roma">
Roma

Roma might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="15487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15487" title="Category:Cities in Argentina">
Category:Cities in Argentina

Cities in Argentina.

</doc>
<doc id="15497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15497" title="Ear">
Ear

The ear is the part of the body which lets people hear. People and most mammals, have ears, but many animals do not hear through ears. Spiders have small hairs on their legs that they can hear with. 
For us, the ear works by directing sound to the inner ear. These vibrations are sent to the brain by a network of nerves. The whole system is called the auditory system.
The part of the ear that sticks out and can be seen is called the "pinna."
Ears are also used in other ways. African elephants use their large ears to cool themselves when it is very hot. Bats rely on their ears to find prey by echolocation. Some animals use their ears for signalling to each other.
In ordinary language, "ear" refers to this receptor which conducts sound and sends signals to the brain. It does not refer to the many other methods of hearing found in fish and invertebrates. The inner part of the ear is common to most vertebrates, but mammals have special adaptations for hearing which even other land vertebrates do not have. These include the external ear (the pinna) and the three little bones which transmit sounds (the ossicles).

</doc>
<doc id="15507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15507" title="Czech language">
Czech language

The Czech language is a Slavic language. People in the Czech Republic speak it. Ten million people speak it. It has three genders. It is an inflected language like Latin. It is very similar to the Slovak language, to the point of the differences between these two languages being smaller than differences between dialects of some other languages.

</doc>
<doc id="15511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15511" title="William Howard Taft">
William Howard Taft

William Howard Taft (September 15, 1857 – March 8, 1930) was the 27th President of the United States from March 4, 1909 to March 3, 1913. He is well known for being the heaviest President in U.S. history, weighing over 350 pounds. He was also six feet tall. Taft was also the only President who also served as a Supreme Court justice.
Taft served as Solicitor General of the United States, a federal judge, Governor of the Philippines, and Secretary of War before being nominated for President in the 1908 by the man who preceded him, Theodore Roosevelt. As a Republican President, Taft was most notable for trust-busting, in which he broke up large businesses that had too much control over the economy. Taft also expanded civil service, fixed up the United States Postal Service and promoted world peace. Taft also started the tradition of the president pitching the first ball of the baseball season. Early in life, Taft had played baseball. He was a good second baseman and could hit with power. 
In 1912, Theodore Roosevelt came back into politics and ran for President against William Taft. Many Republicans split their votes between Taft and Roosevelt, and the Democratic opponent Woodrow Wilson won the election. 
In 1921, Taft became the 10th Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court, the only President to do so. He retired from the job on February 3, 1930 due to bad health.
Taft was the most obese president. He was 5 feet, 11.5 inches tall; his weight was at 335–340 pounds toward the end of his Presidency. He had difficulty getting out of the White House bathtub. He had a 7-foot (2.1 m) long, 41-inch (1.04 m) wide tub installed. This tub could accommodate four normal-sized men. It was replaced in 1952 with a modern tub of similar size.
Taft died on March 8, 1930 due to heart failure. Three days later, he became the first president to be buried at Arlington National Cemetery.

</doc>
<doc id="15512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15512" title="Underwear">
Underwear

Underwear are clothes worn under other clothes, often next to the skin. They keep outer clothes from being made dirty by sweat. They also shape the body and provide support for parts of it, and in cold weather help the wearer to keep warm. Underwear can be used to protect the wearer's modesty, as well as to make them look sexy. Special types of underwear have religious importance. Some items of clothing are made to be worn as underwear, while others such as T-shirts and certain types of shorts can be used both as underwear and as outer clothing. If made of suitable fabric, some types of underwear can serve as nightwear or swimsuits.
Items of underwear commonly worn by women today include brassieres (bras) and panties (also known as knickers), while men wear briefs, trunks, boxer shorts or boxer briefs. Items worn by both women and men include T-shirts, sleeveless shirts, bikini underwear, thongs and G-strings. In countries where the weather is cold, long underwear can be worn to keep warm.
There are a number of different words for underwear: 'underclothes', 'underclothing' and 'undergarments' are more formal words. 
In casual situations, underwear may be called 'undies'. In Australia, one may hear underwear being called 'Reg Grundys' or 'Reginalds' (rhyming slang for 'undies'), while in the UK the word 'smalls' is sometimes used. Different types of women's undergarments are known together as 'lingerie' (pronounced "-zhur-ray"). They may also be called 'intimate clothing' or simply 'intimates'.
Words for the top half of female lingerie: 'bras', obviously. Note the use of 'teddy' for a one-piece close-fitting nightwear. 
Words for the bottom half of female lingerie: pants (US) versus knickers, drawers or panties, but never pants! (UK). 'Briefs' is another possible. 'French knickers' = knickers with frills, looser-fitting. Note the French "cache-sex" as a prototype 'G-string. Other types of undergarments are spandex shorts common for women who workout. These shorts are used because it supports the behind and the back for good posture.
An "undershirt" is old word for a piece of underwear covering the torso, which has fallen out of usage in the UK, but is still commonly used in North America. "Vests" is by far the most common term in UK. "Underpants" or "pants" cover the part of the body where the sex organs are, but never "drawers". Most common words: "shorts " as in "boxer shorts" for the looser fit. "Y-fronts" for the tight fit (UK), "boxers" or "briefs" used for the same things in Canada and the USA.
These and other words for different types of underwear are set out in the table below.
Underwear is worn for many reasons. They keep outer clothes from being made dirty by sweat. Men's briefs provide support for the male sex organs, and women's brassieres (bras) do the same thing for their breasts. Some people wear corsets to make their torsos a certain shape. For more support and protection when playing sports, people often put on underwear that fits more tightly for extra support. Men may wear jockstraps and trunks (which are a type of boxer shorts). Women may wear sports bras and pelvic protectors. Sports bras lessens the chance of damage to the ligaments of the chest during vigorous exercises such as jogging.
In countries where the weather is cold, underwear is one more layer of clothing that helps the wearer to keep warm. Underwear can be used to keep the wearer modest – for instance, some women wear camisoles and slips (petticoats) under clothes that are see-through. A camisole is an item of clothing without sleeves that covers the top part of a woman's body, while a slip or petticoat is a kind of skirt that is worn underneath an outer skirt. On the other hand, underwear can also be worn to make a person look more sexy. It is possible to buy underwear made specially to excite another person in a sexual way, such as underwear that can be eaten (it is usually made of small sweets stuck together) and underwear with holes cut into them.
Some items of clothing are designed to be worn as underwear, while others such as T-shirts can be used both as underwear and as outer clothing. Whether underwear can be used as outer clothing depends on a number of things, such as how warm it is indoors and outdoors, what other people in society find acceptable, fashion, and what the law allows. Some types of underwear can be used for sleeping in or as swimsuits, if they are made of suitable fabric.
Underwear can also have religious use:
The table below sets out types and styles of underwear that are commonfly worn.
A number of big clothes designers are well known for their underwear collections. Two of these are Calvin Klein and Dolce & Gabbana. There are also companies that make only underwear, such as 2(x)ist, Agent Provocateur, C-IN2, GapBody, Gilly Hicks, Ginch Gonch, La Senza, Fruit of the Loom, Lord, and Victoria's Secret.
Although most of the time underwear is kept hidden under other clothes, sometimes it is partly exposed for fashion reasons or to make other people feel sexually excited when they see it. A woman may, for instance, allow the top of her bra to peek out from under her collar, or wear a see-through blouse over it. Some men wear T-shirts underneath partly- or fully-unbuttoned shirts.
A common style among young men is to allow their trousers to sag or droop down below their waists. This fashion is called "sagging". When a person allows his trousers to sag, the waistband or a larger part of his boxer shorts can be seen. A woman wearing trousers which expose the upper back portion of her thong underwear is said to show a "whale tail".
Not wearing underpants under one's outer clothing is known in American slang as "freeballing" for men or "freebuffing" for women. The term "going commando" is also used at times, for both sexes. Certain types of clothes, such as cycling shorts and kilts, are meant to be worn or are traditionally worn without underpants.

</doc>
<doc id="15513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15513" title="Monica Lewinsky">
Monica Lewinsky

Monica Samille Lewinsky (born July 23, 1973) is an American woman who, in 1998, became well-known for being part of a scandal between her and then President of the United States, Bill Clinton. She was born in San Francisco, California. The scandal involved claims that she had had a sexual relationship with President Clinton. He said they had not. In the end Clinton had to admit that sexual activity of some kind took place between them.
Lewinsky grew up in a luxury $1.6 million home in Beverly Hills. She is the daughter of Bernard Lewinsky, a medical researcher and photographer.
She worked in the mid 1990s as an intern at the White House and the Pentagon.
Lewinsky experimented with designing handbags and purses for her company, "The Real Monica".
On December 14, 2006, Lewinsky graduated with a Masters of Science degree in Social Psychology from the London School of Economics. Lewinsky's thesis is titled "In Search of the Impartial Juror: An exploration of the third person effect and pre-trial publicity". According to her publicist Barbara Hutson, Lewinsky was interviewing for jobs in the United Kingdom in early 2007.
In 2009, scholar Ken Gormley had communications with Lewinsky as a part of his in-depth study of the Clinton scandals. She said that Clinton had lied under oath when asked detailed and specific questions about his relationship with her.

</doc>
<doc id="15515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15515" title="1190">
1190


</doc>
<doc id="15516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15516" title="William S. Burroughs">
William S. Burroughs

William Seward Burroughs (February 5, 1914 – August 2, 1997) was an American writer. He was a contemporary and friend of writers Allen Ginsberg and Jack Kerouac.
Burroughs was a member of the family who owned the Burroughs Company. A family trust paid him an income, so he did not have to work a regular job. Sometimes he lived in Mexico and other countries, because he could live there in more luxury than in the United States. One favorite apartment he had in New York City was a windowless basement, nicknamed "Bill's " by his friends. Many of them were emerging writers and artists.
Burroughs told interesting, stories, but did not think he could be a writer. This changed as he came to terms with tragedy; he had killed his common law wife Joan, in an accident when they were both drunk. Burroughs began to write to work through his grief and feelings of guilt. He also abused drugs, including heroin, and it affected his writing. His first novel, "Naked Lunch", was a surreal work.
Besides writing, Burroughs also recorded spoken word and musical works. One of his works paired him with musician Kurt Cobain.
Burroughs died of a heart attack.

</doc>
<doc id="15517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15517" title="1773">
1773


</doc>
<doc id="15518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15518" title="Uganda">
Uganda

The Republic of Uganda is a landlocked country in east Africa. Its capital and biggest city is Kampala.
The currency is the Ugandan Shilling. The official languages of Uganda are English and Swahili. The most common religion is Christianity. The President of Uganda is Yoweri Kaguta Museveni. The country is to the East of Africa. The population of Uganda is 32 million people. The area of Uganda is about 236,040 .
Uganda produces coffee and copper.
The literacy rate of Uganda is 68%, which means that 68 out of 100 people in Uganda who are at least 15 years old know how to read and write.
Uganda is among countries thought to be very corrupt by Transparency International. It is rated at 2.4 on a scale from 0 (the most corrupt) to 10 (the most clean). Uganda is one of the poorest nations in the world. 37.7 percent of the people live on less than $1.25 a day.
Uganda became independent from the United Kingdom on 9 October 1962.
Uganda is almost completely in the Nile basin. At the centre of the country is Lake Kyoga. Although landlocked, Uganda has many large lakes. Besides Lake Victoria and Lake Kyoga, there are Lake Albert, Lake Edward and the smaller Lake George. Most important cities are in the south, near Lake Victoria, including the capital Kampala and the nearby city of Entebbe.
The climate is mostly equatorial. But it is not the same everywhere because there are some changes in altitude. The difference in altitude changes the climate. Southern Uganda is wetter with rain generally throughout the year. At Entebbe on the northern shore of Lake Victoria, most rain falls from March to June and in the November/December period. Further to the north a dry season slowly emerges. At Gulu about 120 km from the South Sudanese border, November to February is much drier than the rest of the year.
The largest cities in Uganda are:
Because there are so many communities, culture in Uganda is diverse. Many Asians (mostly from India) who had to leave during the regime of Amin have returned to Uganda.
Football is the national sport in Uganda. Games with the Ugandan national football team usually attract large crowds of Ugandans. The Ugandan Super League is the top division of Ugandan football. There are 16 clubs from across the country. It was made in 1968. Uganda's most famous footballers are David Obua of Scottish club Hearts and Ibrahim Sekagya, who is the captain of the national team. Uganda's notable past greats of the game include Denis Obua, Majid Musisi, Fimbo Mukasa and Paul Kasule.
Cricket has become more popular. Uganda won the World Cricket League (WCL) Division 3 in 2007.
In 2007, the Uganda national rugby union team were victorious in the 2007 Africa Cup, beating Madagascar in the final.
Hockey is the only Ugandan field sport to date to have qualified for and represented the country at the Olympics. This was at the 1972 Summer Olympics. Uganda won gold medals at the Olympics in athletics with legendary hurdler John Akii-Bua in 1972 and marathon winner at the London 2012 Olympics Stephen Kiprotich.
In July 2011 Kampala, Uganda qualified for the 2011 Little League World Series. Due to visa trouble they were unable to attend the Series. In 2012, Uganda qualified again for the Little League World Series. This time they were able to attend.

</doc>
<doc id="15519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15519" title="Mike Judge">
Mike Judge

Mike Judge (born October 17, 1962) is an American animator, actor, writer, and producer. He is most famous for creating and starring in the animated television series "Beavis and Butt-head" and "King of the Hill". Judge also wrote, directed, and played a small part in the 1999 movie "Office Space", and directed the 2006 movie "Idiocracy", which starred Luke Wilson. He was born in Guayaquil, Ecuador, grew up in New Mexico, and lives in Austin, Texas.

</doc>
<doc id="15520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15520" title="Missing Persons">
Missing Persons

Missing Persons was an American New Wave group. They formed in the 1980s while working with Frank Zappa.

</doc>
<doc id="15525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15525" title="Blackpool">
Blackpool

Blackpool is a seaside town in Lancashire, in the north west of England. The town is on the coast of the Irish Sea. Blackpool had a population of 142,283 as of the 2001 census.
Blackpool became important for tourism during the 19th century. It is known for its beaches and amusement parks. It is also the home to a famous international ballroom dancing competition.

</doc>
<doc id="15526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15526" title="Francisco Franco">
Francisco Franco

Francisco Franco (Francisco Paulino Hermenegildo Teódulo Franco y Bahamonde Salgado Pardo de Andrade, 20 December 1892 – 20 November 1975) was a Spanish military leader who ruled as dictator of Spain from 1939 until his death.
He was a leader of a coup d'état against the Spanish Second Republic in 1936. After this uprising the Spanish Civil War started. Franco was supported by fascists, big businesses, the church, conservative people and Spanish nationalists. This was because the Spanish Republic had a socialist government that wanted to make businesses and the church less powerful. The Republic also set up local parliaments in the regions of Spain. Spanish nationalists thought this was wrong and would make Spain weak. Franco remained neutral during World War II as Hitler did not accept his conditions for Spain to take part in it with the fascist and nazi regimes. He let a group of volunteer soldiers join the German Army to fight the Russians between 1941 and 1943. They were called the "División Azul" (Blue Division)
Franco died in Madrid on November 20, 1975, just after midnight. Relatives had asked doctors to remove his life support systems. After Franco's death, Juan Carlos became king.

</doc>
<doc id="15527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15527" title="Category:1930 deaths">
Category:1930 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15528" title="Police officer">
Police officer

A police officer is a serving member of a police force. Police officers arrest criminals, prevent crime, protect and help the public, and keep public order. Officers have legally authorised powers, which in Britain is called a "warrant". 
A police officer's job is to protect the public, make sure people obey the law and make people feel safe. Not all police officers wear a uniform and patrol. Some police officers have specialist jobs, such as being a detective, a traffic officer or a dog handler. In some countries, not all police carry guns, so a police officer could choose to become an armed police officer after a lot of experience.
As a part of their job, police officers have rights that a normal person does not have. This might include the power to arrest a person who they think has committed a crime, the power to search a person, the power to stop cars and direct traffic, the power to ask for a person's name and address, the power to give out tickets or fines or the power to make a person come to court. Without these powers the police would not be able to gain any sort of control over society. 
Being a police officer can be dangerous. Police officers are sometimes killed or hurt by criminals when they are sent to incidents, so that is why the police have to carry the equipment needed to defend themselves. Police officers have the right to carry weapons, such as a gun or a baton in order to stop crime even if the weapon laws are strict and limited to the general public.
In different countries, police officers are given different equipment to deal with the crime that is in their country. All police officers are armed with weapons that they can use to defend themselves or other people that need help. Most police officers carry these things:
Police officers have to patrol and respond to emergencies as quickly as possible. Some police officers will walk on foot patrol, but often police officers will patrol in a police car. This is so that they can get to emergencies faster and carry more equipment. Sometimes officers patrol on bicycles, motorbikes or on horses because they have chosen to work in that unit.

</doc>
<doc id="15536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15536" title="Account">
Account

Account might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="15538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15538" title="Dutch people">
Dutch people

The Dutch are the people who live in the Netherlands, or those that come from the Netherlands. Often the Netherlands is called Holland, but this is only part of the Netherlands. The Dutch culture and ethnicity are also found outside of the Netherlands, with large number of Dutch living in the United States of America, South Africa, Suriname, Namibia.
Many inventors were Dutch, including Hans Lippershey, Hans Janssen, and his son Zacharias Janssen the inventors of the microscope and the telescope, and the incubator. Many famous painters have also been Dutch, among them Rembrandt van Rijn, Vincent van Gogh and Johannes Vermeer.
The definition of ethnicity is not always clear. One can count all people living the Netherlands as Dutch, but many are not. This is because many people who live in The Netherlands were not born there. There are about 15.5 million people in the Netherlands who actually have the Dutch nationality. About 1 million people living in the Netherlands do not have the Dutch nationality. To make things more confusing, people who live in the other parts of the Kingdom of the Netherlands (including Aruba, Curaçao, Sint Maarten, and the Caribbean Netherlands) also have Dutch nationality. Still, even more people in the Netherlands were not born there can also be called "Dutch". According to some definitions, also people who were born in the Netherlands, but who's parents were not, cannot be called Dutch. This definition leaves almost 20% of the entire Dutch population to be 'foreign'.
Throughout the world there are about 30 million Dutch people:
During the last 150 years, the Netherlands saw a relatively quick population growth as compared to the rest of Europe. For comparison: The Belgian population grew from 50% more inhabitants in 1850 to a third less in 2000. The population of the Netherlands grew from 3 million in 1850, to 5 million in 1900, to 10 million in 1950, to 16 million in 2000.
The Dutch society in the present can be seen as a very multi-cultural society. About 20% of the entire Dutch population is not of Dutch origin (these people are called "allochtoon" in Dutch). Even most members of the Dutch Royal family are allochtoon. This comes from the fact that the Netherlands were open to other nationalities and other religions since the beginning of the Republic of the Netherlands (founded in 1588). In the 17th century, it was not odd, for instance for Muslims to live in Amsterdam. After the Second World War, the Dutch hired many workers from Turkey and Morocco to rebuild the Netherlands. Many of these guest workers ("gastarbeiders") stayed in the Netherlands. Therefore, The Netherlands have a large Turkish and Moroccan community. Immigration from especially Suriname and Indonesia also led to the multi-cultural society of the present. Recent events (like the murder on Theo van Gogh by a radical Muslim) have led to negative views on "allochtonen" by some of the Dutch people.
The Dutch society is also famous for its liberal views. The Netherlands were the first country to legalize same-sex marriage (the marriage of homosexuals). The Netherlands have a strong gay-rights movement. Abortion and euthanasia are also legal in the Netherlands. The Netherlands are also the only country in the world where marijuana is "gedoogd". This means it is not legal but the laws against it are not actively enforced. 
The Netherlands are one of the busiest countries in the world. Almost 16.5 million people live in the little country. That's why not many Dutch live in villages. Most Dutch people live in cities, with a city being a place with at least 25,000 people living there. 8.7 million Dutch live in "agglomerations" (urban areas which are connected to each other, a sort of metropolitan area). That's about 54% of all the Dutch people. About 15% of the Dutch people live in city's which are not in an agglomeration. The other 30% live in villages (places with less than 25,000 people).
The Netherlands are a country where bicycles are used very much. Almost 30% of all travel is done by bicycle in the Netherlands. Bicycles are used so much so that throughout the Netherlands hundreds of bicycle parking lots ("fietsenstallingen") are built. In Amsterdam, there is even a 3-story high bicycle parking lot. Trains are also used very much (unlike in, for instance, the US). The biggest railway company (NS) has 1.1 million travellers per day. That's 7 percent of the entire Dutch population each day.

</doc>
<doc id="15547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15547" title="Liquid Paper">
Liquid Paper

Liquid Paper, also called white out and correction fluid, is used to correct mistakes made in writing on typewriters and with ink. It was originally called Mistake Out and was invented by Bette Nesmith Graham in 1951, who was working at a bank in the U.S. state of Texas at time and had trouble when she typed on the typewriter, which was part of her job. She made in product in her blender and sold it to friends starting in 1956. She sold the product to the Gillette Corporation for 47.5 million US Dollars in 1979. When she died the following year, her son, Michael Nesmith, a famous musician, formally of The Monkees inherited the fortune.
Now people still use the correction fluid, but more seldom. With more advanced technology, people have computers allowing them to backspace easily, not needing to use it. Also, there is also another recent invention of the correction tape. To use the fluid, you squeeze the bottle, and let the fluid flow out to cover the mistakes. Usually you have to shake the bottle before using it, and after using, you need to wait for it to dry for a few minutes, which is considered quite fast. Then you can write on top of the dried fluid. 

</doc>
<doc id="15548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15548" title="Doris Day">
Doris Day

Doris Mary Ann Kappelhoff (born April 3, 1922 or 1924) is an American singer, actress, and animal welfare activist. All her grandparents were German immigrants. She is known for her blonde, wholesome image.
She sang with the big bands. She started with Les Brown & His Band of Renown. Her first hit song was Sentimental Journey. This song was popular with soldiers returning from World War 2.
She made many movies from 1948 to 1968. Three of these movies also starred Rock Hudson.
Day was married to Al Jorden from 1941 until they divorced in 1943. She was married to George Weidler from 1946 until they divorced in 1949. She was married to Martin Melcher from 1951 until his death in 1968. She was married to Barry Comden from 1976 until they divorced in 1981. 
Day had a son, Terry Melcher (1942-2004), by Jorden. 

</doc>
<doc id="15549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15549" title="Jack the Ripper">
Jack the Ripper

Jack the Ripper is the name given to an unidentified serial killer. He was active during the summer and autumn of 1888 in the Whitechapel district of London, England, which was known for its overpopulation and prostitution. 
The main victims thought to be killed by the Ripper were five prostitutes:
Newspapers and police in London around this time started to get taunting letters. The letters were signed "Jack the Ripper". Other murders were reported around the same time, but were not thought to be done by Jack the Ripper.He was also known to have sex with their victims before he killed them.
Nobody knows who Jack the Ripper really was. Some think he might have been a doctor or a butcher because of how he killed and cut up the women, much like how a surgeon might perform surgery, or how a butcher might dissect an animal. All the murders happened on weekends, so it could have been someone who did not live in London but visited the city on weekends, or someone who worked during the week and was only free at the weekends.
In September 2014, a research group claimed that it had identified Jack the Ripper as a 23-year old Jewish immigrant from Central Europe named Aaron Kosminski.
The Ripper was famous for the brutality of his murders. He often mutilated his victims, usually killing them by slashing their throats open, almost to the point of decapitation, and stabbing them multiple times, especially in the abdomen. At about 23:00 on 30 August, Mary Ann Nichols was seen walking the Whitechapel Road; at 00:30 she was seen to leave a pub in Brick Lane, Spitalfields. An hour later, she was turned out of 18 Thrawl Street as she was lacking fourpence for a bed, implying by her last words that she would soon earn the money on the street with the help of a new bonnet she had acquired. She was later seen at the corner of Osborn Street and Whitechapel Road, at 02:30, an hour before her death, by Nelly Holland. Nichols claimed she had made enough money to pay for her bed three times over, but had drunk it all away, it was the last time she was seen alive. An hour later, she was found lying dead in front of a gated stable entrance in Buck's Row (since renamed Durward Street), Whitechapel, her throat cut and her abdomen ripped open. Nobody had seen or heard a thing, the killer struck again on 8 September, Annie Chapman was seen talking to a man at about 5:30 a.m. just beyond the backyard of 29 Hanbury Street, Spitalfields. Mrs. Long described him as over forty, and a little taller than Chapman, of dark complexion, and of foreign, "shabby-genteel" appearance. He was wearing a deer-stalker hat and dark overcoat, carpenter Albert Cadosch had entered the neighbouring yard at 27 Hanbury Street seconds later, and heard voices in the yard followed by the sound of something falling against the fence. Chapman's body was discovered at just before 6:00 a.m. on the morning of 8 September 1888 by a resident of number 29, market porter John Davis. She was lying on the ground near a doorway in the back yard. Her throat was cut from left to right, and she had been disembowelled, with her intestines thrown out of her abdomen over each of her shoulders. The morgue examination revealed that part of her uterus was missing. Chapman's protruding tongue and swollen face led Dr Phillips to think that she may have been asphyxiated with the handkerchief around her neck before her throat was cut.
Two weeks later, a letter was sent claimed to have been written by the killer himself. The letter, received on September 27 1888, was signed "Yours Truly, Jack the Ripper." The law enforcement and newspapers referred to him as the Ripper from that point on. The letter read:
The "From Hell" letter was received by George Lusk, leader of the Whitechapel Vigilance Committee, on 16 October 1888. The handwriting and style is unlike that of the "Dear Boss" letter and postcard. The letter came with a small box in which Lusk discovered half of a kidney, preserved in "spirits of wine" (ethanol). Eddowes' left kidney had been removed by the killer. The writer claimed that he "fried and ate" the missing kidney half. There is disagreement over the kidney: some contend it belonged to Eddowes, while others argue it was nothing more than a macabre practical joke. The kidney was examined by Dr Thomas Openshaw of the London Hospital, who determined that it was human and from the left side, but (contrary to false newspaper reports) he could not determine its gender or age. Openshaw subsequently also received a letter signed "Jack the Ripper".
Elizabeth Stride and Catherine Eddowes were killed in the early morning of Sunday 30 September 1888. Stride's body was discovered at about 1 a.m., in Dutfield's Yard, off Berner Street (now Henriques Street) in Whitechapel. The cause of death was one clear-cut incision which severed the main artery on the left side of the neck. Uncertainty about whether Stride's murder should be attributed to the Ripper, or whether he was interrupted during the attack, stems from the absence of mutilations to the abdomen. Witnesses who said they saw Stride with a man earlier that night gave differing descriptions: some said her companion was fair, others dark; some said he was shabbily dressed, others well-dressed. Eddowes' body was found in Mitre Square, in the City of London, three-quarters of an hour after Stride's. The throat was severed, and the abdomen was ripped open by a long, deep, jagged wound. The left kidney and the major part of the uterus had been removed. A local man, Joseph Lawende, had passed through the square with two friends shortly before the murder, and he described seeing a fair-haired man of shabby appearance with a woman who may have been Eddowes. His companions, however, were unable to confirm his description. Eddowes' and Stride's murders were later called the "double event". Part of Eddowes' bloodied apron was found at the entrance to a tenement in Goulston Street, Whitechapel. Some writing on the wall above the apron piece, which became known as the Goulston Street graffito, seemed to implicate a Jew or Jews, but it was unclear whether the graffito was written by the murderer as he dropped the apron piece, or merely incidental.Police Commissioner Charles Warren feared the graffito might spark antisemitic riots, and ordered it washed away before dawn. The "Saucy Jacky" postcard was postmarked 1 October 1888 and received the same day by the Central News Agency. The handwriting was similar to the "Dear Boss" letter. It mentions that two victims were killed very close to one another: "double event this time", which was thought to refer to the murders of Stride and Eddowes. It has been argued that the letter was mailed before the murders were publicised, making it unlikely that a crank would have such knowledge of the crime, but it was postmarked more than 24 hours after the killings took place, long after details were known by journalists and residents of the area.
Mary Jane Kelly was seen with a man of "Jewish appearance". Kelly and the man headed for her room at 13 Miller's Court, Elizabeth Prater, who was woken by her kitten walking over her neck, and Sarah Lewis both reported hearing a faint cry of "Murder!" at about 4:00 a.m., but did not react because they reported that it was common to hear such cries in the East End. She claimed not to have slept and to have heard people moving in and out of the court throughout the night. She thought she heard someone leaving the residence at about 5:45 a.m. Kelly's gruesomely mutilated body was discovered the next morning lying on the bed at 10:45 a.m. on Friday 9 November 1888. The throat had been severed down to the spine, and the abdomen virtually emptied of its organs. The heart was missing.
After the murder of Mary Jane Kelly, the Ripper murders stopped suddenly. The identity of Jack the Ripper is unknown. Although many historians have different opinions and theories on who Jack the Ripper was, it will probably never be known who he was.

</doc>
<doc id="15550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15550" title="Johnny Rivers">
Johnny Rivers

Johnny Rivers (born John Ramistella on November 7, 1942 in New York City and grew up in Louisiana) is an American rock and roll musician. He was popular in the 1960s and 1970s for his songs like "Secret Agent Man", "The Poor Side of Town", "Baby I Need Your Lovin", "The Midnight Special", and "Swayin' To The Music (Slow Dancin')".

</doc>
<doc id="15552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15552" title="Doctor John">
Doctor John

Malcolm John Rebennack, Jr or Dr. John (born November 21, 1940) is an American musician from New Orleans.

</doc>
<doc id="15554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15554" title="Death metal">
Death metal

Death metal is a style of heavy metal that is a very fast, brutal and energetic. It has very harsh singing. Most death metal has very fast guitar and drum beats. Almost every death metal drummer plays with two bass drums (or a type of pedal that has two beaters on one bass drum), so that they can play the bass drum beats faster. It is a music focused mainly on drums and guitars. The lyrics in death metal sometimes involve topics such as death, war and pain. Some bands choose to write about philosophy or religion. Some bands try to write about things that other death metal bands do not write about such as ancient history. Death metal vocalists usually grunt, growl or scream.
Some artists and groups of this genre are:

</doc>
<doc id="15555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15555" title="Suffolk">
Suffolk

Suffolk is a county in England. The counties around Suffolk are Norfolk to the north, Cambridgeshire to the west and Essex to the south. The North Sea is on the east. The county town is Ipswich and other big towns include Lowestoft and Bury St Edmunds. Felixstowe is one of the largest container ports in Europe.
Suffolk is mostly flat and has very fertile soil which is good for both growing crops and grazing animals on.

</doc>
<doc id="15556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15556" title="Etymology">
Etymology

Etymology is the study of the origin and meaning of words and names. It tells us how words have changed over time, and what other languages they came from. For example, the etymology of the word "etymology" is from the Greek words ἔτυμον ("étymon", "true meaning", from "etymos" "true") and λόγος ("lógos", "word" or "study").

</doc>
<doc id="15557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15557" title="Mule">
Mule

A mule is a horse-donkey hybrid (a mix of two different animals). It is the child of a female horse and a male donkey.
They are used mostly for pulling carts and transportation. Although it is extremely unlikely for a mule to become pregnant (less than 300 reported cases worldwide), it is possible. They will tend to be cautious which may lead people to think that they are stubborn. They must know what they are walking on or what they are about to cross. They will be scared of anything that is not normal. They are shown in show against horses or other mules. They are used in western riding and English riding, and really good for high-jumping. 

</doc>
<doc id="15559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15559" title="Dead Sea">
Dead Sea

The Dead Sea is a lake between the West Bank and Jordan. It is below sea level. It is the lowest point on the surface of the Earth.
The Dead Sea is almost nine times as salty as the ocean. That makes it impossible for most life to exist in it. This is the reason for its name. However, it is not completely dead, because some types of bacteria are able to live in the water.
Because the water is so salty, it weighs more than fresh water. That lets people float in the Dead Sea without any effort. Tourists come from around the world to float in the water.

</doc>
<doc id="15563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15563" title="American Black Bear">
American Black Bear

The American black bear (scientific name "Ursus americanus") is North America's smallest and most common species of bear. Black bears are omnivores (eating both meat and plants). Black bears usually live in forested areas, but do leave forests in search of food. Sometimes they become attracted to human activity due to a lack of food. The American black bear is listed by the IUCN as Least Concern, because the species has a large global population estimated to be twice that of all other bear species combined. In the past century, only 37 people have been killed by these animals.
American black bears usually hibernate during winter. During this time, the black bear's metabolism and heart rate both decrease in relation to one another. In fact, during hibernation, an American black bear's heart can stop for twenty seconds. The body temperature of black bears also decreases to 31 °C (88 °F) during hibernation. When hibernation is over, the black bear's body temperature returns to normal.

</doc>
<doc id="15566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15566" title="Fur">
Fur

Fur is the hair of mammals. Different species may have quite different styles of hair, making them more or less suitable to the fur trade, but many are as follows:
Fur usually consists of two main layers:
Many large mammals have little hair, because their body mass radiates proportionately less heat (elephants, rhinoceros, hippopotamus). When elephants lived in arctic conditions they did have fur (woolly mammoths).
Marine mammals usually have little or no fur: the fur would become waterlogged. They have a layer of fat (blubber) underneath their skin. A special case is the naked mole-rat, whose hairlessness is probably an adaptation to their underground life-style.

</doc>
<doc id="15567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15567" title="Jackson Pollock">
Jackson Pollock

Jackson Pollock (January 28, 1912 – August 11, 1956) was an American painter. He became famous for painting in the abstract expressionist style. Pollock's most famous paintings were made by dripping and splashing paint on a large canvas. His nickname was Jack the Dripper. Because of the method, this style is often called "action painting". Pollock was helped by his wife, artist Lee Krasner, and his style was very new at the time. 
Pollock was bitter, and had serious drinking problems. His paintings are in museums all over the world, and his work is rated very highly. Pollock has been the subject of many movies because of his interesting life. The most famous was a short documentary movie directed by Hans Namuth in 1951, and the 2000 movie about his life called "Pollock", made by and starring actor Ed Harris. Pollock was born in Cody, Wyoming. In 1956, he was killed in a car crash in Springs, New York at the age of 44.
Pollock was introduced to the use of liquid paint in 1936 at an experimental workshop operated in New York City by the Mexican muralist David Alfaro Siqueiros. He later used paint pouring as one of several techniques on canvases of the early 1940s, such as "Male and Female" and "Composition with Pouring I." After his move to Springs, New York, he began painting with his canvases laid out on the studio floor, and he developed what was later called his drip technique. 
Pollock described this use of household paints, instead of artist’s paints, as "a natural growth out of a need". He used hardened brushes, sticks, and even basting syringes as paint applicators. With this technique, Pollock was able to achieve a more immediate means of creating art, the paint now literally flowing from his chosen tool onto the canvas. By defying the convention of painting on an upright surface, he added a new dimension, literally, by being able to view and apply paint to his canvases from all directions. 
Later, Pollock turned to synthetic resin-based paints called alkyd enamels, which, at that time, was a novel medium. In 1956, "Time" magazine called Pollock "Jack the Dripper" as a result of his unique painting style.
Influences on his dripping technique include the Mexican muralists and Surrealist automatism. Pollock denied "the accident"; he usually had an idea of how he wanted a particular piece to appear. His technique combined the movement of his body, over which he had control, the viscous flow of paint, the force of gravity, and the absorption of paint into the canvas. It was a mixture of controllable and uncontrollable factors. Flinging, dripping, pouring, and spattering, he would move energetically around the canvas, almost as if in a dance, and would not stop until he saw what he wanted to see.
Pollock's "No. 5, 1948" stands at the fifth highest price ever for a work of art. It was privately sold by Sotheby's for (price adjusted) US$163.8 million dollars.

</doc>
<doc id="15568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15568" title="Category:1956 deaths">
Category:1956 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15569" title="Otto Struve">
Otto Struve

Otto Struve (August 12 1897 – April 6 1963) was a Russian astronomer. He was the grandson of Otto Wilhelm von Struve and the great-grandson of Friedrich Wilhelm von Struve.
Struve's education at the University of Kharkov was interrupted by World War I and the Russian Civil War, which left him a refugee in Turkey. He went to the United States in 1921, obtained a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago and eventually became head of the astronomy department there. In 1932, he was made joint director of the University's Yerkes Observatory and McDonald Observatory (which he founded and where a telescope is named after him). Struve may be regarded as the father of modern SETI. He was one of the few eminent astronomers in the pre-Space Age era to publicly express a belief that extraterrestrial intelligence was abundant.

</doc>
<doc id="15580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15580" title="Tamerlane">
Tamerlane

Tamerlane (8 April 1336 – 18 February 1405) was a Turkic conqueror in the 14th century. His real name is "Tīmūr bin Taraghay Barlas". He is also known by these names: Temur, Taimur, Timur Lenk, Timur-i Leng, Temur-e Lang, Amir Timur, Aqsaq Timur, and Tamburlaine. He invaded Delhi in 1398 and massacred thousands. Timur succeeded in establishing a vast empire which included Transoxiana, a part of Turkistan, Afghanistan, Persia, Syria, Qurdistan, Baghdad, Georgia and the major part of Asia Minor. He successfully looted southern Russia and several parts of India. Delhi was perhaps the worst sufferer. It is said of Timur’s invasions, “Wherever he went he brought about destruction, massacres, burning, looting and dishonour to women”.Timur is considered the last of the great nomadic conquerors of the Eurasian Steppe, and his empire set the stage for the rise of the more structured and lasting Gunpowder Empires in the 1500s and 1600s.
He began his extensive military career after successfully establishing the region of Transoxania (now known as Uzbekistan) through various political betrayals and military campaigns. In allegiance with other rulers in the area, he spent the next ten years fighting to gain territory, supporting the Khan empire in a fight against the Russians and defeating many large, imposing armies. But this was only the beginning of his efforts, and In 1383, Tamerlane began his own series of Persian conquests, challenging several rival dynasties in an effort to preserve his empire and expand his territory.
After securing the majority of eastern Persia and defeating a major Mongol king, Tokhtamysh, Tamerlane and his army occupied Moscow for a year. During his time of absence from Persia, however, major revolts broke out to regain dominance over the region, all of which were repressed by Tamerlane’s military. Knowing his home territory of Samarkand was being handled by his military forces, Tamerlane moved on to attack India where he believed the sultans were too tolerant of their Hindu subjects. He crossed the Indus River in 1398 and marched his army into Delhi where he reduced much of the city, an event that would cause a great setback for the region. As a result of this conquest, he left the territory with an immense quantity of spoil, using 90 captured elephants to carry treasure and stones from quarries to erect a mosque in his homeland.
In 1399, Tamerlane organized a new military expedition to attack the sultan of Egypt for territory infringement and marching on Syria, he stormed and sacked the city of Aleppo. In 1401, his army occupied the city of Damascus. He then moved on to storm Baghdad that same year and massacred 20,000 of its citizens, destroying all of its buildings and significant monuments in the process. 
Tamerlane and his army of 200,000 soldiers traversed through deep snow and frozen rivers toward China, eventually stopping in what is now Kazakhstan for a reprieve. The conqueror caught a cold and died on the journey. The Chinese expedition was immediately abandoned, and his body was taken home to Samarkand where it was interred beneath the dome of the Gur Amir mausoleum in a steel coffin under a slab of black jade six feet long. On the stone was inscribed, "“This is the resting place of the illustrious and merciful monarch, the most great sultan, the most mighty warrior, Lord Timur, Conqueror of the World.”"
Credits
http://www.historydiscussion.net/history-of-india/timurs-invasion-on-india-what-were-its-effects/2692

</doc>
<doc id="15583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15583" title="Augustus">
Augustus

Augustus (Gaius Julius Caesar Augustus, 23 September 63 BC – 19 August AD 14) was the first and one of the most important Roman Emperors. He led Rome in its transition from a Republic to a great Empire.
Octavian, as he was originally called, was the adopted son of the dictator of the Roman Republic, Julius Caesar. Octavian came into power in the Second Triumvirate. This was three men ruling over the Roman Republic: Mark Antony, Lepidus and Octavian.
All three were loyal to Julius Caesar, the assassinated dictator, killed in 44 BC. Following his death a civil war broke out across Rome, between those loyal to Caesar, and the conspirators, led by two of Caesar's assassins, Brutus and Cassius.
At first, Octavian was the junior partner in the triumvirate. Lepidus was more experienced in government, and Mark Antony was a fine military leader. The triumvirate defeated Brutus and Cassius at the Battle of Philippi, 42 BC, largely due to Antony's leadership. Then they split the leadership of the Republic three ways. Antony took the east, Lepidus took Spain and part of North Africa, and Octavian took Italy.
Antony followed in Caesar's footsteps by going to Egypt and becoming Cleopatra's lover. They had three children together. His absence from Rome allowed the intelligent Octavian to build up support.
The triumvirate broke up in 33 BC, and disagreement turned to civil war in 31 BC. Antony was defeated by Octavian at the naval Battle of Actium and then at Alexandria. He committed suicide, as did his lover, Cleopatra VII of Egypt, in 30 BC.
After winning this bloody power struggle, Octavian was voted as Emperor by the Roman Senate in 31 BC. He took the name "Augustus" (which meant 'exalted'). He ruled until AD 14, when his stepson and son-in-law Tiberius became Emperor in his place.
During his reign, some of those who were against his government were murdered (especially those senators who wanted to keep the Roman Republic). He promised to make Rome a Republic again, but instead proclaimed himself High Priest ("Pontifex Maximus"). Many temples in the provinces set up statues of him as one of their gods. The name of the month "August" in English (and most other European languages) comes from him.
His main accomplishment was the creation of the Roman Empire, a political structure that lasted for nearly five centuries more. He first recruited and set up the Praetorian Guard.
Historians often use the Res Gestae Divi Augusti as a source for Augustus. It was written by him as an inscription on his tomb which recorded all his achievements.
The historian Tacitus is often used by historians. He gives an anti-Augustan perspective, whereas many other sources and histories were written to flatter Augustus (propaganda). Some examples of writers like these are Velleius Paterculus, Virgil, Ovid. The most famous work of Augustan propaganda is the Virgil's Aeneid
Cassius Dio presents a quite impartial account of Augustus as emperor: he was writing in the reign of a later emperor.

</doc>
<doc id="15585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15585" title="Camel">
Camel

Camels are mammals of the Camelidae family. Camels form the genus Camelus. They are also called Afro-Asiatic Camelids. There are two living species of camels. Camels have existed on Earth since prehistoric times.
Camels live in desert, where it is hot and dry. Camels have adaptations that help them live in deserts. They have a thick coat of hair that protects them from the sun. They have wide, soft feet, so they can walk a long time in the hot sand.
Several adaptations help a camel live in a desert . Their large feet spreads their weight on the sand when they are walking. When there is food and water, a camel can eat and drink large amounts and store it as fat in the hump. Then, when there is no food or water, the camel uses the fat for energy, and the hump becomes small and soft. A camel’s waste contains very little water. Even the water from the camel’s breath flows back into its mouth.The camels have bushy eyebrows that don't let the sand go in their eyes in a sandstorm. It has a long slender neck in order to reach high leaves such as palm trees, and rubbery patches on the belly and knees to protect the skin when kneeling and sitting on the hot sand. These form after five years of age.
A camel has a naturally adapted temperature regulation - it can change its bodily temperature by six degrees Celsius either way. 
It has two sets of eyelashes, closing muscles in the nasal passages with slited nostrils, hairy ears and tough, leathery skin to protect the camels skin in vital emergencies such as a sandstorm. It has thick rubbery lips to eat dry, prickly plants and a large, haired tail to swat pests such as mosquitos and flies.
Camels live in groups, with one male, several females, and their young calves. 
An unborn camel gestates about 9 to 11 months. There is usually one calf per birth. A camel calf can run only a few hours after it is born. Calves are weaned when they are about 1 year old.
In the desert, people feed camels with grass, grains, wheat and oats. When camels are travelling in the desert, food is often very hard to find. So the animal might have to live on dried leaves, seeds, and thorny twigs (without hurting their mouths). If there is not any regular food, camels will eat anything:, leather, even their owner's tent.
Camels are ruminants but camels do not chew their food very well before swallowing. The first stomach stores the food that is not completely chewed. Later, this food (or cud) returns to the camel's mouth, and the camel chews it again. Then the camel swallows the cud and it goes to the other parts of the stomach to be completely digested.
Camels have been domesticated by humans for about 5000 years. They are used for riding and to carry things, and for meat, milk and wool.
As domesticated animals they are used in Africa, Asia, and since the 19th century also in Australia. About 900-1000 wild Bactrian Camels still live in China and Mongolia. There are no wild Dromedaries anymore, but there are escaped domestic Dromedaries in Australia. Today there are about 50,000 Dromedaries living wild in the Outback in Australia.
A Dromedary and a Bactrian Camel can have hybrid children that are called "Tulus" or "Bukhts". These hybrids are larger than the Dromedary or Bactrian Camel and have either one long hump or one small and one big hump.
When a camel calf reaches one year of age, the owner often teaches it to stand and kneel on command. They also learn to carry small, light packs around. As they grow older, the size of the pack also increases.

</doc>
<doc id="15589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15589" title="15th century">
15th century

The 15th century is the century from 1401 to 1500.
Note: years before or after the 15th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15590" title="14th century">
14th century

The 14th century is the century from 1301 to 1400.
Note: years before or after the 14th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15591" title="13th century">
13th century

The 13th century is the century from 1201 to 1300.
Note: years before or after the 13th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15592" title="12th century">
12th century

The 12th century is the century from 1101 to 1200.
Note: years before or after the 12th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15594" title="Mammalogy">
Mammalogy

Mammalogy is the study of the mammals. Mammalogy has also been known as "mastology," "theriology," and "therology." 
Mammals are a group of vertebrate animals. There are about 4,200 different species of animals which are considered mammals. The major branches to study in the mammalogy career include:
The approximate salary of a mammalogist varies from $20,000 to $60,000 a year, depending on their experience. Mammalogists are typically involved in activities such as conducting research, managing personnel, and writing proposals.

</doc>
<doc id="15596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15596" title="Antibiotics">
Antibiotics

An antibiotic (or antibacterial) is something that kills bacteria or slows the growth of bacteria. They are used as medicines to cure diseases caused by bacteria. Antibiotics are no use against viruses. Penicillin, the first natural antibiotic, is produced by a fungus. Production started in 1939, and now it is made by chemical synthesis.
Today, people worry that bacteria will not be affected by antibiotics. Bacteria do evolve, and already many strains of bacteria resist regular antibiotics. When exposed to antibiotics, most bacteria die quickly, but some may have mutations which make them slightly less susceptible. These bacteria then multiply and make a large colony which is less affected by the antibiotic. 
Part of this problem is caused by the over-use and misuse of antibiotics. If someone is sick with a virus, antibiotics will not affect the virus. Some doctors will still prescribe an antibiotic so the patient feels as though they are being treated for their illness.
The other problem is that many people do not use antibiotics correctly. People often stop taking the medicine when they start feeling better. But antibiotics don't kill all of the bad bacteria at once. Bacteria which are more resistant do not die right away. When someone stops taking the antibiotic too quickly, these resistant bacteria can reproduce and survive. Then the antibiotic does not work so well because the bacteria are less affected by it.
The term "antibiotic" was first used in 1942 by Selman Waksman and his collaborators in journal articles to describe any substance produced by a microorganism that is antagonistic to the growth of other microorganisms in high dilution. This definition cut out substances which kill bacteria, but are not produced by microorganisms (such as gastric juices and hydrogen peroxide). It also excluded synthetic antibacterial compounds such as the sulfonamides. 
With advances in medicinal chemistry, most of today's antibacterials chemically are modifications of various natural compounds.
Certain bacteria are only affected by specific types of antibiotics. Patients might need different types or different amounts of antibiotics depending on what bacteria is causing their health problems. Because of this, antibiotics should always be used under the supervision of a medical doctor (or other certified medical practitioner). The doctor can also watch for side effects and change the patient's treatment when necessary. Antibiotics are very useful when your body is infected by a bacteria.
Antibiotics don't kill virus, so it is useless against a viral infection. A doctor must determine if a patient's infection is of viral or bacterial origin before taking antibiotics, this is another reason why a medical doctor should prescribe antibiotics instead of relying on self-medication.
The first new antibiotic in forty years has been discovered. It is called "teixobactin", and researchers say it is very promising. It has not yet been developed and tested, so it will be some time before it is in doctors' hands. It only works on gram-positive bacteria. However, that does include MRSA and "Mycobacterium tuberculosis".

</doc>
<doc id="15598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15598" title="Category:Human issues">
Category:Human issues

Human issues are problems that the human beings (men and women) must take care of and solve.

</doc>
<doc id="15599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15599" title="Sexism">
Sexism

Sexism is generally defined as discrimination based on the gender of a person—looking down on people because they are male or female. Sexism may also include stereotyped roles for men and women. International laws, such as Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women or Yogyakarta Principles demand to abolish any kind of sexism. Sexism could affect a person attending a party, getting a job, joining a game, trying to get a promotion, being selected and so on.
The women's rights and men's rights movements claim to fight sexism.
Sexism is often associated with discrimination against women due to the history of sexism in the western world.
Hatred of women is called misogyny. Hatred of men is called misandry.
Pauline M. Leet made the word "sexism" on November 18, 1965.
World literacy is lower for females than for males. On 9 October 2012 the Pakistani schoolgirl Malala Yousafzai was shot in the head on her schoolbus by Taliban gunmen because she did activism for girls' rights to education.

</doc>
<doc id="15600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15600" title="Go">
Go

Go is a board game, called "I-Go" in Japanese, "Wei-chi" in Chinese and "Baduk" in Korean. It is played on a board, with pieces of two colors (black and white) called stones. Players take turns placing a stone of their color on intersections of the 19x19 square grid. A normal Go board has 19 rows and columns of lines. Sometimes Go is played on smaller 9x9 or 13x13 boards instead of 19x19. Rules are simple, but they vary slightly.
Stones do not move after they are placed, but stones with no liberties (access to empty space) are captured and removed from the board. The goal of this game is to have more points when the game ends by placing pieces around the board to surround areas. You can place stones on any clear intersection you want, as long it isn't taken off right after, or the board looks the same all over as it did before. The second rule is called "Ko" (eternity) and is one of the things that is often changed between rule sets. At the end of each game each player's space (territory), prisoners or stones (depending on the rule set) are counted to see who has more points. 
Its original Chinese name is "" (= wei qi or wei chi). It is also popular in Japan, and its common name "Go" comes from Japanese. In Korea the game is called "baduk". In these three countries the game is an important part of the culture, like chess is in many western countries.
Go and chess are both "board games" and "strategy games", though both may be used as gambling games as well. They share a tenuous connection to the art of war, though this is most obvious in chess, which was a war game in origin. They both have no luck or secret information, unlike some other classic games like backgammon (dice are rolled) or poker and other card games which also have secret information.
There are many places to play Go on the internet, as well as local clubs and national organizations in many countries around the world.
Go was invented in China but the specific time is not known. The historian of board games, H.J.R. Murray, said:

</doc>
<doc id="15602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15602" title="Gulf War">
Gulf War

The 1991 Gulf War, or Persian Gulf War, was a conflict between Iraq and 34 other countries, led by the United States. It started with the invasion of Kuwait by Iraq on August 2, 1990 and ended the following spring when Iraq's armies were fought away. Many of the problems caused by this war were never finished. There were 2 special operations: Operation Desert Shield and Operation Desert Storm. Operation Desert Storm started on 17 January, 1991 with an air strike. Ground operations started 24 February. The war ended on 28 February, 1991 with a ceasefire.

</doc>
<doc id="15604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15604" title="Point of view">
Point of view

A point of view, viewpoint or POV, is the following:

</doc>
<doc id="15605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15605" title="Sicily">
Sicily

Sicily is the largest island in the Mediterranean. Along with some smaller islands it is an autonomous region of Italy. The capital city of Sicily is Palermo. The population was about 5,087,000 (over 5 million) in 2004. Sicily is the biggest region in the nation of Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="15606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15606" title="Donkey">
Donkey

A donkey or ass ("Equus africanus asinus") is a mammal of the Equidae family. 
The wild ancestor of the donkey is the African wild ass, "E. africanus". The donkey has been used as a working animal for at least 5000 years. There are a number of other wild asses in different parts of the world. 
The name 'donkey' is correct for the domesticated animal. It is the tame animal that people use for transportation and other work, such as pulling a carriage or plowing a field.
Donkeys can have hybrid children with a common horse. The child of a female horse and a male donkey is called a "mule". The child of a female donkey and a male horse is called a "hinny". Mules are more common, and have been used for transportation.
Donkeys, zebras and mules all look different from the common horses. One difference is the ears. Donkeys ears are much longer than a horse's. The necks are straighter and the croup and rump are also a different shape. The back is straighter.
The mane and tail of the donkey are rough. The mane is still and upright, almost always standing up, and the tail is more like a cow's, most of it covered with short body hair. Because their mane sometimes fly away, many donkeys wear their manes clipped short or shaved close to the neck.
Hoof shapes are different as well, donkey hooves are smaller and rounder, with more upright pasterns. The legs should have good bone, but lots of donkeys have long thin legs with tiny feet. Larger donkeys may appear opposite, with big, heavy legs and large round feet. Good legs and feet are very important for mules that are trying to find a mate. This is because, for breeding, a good foot is more liked than a large body on small legs and feet.
The donkey's voice is a very raspy kind, and it makes the "Aw-ee aw-ee" noise. Although most people think donkeys are a gray color, sometimes they can have stripes, dark ear marks, as well as the "light points". This means that it has a white muzzle and white rings around its eyes, and a white belly and inner leg.
Colors of the donkey may be from gray to brown. Or sometimes they can be black, both red and gray, creamy white, or a unique spotted pattern. Donkeys come in lots of different sizes. Some, like the rare French donkey, has huge heads and ears, and very thick, shaggy curled black coat.
Good grass hay and pasture is usually what donkeys enjoy to eat. If the hay or grass is grained, the protein is best to be lower than 12%. However, if a donkey is overfed, it will have a "roll" on the neck. A roll is when fat bunches up and stays in a part of a donkey's body, and they usually happen on its neck or its hip. If they develop on the donkey, it will usually stay for its whole life. If the neck roll of fat gets too heavy, it will fall or "break over" to one side and never recover its balance again. This is why donkeys should not be fed too much. Many people do not like to work with donkeys. They think that donkeys are too stubborn and will kick them. However, a donkey that is nicely trained can be as easily managed as other horses.

</doc>
<doc id="15618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15618" title="Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince">
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince was written by J. K. Rowling and published on 16 July 2005. The book is the sixth Harry Potter book.
In the sixth book Harry begins his sixth year at the magical school Hogwarts with his best friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger. During the year he has help in his worst class by the mysterious Half-Blood Prince, he has his first romance and learns several very important facts about his enemy, Voldemort.
The film, based on the book, was to be released on November 21, 2008, but on August 14, 2008, it was announced that the film would be pushed back to July 17, 2009. On January 8, 2009, the film was given a PG rating by the MPPA. The previous two installments, "Goblet of Fire" and "Order of the Phoenix," were rated PG-13.
The book starts at Severus Snape's house. Narcissa Malfoy is very unhappy that Voldemort has made her son, Draco, put on a mission. Voldemort is a very bad man who does not like half-blood or Muggle (non-magical) wizards and witches. He wants to kill them. Bellatrix, Narcissa's sister, and Narcissa go to Snape's house. There, Snape agrees and says he will help Malfoy complete whatever his mission is.
Headmaster Albus Dumbledore comes by Harry Potter's place to ask him to come with him. Harry says okay. They go to Horace Slughorn's house. Slughorn was the former professor of Potions over at the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. He does not want to come back, but when Dumbledore shows Harry, he says okay. On the train to Hogwarts, Slughorn gets together his club again. Slughorn likes to take a back seat and has a lot of influence, or power. Harry is one of the most famous wizards ever and Slughorn wants to be his friend. When school starts, the first thing Slughorn does is recreate his old Slug Club, filled with people who have power or a good name.
The Half-Blood Prince is of great mystery to Harry. Harry finds a book with the Prince's name on it and finds that it has many helpful tips for making potions. He follows the tips and is seen as very smart to Professor Slughorn. His friend Hermione is mad that Harry is getting credit for information that he does not really know. The old professor, Professor Snape, is now teaching Defense of the Dark Arts.
Dumbledore gives private lessons to Harry. They usually involve looking into a Pensieve, which holds old memories. In flashback, Harry learns that Voldemort was the product of an unhappy witch and a Muggle father that never loved him. The witch was named Merope and she had an older brother and father that were very bad to her. They made her work and crushed her spirit. A Ministry of Magic wizard came and arrested the father and brother. Merope left the house and gave a love potion to a young man she liked named Tom Riddle.
After she was pregnant with the baby, she stopped giving him the potion and he left her. Soon afterwards, she goes to an orphanage and gives birth to Voldemort, naming him Tom Marvolo Riddle, and dies shortly afterwards. Voldemort is a very bad kid. He steals items from the other kids and uses magic against them. Dumbledore comes one night to tell him that he has magic and invites him to attend Hogwarts.
One final memory shows Voldemort trying to apply for a job at Hogwarts. Dumbledore, who was the Transfiguration teacher at the time, was just made Headmaster. Voldemort wants to be the new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher. Dumbledore says no. Voldemort is angry. Since then, no professor has held the Defense Against the Dark Arts job for more than a year and Dumbledore thinks it is because of this meeting.
Dumbledore tells Harry that Voldemort has six "Horcruxes," or pieces of his soul. While Voldemort has these Horcruxes, nobody can kill him. A couple of them have been destroyed. In Harry's second year, he stabbed Riddle's diary with a fang, destroying one. Before Harry's sixth year started, Dumbledore visited the old Marvolo home and found a ring and destroyed it but lost his hand as a result.
One night, Dumbledore and Harry go out to a cave area. Dumbledore thinks there is another Horcrux there. After getting there, they find a goblet. Dumbledore drinks the entire potion, which makes him woozy and dizzy. They find the locket and go back to Hogwarts, where they find that the Death Eaters and Malfoy have attacked. They take broomsticks and land at the top of one of the towers. Malfoy bursts where Harry and Dumbledore are. Harry is hiding under an invisibility cloak. Soon, other Death Eaters come up, but Malfoy cannot kill Dumbledore as Voldemort ordered him to do. Snape comes up and kills Dumbledore.
The Death Eaters all escape afterwards. Harry tries to get Snape, but Snape is too fast. When Harry tries to use some curses he found in the Half-Blood Prince's book, Snape fights back and then declares that he is the Half-Blood Prince. Later, Hermione says this is true, having found a newspaper article about a girl named Eileen Prince (a witch) marrying a man named Tobias Snape (a Muggle), making Snape a half-blood wizard.
Hogwarts holds a funeral for Dumbledore. Harry opens the locket, only to find that someone named R.A.B was there earlier and found and destroyed the Horcrux. He also says he will not be coming back to Hogwarts next year.

</doc>
<doc id="15621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15621" title="Persian language">
Persian language

Persian is the official language of Iran, Afghanistan and Tajikistan. It is also spoken by many people in Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan, immigrants from Central Asia in Russia, and in other neighbouring countries. Persian was also taught as a second language in schools in Pakistan until 2006. In the past, many of these places were parts of the Persian Empire.
Persian has many dialects. The Persian language is officially called Farsi in Iran, Dari and Farsi in Afghanistan, and Tajiki in Tajikistan. The literary language of each of these countries is a little different, but people from each country can understand each other when they have a conversation. It has taken on many French words in Iran, and many Russian words in Tajikstan.
The Persian alphabet is:
ا ب پ ت ث ج چ ح خ د ذ ر ز ژ س ش ص ض ط ظ ع غ ف ق ک گ ل م ن و ه ی
The Persian alphabet used in Iran and Afghanistan is very similar to the Arabic one, but the language is in a different family than Arabic, so their vocabulary and grammar are very different. Since the 1930's, in the countries which used to be in the Soviet Union, like Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, Persian has been written in an alphabet that is similar to the Russian one. In the past, all Persian speakers used the one based on Arabic.
Persian is a very old language, and linguists have names for three different versions of Persian that were used in three different times. Old Persian was spoken in the first Persian empire, under the Achaemenid kings, including Cyrus and Darius the Great. This first empire started in the 6th century BC and continued until Alexander the Great conquered it. A second Persian empire, the Sassanian kings, ruled from the 2nd century AD until the Muslim conquest of Iran by the Arabs in the 7th Century, and Middle Persian, or Pahlavi, was spoken by them. 
The current Persian language, New or Modern Persian, was first written down in the 9th century during the Samanid empire, which was the first Muslim Persian kingdom, and was based in Central Asia. The earliest writers of New Persian included poets like Rudaki, and Ferdowsi, who wrote an epic called the "Shahname", translated as the "Book of Kings" in English. It is a very long poem, which has myths and historical stories from before the Arabs conquered Persia. Many other famous writers in the Persian language were poets too, such as Saadi, Hafez, Rumi, and many more. Up until today, the Persian language was a very important one for literature. After Arabic, it was the second most used language for writing in Muslim countries, especially in the East.
An example sentence in Persian:

</doc>
<doc id="15624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15624" title="Copenhagen">
Copenhagen

Copenhagen is the capital city of Denmark. It is also the largest city in Denmark. In 2014, 1,246,611 people lived in the urban area. Copenhagen is on the islands of Zealand and Amager.
Founded as a Viking fishing village. Copenhagen was built in the 12th century A.D. and got City rights in 1254. A few years later, it was destroyed nearly completely. In 1443, Copenhagen became the capital of Denmark. In 1801, there were more than 100,000 inhabitants in Copenhagen for the first time. In the 1960s, more than 700,000 people lived in Copenhagen Municipality, and today there are 528,000 inhabitants in the municipality. Near the city centre there is the famous Freetown Christiania.

</doc>
<doc id="15627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15627" title="Nepali language">
Nepali language

The Nepali language is the official language of Nepal. Besides Nepal it is spoken in India, Bhutan and parts of Burma. In the Indian state West Bengal also it is an official language. This language is also known as Gorkhali Language or Khaskura. It is believed to have originated from the ancient Sanskrit language., from which it takes a lot of words. It is written in Devanagari style of writing which is similar to Hindi. It is spoken throughout Nepal and is the mother tongue of more than half of the population. It is also used by the Government of Nepal for all official purposes. In Nepal it is compulsory to study Nepali language as a subject until Grade 10 (High School). 

</doc>
<doc id="15628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15628" title="Kathmandu">
Kathmandu

Kathmandu is the capital city of Nepal. It is the largest city of Nepal. The population of the city is about 1.003 million. It has many Buddhist and Hindu temples and palaces. 
Kathmandu has a humid subtropical climate ("Cwa" in the Köppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="15629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15629" title="Nepali">
Nepali

Nepali could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="15630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15630" title="Category:Nepal">
Category:Nepal

Nepal is a country in South Asia.

</doc>
<doc id="15631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15631" title="Category:1997 deaths">
Category:1997 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15632" title="11th century">
11th century

The 11th century is the century from 1001 to 1100.
Note: years before or after the 11th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15634" title="10th century">
10th century

The 10th century is the century from 901 to 1000.
Note: years before or after the 10th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15635" title="9th century">
9th century

The 9th century is the century from 801 to 900.
Note: years before or after the 9th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15636" title="8th century">
8th century

The 8th century is the century from 701 to 800.
Note: years before or after the 8th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15637" title="7th century">
7th century

The 7th century is the century from 601 to 700.
Note: years before or after the 7th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15638" title="6th century">
6th century

The 6th century is the century from 501 to 600.
Note: the 6th century officially started in 501.

</doc>
<doc id="15639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15639" title="5th century">
5th century

The 5th century is the century from 401 to 500, according to the Julian calendar in the Anno Domini era.
Note: years before or after the 5th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15640" title="4th century">
4th century

The 4th century is the century from 301 to 400.
Note: years before or after the 4th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15641" title="Category:3rd century births">
Category:3rd century births

This category is a list of people who were born in the 3rd century, organized by the year in which they were born.
"See also": .

</doc>
<doc id="15642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15642" title="Category:3rd century">
Category:3rd century

This category is for articles and events specifically related to the 3rd century, which began in the year 201 and ended in the year 300.
Note that the year 300 is included in in the 4th century but is actually part of the 3rd century.

</doc>
<doc id="15643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15643" title="Zambia">
Zambia

The Republic of Zambia is a country in southern Africa. It shares its borders with the Democratic Republic of the Congo to the north, Tanzania to the north-east, Malawi to the east, Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Botswana, and Namibia to the south, and Angola to the west. It was called Northern Rhodesia and it is currently named after the Zambezi River.
The capital of Zambia is Lusaka, which is also the largest city in the country. Edgar Lungu is the current president. Its motto is "One Zambia, One Nation" and its national anthem is "Stand and Sing of Zambia, Proud and Free". Its official language is English.
Zambia originated from Northern Rhodesia which was a colony of Great Britain. In 1965 Zambia became an independent country. The first president was Kenneth Kaunda, who ruled Zambia for 30 years with his party UNIP. Zambia was a one party democracy. UNIP was the only legal party and all other parties were banned.
After protests, democratic elections were held in 1991. Kenneth Kaunda lost the elections and gave away his power in an orderly manner to his successor Frederick Chiluba, a former union leader.
Zambia is now a multi-party democracy. It has had three democratic elections since 1991. The latest presidential election was in 2008, which was won by Rupiah Banda against Michael Sata.
In the 1960s, Zambia was making a lot of money because of the copper deposits that were mined in Copperbelt province. When copper became cheaper in the 1970s, the economy got worse because people in Zambia were not making as much money from selling copper.
Today, Zambia is a poor country. It does not have many industries. Copper is still its main export. Commercial farming in Zambia is starting to make more money.
Zambia is divided into nine provinces. Each province is divided into several districts. There are 72 districts all together. The provinces are:
The important places in Zambia are:

</doc>
<doc id="15644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15644" title="Benin">
Benin

Benin (officially called Republic of Benin) is a country in Africa. The capital of Benin is Porto-Novo. The seat of government is in Cotonou, the country's largest city. Most people live on the small southern coastline on the Bight of Benin.
The official language of Benin is French. Languages such as Fon and Yoruba are commonly spoken. The largest religious group in Benin is Roman Catholicism. This is followed closely by Islam, Vodun and Protestantism.
Benin is a member of the United Nations, the African Union, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, South Atlantic Peace and Cooperation Zone, La Francophonie, the Community of Sahel-Saharan States, the African Petroleum Producers Association and the Niger Basin Authority.
From the 17th to the 19th century, Benin was ruled by the Kingdom of Dahomey. It was called the Slave Coast from as early as the 17th century. This is because of the large number of slaves shipped to the New World. After slavery ended, France took over the country. They renamed it French Dahomey. In 1960, Dahomey gained full independence from France.
From 1972 to 1990 a Marxist–Leninist state called the People's Republic of Benin existed. The current Republic of Benin was formed in 1991.
Benin is a narrow country in west Africa. The country measures about at its widest point. It is between the Equator and the Tropic of Cancer. Benin is bordered by Togo to the west, Burkina Faso and Niger to the north, Nigeria to the east, and the Bight of Benin to the south.
The highest point is Mont Sokbaro at .
Reserve du W du Niger and Pendjari National Park attract tourists who want to see elephants, lions, antelopes, hippos, and monkeys. Historically Benin has been a home for the endangered Painted Hunting Dog, "Lycaon pictus";
Benin's climate is hot and humid. Yearly rainfall in the coastal area averages 1300 mm or about 51 inches. Benin has two rainy and two dry seasons per year. The main rainy season is from April to late July, with a shorter less strong rainy period from late September to November. The main dry season is from December to April, with a short cooler dry season from late July to early September. In Cotonou, the average maximum temperature is ; the minimum is .
Benin is divided into 12 Departments. Then it is divided into 77 communes.
Beninese literature had a strong oral tradition long before French became the main language. Felix Couchoro wrote the first Beninese novel, "L'Esclave" in 1929.
Singer Angélique Kidjo and actor Djimon Hounsou were both born in Cotonou, Benin. Composer Wally Badarou and singer Gnonnas Pedro are also from Benin.
In the 2010 census, 27.2% of the population of Benin were Christian, 24.4% were Muslim, 17.3% practiced Vodun, 6% other traditional local religious groups, 1.9% other religious groups, and 6.5% have no religious affiliation.
The literacy rate in Benin is one of the lowest in the world. In 2002 it was said to be 34.7%. At one time the education system was not free.
Beninese cuisine is known in Africa for its exotic ingredients and flavorful dishes. Beninese cuisine has lots of fresh meals with a variety of sauces. In southern Benin cuisine, the most common ingredient is corn. It is often used to prepare dough which is mainly eaten with peanut- or tomato-based sauces. Fish and chicken are the most common meats used in southern Beninese cuisine. Beef, goat, and bush rat are also eaten. The main food in northern Benin is yams. The northern provinces use beef and pork meat which is fried in palm or peanut oil or cooked in sauces. Cheese is used in some dishes. Couscous, rice, and beans are commonly eaten, along with fruits such as mangoes, oranges, avocados, bananas, kiwi fruit, and pineapples.
Meat is usually expensive. Meals are usually light on meat and generous on vegetable fat. Smoked fish is commonly prepared in Benin. Many people have outdoor mud stoves for cooking.

</doc>
<doc id="15648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15648" title="Dominican Republic">
Dominican Republic

The Dominican Republic (Spanish: "República Dominicana") is a country on the Caribbean island of Hispaniola; the other country on the island is Haiti. Its capital, and largest city, is Santo Domingo. The national language is Spanish.
The country was occupied by the United States from 1916 to 1924. The Dominican Republic is a presidential democratic republic. The country has a tropical climate but modified by elevation and the "trade winds" (winds that come from the northeast, from the Atlantic Ocean).
The island of Hispaniola was discovered by Christopher Columbus on 5 December 1492, but the first time that he saw part of the present Dominican Republic was on 4 January 1493 when he saw a headland that he named "Monte Cristi" ("Mountain of Christ"). That mountain is called now "El Morro" and is near the city of Monte Cristi.
From Monte Cristi, Columbus went east along the north coast of the island and on 6 January, after visiting the Samaná Bay, he went back to Spain. In his second trip to America, he founded the first European city in the continent, "La Isabela", near the present city of Puerto Plata.
Later, Bartholomew Columbus founded the city of Santo Domingo, the oldest permanent European city in the Americas. From here, many Spaniards went to conquer other islands (Cuba, Jamaica, Puerto Rico). Because Cuba was closer to the continent, many people moved there from Hispaniola, and then to the continent. Because of that, the population of the island grew very slowly. By the Treaty of Ryswick in 1697, Spain gave the western third of the island to France and kept the eastern part, and so the island had two different colonies: the French "Saint-Domingue" and the Spanish "Santo Domingo". In 1795, France got the whole island but they could only control the eastern part because Haiti became independent very soon. In 1809, the French government gave back the old colony of "Santo Domingo" to Spain.
On 1 December 1821, the Spanish lieutenant governor José Núñez de Cáceres declared the independence from Spain. The new country had the name "Estado Independiente del Haití Español" ("Independent State of Spanish Haiti"). But on 9 February 1822, the Haitian army occupied the country and stayed for 22 years. Juan Pablo Duarte founded a secret society, "La Trinitaria", to fight for the Dominican independence. The Haitian occupation ended on 27 February 1844, when the inhabitants of the eastern part of the Hispaniola made a new country named "República Dominicana" ("Dominican Republic"). From 1861 to 1865, the country was again a Spanish colony. On 16 August 1863 began the "Restoration War" when the Dominicans fought to be free again. That war ended in 1865 when the Spanish left and the Dominican Republic was again an independent country.
The country was occupied by the United States from 1916 to 1924. In 1930, Rafael Trujillo became the president of the country through a coup d'état. Trujillo was a cruel dictator, killing thousands of persons, among them many Haitians. Trujillo was killed in 1961. After the death of Trujillo, Juan Bosch was elected in 1962 and became, in 1963, the first elected president since 1930. But was Bosch was in power for only seven months. In 1965, there was a civil war between those that wanted Bosch back on power and those that were opposed to him. Then the country was invaded again by the United States.
Since the end of the civil war, the presidents of the Dominican Republic have been:
The Dominican Republic is a presidential democratic republic. The government is divided in three branches: the Executive, the Legislative and the Judiciary. The Executive branch is made up of the President, the Vice President and the Ministers who are called "Secretaries of State". The President is chief of state and head of government and is elected every 4 years. He nominates the cabinet. The current president is Danilo Medina Sánchez.
The Legislative branch makes the laws and is made up of the Congress, which is in Santo Domingo, the capital of the Dominican Republic. The Congress is divided into two groups: the Senate, with 32 members (one for every province and one for the National District), and the Chamber of Deputies with 178 members.
The Judicial branch is made up of the courts of the country, including the Supreme Court of Justice.
The Dominican Republic is a constitutional democracy ruled by a president. The president is elected every 4 years. The current president is Danilo Medina Sánchez, of the PLD.
There are 3 important political parties in the Dominican Republic:
There are several mountain chains in the Dominican Republic. The four main chains, from North to South, are:
Between those mountains, there are several important valleys, such as:
There are other smaller valleys in the mountains: Constanza, Jarabacoa, Bonao, Villa Altagracia.
The four most important rivers of the Dominican Republic are Yaque del Norte, Yuna, Yaque del Sur and Ozama. There are many lakes; the largest is the "Lake Enriquillo", in the "Hoya de Enriquillo".
The country has a tropical climate but modified by elevation and the "trade winds" (winds that come from the northeast, from the Atlantic Ocean). At sea level, the average temperature is 25 °C, with small changes from one season to another. In the highest mountains, the temperature in winter can be as low as 0 °C.
There are two wet seasons: April-June and September-November. The most dry period is from December to March. Rainfall varies greatly; eastern regions, like the Samaná Peninsula, get an average of over 2,000 mm in a year, but less than 500 mm fall in the southwest (Hoya de Enriquillo).
From June to November, hurricanes are frequent and can do much damage in the island.
The Dominican Republic has a total population, estimated for July 2009, of 9,650,054 inhabitants, for a density of 236.30 inhabitants per km².
About 64% of Dominicans live in cities and towns and 87% of people that are 15 years old or more can read and write.
The two largest cities are Santo Domingo (the capital city) with 1,817,754 inhabitants, and Santiago, in the Cibao Valley and with 908,250 inhabitants.
The Dominican Republic is divided into 31 provinces. The national capital Santo Domingo de Guzmán is in the "Distrito National" that is like a province and elects one Senator.
The provinces are:
The Dominican Republic has a mixed economy based mainly on agriculture, services (including tourism and finance), trade and money sent from the many Dominicans that live in other countries (United States, Europe). Agricultural production (mainly sugarcane, with smaller amounts of coffee, cacao, and tobacco) was the main economic activity but now is in third place after tourism and manufacturing in "zonas francas" ("free zones" where the industries do not pay taxes and all the production is sent to other countries).
Mining is also important, mainly ferronickel (nickel with iron) and gold.
The Dominican Republic suffers from poverty, with 83.3% of the population living below the poverty line in 2012. The wealth distribution is uneven: the richest 10% gets nearly 40% of national income.
The culture of the Dominican Republic, like in other Caribbean countries, is a mix of Taíno, African and European (mainly Spanish) cultures.
There are not many Taíno traditions in the modern Dominican culture; many places keep their Taíno names: Dajabón, Bánica, Haina, Yaque, Samaná, etc. Also many objects, plants and animals have a Taíno origin and their names have been included in other languages; for example: "canoa" (canoe, a small boat), "hamaca" (hammock, a simple bed), "maíz" (maize, corn), "yuca" (cassava, that comes from the Taíno word "casabe", a kind of cassava bread eaten in the Caribbean), and "batata" (sweet potato).
That mix of different traditions created a culture that is known as Creole (in Spanish: "Criolla"), common to all countries in the Caribbean, Louisiana and some parts of South America and Central America.
In the Dominican Republic, only Spanish is spoken, however; there are 3 major languages that are also spoken such as Haitian Creole, Samana English, and the West African Yoruba language known as Lucumi spoken by few. There is a local dialect or patois which is spoken by all Dominicans - see Dominican Spanish Creole.
The official religion is Roman Catholicism but there is freedom of religion. Protestant groups are important, representing about 15% of the total population. Each year major festivities called "fiestas patronales" are held. They are Catholic festivities in honor of the Patron saints of the towns and villages; it is a Spanish tradition to associate every town with a Catholic saint. The festivities includes church services, street parades, fire works, dance contests and other activities. Dominican Voodoo or Santeria is also practiced in large numbers as well as Dominican Palo, Dominican Kongo religion, and others.
African influences have the strongest influences in Dominican culture, especially in language, religion, food, and music.
"Notes":

</doc>
<doc id="15649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15649" title="1856">
1856


</doc>
<doc id="15652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15652" title="Navassa Island">
Navassa Island

Navassa Island, or La Navase in Haitian Creole, is a small island without anyone living on it in the Caribbean Sea. It is located ninety miles south of Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The United States government claims the two-square-mile island as a territory of the United States, and it is under control of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. The island is also claimed by Haiti.
Some sailors sailing with Christopher Columbus named Navassa in 1504, because no fresh water could be found there.
A captain named Peter Duncan gave it to the U.S. in the late 1850s, for the purpose of guano mining. After a rebellion in 1889, and the Spanish-American War of 1898, the mining was put to an end.
With the opening of the Panama Canal in 1914, Navassa became important again, because of a lighthouse being built there. After World War II, no one lived on it again.
In 1996, Navassa's light was put out of use, and the island was transferred to the U.S. Department of the Interior. Three years later in 1999, the Fish and Wildlife Service received ownership of the island.
Navassa became a U.S. insular area in October 1857, when a representative of the Baltimore Fertilizer Company took possession of the island in the name of the United States pursuant to the Guano Act of August 18, 1856 (Title 48, U.S. Code, sections 1411-19). In 1889 the island's actual operation passed to the Navassa Phosphate Company. All operations were abandoned in 1898, when the island became effectively uninhab
Navassa Island is three square miles in area. Navassa lies about one hundred miles south of Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, about thirty miles west of Cape Tiburon, Haiti, at the southwest entrance to the Windward Passage, east of Kingston, Jamaica. Navassa's climate is marine and tropical.
Its terrain is a raised coral and limestone plateau, flat to undulating, ringed by vertical white cliffs, approximately nine to fifteen yards high. Navassa's environment is mostly exposed rock. However, it has enough grassland to support goat herds. Dense stands of fig-like trees and scattered cactus also exist. Only one tenth of the island's land is meadows or pastures. Navassa has no ports and only off-shore anchorage.
In 1976, the U.S. Coast Guard determined that the lighthouse on Navassa was no longer of any value to the U.S. Government and was ceasing its exercise of any interest in the island. However, the U.S. Coast Guard's ceasing to administer Navassa's use did not have any bearing at all on the United States sovereignty over the island, which remained constant regardless of the administering Federal agency or office. Consequently, under the provisions of Title 43, U.S.Code, section 1458, the Department of the Interior assumed responsibility for the civil administration of the U.S. insular area.
Acting under the authority that the Secretary of the Interior delegated to him in Secretary's Order No. 3205 (January 16, 1997) and Amendment No. 1 (January 14, 1998) to Secretary's Order No. 3205 and in fulfillment of his responsibilities as the civil administrator of the United States insular area of Navassa Island, the Director of the Office of Insular Affairs advises all persons interested in visiting Navassa Island that, having made a preliminary review of the island's ecology, he has decided indefinitely not to allow visits to the island and its surrounding waters until he has received a further assessment of the island's environment and conservation status. As used in this notice, the term "surrounding waters" includes the waters surrounding Navassa Island seaward to a line twelve (12) nautical miles distant from Navassa Island's coastlines. The Director of the Office of Insular Affairs intends that nothing in this notice shall deny or impair the right of innocent passage in the waters surrounding Navassa Island.
On September 2, 1999, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service established the Navassa Island Wildlife Refuge as an overlay. As of December 3, 1999, the Office of Insular Affairs ceased to have any administrative responsibility for Navassa. A Secretary's order of that date transferred full administration of Navassa from the Office of Insular Affairs to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. 

</doc>
<doc id="15661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15661" title="1648">
1648


</doc>
<doc id="15662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15662" title="Blink-182">
Blink-182

Blink-182 is a popular pop-punk band formed in 1992. The original band name was blink. They later had to add on the "182" suffix due to an Irish techno band who had the same name that had been around longer and threatened to sue the band. Although the change, fans still refer the band as just "Blink". Tom DeLonge, who played guitar, had been friends with Ann Hoppus while living in San Diego. He had often complained about wanting to start a band. Ann then introduced Tom to her younger brother, Mark Hoppus, who played bass. They later found drummer Scott Raynor to complete the trio. In 1998, midway through a North American tour, Raynor left the band to continue his education. Raynor was also rumoured as having been forced to leave the band by its remaining members, due to his drinking problem. Travis Barker, who had been drumming for The Aquabats at the time, filled in for Blink 182 on the drums to finish out the rest of the tour. Tom and Mark were so impressed that they had Barker become the bands full-time drummer. Blink-182 can be known for their catchy pop-punk songs and toilet Humor (their live album especially, which contained a song consisting entirely of swear words). In February 2005, the band announced that they were going on an "indefinite hiatus". They stated that they were going to take a break for a while. However now all three members have confirmed that they have no plans of getting back together in the future, due to DeLonge going on to create the band Angels & Airwaves and Hoppus and Barker to create the band +44.
During the 2009 Grammy Awards, the members of Blink-182 said that the band would be getting back together.
Demos:
Albums Released:
They have also made a "Greatest Hits" album in 2005. That album contained two songs that had not been released in the United States before, "Not Now" and "Another Girl Another Planet". "Another Girl Another Planet" was a cover song; it was first sung by The Only Ones.

</doc>
<doc id="15666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15666" title="Doctor Who">
Doctor Who

Doctor Who is a BBC science fiction television series. The series is about an alien time-traveller known as "the Doctor". In his space-and-time-ship, the TARDIS (Time and Relative Dimension in Space), the Doctor and his companions travel through space and time.
The television series ran from 1963–1989 and started running again in 2005. It is the longest running science fiction television series in the world.
There were also two "Doctor Who" movies made in the 1960s. Peter Cushing played the Doctor in these movies, but he was not the Doctor in the television series. In 1996, there was also a television movie starring Paul McGann. There have been many print versions of "Doctor Who" in books, comics, etc.
The story is about a man who calls himself "The Doctor". He travels in his space-time-ship TARDIS ("Time And Relative Dimension In Space"), with which he can go anywhere in time and space. Because of an error in its "chameleon circuit", the outside of the TARDIS always looks like a 1960s-style British police public call box (similar to a blue telephone box), but on the inside the TARDIS is much bigger. 
The Doctor is an alien, a "Time Lord" from the planet Gallifrey. At first, he travelled only with his granddaughter Susan Foreman. Later, the Doctor took other people with him. They are usually called "companions" or "assistants". The Doctor and his companions travel through space and time, have a lot of adventures, and often save many people. 
Some people think that it is not okay to call the Doctor "Doctor Who", but there is no mistake. The character was named Doctor Who in the titles until the Fifth Doctor, and after the 2005 restart the Ninth Doctor, played by Christopher Eccleston, is called Doctor Who in the titles too. The Second Doctor once signed a letter as "Dr W.".
"Doctor Who" was first shown in 1963, with William Hartnell as the Doctor. When Hartnell left the show in 1966, the writers came up with the idea that the Doctor would "regenerate" (at the time called "renewal") and transform into the Second Doctor, who was played by Patrick Troughton. In 1970, when Jon Pertwee took over as the Third Doctor, the series switched from black-and-white to colour. Before 1978, the BBC would sometimes throw away episodes they did not need. As a result, 97 of the 800 episodes are missing.
Seven actors played the Doctor from 1963 until 1989, when the series stopped. In 1996, the BBC teamed with Fox Broadcasting Company and Universal Pictures to create a film version, in which Paul McGann played the Eighth Doctor. It was hoped that the film would lead to a new series, but this did not happen.
Instead, the series started again in 2005, with Christopher Eccleston as the Ninth Doctor. He was replaced by David Tennant at the end of the series. The actor who now plays the Doctor is Peter Capaldi, who joined the show in the 2013 Christmas episode.
In the "Guinness World Records", "Doctor Who" is listed as the longest running science fiction television series in the world. In 2013, it celebrated its 50th birthday with a special episode.
The Doctor is the central character of "Doctor Who". He is an alien, a "Time Lord" from the planet Gallifrey. The Doctor often takes other people with him, who are usually called "companions" or "assistants" (or, due to a misunderstanding, "partners"). They are most often human. The most recent companion was Clara Oswald, played by Jenna Coleman. 
As a Gallifreyan, the Doctor looks human on the surface. However, there are differences. For example, he has two hearts. Also, if badly injured or dying, he can "regenerate". During the "regeneration", his body heals and renews itself. Then, he takes on a different appearance and personality. He is the same person (sort of) with the same memories and knowledge. But, he looks different and has a new personality. Because of this, the Doctor can be played by different actors. And in nearly fifty years, this is why the character has not actually "changed". 
Up until now, the Doctor has regenerated thirteen times, and each "incarnation" was played by a different actor (except for the Tenth Doctor, who used up two regenerations by using the regeneration energy from his hand that had been chopped of in The Christmas Invasion). (Numbers refer to incarnations that used up regenerations)
The Doctor has been played by 11 actors in other media: theatre plays, parodies, etc. These are not officially part of the "Doctor Who" story.
The movies "Dr.Who & the Daleks" and "Daleks' Invasion Earth 2150 A.D." star Peter Cushing as a human scientist named "Doctor Who." Shortly after it was announced that the series would return from its nineties hiatus, Richard E. Grant voiced The Doctor in an animated serial. The BBC issued press releases identifying Grant as the "ninth Doctor" but this was later disregarded by the revived BBC television series.
Sometimes different incarnations of the Doctor meet each other. Usually episodes with several Doctors are made when the program celebrates an anniversary. In 1973, when the show was 10 years old, the episode "The Three Doctors" was shown. It had the first three Doctors.
In 1983, there was the 20th anniversary special. "The Five Doctors". Patrick Troughton, John Pertwee, Peter Davison and Richard Hundall (replacing William Hartnell) played The Doctor. Tom Baker refused to play in it, so they used the old footage of the incomplete "Shada" episode to show him.
In 1985, there was the episode "The Two Doctors", with the Second and the Sixth Doctors.
The fifth Doctor met the tenth incarnation in mini-episode named "Time Crash". It was aired in 2007.
The Tenth, Eleventh, and War Doctors met each other in the 50th anniversary special in November 2013. That was the first time the War Doctor was seen. That special had short appearances by all the other Doctors with the use of old, recycled footage. It also had a mysterious version of the Doctor from the far off future played by Tom Baker. The Eighth Doctor also made a return in 2013 for a 50th anniversary special mini-episode.
On August 4, 2013, Peter Capaldi was revealed as the actor who would play the Twelfth Doctor.
The TARDIS is the Doctor's time machine. It can travel to any point in time and space, but the Doctor can never fully control it. The Doctor explains that TARDISes are not built, but they are grown like plants. The TARDIS is alive and has a mind of its own. In the episode "The Doctor's Wife" when the Doctor is able to communicate directly with its mind, the TARDIS explains that it did not always take him where he wanted to go,wanted to go but that "I always took you where you needed to go." 
On the inside, the TARDIS looks like a giant spaceship, but on the outside it looks like a police telephone box. These telephone boxes were still a common sight in many British cities when the series first began in 1963, but after the walkie-talkie was invented they were no longer needed. They were used by the police as workstations - and people could also use them to call the police. 
The Doctor stole the TARDIS from a Time Lord museum when he began his travels. It was described as being a rather old "Type 40" model, whereas the best version is the "Type 70" used by the upper class Time Lords. The TARDIS has a device called the "chameleon circuit" which is supposed to change its shape on the outside to allow it to disguise it. In the very first story, this device stopped working and left the TARDIS stuck in the shape of a police box. 
The farthest the Doctor has ever travelled in the TARDIS is to the Big Bang (the beginning of the Universe) and 100 trillion years into the future (the end of the Universe) (in the episode "Utopia"). The inside of the TARDIS is much bigger than its outside (it is "dimensionally transcendental"). It has a lot of different rooms. The most important of which is the "console room" where the Doctor pilots the TARDIS.
TARDIS stands for "Time And Relative Dimension/s In Space".
The Doctor usually takes other people with him, who are usually called "companions" or "assistants". The Doctor and his companions travel through space and time, have a lot of adventures, and often save many people. 
The character of the companion was there so that the people watching the series could identify and feel close to a character. The companions were often present-time humans, so people could feel close to them, and they knew as much as the viewers. Because of this, the Doctor could explain things to his companions, and at the same time to the viewers. Almost all the Doctor's companions have been human, or human-looking aliens. Two companions were robots.
The Daleks are one of the most powerful races in the Doctor Who history. They are the Doctor's worst enemies. They cry "EX-TER-MIN-ATE!" when they are about to kill someone. They look like small tanks or very large pepper pots. They first appeared in the first season episode "The Daleks". A more recent episode was "Into the Dalek" (2014). They are not robots, but horrible aliens kept in a metal casing. They were mutated from Kaleds by their creator Davros during a war on their planet, Skaro. They can not be easily hurt by guns because their casing reflects or destroys the bullets.
Cybermen are another enemy of the Doctor. They are one of his worst enemies. In the original series, they come from the planet Mondas. In the new series, they come from a parallel universe. Cybermen travel across the universe taking people and turning them into machines. They stomp around saying "DELETE!". They kill by electrocution. They are vulnerable to the metal gold, and can be killed by gold bullets. They change their look over time, but stay recognizable by "handlebars" on their heads.
The Doctor has faced them many times. The first was in "The Tenth Planet" (William Hartnell's final episode). A more recent episode was "Death in Heaven" (a Peter Capaldi episode).
The Sontarans are a group of aliens that believe in war over anything else. They must face their enemy in combat because of their weak spot on the back of their neck. They have been said to look like baked potatoes.
The Doctor first met them in "The Time Warrior" (Jon Pertwee). They have been on the show and its spinoffs repeatedly.
The Sea Devils and the Silurians lived in the time of the dinosaurs until the catastrophe of the Moon's approach drove them into hibernation. They slept longer than planned and emerged late in the 20th century. The human scientist who discovered the Silurians estimated their era incorrectly. A later "Doctor Who" story said that they should have been classified as the Eocenes. A second species of hibernating Earth reptiles lived primarily underwater. They were labeled "sea devils" by a frightened, superstitious construction worker who encountered them.
The Time Lords are the alien race which the Doctor belongs to. They have two hearts. They can avoid dying by "regeneration" (transforming their bodies). The Time Lords were in some episodes in the classic series. Sometimes they were allies of the Doctor (at one point he became their president). Other times they were enemies. The Time Lords came from the planet Gallifrey. 
When the series returned in 2005, the Time Lords had disappeared in the "Time War". This was a very big war with the Daleks. The Doctor explained that he stopped the war by destroying Gallifrey, killing all of the Time Lords and Daleks. He believed he was the last of the Time Lords, until he discovered that the Master had also survived. Jenny, who was created artificially in "The Doctor's Daughter," is not a true Time Lord. For many years, the Doctor felt sorry for destroying Gallifrey. In the 2013 episode "The Day of the Doctor", the Doctor learns that he did not actually destroy his planet, but that he had moved it to another universe.
The Master is a renegade Time Lord. He is the Doctor's nemesis. He was conceived as "Professor Moriarty to the Doctor's Sherlock Holmes". The character first appeared in 1971, played by Roger Delgado. He continued in the role until his death in 1973. The Master was briefly played by Peter Pratt and Geoffrey Beevers until Anthony Ainley took over. He continued to play the character until Doctor Who's "hiatus" in 1989. The Master returned in the 1996 television movie of "Doctor Who", played by Gordon Tipple in the ultimately unused pre-credits voiceover, then Eric Roberts. The Master was in the three-part finale of the 2007 series, portrayed by Derek Jacobi. He regenerated into John Simm at the end of the episode "Utopia". Simm next appeared in the last (and two-part) episode of the Tenth Doctor in 2009/2010. He then regenerated off-screen into a "Time Lady" (Michelle Gomez), who returned for the Twelfth Doctor's first series in 2014.
The Ice warriors are a species of war-like alien. They previously lived on the planet Mars and ate Martian fish. When their home planet became too hot for them to live in, they moved to planets such as Peladon.
As of 2015, the Doctor has been played by thirteen actors. They are William Hartnell, Patrick Troughton, John Pertwee, Tom Baker, Peter Davison, Colin Baker, Sylvester McCoy, Paul McGann, John Hurt, Christopher Eccleston, David Tennant, Matt Smith and Peter Capaldi. 
When Time Lords are dying, they "regenerate." This causes a Time Lord's body to completely change, healing itself at the same time. Each time this happens, Time Lords have a different appearance and a different personality. Even with such big changes, Time Lords do not become different people, and will keep their memories each time they "regenerate." This periodic change makes them live a very long time.
A Time Lord is believed to only be able to regenerate 12 times. This means that Time Lords can have a total of 13 different incarnations. This line became stuck in the public consciousness despite not often being repeated, and was recognised by producers of the show as a plot obstacle for when the show finally had to regenerate the Doctor a thirteenth time. The episode "The Time of the Doctor" depicted the Doctor acquiring a new cycle of regenerations, starting from the Twelfth Doctor, due to the Eleventh Doctor being the product of the Doctor's twelfth regeneration from his original set.
A criminal incarnation of the Doctor was somehow spawned between his 12th and final lives. It tried to sacrifice the sixth Doctor so that he could obtain more "regenerations," allowing himself to live even longer.
The Master was already in his 13th life when he was introduced to the series. His 14th and 15th (and possibly later) incarnations were obtained by taking over the bodies of innocent victims. When the character returned to the show in 2007, the Master was in his 16th (or later) incarnation. Soon, he regenerates into his (~)17th incarnation. Later, he explains that the Time Lords resurrected him to be a great soldier when the Time Lords were fighting the Daleks in the Time War. It is likely that, having been resurrected, he had 12 more regenerations available to him.
A Time Lord can choose not to regenerate. It appears that the process happens all on its own when a Time Lord is dying. But, it can be stopped if the Time Lord does not want to regenerate. This was seen when the (~)17th incarnation of the Master chose to die from a gunshot wound instead of living on as a prisoner in the Doctor's TARDIS.
A Time Lord's body makes a huge amount of energy when regenerating. There is so much of this "regeneration energy" that a Time Lord can regrow a body part that gets removed, as long as it happens soon enough after regenerating. When the Doctor regenerated into his 10th incarnation, his hand was cut off in a sword fight. Because it had been less than 15 hours since he had regenerated into this incarnation, he was able to quickly grow a new hand.
If a Time Lord has kept a part of his or her body that had been removed (like the 10th Doctor's hand, from before), it can be used to keep a Time Lord from changing during regeneration. The 10th incarnation of the Doctor kept the hand that was cut off in the sword fight in a jar on board the TARDIS. Eventually, he was shot by a Dalek, and his body began the regeneration process. After his body had finished healing, but before his body could change into a new one, the Doctor sent all of the extra energy into the hand in the jar.

</doc>
<doc id="15667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15667" title="Concentration camp">
Concentration camp

A concentration camp (or internment camp) is a place where a government forces many people to live. Usually, those people belong to groups that the government does not like. The government may think these people are its enemies. In the past, governments have also put people in concentration camps because they belonged to a certain religion, race, or ethnic group.
Usually, people are sent to concentration camps without having a trial or being found guilty of a crime.
Sometimes, governments send people to concentration camps to do forced labor or to be killed. For example, the best-known concentration camps were run by Nazi Germany during World War II. The Nazis used concentration camps to kill millions of people and force many others to work as slaves. However, many other countries have used concentration camps during wars or times of trouble.
The first modern concentration camps in the United States were created in 1838. Around this time, the United States was getting bigger. However, Native Americans lived in the lands that the United States wanted to take over.
In 1830, the United States Congress and President Andrew Jackson had passed a law called the Indian Removal Act. This law said that all Native Americans had to leave the United States and move to "Indian Territory," west of the Mississippi River. However, many Cherokee people would not leave their lands. In May 1838, the United States government decided to force the Cherokee to leave the United States. 
First, soldiers forced about 17,000 Cherokee people, and 2,000 of their African-American slaves, into concentration camps, where they had to live during the summer of 1838. 353 Cherokee people died in the camps from dysentery and other diseases. Finally, the Cherokee were forced to travel to the area that is now Oklahoma. (At the time, Oklahoma was not in the United States.) The government also forced other Native American tribes to leave their lands and move west.
Soon, many people from the United States started to move west. Now the United States was moving into Native American lands again. Starting around the 1860s, many Native American tribes fought back. These fights are now called the Indian Wars. The United States government reacted by forcing Native Americans to leave their lands again and move into concentration camps. The government called these camps "Indian reservations." (They were called "reservations" because some land had been put aside, or "reserved," for the Native Americans.) However, Native Americans were not allowed to leave their reservations. On some reservations, many people, especially children, died from hunger and sickness.
During the American Civil War in the 1860s, soldiers who been captured were sometimes put in camps. These camps were meant to be prisoner of war (POW) camps, with good conditions. However, as the war went on, both the Union and the Confederacy captured more enemy soldiers. The camps became very crowded, with terrible conditions. There was not enough food, and many men died from hunger. Also, there was also very little sanitation, which made it easy for diseases to spread. Many prisoners died from these diseases.
The deadliest prisoner of war camp during the Civil War was Andersonville prison. Andersonville was run by the Confederate States Army. At Andersonville, 12,920 Union Army prisoners died. This was over one out of every four prisoners at Andersonville. After the Civil War ended, Henry Wirz, the man in charge of Andersonville, was found guilty of war crimes and was killed.
Conditions at the Union's prisoner of war camps were also very bad. At four different Union camps, at least 15% of the prisoners in the camps died. At a camp called Fort Pulaski, Union soldiers starved 600 Confederate prisoners of war on purpose. 46 of them died. The Union soldiers did this to get revenge for how Union prisoners were treated at Andersonville Prison.
By the end of the Civil War, about 30,000 Union soldiers, and about 26,000 Confederate soldiers, had died in prisoner of war camps.
In the late 1800s, Cuba was a colony of the Spanish Empire. This meant Spain controlled Cuba. When Cuban people tried to rebel and fight for independence from 1895 to 1898, Spain created concentration camps and sent many Cuban people to live in them. This was called the "Reconcentrado" ("Reconcentration") Policy.
The people fighting for Cuban independence were guerrilla fighters. They did not wear military uniforms and could hide themselves in groups of civilians. They could also camp and hunt, without needing help from anybody to survive. To keep the guerrilla fighters from being able to do these things, the Spanish government decided to put Cuban people in concentration camps. The idea was that in the camps, Cuban people could be 'protected' by the Spanish Army until the Spanish Empire won the war. However, this idea did not work. At least 30% of the Cuban people in the camps died from hunger, disease, bad sanitation, and not having medicines. Also, the concentration camps did not help the Spanish win the war.
Between 1900 and 1902, the British Empire, led by Lord Kitchener, used concentration camps. At the time, they were fighting the Boer people in the Second Boer War in South Africa. At first, the British were not able to beat the Boers. They reacted by putting the Boer fighters' family members into concentration camps. They did this so these family members could not give food or help to the Boer fighters. The British soldiers also burned down the Boers' houses and farms, and destroyed all the crops they could find. They did this so the Boer fighters would not be able to find food or shelter anywhere.
Around 26,000 women and children died in these camps from disease and starvation.
Russia used prison camps, especially in places in the Arctic or Siberia, a long way from the main cities. The first prison camp in Russia was built in 1918. However, after the Soviet Union was formed in the 1922, the Soviet government started sending many more people to forced labor camps. By 1936, there were 5,000,000 inmates in these camps.
These camps are called "zone" in Russian. They are also commonly called "gulags" (pronounced "GOO-logs"). "GULAG" is an acronym for the Russian words "Main Camp Administration." This was the government agency that was in charge of the prison camps while Josef Stalin led the Soviet Union. However, people who do not speak Russian often use the word "gulag" to talk about any forced labor camp in Russia or the Soviet Union.
People sent to the gulags included:
During World War II, Nazi Germany created many concentration camps, slave labor camps, and extermination camps (death camps). Nazi Germany's leader, Adolf Hitler, thought that certain groups of people were inferior (not as good as others). He even thought there were groups of people who did not deserve to live - he called them "life unworthy of life." These three groups were Jews, Roma people, and people with disabilities. Hitler wanted his Nazis to kill every Jew, Roma, and disabled person in Europe.
Hitler also wanted to get rid of other groups he did not like, including people who he thought might challenge or fight the Nazi government. These people included socialists, communists, people of certain religions, and members of resistance movements (groups who tried to fight the Nazis any way they could).
The Nazis sent many of these people to concentration camps to work as slave labor. After a few years, some camps were set up just to kill people. These are now called "extermination camps" or "death camps." At these camps, people were killed in gas chambers, shot, worked to death, and marched to death. Many people also died from disease and starvation in the camps.
More than half of the Jewish people who died in the Holocaust died at Nazi concentration camps. Just in the Auschwitz camps, at least 1.1 million people died (about 1,000,000 Jews and about 75,000 non-Jewish people, like Poles). Towards the end of World War II, the Nazis killed up to 20,000 people a day in the camps' gas chambers.
With Nazi Germany's support, the Ustaše government of the new Independent State of Croatia (ISC) created concentration camps and extermination camps. Mainly, the camps were for Serbs. The ISC hated Serbs and thought of them as the ISC's biggest enemy. However, the Ustaše also helped the Nazis with the "Final Solution" by killing many Jews in these camps. Other people the Ustaše forced into the camps included Roma, Croats, Yugoslavians who had fought against the ISC, and people who broke rules and laws set by the ISC.
During World War II, the United States forced over 110,000 Japanese-Americans into internment camps.
On December 7, 1941, Japan attacked Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. In February 1942, the United States government ordered that nobody with Japanese ancestry could live on the West Coast. The government, led by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, thought that Japanese-American people might be spies for Japan, or might try to hurt the United States.
About 80% of the Japanese-American people who lived in the continental United States were forced to leave their homes and live in internment camps. More than three out of every five of these people were born in the United States, and were United States citizens. About half of the people sent to the camps were children.
After Canada declared war on Japan, it also forced people with Japanese ancestry into internment camps.
In the 1980s, the United States government admitted that Japanese-Americans were not a danger to the country during World War II. In 1988, President Ronald Reagan signed a law that apologized for the internment camps. The law said "there was no ... reason for the internment ... [and] the internment was caused by racial prejudice, war hysteria, and a failure of [government] leadership[.]"
During World War II, Italy's fascist government (led by Benito Mussolini) was Nazi Germany's ally. Italy had taken over Yugoslavia, Greece, and France. The Nazis told Italy to put Jews from these areas in concentration camps and then send them to the Nazis' death camps. However, Italy refused. The Italian military and police would not help kill or deport Jews.
However, in 1943, after Mussolini had lost power, Nazi Germany took over northern and central Italy. They also put Mussolini back in power. The Nazis created concentration camps to hold Italian Jews and other prisoners until they could be sent to death camps. In one of these concentration camps, called La Risiera di San Sabba, the Nazis tortured and murdered about 5,000 people. Many of these people were "political prisoners" - people who disagreed with the government.
When Josef Stalin and the Soviet Union invaded Poland at the start of World War II, the Red Army deported at least 1.5 million Poles at gunpoint. They were forced to get into cattle wagons, which took them to Siberia. Whole families were deported to concentration camps, including children and the elderly.
During the war, the Soviet Union also used gulags to hold prisoners of war from Nazi Germany and its allies.
During the 1970s and 1980s, many military dictatorships in Latin America set up concentration camps to imprison, torture, and kill their political opponents (people who disagreed with them). For example:
The Soviet Union kept using forced labour camps after World War II. In fact, the people they sent to the gulags after the war included Soviet soldiers and civilians who had been taken prisoner by the Nazis, or used as slave workers in Nazi Germany.
In 1973, Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, a Russian author, wrote "The Gulag Archipelago" about his experiences in a Soviet work camp.
Since January 2002, the United States has run the Guantánamo Bay prison camp. Some people have called Guantánamo a concentration camp or a gulag. These people have included Fidel Castro, the leader of Amnesty International, and other activist groups like CounterPunch.

</doc>
<doc id="15670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15670" title="Ribosome">
Ribosome

Ribosomes are important cell organelles. A ribosome is a large complex of RNA and protein. It does RNA translation, building proteins from amino acids using messenger RNA as a template. Ribosomes are found in all living cells, prokaryotes as well as eukaryotes.
A ribosome is a mixture of protein and RNA that starts its formation in the nucleolus of a cell. The nucleolus is found in the center of the nucleus. The nucleus is protected by the nuclear envelope, and lets things out through the nuclear pores. 
The job of the ribosome is to make new proteins. It does this by moving along a strand of RNA and building a protein based on the code it reads. Making a protein this way is called translation. Ribosomes are usually found in the rough endoplasmic reticulum, but can also be found throughout the cytoplasm.
Ribosomes are made out of two thing a small ribosomal subunit that reads the mRNA, while the large subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain. Each subunit is composed of one or more ribosomal RNA (rRNA) molecules and a variety of proteins.
Eukaryotes have 80S ribosomes, each consisting of a small (40S) and large (60S) subunit. Their small subunit has a 16S RNA sub-unit (consisting of 1540 nucleotides) bound to 21 proteins. The large subunit has a 5S RNA (120 nucleotides), a 28S RNA (4700 nucleotides), a 5.8S RNA (160 nucleotides) subunits and 46 proteins. 

</doc>
<doc id="15672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15672" title="William Hartnell">
William Hartnell

William Henry Hartnell (January 8 1908 – April 23 1975) was an English actor. He best known for playing the First Doctor on "Doctor Who" from 1963 to 1966.
He was born in St Pancras, London. In 1932, he was in a movie called "Say It With Music". He was in more than sixty movies. He usually played funny characters until 1944, when he was a sergeant in a movie called "The Way Ahead". After that, he played a lot of policemen and soldiers. He was the main character in a movie called "Carry on Sergeant" in 1958. From 1957 to 1961, he appeared on a television show called "The Army Game" and in 1963, gave up movies and became the first Doctor in "Doctor Who". "Doctor Who" was a new television show.
Hartnell was in "Doctor Who" for three years. In 1966, he got sick. He forgot some of his lines, and argued with the people who made the show. Then he left "Doctor Who". Patrick Troughton became the new Doctor.
Hartnell's health got worse and in December 1974, he went to hospital. On 23 April 1975, he died in his sleep at the age of 67.

</doc>
<doc id="15674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15674" title="Patrick Troughton">
Patrick Troughton

Patrick George Troughton (25 March 1920 – 28 March 1987) was a British actor. He played different sorts of characters and who was in a lot of movies. He is best known as the Second Doctor on "Doctor Who" from 1966 to 1969. He also appeared in "Jason & the Argonauts" (1963) and "The Omen" (1976). His grandson, Harry Melling plays Dudley Dursley in the "Harry Potter" series of movies.

</doc>
<doc id="15675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15675" title="Jon Pertwee">
Jon Pertwee

John Devon Roland Pertwee (7 July 1919 – 20 May 1996), better known as Jon Pertwee, was an English actor. He is best known for playing the role of the Third Doctor on "Doctor Who" from 1970 to 1974 and also the title scarecrow in the television children's comedy series "Worzel Gummidge". His son is actor Sean Pertwee.
He was a cousin of actor Bill Pertwee who played Chief Warden Hodges in the comedy "Dad's Army".

</doc>
<doc id="15676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15676" title="Tom Baker">
Tom Baker

Thomas Stewart Baker (born January 20 1934), or Tom Baker, is an English actor. He is best known for playing the Fourth Doctor in the long-running science fiction television series "Doctor Who".
Baker was born in Liverpool. His father was a sailor, and was Jewish. His mother was Roman Catholic. Baker was not very academic and struggled at school. He failed the eleven plus exam. Baker became a monk when he was 15. When he decided to change his life, he first worked in the Royal Army Medical Corps, and then as a construction worker. He took up acting first as a hobby, then professionally.
His first big part was as Grigori Rasputin in the 1971 movie, "Nicholas and Alexandra". Baker is best known for playing the Fourth Doctor in the long-running science fiction television series "Doctor Who". He played this role from 1974 to 1981. When he got the job, he was working on a building site, because it was hard to find work as an actor.
He is famous for playing the Doctor longer than any other actor. His version of the character is probably the best remembered by many people. As he thought of himself as a role model for children, he would always pretend to be the Doctor in real life, and sign autographs for them. He did not like to see too much violence in Doctor Who. He once changed the script so the Doctor threatened a character with a jelly baby instead of a knife.
He was a narrator for the comedy sketch show "Little Britain."
Baker has had many jobs as a voiceover artist. He is very recognized for his voice. In a 2005 survey of British adults, Baker's voice was the fourth most recognisable after the Queen, Tony Blair and Margaret Thatcher.

</doc>
<doc id="15678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15678" title="Nazi Germany">
Nazi Germany

Nazi Germany is the widely-used name given to Germany between 1933 and 1945.
This is the period when Adolf Hitler's Nazi Party controlled Germany. It is also sometimes called the Third Reich (), which means the "Third Empire" or "Third Realm."
The Nazis said their empire would be the third great empire in history. The first was the Holy Roman Empire. The second was the Second Empire of 1871-1918. However, the term "Third Reich" was more popular in other countries. In Germany, it was merely called The Reich (pronounced "rike"). The Nazis renamed their empire the Greater German Reich ().
Hitler led Nazi Germany until it collapsed in 1945, when he killed himself. The Nazi Party was destroyed in the same year as its leaders ran away, were arrested, or killed themselves. Some were sentenced to death and executed by the Western and Soviet powers. Others survived and were able to get important jobs. However, their racial policies never again held power in Germany.
The Nazi government was formed under the idea that some races were better than others. The Nazis thought the "Aryan race" (pure Germans) were the best race of all, and that they deserved power and respect. This idea gained a lot of respect after the Great Depression made people who used to be important lose power. Hitler blamed the economic depression on Jewish capitalists and communist gangs. He was able to make Germans feel like they were innocent victims who had to take charge over Europe.
When the Nazi regime was destroyed at the end of World War II, Germany was split in two. The Soviet Union took over East Germany. The United Kingdom, France, and the United States took over West Germany.
In the late 1930s, Hitler began attacking many countries and taking them over. Later, on September 1st, 1939, German forces attacked Poland, which began World War II. With over a million troops, Hitler's army easily took over Poland, while losing just around 59,000 soldiers. Poland lost over 900,000 soldiers, because their army and weapons were not as good as the Nazis'.
On October 12, 1939, Hitler sent a letter to the United Kingdom promising peace. The British continued the war.
Hitler continued on and took over France in the Battle of France. Then he attacked England. Winston Churchill, now Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, did not surrender. The Battle of Britain lasted from July to October 1940. Many of the "Luftwaffe" (the German Air Force) were killed, and in early October they retreated back into Greater Germany. Hitler was unhappy, and ordered the mass bombardment of London. Thousands of civilians died, but the Royal Air Force regained strength. When Hitler decided to face east for his racial war of destroying the Slavs and Jews, he allowed Britain to regain power.
In 1941, Hitler gave orders to attack the Soviet Union. The first attack was code-named "Operation Barbarossa." It lasted from June 22, 1941 into winter of that year. Josef Stalin, the leader of the Soviet Union, had accidentally helped the Germans with his Great Purges, which had killed many Russian officers before the war even began.
During Operation Barbarossa, many more Soviet soldiers died than Germans. The winters were very cold, and many soldiers froze to death. At the Stalingrad this was not true. One million soldiers died on each side. Germany could not replace its losses, so Stalingrad was the turning point of the war.
After Stalingrad, the Germans lost their momentum. The Soviets learned from the long campaigns, fought better, and gained many new weapons from very efficient factories. The United States, Britain, France, and the Soviet Union fought together, and pushed against the smaller German army. In May 1945, they took over Berlin to win the war.
Many people from all sides of the war died fighting in Europe, including:
While fighting in the Soviet Union:
After the Allies took over Germany, the Soviets set up the German Democratic Republic. It was a socialist state that followed communism. The United Kingdom, the United States, and France set up the Federal Republic of Germany in the west. It was a democratic country.
When the Nazis took over Germany, most people in the country were Christians. The Nazis wanted to change the way people thought, and they did not like the Christian Churches. They closely watched priests, and often arrested or punished them. By 1940, priests from all over the Nazi Empire were being locked up together at Dachau Concentration Camp.
Nazi leaders like Martin Bormann, Joseph Goebbels, Heinrich Himmler, and Alfred Rosenberg, backed by Hitler, eventually wanted to destroy Christianity. Himmler and Rosenberg had some pagan ideas. Others, like Bormann, were atheist. Hitler himself hated Christianity, but he knew it was important in German politics and culture. Because of this, he usually said he wanted to wait until after the war to get rid of the Churches.
The Christian Churches were treated badly by the Nazis, but smaller religious groups, like the Jews and the Jehovah's Witnesses, were treated far worse. The Nazis tried to kill all of the Jewish people in Europe. They sent people of other religions, like Jehovah's Witnesses, to concentration camps and death camps. The Nazi campaign against the churches was called the "kirchenkampf".
The Nazis tried to take over the Protestant Churches of Germany, by bringing them together in a Nazi-friendly National Reich Church. Some Protestants supported the idea. However, when the Nazis tried to change the Bible to say Jesus wasn't Jewish, a group of pastors started the Confessing Church. The Confessing Church did not support Nazi ideas about controlling religion or changing the Bible. The Nazis made the Church illegal and arrested hundreds of its pastors.
Hitler did not like the Catholic Church, and was worried about its influence on German politics. In 1933, his new government signed a treaty (the Reich Concordat) with the Vatican. The treaty promised to let Catholics control their own Church, but said priests could not do politics. However, Hitler then closed down every Catholic organisation that was not a church - like Catholic political parties, groups for young people, trade unions, and newspapers. He murdered some of the leaders of these groups, and eventually closed all Catholic schools. Then the Nazis started attacking priests and nuns, and arrested many of them. Pope Pius XI protested strongly in "Mit brennender Sorge" (a 1937 papal encyclical), which said that Nazi ideas like racism were bad, and the Nazis were persecuting the Church.
Many Germans were angry that the government was interfering in their churches, but others did not care too much. A few tried to stop the government from killing religious minorities like Jews. Church leaders tried to stop the Nazis from interfering in their religion. Because they kept some independence from the state, they could publicly disagree with some government policies. For example, Catholic Bishop August von Galen and Protestant Bishop Theophil Wurm protested against the Nazis' program of killing disabled and sick people. Some religious leaders, like Martin Niemöller, spoke up for human rights in Germany. Several priests and pastors were executed for helping the 1944 plot to overthrow Hitler, including Pastor Dietrich Bonhoeffer and Fr. Alfred Delp SJ.

</doc>
<doc id="15708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15708" title="Jim Reeves">
Jim Reeves

James Travis "Jim" Reeves (August 20, 1923 in Galloway, Texas - July 31, 1964 in Nashville, Tennessee) was an American country singer. He died in a plane crash.

</doc>
<doc id="15709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15709" title="Dusty Springfield">
Dusty Springfield

Dusty Springfield (16 April 1939 – 2 March 1999) was a English pop singer. Her real name was Mary Isobel Catherine Bernadette O'Brien. Her musical career lasted from the late 1950s to the 1990s. She recorded over 200 songs during this time. She became one of the most successful female singers in Britain. She made soul music. Between 1963 and 1989, she had six top 20 singles on the United States "Billboard" Hot 100 chart and 16 on the United Kingdom Singles Chart. She is a member of both the US Rock and Roll and UK Music Halls of Fame. She is famous as a pop icon of the Swinging Sixties.
Springfield was born in London. She learned to sing at home. She liked American jazz music, and wanted to sound like that. In 1958, she joined her first professional group, The Lana Sisters. Two years later, she formed a singing trio, The Springfields. Her solo career began in 1963. Her first successful song was "I Only Want to Be with You". Other successful songs followed: "Wishin' and Hopin'" (1964), "I Just Don't Know What to Do with Myself" (1964), "You Don't Have to Say You Love Me" (1966), and "Son of a Preacher Man" (1968).
Later, she worked in Memphis, Tennessee on a soul album with Atlantic Records. The album was called "Dusty in Memphis". It was released in 1969. It has been ranked among the greatest albums of all time by the magazine "Rolling Stone", and in polls by VH1 artists, "New Musical Express" readers, and Channel 4 viewers. The album was also awarded a spot in the Grammy Hall of Fame.
Springfield was openly bisexual.
In March 1999 Springfield was going to go to Buckingham Palace to be given her award of Officer, Order of the British Empire. Springfield was given the award early in January 1999 in hospital.
Springfield died of breast cancer on 3 March 1999. Her name was added to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame two weeks later, on 16 March.

</doc>
<doc id="15711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15711" title="The Offspring">
The Offspring

The Offspring is an American punk group formed in 1984 in Garden Grove, California. Their music has covered both punk rock and pop punk.
The band was founded by Dexter Holland and Greg Kriesel after a concert of Social Distortion as "Manic Subsidal". As soon as Kevin "Noodles" Wassermann joined the band as their second guitarist in 1985, they changed their name to "The Offspring".
It would not be until ten years after forming that The Offspring saw its first piece of commercial success in its third album, "Smash", which was released in 1994. Regarded by many as The Offspring's classic release, and Epitaph Records' best-selling album, "Smash" produced four successful hit singles: "Come Out and Play" (which reached #1 on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart), "Self Esteem", "Gotta Get Away" and the radio-only single "Bad Habit". From there, The Offspring became one of the most important punk bands of the 1990s, along with ALL, Bad Religion, Face to Face, Green Day, Guttermouth, Lagwagon, NOFX, Pennywise, Rancid, Social Distortion, The Vandals, and many others.
Their most recent album was released in June 2008. The exact date of release depended on the country/region.

</doc>
<doc id="15712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15712" title="Aretha Franklin">
Aretha Franklin

Aretha Massacorale Franklin (born March 25, 1942) is an American soul and R&B singer. She is called the "Queen of Soul". She is best known for her songs "Respect", "Think", "Chain of Fools", and "(You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman".
Aretha Massacorale Franklin was born at a two-room house in Memphis located at 406 Lucy St. She was the third of four children born to Barbara (née Siggers) and C.L. Franklin and the fifth of six overall in between past relationships by her parents. Franklin's family moved to Buffalo, when Franklin was two, and then by four, had settled in Detroit. Following the move to Detroit, Franklin's parents, who had a troubled marriage, split. Due to her father's work as a Baptist minister, Franklin was primarily raised by her grandmother, Rachel. Franklin suffered a tragedy when her mother died in Buffalo when Aretha was ten. Franklin sang in church at an early age and learned how to play piano by ear. By her late preteens, Franklin was regularly singing solo numbers in her father's New Bethel Baptist Church. Franklin's father, C.L. (short for Clarence LaVaughn), was a respected and popular preacher. Franklin grew up with local and national celebrities hanging out at her father's home including gospel greats Albertina Walker and her group The Caravans, Mahalia Jackson and Clara Ward, three women who played a pivotal role in her vocal development as a child.
Franklin is one of the most honored artists by the Grammy Awards, with 18 competitive Grammys and two honorary Grammys. She had 20 #1 singles on the Billboard R&B Singles Chart and two #1 hits on the Billboard Hot 100: "Respect" (1967) and "I Knew You Were Waiting (For Me)" (1987), a duet with George Michael. Since 1961, she had a total of 45 Top 40 hits on the Billboard Hot 100. She also had 14 singles that sold more than one million – more than any other female artist. Between 1967 and 1982 she had 10 #1 R&B albums – more than any other female artist. 
Rolling Stone magazine ranked her at top of its list "The Greatest Singers of All Time" In 2005, she was awarded The Presidential Medal of Freedom by President George W. Bush. On February 6, 2006, she performed, along with Aaron Neville, "The Star-Spangled Banner" at Super Bowl XL. The same year she got an honorary Doctor of Music degree by the Berklee College of Music.2010, Franklin received an Honorary Doctorate in Music from Yale University.
In 1987, Franklin became the first female artist to be inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. She was the only featured singer at the 2009 presidential inauguration of Barack Obama.

</doc>
<doc id="15717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15717" title="Tomato">
Tomato

The tomato is a red fruit. It is shiny and smooth, and has many small seeds. The tomato is green when it is unripe. It is very sour and it is good for you. It slowly changes color from green to red as it gets more ripe. There are many different types of tomatoes. Most tomatoes are red, but some special kinds are yellow or orange when they are ripe. Tomatoes are used a lot in Italian food. They are also used to make ketchup. Sometimes, people mistake tomatoes for vegetables, but they aren't, because they contain seeds. Tomato seeds are dispersed by being eaten by, and then passing through, animals. 

</doc>
<doc id="15719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15719" title="Pineapple">
Pineapple

The pineapple is a fruit. It is native to South America, Central America and the Caribbean. The word "pineapple" means "fragrance of perfumes". The meaning comes from an Amerindian language. The pineapple is also a tropical plant and it must not be kept under 10 degrees. It takes a long time for the pineapple to grow. It mainly depends on the location and the growing conditions it gets. If the temperature is warm, the pineapple will grow faster. On average, it takes about two to three years. If the fruit travels by boat, the fruit must be picked before ripening, since the trip takes a long time. Sometimes, pineapple has to travel by boat to be accessible to all. It is different for air travel. The pineapple can be picked when it is grown, since travel time is short.
Pineapple contains fiber and vitamin C. The stem of the pineapple contains an enzyme having healing effects, anti-inflammatory effects and it may reduce edema. The enzyme from the pineapple is also beneficial for a person who wants to go on a good diet. Pineapple contains a lot of manganese and the body needs manganese to build strong bones. 
In the world, there are a lot of varieties of pineapples. In fact, there are more than one hundred varieties and they grow in different sizes too. Four of those are the main varieties:
Early Europeans commonly called any kind of fruit an apple, and that is why the Spanish thought pineapples looked like pine cones. Pineapples have nothing to do with pine cones and apples, but because of the similar shape between the pineapple and the pine cone, most people change it into symbolism. Both have been used for symbolizing fertility. The pineapple symbolized friendship and hospitality to the Caribs. These people usually hung pineapples outside their huts to show their welcome.

</doc>
<doc id="15721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15721" title="Pear">
Pear

A pear is an edible fruit. Its shape is a teardrop. The flavor of pears is best when they are cool. They are juicy. Pears do not ripen well on trees. They can be soft in the center. They can be baked, canned, frozen, or eaten fresh. They can be made into jams, jellies or juice. They can also be made into pies and put into salads or baby food. They are eighty three percent water. It has a green, red, yellow, or brown skin. The pear originated from Europe, Africa and Asia. Pear trees grow in heavy soil.
Pears are in the subfamily Maloideae with apples. It is a subfamily of the family "Rosaceae".
The pear comes from the tree Pyrus communis, also called the common pear tree. The tree can be high. They live an average of 65 years. It starts as a pyramid-shaped tree. As it grows becomes rounded. It ends up becoming oval. This tree has gray bark covered with cracks. Its leaves are dark green and long. The flowers are pink or white and up to long.
The pear needs soil that is neither too dry nor too wet. It grows best in temperate and humid climates. 
According to Pear Bureau Northwest, about 3000 known varieties of pears are grown worldwide.
The pear comes from Eastern Europe and Western Asia. It grew during the Neolithic era. Its standard form is the result of different hybridizations from wild specimens.
The pear was also cultivated by the Romans, who ate the fruits raw or cooked, just like apples.

</doc>
<doc id="15723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15723" title="Melon">
Melon

A melon is any kind of edible, fleshy fruit in the Cucurbitaceae family. Many different cultivars have been produced, especially of muskmelons. Botanically speaking, the melon is a fruit, but some kinds are often considered vegetables. Most melons belong to the genus "Cucumis", but there are also some that belong to "Benincasa", "Citrullus" and "Momordica". The muskmelon belongs to "Cucumis", while the watermelon belongs to "Citrullus".
The word "melon" comes from the Latin ', which itself comes from the Greek (').
Melons come from Africa and southwest Asia. They gradually began to appear in Europe toward the end of the Roman Empire. Melons were introduced to America by early settlers, who grew honeydew and casaba melons as early as the 1600s. A number of Native American groups in New Mexico have a tradition of growing their own kinds of melon cultivars, derived from melons originally introduced by the Spanish.
Melons are a nutritious food. The seeds of cantaloupe were used in China to moderate fevers and the digestive system. Elsewhere, seeds were ground into a powder and used to treat tuberculosis. Cantaloupes are particularly beneficial to people with heart disease, as they have large of amounts of an anticoagulant known as adenosine. They also have high levels of potassium, which benefits those with high blood pressure. Due to their high water content, all melons are considered diuretics.
There is also evidence that suggests that eating melons can lower the risk of cancer. USDA researchers discovered that melons have lycopene, an antioxidant found in a select group of fruits and vegetables. Lycopene treats and prevents cancer by trapping free-radicals in cells.
If you love your s/o's melons, you'll love these, trust me. ;)

</doc>
<doc id="15724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15724" title="Raspberry">
Raspberry

A raspberry is an aggregate fruit, meaning it has many parts joined together. It is similar to a blackberry, but the fruit is hollow on the inside. There are many different species of raspberry plants, but only a few of them have fruit that are sold in stores. Leaves of the raspberry plant are also used fresh or dried in herbal teas. The raspberry is red when ripe, and is also a source of nectar for juices. Raspberries are a popular fruit in some parts of the world.
A raspberry plant typically grows in fields or in forest clearings where fire or wood-cutting has produced open space. As a cultivated plant in moist temperate regions, it is easy to grow. It has a tendency to spread unless cut back.
Two types of raspberry plants can be bought in stores: the older summer-bearing type and double- or "ever"-bearing plants. Raspberry plants make stalks each year. The fruit grows on these stalks. These stalks last for 2 years. Both the summer and everbearing plants create the fruit in the summer of the second year of the stalk. The stalks of the everbearing plant also creates fruit in the fall of the first year.
The raspberry fruit that are sold in stores come from plants that are hybrids between two species, "Rubus idaeus", European red raspberry, and "Rubus strigosus", American red raspberry. Fruit from "Rubus occidentalis", black raspberry, are sometimes available, and hybrids with purple fruit exist. These three species are in the same subgenus, "Rubus" subgenus "Idaeobatus".
Other raspberry species in "Rubus" subgenus "Idaeobatus" include:
Other raspberry species that are not in "Rubus" subgenus "Idaeobatus" include:

</doc>
<doc id="15726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15726" title="Plum">
Plum

A plum is a sweet fruit. Its scientific name is "Prunus". When dried, it is called a prune. The color "plum" takes its name from the fruit. Plum colored plums are called "purple plums" and are a deep purple color; other plums are reddish purple (these two varieties are shown in the picture at right). Some other plums can be yellow, red, green or even white. The fruit has a groove running down one side, and a smooth stone (seed). The flesh of the fruit is brownish and is very juicy. The skin can be eaten. It can also be used to make jam and the juice can be used to make wine. It is closely related to the apricot.
There are many cultivars of plum. 
Plums come in a wide variety of colors and sizes. Some are much firmer-fleshed than others, and some have yellow, white, green or red flesh, with equally varying skin color. These are some of the best-kown:

</doc>
<doc id="15727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15727" title="Peach">
Peach

The peach is a species of the "Prunus persica", and is a fruit tree of the rose family "Rosaceae". They grow in the warm regions of both the northern and southern hemispheres.
Peach blossoms are small to medium-sized. The tree is sometimes up to 6.5 m (21 feet) in height. When it is grown by people, the height it is usually kept between 3 and 4 m (10 and 13 feet) by pruning. Its leaves are green and pointy. They usually have glands that make a liquid to attract insects.
Peaches are also called stone fruits because they have a shell of hard wood around their seed, called a stone or a pit. The skin of a peach is an orange or yellow color, and it is covered in small hairs called "peach fuzz". A peach without the fuzz is usually called a nectarine. The inside of a peach is a golden color. It tastes sweet and sticky. Because of this, peaches are often part of desserts.
The peach first came from China. It has been grown from at least since 1000 B.C.E. In Chinese culture, the peach tree is considered to be the tree of life and peaches are symbols of immortality. Peach blossoms are carried by Chinese brides.
Because of the cold winter, diseases, and pests, peach trees can usually only live about 10 to 12 years. However, if a peach tree is fertilized properly, and taken care of in the right way, it may live more years.
"Brown rot" is a very dangerous kind of peach disease. It can attack the blossoms and stop the fruit from developing. If it is not stopped quickly, good quality fruit can not be produced from the peach tree.
"Peach leaf curl", which is another very serious disease, makes the leaves curl up and begin to die in spring. It can be stopped if it meets fungicide.
"Bacterial spot" gives harm to the leaves, twigs and fruit. By the time the disease is recognized, it is often too late to stop it. However, some kind of sprays may be used early in the next season to protect the peach tree.
"Cankers" is a kind of disease that infects the twigs and branches. They make large amounts of amber-colored gum spill out from the infected branch. Later, the bark will crack open completely and the tissue of the twig turns black. Cankers can be removed by pruning.
There are several kinds of insect pests that can be great trouble to the peach. The Oriental fruit moth can make the peaches filled with worms and young growing tips may die. The plum curculio lays its eggs on the fruit, and makes them drop off or become filled with worms. Insects like the tarnished plant bug and the stink bug eat up the fruit that is still developing. Borers attack the base of the trunk and the branches.

</doc>
<doc id="15729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15729" title="Fig">
Fig

Fig (genus "Ficus") is a soft, sweet fruit. Its skin is very thin and has many small seeds inside of it. There are more than 850 species of "Ficus", the fig tree.
The fruits can be eaten when ripe and when dried. Figs grow in warm climates. Sometimes, figs are made into jam. Figs are also in a popular snack.
Figs are pollinated by fig wasps.
The fig fruit is called a "synconium". Many figs are grown for their fruit, though only "Ficus carica", the Common Fig, is cultivated to any extent for human consumption.
The fig is a false fruit or multiple fruit, in which the flowers and seeds grow together to form a single mass. Depending on the species, each fruit can contain up to several hundred to several thousand seeds.
A fig "fruit" is derived from a specially adapted type of inflorescence (an arrangement of multiple flowers). In this case, it is a turned inwards, nearly closed receptacle, with many small flowers arranged on the "inner" surface.
Thus the actual flowers of the fig are unseen unless the fig is cut open. It is a fruit without a visible flower.
The fig fruits, important as both food and traditional medicine, contain laxative substances, flavonoids, sugars, vitamins A and C, acids and enzymes. However, figs are skin allergens, and the sap is a serious eye irritant.
Some parthenocarpic ('virgin fruit') cultivars of common figs do not require pollination at all, and will produce a crop of seedless edible figs without caprifigs or fig wasps.
The syconium often has a bulbous shape with a small opening (the ostiole) at the outward end used by pollinators. The flowers are pollinated by very small wasps which crawl through the opening in search of a suitable place to lay eggs.
Without this, fig trees cannot reproduce by seed. In turn, the flowers provide a safe haven and nourishment for the next generation of wasps. This has led to a co-evolutionary relationship.
Fig plants can be monoecious (hermaphrodite) or gynodioecious (hermaphrodite and female). Nearly half of fig species are gynodioecious, and have plants with inflorescences (syconium) with long styled pistillate flowers, or have plants with staminate flowers mixed with short styled pistillate flowers. The long flower styles tend to prevent wasps from laying their eggs within the ovules, while the short styled flowers are accessible for egg laying.
The common fig ("Ficus carica") is a gynodioecious plant, which means its fruits are either hermaphrodite and "inedible figs" or caprifigs. In traditional culture in the Mediterranean region they were considered food for goats ("Capra aegagrus"): 'caprifig' means 'goat fig'. In the female fig trees, the male flower parts fail to develop; they produce the "edible figs". [needs reference]
Fig wasps grow in caprifigs but not in the female syconiums. The female flower is too long for the wasp to successfully lay her eggs in them. Nonetheless, the wasp pollinates the flower with pollen from the caprifig it grew up in. When the wasp dies, it is broken down by enzymes inside the fig. This means you do not eat the wasp because it has been dissolved. The wasp does not transmit any diseases harmful to humans. [needs reference]
There is typically "only one species of wasp capable of fertilizing the flowers of each species of fig". For example, in Hawaii, some 60 species of figs have been introduced, but only four of the wasps that fertilize them have been introduced, so only four species of figs produce viable seeds there. This is an example of mutualism, in which each organism (fig plant and fig wasp) benefit each other, in this case reproductively.
The intimate association between fig species and their wasp pollinators, and the one-to-one plant-pollinator ratio are a clear example of co-evolution. Recent genetic and molecular dating analyses have shown a close correspondence in the evolution and speciation of these two clades, figs and wasps.

</doc>
<doc id="15730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15730" title="Grapefruit">
Grapefruit

Grapefruit is a citrus fruit grown in sub-tropical places. It is bigger than an orange and is often more sour, but many types of grapefruit have other flavors.
The tree which the grapefruit grows on is normally 5-6 meters tall but can reach up to 15 meters tall. It has dark green leaves that measure up to 150mm and has white flowers that grow 5cm in length. The fruit itself can grow 10-15cm in diameter. In 2007, there were about 5,061,023 tons of grapefruits made worldwide, most of the tons coming from the U.S. There are many different kinds of grapefruits with different color pulp. The most popular colors are red, white and pink. There are also a wide range of flavors grapefruits have, from highly acidic and bitter to sweet.

</doc>
<doc id="15731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15731" title="Grape">
Grape

Grapes are the fruit of a woody grape vine. Grapes can be eaten raw, or used for making wine, juice, and jelly/jam. Grapes come in different colours; red, purple, white, and green are some examples. Today, grapes can be seedless, by using machines to pit the fruit. Wild grapevines are often considered a nuisance weed, as they cover other plants with their usually rather aggressive growth.
Raisins are the dried fruit of the grapevine, and the name actually comes from the French word for "grape."
Since the early 21st century in the United States and other countries, and the global functional food industry, there has been a fast-growing recognition of red grapes for their popularity, nutrient content and antioxidant qualities. This has given them commercial status as a "superfruit".
The leaves of the grapevine itself are considered edible (eatable). They are used to make dolmades.
Grapevines are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species.
According to the "Food and Agriculture Organization" (FAO), almost 76,000 square kilometres of the world is used to grow grapes. About 71% of grapes are used for wine. 27% are used as fresh fruit, and 2% are used as dried fruit. A part of grape production goes to making grape juice to be used as a sweetener for fruits canned "with no added sugar" and "100% natural". The area dedicated to vineyards is increasing by about 2% per year. 
The following list of top wine-producers shows the areas used to grow grapes for wine making, although of course country size is a limiting factor, as well as the economic demand for their product.
Comparing diets among western countries, researchers have found that although the French usually eat more animal fat than other countries, the number of cases of heart disease remains low in France. Many scientists think this is because the French drink more red wine than other countries. Something in the grape helps lower the amount of cholesterol in the body. This helps prevent clogging of the arteries. Doctors do not recommend drinking a lot of red wine, but three or four glasses a week is good and encouraged.
Grapes of all colors offer benefits. Red wine offers health benefits that are not found in white wine. This is because many of the good nutrients are found in the skins of the grapes, and only red wine is fermented with the skins.
White grapes are derived from the green grape by evolution. Changes in two genes turn off creation of anthocyanin. Anthocyanin is what makes red grapes the color green.
A "raisin" is any dried grape. A "currant" is a dried Zante grape. The name is a corruption of the French "raisin de Corinthe" (Corinth grape). A "sultana" was originally a raisin made from a specific type of grape of Turkish origin. The word is now used for raisins made from common North American grapes and chemically treated to resemble the traditional sultana.
Note that, while "raisin" is a French loanword, the word in French means the fresh fruit. "Grappe" (Where the English word "grape" comes from) means the bunch (as in "une grappe de raisin").
Note also that "currant" has also come to mean to the blackcurrant and redcurrant. These two berries completely unrelated to grapes.

</doc>
<doc id="15732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15732" title="Blackberry">
Blackberry

The blackberry is an edible fruit made by any of several species in the "Rubus" genus of the Rosaceae family. The blackberry shrub is called "bramble" in Britain, but in the western U.S. "caneberry" is the term is used for both blackberries and raspberries. 
It is a widespread and well known group of over 375 species which reproduce by apomixis. They are native all over the temperate Northern hemisphere and South America. The blackberry grows to about 3 m in height. It makes an edible black fruit, known by the same name. The plant tolerates poor soil very well. 
The plant down its strong suckering roots amongst garden hedges and shrubs. It will grow fast, taking over uncultivated spots very quickly. In some parts of the world, such as in Australia, Chile, New Zealand, and the Pacific Northwest of North America, some blackberry species are regarded as weeds.

</doc>
<doc id="15733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15733" title="Lychee">
Lychee

A lychee (pronounced LEE-ji) is a tropical fruit in the genus "Litchi". It comes from southern China. Since it is tropical, it will only grow in a warm, wet climate.
The inside of a lychee is a clear, pinkish-white colour. The outside of the fruit is a hard spiky shell. Its seed is brown in colour and very hard. The seeds are poisonous and should not be eaten. The lychee has a sweet taste, and may be frozen, made into sauces, jam, puree, or preserves. When frozen, the lychee tastes similar to sorbet. 

</doc>
<doc id="15734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15734" title="Cherry">
Cherry

Cherry is a fruit that grows on a tree or a bush. It belongs to the genus "Prunus". It is usually red, with a seed in the middle. It tastes slightly sour, and is often used to flavour cakes and ice cream, or is baked in a pie or cobbler. Cherries are also a good source of Vitamin B.
In Japan, Yamagata is top producer of cherries.
Top Cherry Producing Nations - 2009
Turkey 417.7 
USA 390.7
Iran 225.0

</doc>
<doc id="15736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15736" title="Blackcurrant">
Blackcurrant

Blackcurrant ("Ribes nigrum") is a small, bitter-tasting fruit. It can be found in central and northern Europe and northern Asia.
Blackcurrant has a lot of vitamin C in it. Blackcurrant gets its name from its dark color. It is also used to make jelly, ice cream, and cordial. Blackcurrant is a popular flavor in the United Kingdom. Blackcurrants are also used in salads and in baking, similar to raisins.

</doc>
<doc id="15739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15739" title="Date">
Date

The word date can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="15740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15740" title="Date Palm">
Date Palm

The Date Palm is a tree. It has been cultivated for a very long time because of its edible fruit. This fruit is called "date". The tree is between 15m and 25m high. It has long leaves that look like feathers. Such leaves are called pinnate. The leaves can grow to 3–5 metres in length. The leaves have visible spines. There are about 150 leaflets. Each leaflet can be up to 30 cm in length and 2 cm in breadth. The full span of the crown of the tree is 6 to 10 metres.
The tree has one or more trunks, that all come from a single system of roots. 
World production of dates was approximately 6.7 Mio tonnes in 2004 (FAO statistics). The major producers are:
The First International Date Conference was held in Tripoli in 1959. In that conference, it was decided to develop a special program under the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations to promote the commercial use of substandard or physically defective dates.

</doc>
<doc id="15741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15741" title="Cherimoya">
Cherimoya

Cherimoya is a sweet fruit that comes mostly from Peru, Ecuador, Colombia and Bolivia. The inside of a cherimoya is soft, and it is white in color. The skin of the cherimoya fruit is green when it is ripe, and brown if it becomes too ripe. The cherimoya has large, black seeds. They are poisonous, and should not be eaten, like the skin. The cherimoya is special because it can be grown in high places.
In India, especially in North India, this fruit is known as "sitafal" (named after Sita). In Sri Lanka it is known as "Wali Anoda (වැලි අනෝදා)" 

</doc>
<doc id="15742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15742" title="Blueberry">
Blueberry

A blueberry is a berry, a very small fruit. It grows in a type of woody plant called a shrub. Many types of blueberries grow in North America and eastern Asia. Blueberries are more common between May and October.
Blueberries have a sweet taste, with a little acidic hint. Wild blueberries have a stronger taste. Blueberries are good for making jelly, jam, pie, muffins, and many other foods.The most widely cultivated species of blueberry is Vaccinium corymbosum. Some similar kinds of berries are called blueberry or huckleberry in different places. 

</doc>
<doc id="15743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15743" title="Momentum">
Momentum

Momentum can be considered the "power" when an object is moving, meaning how much force it can have on another object. For example, a bowling ball (large mass) pushed very slowly (low velocity) can hit a glass door and not break it, while a baseball (small mass) can be thrown fast (high velocity) and break the same window. The baseball has a larger momentum than the bowling ball. Because momentum is the product of the mass and the velocity of an object, that both mass and velocity affect the momentum of an object. As shown, an object with a large mass and low velocity can have the same momentum as an object with a small mass and large velocity. A bullet is another example where the momentum is very-very high, due to the extraordinary velocity. Another beautiful example where very low-velocities cause greater momentum is the push of Indian subcontinent towards the rest of Asia, causing serious damages, such as earth quakes in the portions of himalayas. In this example, the subcontinent is moving as slow as few inches per year but the mass (imagine weight of India) of Indian-subcontinent is very high. 
As defined by Newton, momentum of an object (p) is the product of the mass (m) and velocity (v) of the object. It is a vector quantity, which has both direction and magnitude. Its unit is "kg m/s" (kilogram metre per second) or "N s" (newton second). Momentum is sometimes referred to as linear momentum which is different from its related subject angular momentum.
Momentum is a conserved object, meaning that the total initial momentum of a system must be equal to the total final momentum of a system. Total amount of momentum remains unchanged.
In Newtonian physics, the usual symbol for momentum is the letter p ; so this can be written
where p is the momentum, "m" is the mass and v is the velocity
<br>
If we apply Newton's 2nd Law, we can derive
The meaning is that the net force on an object is equal to the rate of change in momentum of the object.
In order to use this equation in special relativity, m has to change with speed. That is sometimes called the "relativistic mass" of the object. (Scientists who work with special relativity use other equations instead.)
Impulse is the change in momentum caused by a new force: this force will increase or decrease the momentum depending on the direction of the force; towards or away from the object that was moving before. If the new force (N) is going in the direction of the momentum of the object (x), the momentum of x will increase; therefore if N is going towards object x in the opposite direction, x will slow down and its momentum will decrease.
In understanding conservation of momentum, the direction of the momentum is important. Momentum in a system is added up using vector addition. Under the rules of vector addition, adding a certain amount of momentum together with the same amount of momentum going in the opposite direction gives a total momentum of zero.
For instance, when a gun is fired, a small mass (the bullet) moves at a high speed in one direction. A larger mass (the gun) moves in the opposite direction at a much slower speed. The momentum of the bullet and the momentum of the gun are exactly equal in size but opposite in direction. Using vector addition to add the momentum of the bullet to the momentum of the gun (equal in size but opposite in direction) gives a total system momentum of zero. The momentum of the gun-bullet system has been conserved.
A collision also shows conservation of momentum: if a car (1000 kg) is going right at 8 m/s, and a truck (6000 kg) is going left at 2 m/s, the car and truck will be moving left after the collision. This exercise shows why:
Momentum = Mass x Velocity
The car's momentum: 1000 kg x 8 m/s = 8000kgm/s (Going right)
The truck's momentum: 6000 kg x -2 m/s = -12000kgm/s (Going left)
This means their total momentum is -4000kgm/s. (Going left)

</doc>
<doc id="15747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15747" title="Category:1648">
Category:1648


</doc>
<doc id="15751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15751" title="Malmö">
Malmö

Malmo (, ) is the third largest city in Sweden. About 311,514 people lived there in 2013. It is in the south west part of the Sweden, by the sea. The Öresund bridge goes from Malmö to Copenhagen. In the 15th century, Malmö was one of Denmark's largest cities.
Malmö has the biggest Middle Eastern community in Sweden. It is warm in the summer. In winter it is not quite as cold as in other parts of Sweden.
 Newcastle upon Tyne (UK)

</doc>
<doc id="15752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15752" title="Skull">
Skull

A skull, or cranium, is a set of bones that make up the head of a vertebrate and keep in place all body parts in the head. It supports the structures of the face and forms a protective cavity for the brain. 
As well as protecting the brain, the skull fixes the distance between the eyes and between the ears. This allows stereoscopic vision, and helps help the brain judge direction and distance of sounds. In some animals, the skull also has a defensive function (e.g. horned ungulates). The frontal bone is where horns are mounted. 
The skull is made of a number of joined (fused) flat bones. In humans, the adult skull is normally made up of 28 bones. 

</doc>
<doc id="15762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15762" title="Mark Hoppus">
Mark Hoppus

Mark Hoppus is an American musician better known by his pseudonym, "Heezy".
He was born March 15, 1972. He is most famous for being a member of the band Blink 182. He played the bass guitar and sang. After Blink 182 broke up, he started another band, called "+44", with Blink 182's drummer, Travis Barker. When he was younger he played in bands called Pier 69 and the Attic Children. He has a wife named Skye and a son named Jack. Today he plays in +44 and produces music for other bands.

</doc>
<doc id="15769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15769" title="Sandstone">
Sandstone

Sandstone is a sedimentary rock. It is a rock made of compacted sand. Sand is small grains of rocks and minerals (such as quartz and feldspar). These are the most common minerals in the Earth's crust.
Sandstone which is resistant to weathering is used for building in many countries. It can be a hard rock. For example, paving slabs can be made out of hard sandstone. 
Sandstone is converted into quartzite through heating and pressure. This happens when rocks are squeezed and heated under a mountain chain.
Sandstone forms in two stages. First, layers of sand build up as sediment, either from water or from air (as in a desert). 
Then sand particles are compacted by pressure of overlying deposits, and cemented ('glued' together). The 'cement' is either calcite (calcium carbonate), quartz (silica), or clay. Iron oxide often makes sandstone a reddish colour.

</doc>
<doc id="15772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15772" title="Pseudonym">
Pseudonym

A pseudonym (soo-do-nim) is a fake name a person uses instead of their real name. Many people use pseudonyms, including authors (pen names) and performers (stage names). People use pseudonyms for several different reasons: to hide identity, gender, and/or race. People (such as rappers) also use pseudonyms to match their stage personality better. Pseudonyms can include stage names, screen names, ring names, pen names, nicknames, aliases, superhero identities and code names.
"Pseudonym" comes from the Greek word ("pseudṓnymon"), which means "false name".
There are three main types of pseudonyms: pen names, stage names and user-names. Pen names are used by authors, usually to hide identity. Many famous books, such as The Outsiders and A Series of Unfortunate Events, have been written by authors using a pseudonym. Daniel Handler wrote A Series of Unfortunate Events under the pseudonym Lemony Snicket both because he wanted to make the author a character in the story and because he wanted to hide his real name. When she published The Outsiders, Susan Eloise Hinton decided to use her initials, S. E., instead of her first and middle names, because she did not want readers to guess her gender. The Brontë sisters (Anne, Emily and Charlotte) used pseudonyms to hide the fact that they based many of their characters on their neighbors.
Musicians, actors and performers also use pseudonyms, called stage names, both to hide their identity and to give themselves a "cooler" name. For example, rapper Sean Combs is currently known by Diddy, but used to call himself P Diddy and Puff Daddy. He says that he changed his name from P Diddy to Diddy because the name "caused confusion and he wanted to 'simplify things'." 
Many people on the Internet use pseudonyms. There are many names for these pseudonyms, including user-names, user IDs and handles. These pseudonyms help people stay anonymous on the internet, and they also protect people from identity theft and phishing. When people log into an account on sites like Wikipedia, MySpace or Facebook, their user-name helps identify them without entering their real name. If people used their real name instead of a user-name, it would create confusion for two people with the same name. Usernames make this simple, because people create their own user-names. Also, if someone used their real name, it would make it easier for people to guess their passwords and for other people to find them in real life.
Sometimes criminals would use a pseudonym. For example, com man Jefferson R. Smith was also known as Soapy Smith.

</doc>
<doc id="15773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15773" title="Pen name">
Pen name

A pen name, also known as a pseudonym, is a name an author uses in the place of their real name, when they write and publish things. For example, the Brontë sisters (Anne, Emily and Charlotte) who were famous authors in the 19th century used them, because they feared that people would make fun of (say bad things about) a book written by a woman. Charles Dodgson, an English math professor took the name Lewis Carroll, when he wrote fantasy stories. Erle Stanley Gardner, a best-selling American author, wrote books under numerous pseudonyms, including A. A. Fair, Kyle Corning, Charles M. Green, Carleton Kendrake, Charles J. Kenny, Les Tillray and Robert Parr, as well as under his real name.

</doc>
<doc id="15775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15775" title="Stage name">
Stage name

A stage name is a name an entertainer like a movie star or a musician takes in the place of their real or birth name, they might like this name better than their real one or it's easier for people to remember. Professional wrestlers use stage names also, in their case it's called a "Ring name".
Actors and actresses choose stage names for a variety of reasons. Their real names may be the same as or similar to those of other people, or they may be difficult to say or spell.

</doc>
<doc id="15778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15778" title="Fermat's Last Theorem">
Fermat's Last Theorem

Fermat's Last Theorem is a very famous idea in mathematics. It says that:
Pierre de Fermat wrote about it in 1637 inside his copy of a book called "Arithmetica". He said "I have a proof of this theorem, but there is not enough space in this margin". However, no correct proof was found for 357 years. Mathematicians everywhere think that Fermat, in fact, did not have a good proof of this theorem.
Fermat's Last Theorem is a more general form of the equation: formula_2.
(This comes from the Pythagorean theorem). A special case is when a, b, and c are whole numbers. Then they are named a "pythagorean triple". There are an infinite number of them (they go on forever). Fermat's Last Theorem talks about what happens when the 2 changes to a bigger whole number. It says that then there are no triples when a, b, and c are integers greater than or equal to one (meaning that if n is more than three, a,b and c cannot be natural numbers).
The proof was made for "some" values of n (like "n"=3, "n"=4, "n"=5 and "n"=7). Fermat, Euler, Sophie Germain, and other people did this. 
However, the full proof must show that the equation has no solution for all values of n (when n is a whole number bigger than 2). The proof was very difficult to find, and Fermat's Last Theorem needed lots of time to be solved.
An English mathematician named Andrew Wiles found a solution in 1995, 358 years after Fermat wrote about it. Richard Taylor helped him find the solution . The proof took eight years of research. He received the Wolfskehl Prize from Göttingen Academy in June 1997: it amounted to about $50,000 U.S. dollars.
After a few years of debate, people agreed that Andrew Wiles had solved the problem. Andrew Wiles used a lot of modern mathematics and even created new maths when he made his solution. This mathematics was unknown when Fermat wrote his famous note, so Fermat could not have used it. This leads one to believe that Fermat did not in fact have a complete solution of the problem.

</doc>
<doc id="15779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15779" title="Lewinsky scandal">
Lewinsky scandal

The Lewinsky scandal was an American political sex scandal in 1998. United States President Bill Clinton was said to have had oral sex with 22 year old Monica Lewinsky. 
Lewinsky said that she had sex with Bill Clinton nine times from November 1995 to March 1997. According to her published schedule, First Lady Hillary Clinton was at the White House for some of the time on seven of those days.
Clinton did not admit his affair until the annual White House prayer on September 11, 1998, in the presence of several ministers, priests and his wife, Hillary Clinton, in his "I have sinned" speech. The speech was hand-written by Clinton himself and was delivered on the day of publication of the first report by Independent Counsel Ken Starr, which threatened to impeach President Clinton in the grounds of perjury and his sexual affair with former White House intern, Monica Lewinsky. Then-President of South Africa Nelson Mandela personally helped President Clinton during his impeachment hearing. 

</doc>
<doc id="15780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15780" title="Console">
Console

Console can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="15782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15782" title="323">
323


</doc>
<doc id="15783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15783" title="Guam">
Guam

Guam is an island in Micronesia in the Pacific Ocean that is part of the United States. It is a territory and not one of the 50 U.S. States. The people that first lived there are called "Chamorros". The capital of Guam is the city of Hagåtña. The largest city is Dededo. Guam has important United States Air Force and Navy bases, which use a lot of Guam's land. Guam also has a lot of tourists.
Guam was one of the first islands in the Pacific Ocean to be visited by Europeans. In 1521, the first European to visit Guam was Ferdinand Magellan, on his voyage around the World. Spain took over Guam in 1668, and it was an important place for Spanish delivery boats every year going between Mexico and the Philippines, known as the Manila Galleon. During this time the people on Guam learned a great deal about the Spaniards.
In 1898, the United States had a war with Spain and took Guam under the Treaty of Paris, which also brought the giving of Cuba, the Philippines and Puerto Rico from Spain. Guam continued to be important due to its strategic location, both for shipping and air travel in the Pacific. During World War II, Japan captured Guam in 1941, but the U.S. fought to get it back in 1944. This meant that the Chamorro people on Guam were on a different side of the war than the Chamorro people on the nearby Northern Mariana Islands. Even though the Northern Mariana Islands were also taken over by America, they still feel different from the Chamorro people on Guam.
In 1950, the US Congress passed a law making the people of Guam American citizens. Guam is also considered a state and a territory but is not counted as the 51 state because it is such a small island also called the pacific west clan.
Most people on Guam are happy to be Americans. The American military bases make some jobs for a lot of Guam people. Being part of America also helps bring visitors from Japan who spend money.
But some people on Guam do not like Guam continuing its status as a U.S. territory. They want to be a more important part of America. Some of these people want Guam to be a "commonwealth", like Puerto Rico. A few others want Guam to be a U.S. State, or for Guam to be its own country. But the United States does not think this would be a good idea. Guam needs a lot of money from the U.S. government, which it would lose if it changed into a commonwealth, a state, or its own country. Also, changing Guam might mean the U.S. would have to give up some of the important military bases. 
Guam being a part of the United States is also important to the security of the United States with its position as a power projection hub in the event of a conflict with any Asian powers, such as China or North Korea. 
Guam gets most of its money from the United States government. Much of that money is spent on the military bases, but there are also federal grants given to the Guam government for various programs. Because it is only a territory, federal income taxes paid by Guam residents are given to the Guam government for its operations. 
Guam also gets a lot of money from visitors on vacation. Almost all of these visitors are from Japan. Japanese tourists like Guam because it is closer to Japan than other American places. Guam has lots of hotels and other fun places for people to visit. Tumon Bay is Guam's biggest beach. It has lots of pretty white sand, and the water has lots of fish. Tumon is becoming a busy city.
Today, Guam has less visitors than it did a few years ago, because Asia has had some trouble. This means there are fewer jobs on Guam, and it has lost money.
Guam is 212 square miles (549 square kilometers) large. In the north part, it has a flat area of coral and limestone rock. The south part has mountains. Around the island is a coral reef.
Guam is next to the Marianas Trench, which is the deepest part of the Earth and underwater. It sometimes has earthquakes, some of which have been very strong.
Guam is a tropical island. It is usually quite warm and wet and the temperature does not change very much. From February to July it is dry, but the rest of the year it is rainy. Sometimes Guam has very strong and dangerous storms in October and November.

</doc>
<doc id="15786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15786" title="Warren G. Harding">
Warren G. Harding

Warren G. Harding (November 2, 1865–August 2, 1923) was the 29th President of the United States (Republican Party). Before becoming president, he was a senator and the assistant governor of Ohio. Before he was in government, he was an important newspaper manager. He was the president starting in 1921 until his death in 1923.
After World War I, he was elected on the promise to return the United States back to normal. He supported limited government in the economy. During his term, he lowered taxes and believed that the economy should not be regulated too much.
Warren G. Harding made the mistake of appointing his friends to high political positions. In result, they corruptly abused their power for their personal gain and several scandals happened during his presidency (Harding himself was innocent). 
He died of a heart attack in 1923 while he was the president. 
His vice president Calvin Coolidge became president after he died. 
Historians generally consider him one of the worst presidents due to his lack of political skill.

</doc>
<doc id="15789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15789" title="Honduras">
Honduras

Honduras is a country in Central America. Its capital is Tegucigalpa. Most people of Honduras speak the Spanish language. 7,483,763 people live in Honduras and it is in size. It is next to El Salvador. To one side is the Caribbean Sea and to the other in the Pacific Ocean.
The ethnic makeup of Honduras is 80% mestizo, 17% amerindian, 2% black, and 1% white.
Honduras has the world's highest murder rate.
Honduras is divided into 18 departments. The capital city is Tegucigalpa in the Central District.

</doc>
<doc id="15790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15790" title="Bangladesh">
Bangladesh

Bangladesh (officially called People's Republic of Bangladesh) is a country in South Asia. It is next to the North-east Indian provincial regions of India, which converges with Southeast Asia to the east. Its full name is The People's Republic of Bangla-Desh. The capital and the largest city is Dhaka (also spelled 'Dacca'). Bangladesh is surrounded on all three sides by the Republic of India (Bharat), and Myanmar (Burma) on the south-eastern corner, it is near the People's Republic of China, Bhutan, Sikkim and Nepal. Its independence was fully realised after it declared it self as independent most of 1971 from Pakistan after a bloody war in which over a million people died. Later by Indian military intervention, by that time the provisional government went into exile in Calcutta, Bengal (India) which they considered their homeland to be under Pakistani military occupation. After the Instrument of Surrender, the Bengali peoples became a sovereign nation and when its founder was released from political imprisonment had returned in 1972. Present-day Bangladesh has an area of 56,977 mi² or (147,570 km²).
The local currency is called Taka. The official language is Bengali.
There are two main rivers in Bangladesh, the Ganges and Brahmaputra Rivers are holy to Hindus. There are often floods because of these two rivers.
The delta and surrounding hills has been inhabited for hundreds of generations (thousands of years). The area supported agriculture very early on. About 500 BC there was a shift to growing rice. This led to the development of urban areas. Because there were no stone quarries in the area houses were built of wood and mud (including adobe). Because of the monsoon climate very little evidence of the earliest inhabitants remains. From about 300 BC to the 1700s AD the Bengal delta saw the development of writing, the Bengali language, religions and the rise and fall of states. By the 1500s, the area was prosperous and even peasants had plenty to eat.
For much of its history the area was simply called "Bengal" and was considered a part of India. The last few centuries several foreign powers involved themselves with the area resulting in several wars. The 20th century brought more wars, genocide, and political states. Bengal was under British rule from 1757–1947. It was a part of British India. In 1947 East Bengal and West Pakistan separated from India and formed a new country called Pakistan. But the east and west provinces were on either side of India and separated by . In 1949 the Bangladesh Awami League formed to favor separation between east and west Pakistan. In 1955 East Bengal was renamed East Pakistan. Dacca was then the legislative capital of Pakistani Bengal provincial region. The peoples of East Pakistan were mostly ethnic Bengalis who had a different language and culture to the people of western Pakistan. These differences eventually led to the Bangladesh Liberation War. On 16 December 1971, Bangladesh gained independence, with the help of allied forces against West Pakistani forces.
The East Bengal Legislative Assembly was the law-making body of the province of East Bengal. It was later renamed the East Pakistan Legislative Assembly and would be succeeded by the Jatiyo Sangshad in 1971.
After the birth of Bangladesh, Bangla replaced Urdu and English as the sole national and official language, and was the language taught in schools and used in business and government. The Bangla Academy was important in this change. In the 1980s, British-style education was maintained through private English-language institutions attended by upper class children. English continued to be taught in higher education and was offered as a subject for university degrees.
At first, Arabic also lost ground in independent Bangladesh. This trend ended in the late 1970s, however, after Bangladesh strengthened its ties with Saudi Arabia and other oil-rich, Arabic-speaking countries. An unsuccessful attempt was made in 1983 to introduce Arabic as a required language in primary and secondary levels. Arabic is widely studied in Madrassas and Islamic institutions around the country for better understanding of the Quran, Hadith and any other Islamic texts.
Despite 30 years of independence, Bangladesh is still a poor country and has problems with corruption and political troubles as the other country have. Presently more than half of the people can read and write.
Bangladesh has heavy cyclones and natural disasters, due to this many lives are often lost. The country is one of the most densely populated in the world. Cyclones are very common in the Bay of Bengal during the middle of the year, particularly in the south of country in areas like Sundarban, Chittagong, Cox's Bazaar,or in neighboring Myanmar and Republic of India. Despite the many storms, Bangladesh does not have a very effective storm prevention system, and cyclones usually inflict heavy damage.
Bangladesh is in the Ganges Delta. This is where the Ganges, Brahmaputra, and Meghna come together. Most parts of Bangladesh are less than above the sea level. The highest point in Bangladesh is in Mowdok range at in the Chittagong Hill Tracts to the southeast of the country. Cox's Bazar, south of the city of Chittagong, has a beach that is uninterrupted over .
A large part of the coastline is a marshy jungle, the Sundarbans. They are the largest mangrove forest in the world.
Bangladesh is divided into seven administrative divisions,: Barisal (বরিশাল), Chittagong (চট্টগ্রাম), Dhaka (ঢাকা), Khulna (খুলনা), Rajshahi (রাজশাহী), Sylhet (সিলেট), and Rangpur (রংপুর).
Divisions are divided into districts. There are 64 districts in Bangladesh.
Dhaka is the capital and largest city of Bangladesh. Other major cities include Chittagong, Khulna, Rajshahi, Sylhet, Barisal, Bogra, Comilla, Mymensingh and Rangpur. For more locations see List of settlements in Bangladesh.
The main religion in Bangladesh is Islam (85%). Many people also follow Hinduism (14%). Most Muslims are Sunni. Islam was made the state religion in the 1980s. Christians make up less than 1% of the population.
The earliest literary text in Bengali is the 8th century Charyapada. Medieval Bengali literature was often either religious or from other languages. The 19th century had poets such as Rabindranath Tagore, Michael Madhusudan Dutt and Kazi Nazrul Islam.
The musical tradition of Bangladesh is lyrics-based with little instruments. Folk music is often accompanied by the ektara, an instrument with only one string. Bangladeshi dance forms are from folk traditions.
Bangladesh makes about 80 films a year. Mainstream Hindi films are also quite popular. Around 200 daily newspapers are published in Bangladesh, along with more than 500 magazines.
Rice and fish are traditional favourite foods. Biryani is a favourite dish of Bangladeshis.
The sari is by far the most widely worn dress by Bangladeshi women.The salwar kameez (shaloar kamiz) is also quite popular among espcially the younger females, and In urban areas some women wear western attire. Among men, western attire is more widely worn.
Eid ul-Fitr and Eid ul-Adha have major festivals. Buddha Purnima, which marks the birth of Gautama Buddha, and Christmas, called "Bôŗodin" (Great day), are both national holidays. The most important non-religious festival is Pohela Boishakh or Bengali New Year, the beginning of the Bengali calendar.
Cricket is the most popular sport in Bangladesh. Next is football (soccer). The national cricket team was in their first Cricket World Cup in 1999. In 2011, Bangladesh successfully co-hosted the ICC Cricket World Cup 2011 with India and Sri Lanka.
Hadudu (kabaddi) is the national sport in Bangladesh. Other popular sports include field hockey, tennis, badminton, handball, basketball, volleyball, chess, shooting, angling, and carrom.

</doc>
<doc id="15797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15797" title="Yugoslavia">
Yugoslavia

Yugoslavia was a country in Europe, mostly in Balkan Peninsula, its meaning South Slavs deriving from Slavs who came from area what is now Poland in 7th century. It existed in three forms during 1918–2006.
From 1918 until 1928 it was called the "Kingdom of the Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes". From 1928 until World War II it was the "Kingdom of Yugoslavia". After WW 2 it was renamed to the "Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia" with six republics, 2 autonomous provinces: Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia and Slovenia and two autonomous provinces in Serbia: Vojvodina in the north, and Kosovo, next to Albania. 
In 1991, came the independence of Slovenia, Croatia, in 1992, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, causing the end of the country. Serbia and Montenegro, were the last two republics in the Socialist Yugoslavia. In 1992, they formed a new "Federal Republic of Yugoslavia" (FRY) which fell in 2006
In 1903 the Serbian king was murdered and replaced with Peter I. After this Serbia became more nationalist. Tensions with Austria-Hungary heightened when it conquered Bosnia in 1908. During this period Serbia managed to extend its borders and capture Kosovo and Macedonia from the Ottoman Empire. Many Serbian nationalists wanted to create a unified state for the Slavs of the Balkans. Covert gangs attempted to assassinate Austro-Hungarian officials, like the Bosnian governor. In June 1914 a Bosnian Serb called Gavrilo Princip killed Austrian Archduke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo, Bosnia. This event eventually led to the outbreak of the Great War (World War One).
Yugoslavia came into existence in 1918 after World War I. Most of its northern territories were given to it from Austria-Hungary when it collapsed during the war. Southern territories were taken by Serbia from the Ottoman empire during the Balkan Wars (1912-13). The reigning king in Serbia became the king of all Yugoslavia.
For ten years it was known as the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes. It began using the name 'Yugoslavia' in 1929. The name 'Yugoslavia' is Serbo-Croatian for 'Land of the Southern Slavs'. The Kingdom was invaded by axis powers in 1941 and quickly fell during World War II. A Federal Democratic Republic was declared in 1943 with the King's approval, but the monarchy was abolished shortly after.
A People's republic was created in 1945 by a newly established communist government. It was ruled by Josip Tito from then until 1980. The country renamed itself SFR Yugoslavia in 1963. It was made up of six individual Socialist Republics: SR Croatia, SR Bosnia and Herzegovina, SR Macedonia, SR Montenegro, SR Serbia and SR Slovenia. The SFR Yugoslavia was different to other socialist states of the Cold War, deciding to keep itself out of it. Yugoslavia was the only socialist state to have open borders and allowed Yugoslavs and tourists to freely move around the country. Yugoslavia also kept warm relations with the West. It was also an enemy of the Soviet Union after the Tito-Stalin split as Stalin considered him a traitor. In 1968 the Soviet Union invaded socialist Czechoslovakia to stop its leader from making the country more free. Tito told the Czechoslovak leader that he was willing to fly to Prague to help him face the Soviets if he wanted.
The Yugoslav republics began turning against one another in the 1970s and 1980s. Josip Tito ruled Yugoslavia with an iron fist and crushed any nationalist movements that wanted to see the country break up. His government forced the six republics to stay part of Yugoslavia. When he died in 1980, the new leaders were less strict and let nationalist feelings to grow in the republics of Yugoslavia. The breakup was caused by many things like nationalism, economic difficulty and ethnic problems. The Socialist state was dissolved in 1992 during the Yugoslav wars. Serbia and Montenegro stayed together as FR Yugoslavia.
After the dissolution of the SFR Yugoslavia only Serbia and Montenegro were willing to remain in union. They renamed themselves the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1992. The country was led by the controversial statesman Slobodan Milosevic from 1997 until 2000. He was widely accused of having his opposition assassinated in 2000. Yugoslavia applied for UN membership in October 2000 and was granted the following month. For most of its existence the country was involved with what was called the Yugoslav Wars. There was much ethnic violence including mass genocide in Bosnia and Herzegovina (1995) and ethnic cleansing in Kosovo (1998). It was the worst acts of war seen in Europe since World War II. The country was bombed by NATO forces in 1999 during the Kosovo war. In the late 1990s separatism was growing in Yugoslavia and the country dropped the name Yugoslavia in favour of a state union in 2003. Serbia and Montenegro became independent states in 2006, formally ending the last remaining parts of Yugoslavia. 
Now, Yugoslavia has been split up and made into these countries:

</doc>
<doc id="15798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15798" title="Major League Baseball">
Major League Baseball

Major League Baseball (MLB) is a professional baseball league in North America. It is the highest level of professional baseball in the world. There are two leagues that make up the MLB: the American League, also called AL, and National League, also called NL. MLB owns everything that happens in major league baseball games. It also includes MLB Productions and MLB Advanced Media, which are in charge of major league baseball games on television and the teams and company web pages. There are currently 30 teams in MLB, 29 from the United States and one from Canada, the Toronto Blue Jays.
The 30 teams in MLB are divided into two leagues: American and National. Each league is divided into three divisions: East, Central, West. Since the 2013 season, each division has five teams. The most recent change took place after the 2012 season, when the Houston Astros moved from the NL Central to the AL West.
Each team in Major League Baseball is scheduled to play a 162-game season. This season begins in April (or sometimes the end of March) and ends in October. The teams play other teams in their own division the most, and play very few (no more than six) games against teams in the other league. Teams usually play each other in series of three or four games at a time. If a game is cancelled because of bad weather, it may be held again at a different date, sometimes as part of a doubleheader (two games in one day). Sometimes these games are not held again if it would not affect either team's place in the standings (the list of teams ordered by their number of wins and losses). If teams are tied at the end of a season, "and" at least one of the tied teams cannot make the playoffs, they will play an extra game (or, with more than one team involved, a series of single games) to decide which team(s) will make the playoffs. However, these games are played only to decide which team (or teams) is out of the playoffs. If the tied teams will all make the playoffs, tiebreakers are used to decide playoff seeding.
In July, there are three days where teams do not play normal games, and a group of players voted on by fans play in the "Major League Baseball All-Star Game". This period is called the "All-Star Break", and it is thought of as the point where half of the season is over. Some games at the beginning of the regular season have been played in other countries, such as Japan.
There is one difference between games played in the American League and games played in the National League. The American League teams play with a "designated hitter", a player who bats in place of the pitcher and does not play in the field. In the National League, the pitcher must bat along with the other players. In games played in teams from both leagues, the rule that the home team usually plays by is used.
At the end of every season, ten teams play in the playoffs. Five teams from the AL, and five teams from the NL are in the playoffs. The team from the West, Central, or East division from each league with the most wins makes the playoffs (a team with the best record in its division is said to have "won its division". The next two best teams in the AL and the next two best teams in the NL also get to play in the playoffs. They are called "wild card" teams. The first playoff round is called the Wild Card game. The two wild card teams from each league play each other in a one-game playoff. The winner of each game moves on to the Division Series. The team with the best record in each league plays the winner of its league's Wild Card game. The division winner with the second best record plays against the division winner with the third best record. 
In the Division Series, teams play "best out of 5". Once one team beats the other three times, the winning team moves onto the next round of the playoffs. The teams that lose are out of the playoffs. The AL teams that win play in the AL Championship Series. The NL teams that win play in the NL Championship Series. The Championship series is "best out of 7 games". Once one team beats the other four times, the winning team moves onto the next round of the playoffs. After the Championship Series, there are only two teams left. These two teams play each other in the World Series, which is also a "best out of 7 games" series. The winner of the World Series is the champion of the league.
The first league of professional baseball teams began in 1871 and was called the National Association. This league did not play baseball the same way MLB does. For example, batters would walk after nine pitches instead of four. Many of the teams had problems with money and split up after only one or two seasons. However two teams are still playing today. Those teams were the Boston Red Stockings, which today are the Atlanta Braves, and the Chicago White Stockings, which today are the Chicago Cubs. In 1876, a league that was run better, the National League, began, and included the Red and White Stockings as well as six other teams. Even though this league was run better, many teams still would split up after only a few seasons, though some, like the teams that are now called the Philadelphia Phillies and San Francisco Giants, are also still playing today. There were other leagues also. The American Association started in 1882 and was almost as good as the National League. However many of its teams would go to the National League, and the American Association disappeared in 1891. The National League had problems, though. Players and fans did not behave well, and once a fire that destroyed part of Boston happened during a game. 
"An star (*) indicates a relocation of a franchise. See team articles for more information."

</doc>
<doc id="15799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15799" title="Lou Gehrig">
Lou Gehrig

Henry Louis Gehrig (born Ludwig Heinrich Gehrig; June 19, 1903 — June 2, 1941) was an American baseball player. He played with Babe Ruth and the New York Yankees who were thought the best team of that time. He played with the Yankees for most of his playing time which started in 1923 and ended in 1939. He played in 2,130 games without a rest, which was the most of any player until Cal Ripken, Jr. in 1995. When he stopped playing as well, he went to a doctor who found out Gehrig had amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS – which is now sometimes called Lou Gehrig's disease). The doctor told Gehrig he had only a short time to live. On July 4, 1939, there was a celebration of Gehrig by the other Yankees, and Gehrig gave a speech that became well-known. When he spoke that day he said he was "the luckiest man on the face of the earth". The mayor of New York City congratulated him for his teamwork. He died less than two years later in New York City.

</doc>
<doc id="15800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15800" title="United States Senate">
United States Senate

The United States Senate is part of the United States Congress, which is a group of elected people who decide the laws of the country. Every U.S. state elects two people to represent them in the US Senate. These people are called senators. Since there are 50 U.S. states, there are 100 senators. Senators serve six years at a time, and one-third of them are picked every two years. Originally the legislature of each state decided who their senators would be. After 1913, all the people of the state chose their senators by vote. The Vice President of the United States is in charge of the Senate, but only does anything when there is a tie vote or a special event.
In order to be a senator, a person has to be 30 years old or older, and has to be a citizen of the United States for 9 years or more. He or she must also live in the state they represent at election time.
The Senate, along with the United States House of Representatives, votes on which laws the United States should have. In most cases, both of these groups have to agree on the suggested law and the President has to sign it before it becomes a law.
The Senate is the side of Congress where every state has the same number of votes (two). This is different from the House of Representatives, where states with more people have more votes than states with fewer people. This was decided during the time the United States Constitution was written, because small states like Rhode Island and Delaware did not want the larger states to be able to decide everything. Also, only part of the Senate runs for election during elections. Every two years, 33 (two elections) or 34 (one election) senators are elected. For each state, this means that after two elections to the Senate, during one election no one will be elected to the Senate.
Also, like the House, the Senate can override the president's veto with a ⅔ (67 votes) vote. But unlike the house, some bills require a 3/5 (60 votes) vote (it used to be ⅔ of the vote) to overcome the filibuster. A filibuster is when senators band together, they can stop bills from going through the senate. 
The Senate is also in charge of agreeing to treaties with other countries. The Senate has the sole responsibility for confirming presidential appointments. These include federal judges, foreign ambassadors and Cabinet members. If the Senate and President do not agree, the President has to pick someone else the Senate will agree to.
Committees of the United States Senate and other important jobs in the Senate are assigned by the majority political party. Right now, the Senate is made up of 52 Republicans (they are the majority). There are 46 Democrats, and 2 Independents.

</doc>
<doc id="15803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15803" title="Fair use">
Fair use

Fair use is the idea that it should be okay for a person to reuse something that another person has created, in certain amounts and for certain purposes, without breaking the law.
In most countries, art and other made-up things, like stories, books, TV shows, and pictures, are owned by the person that first made them. This person can let someone else own the things they make, sometimes for money. The person that owns these things has a "copyright" for them, which means that person can decide who can copy their work. If someone else copies that work without asking the owner first, that person is breaking the law. The owner can take the person to court and try to get money from them because of what they did.
Since a lot of creative work is popular, people want to talk about them, and they may want to talk about them on TV or in a book. This might mean that they want to use a little bit of it when they talk about it. The idea of "fair use" was added to most copyright laws to make sure that it would be OK do to this, as long as only a little bit of someone's work is used.
Since a lot of creative work is now on computers and on the Internet, it is very easy to copy things and send them to lots of people. To make sure that people cannot always do this, there are computer programs that try to stop people from copying other people's work (known as digital rights management). One problem with these programs is that they also mean that you cannot copy even a small part of someone's work, so you cannot do "fair use" without cheating the program. In some countries, cheating those software programs is also breaking the law.

</doc>
<doc id="15806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15806" title="Category:Zambia">
Category:Zambia

"Main article": Zambia

</doc>
<doc id="15807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15807" title="Category:Baseball">
Category:Baseball


</doc>
<doc id="15808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15808" title="Category:Baseball players">
Category:Baseball players

This is a category for baseball players.

</doc>
<doc id="15842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15842" title="Category:Irish people">
Category:Irish people

In this category are people from the European country Ireland.

</doc>
<doc id="15843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15843" title="Category:Ireland">
Category:Ireland


</doc>
<doc id="15844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15844" title="Category:New Zealand people">
Category:New Zealand people

In this category are people from the country of New Zealand.

</doc>
<doc id="15845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15845" title="Category:1137 deaths">
Category:1137 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15846" title="Category:1137">
Category:1137


</doc>
<doc id="15847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15847" title="Category:1067 births">
Category:1067 births


</doc>
<doc id="15848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15848" title="Category:1067">
Category:1067


</doc>
<doc id="15850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15850" title="Category:Prefectures of Japan">
Category:Prefectures of Japan


</doc>
<doc id="15851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15851" title="Category:Reggae musicians">
Category:Reggae musicians


</doc>
<doc id="15853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15853" title="Category:Reggae music">
Category:Reggae music


</doc>
<doc id="15854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15854" title="Category:Soul musicians">
Category:Soul musicians


</doc>
<doc id="15855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15855" title="Category:Soul music">
Category:Soul music


</doc>
<doc id="15856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15856" title="Category:Swedish people">
Category:Swedish people


</doc>
<doc id="15857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15857" title="Category:Sweden">
Category:Sweden


</doc>
<doc id="15858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15858" title="Category:Turkish people">
Category:Turkish people

This category contains notable people from Turkey.

</doc>
<doc id="15860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15860" title="Duodenum">
Duodenum

The duodenum is a short section of the small intestine that receives secretions from the pancreas and liver via the pancreatic and common bile ducts. It is the place where most digestion occurs.

</doc>
<doc id="15861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15861" title="Soil erosion">
Soil erosion

Soil erosion is the washing or blowing away (by water or wind) of the top layer of soil (dirt). 
This is a serious problem for farmers. If the soil has eroded, the crops that make food will not grow very well. 
Soil erosion was a big problem in the Midwestern United States in the 1930s dust bowl.
Erosion also leaves large sinkholes in the ground, which can weaken buildings and even cause them to collapse. Urban areas are usually protected from soil erosion, so not many buildings collapse from erosion. 
Soil erosion can be conserved in several ways: 

</doc>
<doc id="15862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15862" title="Compost">
Compost

Compost is a type of fertilizer that is made from rotting plants. It is easy and cheap to make, as all it really requires is vegetable waste. The vegetable waste is broken down by bacteria (germs), and made into compost.
To make a compost heap, you need some space fairly far from anyone who might have a problem with the smell. The bottom corner of a garden, or some other place a distance from the house is a good place. Compost heaps should also be placed on soil, or grass: a paved yard or concrete are bad places.
The compost heap should not be in a dark or closed corner.
The best base for a compost heap is a layer of sand, bricks or gravel about 1m long by 1m wide. This is not needed, but it can be a good idea. If using bricks, leave spaces to allow the air to move through. It also allows for the water to run away. The best compost heaps have lots of little spaces inside, to allow air to move around.
Once the first layer is down, one can begin adding the waste. 
Some good types of waste are:
Adding meat scraps is a bad idea, as they rot slowly, smell bad and attract rats and other vermin. Human or pet feces is also a very bad idea, as this can transmit disease. Waste from plants that have died of disease is also bad. The disease can spread to the plants that the compost is used with.
When making a compost heap, different types of waste should be layered. A layer of cut grass can be followed by a layer of vegetable waste and table scraps.
Watering the compost heap is a good idea, especially in dry areas. The water helps encourage the waste to rot and turn into compost.
In anywhere from 3 to 6 months, the compost will be ready. The compost is ready when it smells like thick earth, with no smell of decay or rot. Of course, if you have been adding waste all this time, the compost will all be at the bottom of the heap, and will have to be dug out.
The stuff that has not rotted can be used as part of a new compost heap.

</doc>
<doc id="15863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15863" title="Haiti">
Haiti

Haiti (French: "Haïti"; Haitian Creole: "Ayiti"), officially the Republic of Haiti (French: "République d'Haïti"; Haitian Creole: "Repiblik d Ayiti") is a country on the Caribbean island of Hispaniola. The other country on the island is the Dominican Republic. Haiti has two official languages: French and Haitian Creole, or "Kreyol", which is a simple version of French mixed with African languages. Its capital city is Port-au-Prince.
Haiti has a tropical climate. In French, the country is called "La Perle des Antilles" (The pearl of the Antilles), because of its natural beauty. There are many mountains in Haiti. The country used to be covered with forests. However, it no longer is, because of deforestation. It is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere.
Haiti is divided into ten "departements". The main religion is Roman Catholicism. However, many Haitians also practice Voodoo. This is a religion which came from African folk beliefs in Benin. Haiti has many holidays; the largest and most important is the "Mardi Gras".
Haiti has a total area of 27,750 km². Most of it is in the western third of the Hispaniola island. There are also smaller islands near the Haitian coast, like "Gonâve", "Île de la Tortue", "Les Cayemites", "Île-à-Vache" and "La Navase".
Haiti has many mountains. There are only some coastal plains and few valleys. The largest valley is the "Cul-de-Sac". Port-au-Prince is in the western end of this valley. The country's main river is the Artibonite, which is also the longest in Hispaniola. Haiti's biggest city is Port-au-Prince, with more than 3 million people in its metropolitan area. The second largest city is Cap-Haïtien.
Haiti has a tropical climate. The rainy season lasts from April to June, and from October to November. Hurricanes are common during summer. In the past, hurricanes have caused a lot of damage and killed many people.
The Taino people were a tribe of Arawak Amerindians. They lived on the island of Hispaniola before Christopher Columbus found the island and started a European colony there. Columbus discovered the island of Hispaniola on his first trip to the Americas. Within twenty-five years after Columbus arrived, all of the Arawaks had been killed by Spanish conquistadors.
In the early 17th century, the French set up a colony on Hispaniola. In 1697, Spain sold the western third of the island - Haiti - to the French. The French colony was based on forestry and making sugar. It became one of the wealthiest in the Caribbean. However, to do this, the colony brought many slaves over from Africa and destroyed much of the environment.
By the late 18th century, there were nearly half a million slaves in Haiti. They revolted, led by Toussaint L'Ouverture. After a hard and bloody struggle, they won their independence. In 1804, Haiti became the first independent black republic in the world. Today there are many monuments in Haiti remembering the Haitian Revolution. One of the largest is "La Citadelle Laferriere".
On January 12, 2010, in the afternoon of a Tuesday, Haiti was struck by a magnitude-7.0 earthquake. This was the worst earthquake to hit the country in the past 200 years. The quake's epicenter was just outside the Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince. The quake caused major damage to Port-au-Prince and nearby areas. Over 200,000 people were thought to have been killed, but it was hard to be sure because many people were buried in mass graves before they could be identified.
Haiti is made of ten regions known as departments (, singular "départment"). These departments are further divided into 41 "arrondissements", and 133 "communes". These are the second and third level units of administration.
The 10 departments, with their capital cities in parentheses, are:
Official holidays (on the same day every year)
Traditional and religious holidays (dates vary according to the liturgical calendar of the Catholic Church)
Haiti is the least developed country in the Americas. It is also one of the least developed and poorest countries in the world.
There are indicators that can be used to compare social and economic situations between countries. Some indicators show that Haiti has fallen behind other poor developing countries since the 1980s. In 2006, Haiti ranked 146th of 177 countries in the United Nations Human Development Index (2006). About 90% of the Haitian people were living in poverty in 2003. Haiti is the only country in the Americas on the United Nations list of Least Developed Countries and it is the poorest country in the Americas. The was economy staying even or falling behind even before their big earthquake.
About 66% of all Haitians work in agriculture. Most of them do small-scale subsistence farming (meaning that they are able to grow just enough to survive). This does not bring in much money.
Very few jobs were created in the last ten years. However, the informal economy is growing. Mangoes and coffee are two of Haiti's most important exports. Haiti has consistently ranked among the most corrupt countries in the world on the Corruption Perceptions Index.
About one third of the national government's budget is money given to them by other countries. The United States gives the most money. Canada gives the second largest amount of money. The European Union, Venezuela and Cuba also give and help Haiti's economy in different ways. Haiti has renewed its alliances with Venezuela and Cuba in 2006 and 2007.
From 2001-2004, the United States stopped giving aid to Haiti completely. The aid was cut off after Haiti's 2000 election. The election's results were questioned, and President Aristide was accused of cheating to win the election. Aristide was overthrown in 2004. After that, the United States started giving aid to Haiti again. The United Nations led a peacekeeping operation called the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti. (The Mission is called called MINUSTAH in Haiti; this is an acronym for the Mission's name in French). The Brazilian army led the peacekeeping operation.
Even after President Aristide was overthrown, corruption continued to be very common in Haiti.
Haiti has a large amount of foreign debt (money owed to other countries and international institutions to repay loans). The Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) program planned to forgive about $525 million of Haiti's debt by mid-2009.
In 2009, the population of Haiti (the number of people living in the country) was about 10,090,190. Figures from the DNA Nation-wide Studies Institute say that the racial makeup of the population is:
Some Asian people also live in the country.

</doc>
<doc id="15864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15864" title="1500s">
1500s


</doc>
<doc id="15865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15865" title="1901">
1901

1901 (MCMI) was a common year starting on Tuesday of the Gregorian calendar, and starting on a Monday in the Julian calendar. It was the first year of the 20th century.

</doc>
<doc id="15866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15866" title="1880">
1880


</doc>
<doc id="15867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15867" title="1864">
1864


</doc>
<doc id="15868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15868" title="1897">
1897

The year 1897 (MDCCCXCVII) was a common year starting on Friday on the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="15872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15872" title="Hodgenville, Kentucky">
Hodgenville, Kentucky

Hodgenville is a town in the American state of Kentucky. It is the county seat of Larue County. It is most famous as the birthplace of President Abraham Lincoln. A memorial featuring a replica (copy) of the cabin Lincoln was born in is near the town.

</doc>
<doc id="15874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15874" title="University of Oxford">
University of Oxford

The University of Oxford is a university in Oxford, England. It is the oldest university in the English-speaking world. The Times Higher Education World University Rankings said it is the second-best university in the world with Harvard University.
The university is 38 colleges and six private halls. All of these colleges have their own buildings and their own staff. Oxford is quite different from most modern universities where all the students live on a campus. Oxford does not have a campus, although it does have some central places where students from different colleges can come together (for example, libraries and the students Oxford Union). 
Oxford is the world's third-oldest university after the University of Bologna, and the world's second-oldest surviving university. 
There is no known date of foundation, but there is evidence of teaching as far back as 1096. It grew rapidly from 1167 when Henry II banned English students from attending the University of Paris. English students were not allowed to continue studying in Paris after Thomas Becket was murdered. 
There were fights between the students in Oxford and the people who lived there in the early 13th century. Some students and teachers left the university in 1209, and made a new university in Cambridge. These two universities are now great rivals, and together are sometimes known as "Oxbridge".
Until 1920, women were not allowed to take degrees at Oxford, although some women studied at Oxford before that time. Nowadays, all the colleges allow both men and women as students, and the number of male and female students is roughly equal.
One of the most famous teachers at the university was Lewis Carroll, author of "Alice in Wonderland" and "Through the Looking-Glass", nonsense stories for children.
There are 38 colleges at Oxford and 6 permanent private halls.
A college will normally offer the students accommodation (a room to sleep and study in) for the first and last years of their time at University. Many also offer accommodation for other years. A college will also have space for teaching and socializing. When most of the older colleges started they were only for people of one sex, but St Hilda's College, the last college to allow only women to study there, recently allowed men as well.
A permanent private hall is slightly different to a college. They were normally started by religious groups to educate their members in philosophy and theology, but some have since grown and offer a broader range of subjects. Some halls are run by monks, and one of them – St Benet's Hall – will only accept male students.
Most colleges will teach at both undergraduate (the more basic first degree that a student takes) and postgraduate (a higher level of study) level. There are also some special colleges that are more restrictive. Five colleges only offer space to postgraduate students. Harris Manchester College is only for "mature students" (those who are over 21 when they start their degree). All Souls College does not take students – all of its members teach students or do research.
Oxford, like Cambridge, is very popular, but there are only a limited number of spaces for students. It is therefore harder for students to get into these universities. The colleges look for the students with the best school results in the subjects for which they are applying, typically A marks on A-levels.

</doc>
<doc id="15876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15876" title="Def Leppard">
Def Leppard

Def Leppard was one of the first hard rock bands. They formed in Sheffield, England in 1977. Its founding members include: lead singer Joe Elliot, bassist Rick Savage, guitarist Pete Willis, and drummer Tony Kenning. When Kenning was fired from the band in 1978, he was replaced by Frank Noon. The same year, Def Leppard had their first recording. They recorded "The Def Leppard EP". Frank Noon was replaced by drummer Rick Allen the same year and guitarist Steve Clark joined the band shortly after. They played their first show at Westfield School in Sheffield in the same year.
Their first album, "On Through the Night" (1980), was a hit in many parts of England. In April 1980, Def Leppard signed with Leber Krebs management. In the same year they went of their first U.S. tour with Ted Nugent, AC/DC, and Judas Priest. In 1981 the band released their second album, "High ‘n’ Dry". At that time, MTV aired Def Leppard for the first time. MTV aired their hit “Bringin’ on the Heartbreak.” 
In 1982, Pete Willis was replaced by Phil Collen. The same year, the recording with Mutt Lange for their third album takes place. In 1983, their third album "Pyromania" is released. The single “Photograph” was released and the album sells 100,000 copies a week for that year. In 1984, drummer Rick Allen suffers the loss of an arm due to a car accident. He soon mastered an electronic drum kit and teaches himself how to play with one arm. In 1986, Rick Allen plays his first gig out with the band since his accident. In 1987, the band’s fourth album, “Hysteria” is released. The album has 12 hit singles and sells 16 million copies. 
In 1991, guitarist Steve Clark passes away. His death was due to a mixture of alcohol and a drug overdose of prescription pain killers. In 1992 Vivian Campbell joins the band. Vivian Campbell was the former guitarist for Dio and Whitesnake. That year, the album “Adrenalize” is released. This album remains number one for five weeks and sells six million copies.
In 1993 the band has their first expirence having their music in movies. Their song “Two Steps Behind” was used for the end credits of “Last Action Hero”. The same year the album “Retro Active” is released. In 1995 “The Vault” is released. It is a compilation of all of Def Leppard’s biggest hits. “The Vault” hits number two on the charts. In 1996, the album “Slang” is released.
In 1998, Def Leppard had their first taste of TV. VH1 produced a “Behind the Music” episode on Def Leppard. Other TV exposure followed such as “Storytellers”, and “Ultimate Albums.” In 1999, they receive the Diamond Award in the U.S. Also in 1999, the album “Euphoria” is released. In the year 2000, the band is inducted into the Hollywood Rock Walk of Fame.
In 2001, the band releases their first DVDs, “In the Round, In your Face” and “Historia”. The same year, VH1 broadcasts the movie “Hysteria: The Def Leppard Story.” n 2002 the album “X” is released. In 2004 the band releases a newer version of the album “The Vault”. In 2005 the album and DVD “Rock of Ages” is released. In 2006, Def Leppard releases their album “Yeah”. The album “Yeah” is a cover album. In 2008 the band’s 12th album “Songs from the Sparkle Lounge” is released. The same year the band crosses genres with the country hit “Nine Lives.”

</doc>
<doc id="15878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15878" title="Husband (disambiguation)">
Husband (disambiguation)

A husband is the male spouse in a marriage.
Husband may also refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="15879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15879" title="46 BC">
46 BC

Year 46 BC was the last year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Lepidus.

</doc>
<doc id="15880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15880" title="Winter storm">
Winter storm

Winter storms or snowstorms happen when warm, wet air meets with cold air. The warm, wet air mass and the cold air mass can each be 1000 km or more in diameter. Snowstorms affecting Northeastern United States often get their moisture from air moving north from the Gulf of Mexico and cold air from air masses coming down from the Arctic. In the Northwest United States warm, wet air from the Pacific Ocean cools when it is pushed upward by the mountains. Many different things can affect the direction of movement, content and temperature of air masses. All of these differences affect the type and severity of the snowstorm.
Winter storms and blizzards can make several feet of snow that blow into big drifts. Sometimes the drifts can be over ten feet tall. They could even cover a house.
Lots of popular winter storms are part of North America's history. In 1846 the Donner Party traveled away by covered wagons from Illinois headed for Sutter's Fort near Sacramento, California. As an answer of bad decisions and slow going, they tried to go across the big Sierra Nevada Mountains in the late October. Usually, California is still warm at that time of the year. As the party crossed the Sierra Nevada Mountains, they did not see any snow and was not worried.
However, after they left, a huge snowstorm hit. The party was forced to camp near Truckee, California. The snow was so deep that the wagon wheels became stuck, so they could not move anyplace. They tried to wait the storm out, but when one blizzard ended, another began immediately before they had time to escape.
Their food became short, so some of the people decided to hike out and find help rather than to starve to death. Most of them died in the freezing weather, and many of those who stayed behind in the camp survived. Of the 87 people who started in Illinois, only 47 lived.

</doc>
<doc id="15886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15886" title="Sri Lanka">
Sri Lanka

The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (in Sinhala in Tamil) is a tropical island nation off the southeast coast of the Indian subcontinent. The capital of the country is Sri Jayawardenepura Kotte while the largest city is Colombo.
It was known as Ceylon before 1972, and Serendib and Sinhale, among other names, before that. It was South Asia's oldest democracy.
Sri Lanka has three main ethnic groups. They differ in their religions and origins, and there has often been difficulties between the groups. The total population of the island is over 20 million people, and rapidly expanding.
The largest of the three groups is the population of Sinhalese people, most of whom are Buddhist, and who have their own language, Sinhala. They make up about 75% of the population.
The second largest group is the Tamil people, who are Hindu. There are about 2,271,000 Tamils in Sri Lanka.
The third largest group is the Sri Lankan Moors, who are Muslim. There are over one and a half million people in this group. They use Tamil as their language today.
There are a number of smaller ethnic groups, of which the Veddas are notable because they may be the original inhabitants of the island, or at any rate the earliest to survive today. They have "indigenous people" status in the island.
The island was subject to waves of European settlement and eventually colonisation. The Portuguese in the 16th and 17th centuries, the Dutch in the 17th and 18th centuries, and lastly the British from 1796 to 1948. The British, always interested in trade, developed plantations of coffee and tea. Tea was planted after a fungus destroyed the coffee plantations in 1869. The tea plantations were the basis of Sri Lankan prosperity for a hundred years. Lastly, rubber plantations were started in the early 20th century. In 1965, Ceylon became the world's leading exporter of tea, with 200,000 tonnes of tea being shipped internationally annually.
Independence from the British was got in 1948, together with Dominion status in the British Commonwealth of Nations. In 1972, Ceylon changed its name officially to the Republic of Sri Lanka, and is still a member of the Commonwealth.
In 2009 came the end of a long civil war between Sinhalese and Tamils. Since then tourism has rapidly grown as a source of foreign investment and currency.
The Sri Lanka flag is also known as the Lion flag because of the Lion on it. The Lion is holding a sword in its right paw. There is a crimson background with four leaves in each corner. There is a yellow border. On the left of the flag there are the colors green and saffron.
The lion represents bravery. The four leaves represents Karuna, Meththa, Muditha and Upeksha. The orange stripe represents the Sri Lankan Tamils and the green stripe represents the Sri Lankan Moors.
Sri Lanka has 9 provinces.

</doc>
<doc id="15887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15887" title="Reptile">
Reptile

Reptile is the common name for one of the main groups of land vertebrates. It is not used so much by biologists, who use more accurate terms.
The name "reptile" comes from Latin and means "one who creeps". All living reptile species are cold blooded, have scaly skin, and lay cleidoic eggs. They excrete uric acid (instead of urea), and have a cloaca. A cloaca is a shared opening for the anus, urinary tract and reproductive ducts. Reptiles also share an arrangement of the heart and major blood vessels which is different from that of mammals.
Many important groups of reptiles are now extinct. The great marine reptiles of the Mesozoic era, the ichthyosaurs, plesiosaurs and mosasaurs, are extinct. We used to say the dinosaurs were extinct, but they survive in the form of their feathered descendants (birds). Ancient reptiles that do survive include the turtles, the crocodiles and the "Tuatara", the lone survivor of its group. The great majority of present-day reptiles are snakes and lizards.
The study of living reptiles is called "herpetology".
Some reptiles are more closely related to birds than they are to other reptiles. Crocodiles are more closely related to birds than they are to lizards. Theropod dinosaurs are even more closely related, because birds evolved from them.
Cladistic writers prefer a more unified (monophyletic) grouping. This puts the birds (over 10,000 species) with what people normally call reptiles. (see Sauropsida)
Reptilia is an evolutionary grade rather than a clade. The main reason is that the term 'reptile' does not include birds, the descendents of theropod dinosaurs. Another reason is that the word 'reptile' is misleading because many extinct types were very different from living reptiles.
So instead of Reptilia as a taxonomic class, today most experts use Class Sauropsida (which includes all reptiles and birds, living and extinct). Class Synapsida includes mammals and all their forebears. "Reptile" is still the usual informal term to describe living snakes and lizards. Mammals are a genuine clade, and so Mammalia is still the taxonomic term.
Since reptiles are not monophyletic, reclassifying them is one of the key aims of researchers. Some taxonomists, such as Benton, make Sauropsida and Synapsida as class-level taxa. The two groups split in the Carboniferous, from stem-group Amniotes (the early tetrapods, which laid cleidoic eggs).

</doc>
<doc id="15888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15888" title="Category:Reptiles">
Category:Reptiles

These articles are about Reptiles.

</doc>
<doc id="15890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15890" title="Snake">
Snake

Snakes are reptiles. They are part of the order Squamata. They don't have legs, voice, ears, and eyelids. Despite this, snakes are successful carnivores. There are at least 20 families,and about 500 genera and 3,400 species.
They have a long, slender body, and are very mobile in their own way. Most of them live in the tropics. Very few snake species live beyond the Tropic of Cancer or Tropic of Capricorn, and only one species, the common viper ("Vipera berus") lives beyond the Arctic Circle. Their skin is covered with scales. They can see well enough, and they can taste scents with their tongues by flicking them in and out. They are very sensitive to vibrations in the ground.
Though they do not have a voice, they can hiss. Most snakes live on the ground, others live in the water, and a few live under the soil. Like all reptiles, snakes need the heat of the sun to control their body temperature. That is why most snakes are in the warm, humid tropical regions of the world.
They range in size from the tiny, 10.4 cm-long thread snake to the reticulated python of in length. The fossil "Titanoboa" was long.
Snakes are thought to have evolved from lizards. The earliest snake fossils are from the Lower Cretaceous. A wide range of snakes appeared during the Paleocene period ("c" 66 to 56 million years ago).
The Squamata are definitely a monophyletic group: it is a sister group to the Tuatara. Judged by their fossil record, the squamates were present in the Mesozoic, but had a minor place in the land ecology. Three of the six lines are recorded first in the Upper Jurassic, the others in the Cretaceous. Probably all, certainly the lizards, arose earlier in the Jurassic. The Mosasaurs of the Upper Cretaceous were by far the most successful of all the lizards, becoming the top predator in their ecosystem.
Although snakes and lizards look very different, "neither is a proper clade". Snakes did descend from early lizards, not once, but a number of times. 
There is a monophyletic clade within the Squamata. It is the Toxicofera. It includes all venomous snakes and lizards, and many related non-venomous species. The evidence for this is in recent molecular analyses.
The fossil of a primitive snake from the Lower Cretaceous has been found. It lived about 113 million ears ago. It had rather small front and rear legs. Several other fossil snakes have been found with small rear legs, but this is the first one with all four legs. The snake, "Tetrapodophis amplectus", lived on land and was adapted to burrowing. The researcher said there were "a lot of very advanced snake features, including its hooked teeth, flexible jaw and spine – and even snake-like scales. And there's the gut contents – it's swallowed another vertebrate. It was preying on other animals, which is a snake feature". The snake came from the Crato Formation in Brazil, and lay in a private collection for many years. It was re-discovered in a museum at Solnhofen, Bavaria. 
Most snakes are nonvenomous. Those that have venom use it mainly to kill and subdue prey rather than for self-defense. Some have venom potent enough to cause painful injury or death to humans. Nonvenomous snakes either swallow prey alive or kill by squeezing.
Two taxonomic families are entirely venomous: 
A third family with the "rear-fanged" snakes (and most of the other snake species) is the
Many snakes have skulls with more joints than their lizard ancestors. This helps them swallow prey much larger than their heads. The bones of the head and jaws can move apart to let large prey move into their body. The throat, stomach and intestines can also expand in a most extraordinary manner. In this was, a thin-looking snake can swallow and digest a larger animal.
To fit their narrow bodies, snakes' paired organs (such as kidneys) are one in front of the other instead of side by side, and most snakes have only one working lung. Some species have a pelvic girdle with a pair of vestigial claws on either side of the cloaca. This is a relic of the legs which do not appear in modern snakes.
Snakes need to shed their skin regularly while they grow. This is called moulting. Snakes shed their skin by rubbing their head against something rough and hard, like a piece of wood or a rock. This causes the skin, which is already stretched, to split open. The snake keeps on rubbing its skin on various rough objects until the skin peels off from its head. This lets it crawl out, turning the skin inside out.
All snakes eat other animals. venomous snakes inject poison by grooves in their teeth. Constrictors are not venomous, so they squeeze their prey to death. They swallow their food whole, and they cannot chew. Because they are cold-blooded, they do not have to eat so regularly as mammals. People who own pet snakes feed them as infrequently as once per month. Some snakes can go as long as six months without a good meal.
The lack of limbs does not impede the movement of snakes. They have developed several different modes of locomotion to deal with particular environments. Each mode of snake locomotion is discrete and distinct from the others.
Lateral undulation is the sole mode of aquatic locomotion, and the most common mode of terrestrial locomotion. In this mode, the body of the snake alternately flexes to the left and right, resulting in a series of rearward-moving "waves". While this movement appears rapid, snakes have rarely been documented moving faster than two body-lengths per second, often much less. This mode of movement has the same net cost of transport (calories burned per meter moved) as running in lizards of the same mass.
Terrestrial lateral undulation is the most common mode of terrestrial locomotion for most snake species. In this mode, the posteriorly moving waves push against contact points in the environment, such as rocks, twigs, irregularities in the soil, etc. Each of these environmental objects, in turn, generates a reaction force directed forward and towards the midline of the snake, resulting in forward thrust while the lateral components cancel out. The speed of this movement depends upon the density of push-points in the environment, with a medium density of about 8 along the snake's length being ideal. The wave speed is precisely the same as the snake speed, and as a result, every point on the snake's body follows the path of the point ahead of it, allowing snakes to move through very dense vegetation and small openings.
Snakes move forward in water by moving their bodies in a wave-like motion. The waves become larger as they move down the snake's body, and the wave travels backwards faster than the snake moves forwards. Thrust is got by pushing their body against the water: this results in the observed slip. In spite of overall similarities, studies show that the pattern of muscle activation is different in aquatic versus terrestrial lateral undulation, which justifies calling them separate modes. All snakes can laterally undulate forward (with backward-moving waves), but only sea snakes have been observed reversing the motion (moving backwards with forward-moving waves).
This is most often used by colubroid snakes (colubrids, elapids, and vipers). They use it when the environment lacks anything firm to push against, such as a slick mud flat, or a sand dune. Sidewinding is a modified form of lateral undulation in which all of the body segments oriented in one direction remain in contact with the ground, while the other segments are lifted up. This results in a peculiar "rolling" motion. This mode of locomotion overcomes the slippery nature of sand or mud by pushing off with only static portions on the body, thereby minimizing slipping. The static nature of the contact points can be shown from the tracks of a sidewinding snake, which show each belly scale imprint, without any smearing. This mode of locomotion has very low caloric cost, less than ⅓ of the cost for a lizard or snake to move the same distance.
When push-points are absent, but the space is too narrow for sidewinding, such as in tunnels, snakes rely on concertina locomotion. In this mode, the snake braces the back part of its body against the tunnel wall while the front of the snake extends and straightens. The front portion then flexes and forms an anchor point, and the back part is straightened and pulled forwards. This mode of locomotion is slow and very demanding, needing up to seven times the energy of laterally undulating over the same distance. This high cost is due to the repeated stops and starts of portions of the body as well as the need to use the muscles to brace against the tunnel walls.
The slowest mode of snake locomotion is rectilinear locomotion, which is also the only one where the snake does not need to bend its body laterally, though it may do so when turning. In this mode, the belly scales are lifted and pulled forward before being placed down and the body pulled over them. Waves of movement and stasis pass posteriorly, resulting in a series of ripples in the skin. The ribs of the snake do not move in this mode of locomotion and this method is most often used by large pythons, boas, and vipers when stalking prey across open ground as the snake's movements are subtle and harder to detect by their prey in this manner.
The movement of snakes in trees has only recently been studied. While on tree branches, snakes use several modes of locomotion depending on species and bark texture. In general, snakes will use a modified form of concertina locomotion on smooth branches, but will laterally undulate if contact points are available. Snakes move faster on small branches and when contact points are present, in contrast to limbed animals, which do better on large branches with little 'clutter'.
Gliding snakes ("Chrysopelea") of Southeast Asia launch themselves from branch tips, spreading their ribs and laterally undulating as they glide between trees. These snakes can perform a controlled glide for hundreds of feet depending upon launch altitude and can even turn in midair.

</doc>
<doc id="15892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15892" title="Freddie Mercury">
Freddie Mercury

Freddie Mercury (5 September 1946 – 24 November 1991) was a British singer, songwriter and record producer, best known as the lead vocalist of the rock band Queen.
Mercury was born in Stone Town in Zanzibar in Africa. His parents were Jer and Bomi Bulsara. They were both Persian. His father worked as a cashier in the British Colonial Office, a branch of the government. Mercury had a younger sister named Kashmira. His friends at school gave him the name "Freddie." His family then began calling him Freddie, too.
At age eight, Mercury was sent to a boarding school in India. The school, St. Peters English Boarding school in Panchgani, was about 50 miles outside the city of Bombay (now called Mumbai). He began to show talent as an artist and a sportsman. At age ten, he was named the school champion of Table Tennis. When he was twelve, he received a trophy called the Junior All-rounder.
While in school he joined a choir and began to learn to play the piano. He had a four octave vocal range. To be able to reach very high notes while singing is unusual for a man.
In 1964, Mercury moved to London with his family. He studied art at Ealing Art College. While in London, he became fond of Mary Austin, a woman he met though his guitarist, Brian May. They lived together for several years before and after the band became famous. They moved into a house in London nicknamed "The Court of King Freddie". Mary still lived in that house after she and Mercury broke up.
Mercury was in love with a local barber when he died. They had been in a relationship for six years when it was learned by the media that Mercury had AIDS. One day after the news was broadcast, Mercury died of a type of pneumonia caused by AIDS, on 24 November 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="15893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15893" title="Sun Tzu">
Sun Tzu

Sun Tzu (544 BC – 496 BC) also called Sun Wu, was an ancient Chinese general, military expert and philosopher. He is widely believed to have been the author of the most important work of military strategy and theory, "The Art of War". His name means 'Master Sun'. His family name is Sun, Tzu is an honorific (title of respect) meaning 'master'.
Most of what we know about Sun Tzu comes from Ssu-ma Ch'ien's "Shih chi", also called the Records of the Grand Historian. According to the Grand Historian, Sun Tzu lived during the period called 'The Spring and Autumn Period of China'. This era dates from 770 BC to 476 BC.
Sun Tzu was born in the State of Qi (modern Shandong province). This is according to the Records of the Grand Historian. However, the "Spring and Autumn Annals of Wu and Yueh" claim he was born in Wu. Sun Tzu lived during the turbulent period of the late Chou dynasty. His grew up in a military family and he studied military science. Not much is known about his childhood or early life. It is known that at some point in his life he became known as a great general and a military strategist. He became a general for King Helü of Wu.
Sun Tzu won battles by not actually fighting his enemy when it wasn't necessary. He recommended spies, deception and a commander having complete control of his soldiers. When he did fight, he understood warfare better than most of his opponents. Sun Tzu learned to win battles with the least loss of his own men.
Many historians believe he was the victor at the Battle of Boju in 506 BC. The great historian Sima Qian (145/135–86 BC), author of "Shiji" (Historical Record), called Sun Tzu an exceptional strategic battlefield commander. He also said Sun Tzu was both flexible and had unlimited surprises for his enemies. Sima Qian wrote that in his nearly 40-years as a general, Sun Tzu never lost a battle, a campaign or a war.
The Art of War was one of the earliest books on Chinese warfare. It remains one of the best known and most influential books ever written. The book was widely copied in the ancient world. An early copy was discovered in 1972. It was written on bamboo slats that were sewn together. It became known in the western world during the late 18th century. It wasn't translated into English until the 20th century.
At that time the rules for warfare were based on chivalry. War was the sport of rich noblemen. Sun Tzu refused to see war as a sport. He used Taoist principles and applied them to warfare. In doing this he changed the rules of war. Unlike generals who enjoyed long campaigns, he understood war was serious. Sun Tzu believed that once a war started, the goal was to defeat the enemy. Sun Tzu was unconventional in that he didn't follow the prevailing wisdom of his time. Other generals were simply unprepared for Sun Tzu's tactics.
For at least the last two thousand years, Sun Tzu has had a tremendous influence on military thinking. The Art of War is credited by Mao Zedong as having helped him defeat Chiang Kai-Shek in the Chinese Civil War. Ho Chi Minh was a fan of Sun Tzu. He led the Communist Vietnamese in their fight against American-backed South Vietnam. American generals Norman Schwarzkopf, Jr. and Colin Powell followed principals in the Art of War in the Gulf War.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="15897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15897" title="Western world">
Western world

Western world has meant various things at various times.
During the Roman Empire, it meant Italy and the countries west of there. At other times, it has meant Western Europe or Europe or Christendom. During the Cold War, it sometimes meant the democratic countries or those allied with the various NATO powers. Today, it often means the places where most people speak European languages. 

</doc>
<doc id="15898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15898" title="Category:Flags">
Category:Flags

These articles are about flags.

</doc>
<doc id="15901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15901" title="Mouse">
Mouse

A mouse (plural "mice") is a rodent, which is a kind of mammal. 
It has a pointed snout, small rounded ears, a body-length scaly tail and a high breeding rate. The best known mouse species is the common house mouse ("Mus musculus"). It is also a popular pet. In some places, certain kinds of field mice are also common. They are known to invade homes for food and occasionally shelter.
These small animals are often used in science experiments, or sometimes kept as pets. Some mice carry diseases. This causes some people to think of mice as vermin or pests. Many other people think mice are cute and fun animals. 
Mice are rodents, therefore they are related to squirrels, rats, and beavers. Mice eat weeds, seeds, berries, and more. They are eaten by owls, foxes, and cats, amongst others.
The word "mouse" should only be used for small murines, but does get used for other distantly-related small rodents. The murines are the largest subfamily of mammals. In fact, it is larger than almost all mammal orders.
The common house mouse is thought of as a pest. They are found in the homes of humans.
Voles are "not" mice, they are in a different family of rodents. 
These are not mice either, or only distantly related. These mice live in forests. They can run and jump better than mice, and they get their common name from this.
The aggressive "grasshopper mouse" rarely eats other mice, but it does like grasshoppers and insects. It is also only a distant relative.
Two mice found in popular culture are Disney characters: Mickey and Minnie Mouse. Though they are mice, they can walk, talk, and act like people.
Chuck E. Cheese is another famous mouse. He is the mascot of Chuck E. Cheese's pizza restaurants.

</doc>
<doc id="15902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15902" title="Advance Wars">
Advance Wars

Advance Wars is a video game for the Game Boy Advance. It is based on earlier games for Nintendo systems such as the Famicom and Game Boy. It is a strategy game: players must think of ways to win.
The game can be played with two, three, or four players at a time. Each player takes turns controlling their military-style playing pieces, called "units." Every unit can move along the playing field, which is split up into squares. The amount of squares a unit can move in one turn is different for each unit.
Most units can attack other units. Each unit has its own strength and defense. Strength is how much damage the unit can do to another unit. Defense is how much damage it can avoid taking whenever it is attacked. For example, the tank unit has more defense than the soldier, so even though the helicopter always has the same amount of attacking power, it can do more damage to the soldier than the tank.

</doc>
<doc id="15905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15905" title="Solomon Islands">
Solomon Islands

The Solomon Islands are a group of islands in the South Pacific. They are known for their beauty and for the many languages spoken there. The capital of the Solomon Islands is Honiara.
The country is divided into nine provinces and the town of Honiara.

</doc>
<doc id="15908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15908" title="Intestine">
Intestine

The intestines of an animal are like a hollow tube so that food and bile from the stomach can reach the small intestine and large intestine. 
The first part of the small intestine is called the duodenum. It is where most of the food is broken down by enzymes. Further on, the small intestine absorbs useful compounds from the digested food. It does this through small villi or tiny microvilli. These are very small, hair-like structures in the walls of the intestine. 
The large intestine is also called the bowel. It absorbs water, and any nutrients still remaining. It also absorbs vitamins made by the gut flora in the colon. Finally it expels waste through the anus.

</doc>
<doc id="15909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15909" title="Chemical equation">
Chemical equation

A chemical equation is a way to predict the way that two or more chemicals will work together. Using what chemists know about the way chemicals act, we add the letter symbols together just like a math problem. In this way we can correctly guess if we will get a new chemical when we mix two or more chemicals together, and what that chemical will be.
Chemical equations are either worded or written using the elements' symbols, how much of the element and in what state (solid[s], liquid[l], gas[g]) it is in.
For example: An aqueous solution of sodium chloride (NaCl[aq]) and another aqueous solution of silver nitrate (AgNO[aq]). These mixed together form sodium nitrate (NaNO[aq]) and silver chloride (AgCl[s])
Which in symbols is:
NaCl(aq) + AgNO(aq) → NaNO(aq) + AgCl(s)
The solutions formed the solid AgCl. This formation can be called a precipitate and the reaction between the two solutions a precipitation reaction, because the solid produced is not dissolved, whereas all the other products are dissolved.
Chemical equations need to be balanced to satisfy the law of conservation of matter. Chemical equations tell that in a closed system matter is neither created nor destroyed. The chemical equation needs to be balanced so that it follows the law of conservation of mass. A balanced chemical equation happens when the number of the different atoms of elements on the reactants side is equal to that of the products side. 
Balancing chemical equations is a process of trial and error. To balance the equation, the amounts of the reactants and products must be changed. As necessary, by adding coefficients in front of the appropriate formulas. When balancing an equation, never change the subscripts, because that changes the substance. To determine the number of atoms of each element, the coefficient is multiplied times the subscripts in each formula.
A chemical equation is a written symbolic representation of a chemical reaction. The reactant chemicals are given on the left-hand side and the product chemical on the right-hand side. The law of conservation of mass says that no atoms cannot be made in a chemical reaction. Also, it cannot be destroyed. So the number of atoms that are present in the reactants has to balance the number of atoms that are present in the reaction. 
There are two practices of balancing a chemical equation. The first one is balancing by Inspection. Balancing by inspection is the most basic method used. It works best for simple problems. More complicated ones require experience. The second one is Balancing by Numerical Method. The most important parts of the numerical methotrexate, contrary to the inspection method, it gives the answer. If the reaction can be balanced, coefficients can be seen. If the reaction can't be balanced, it means that there are more unidentified than independent statements, or that statements are opposite. With inspection method, it won't prove that the equation can't be balanced.

</doc>
<doc id="15925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15925" title="Lucifer">
Lucifer

Lucifer is another name for "Satan". This is because people interpret a passage in the Book of Isaiah of the Bible in a certain way. Lucifer is Latin. It is made of two parts, "lux-lucis" (light) and "ferre" (to bring).
There are two mentions of "Lucifer" in the Latin Vulgate. It is used to refer to the morning star, the planet Venus that appears at dawn: once in to translate the Greek word "Φωσφόρος" (Phosphoros), which has exactly the same literal meaning of "Light-Bringer" that "Lucifer" has in Latin; and once in to translate "הילל" (Hêlēl), which also means "Morning Star".
"Lucifer" is the Latin name for the "Morning Star", both in prose and poetry, as seen in works by Marcus Terentius Varro (116–27 BC), Cicero (106-43 BC) and other early Latin writers
Cicero wrote:
And Pliny the Elder:
Poets also used the word "Lucifer". Ovid has at least eleven mentions of the Morning Star in his poetry. Virgil wrote: 
And Statius:
Lucifer is very evil in the Christian religion. He is also the symbol for not obeying. Lucifer is believed by some to be Satan's name when he was still an angel, but it is Latin for 'light bringer' and not originally in the Bible. 
The word "Lucifer" was also used in Latin to mean the "morningstar", the planet Venus, and this word was used in the Latin version of Isaiah 14, where the Hebrew version was speaking to a king of Babylonia. 
The reason people came to think this was a name of Satan has been argued about for many years. Some people think that it is a misnomer, or a wrongly given name. Others believe that he was the best out of all the angels before he rebelled against God.
There is no Lucifer in Hebrew. The Jewish scholars do not know who this Lucifer that was put in the KJV. It should not be used since this statement in Isaiah 14:12. Thus Lucifer is not an evil character in the Bible. That is just misinformation.

</doc>
<doc id="15927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15927" title="Astrobiology">
Astrobiology

Astrobiology is the study of life in outer space. The field of astrobiology looks for conditions necessary for life, like liquid water, a good temperature, or the presence of oxygen.
Some possible places to find life in the solar system are Europa and Ganymede, moons of Jupiter, or Titan and Enceladus, moons of Saturn. These places may have liquid water. They may be too cold to support life on their surfaces, but if they have liquid water, the water must be warm enough to support life. Astrobiologists suggest that there may be a liquid water ocean under their surfaces.

</doc>
<doc id="15933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15933" title="Castle">
Castle

A castle (from the Latin word "castellum") is a fortified structure made in Europe and the Middle East during the Middle Ages. People argue about what the word "castle" means. However, it usually means a private structure of a lord or noble. This is different from a fortress, which is not a home, and from a fortified town, which was a public defence. For about 900 years that castles were built they had many different shapes and different details.
Castles began in Europe in the 9th and 10th centuries. They controlled the places surrounding them, and could both help in attacking and defending. Weapons could be fired from castles, or people could be protected from enemies in castles. However, castles were also a symbol of power. They could be used to control the people and roads around it.
Many castles were built with earth and wood at first often using manual labour, and then had their defences replaced by stone instead. Early castles often used nature for protection, and did not have towers. By the late 12th and early 13th centuries, though, castles became longer and more complex.
Europe began using gunpowder in the 14th century. It did not stop castle building at first. But by the 15th century, shots became powerful enough to break through stone walls. Castles were still built, but new ways to protect castles from cannons and guns made them uncomfortable places to live in. Because of this, people stopped building true castles. Instead, country houses or military forts were built. From the 18th century, people began building castles again from new interest in Gothic architecture, but they were not used for fighting.
The word "castle" comes from the Latin word "castellum", which is a diminutive of the word "castrum", meaning "fortified place". The Old English "castel", French "château", Spanish "castillo", Italian "castello", and many other words in other languages also come from "castellum". The word castle became a part of the English language soon after the Norman Conquest to describe this new type of building. However, though these words all came from the same basic meaning, they can describe different types of structures. For example, the French "château" can simply be used to describe a great country house in the middle of an estate.
A castle is seen by most to be "a private fortified residence" (place to stay). This makes it different from earlier fortifications, such as walled cities like Constantinople and Antioch in the Middle East. Castles were not made to protect the community. They were built and owned by lords, either for themselves or for their ruler.
A castle's main defense was a wall. A wall was used to block the offensive side from breaking into a castle. The rooms inside the castle sometimes had small holes, or slits, cut in the walls, so the soldiers could fire out through them without being hit. These were called arrowloops. The way a person or thing got into a castle was through a gate. A gate was a mostly wooden structure with a heavy metal gate behind it. This was used for two purposes: to let allies in or out, and to keep enemies out. If an attack did get past a gate, missiles and other objects would be dropped through holes (called murder holes) in the upper part of the gate. The gate was also one of the most protected parts of a castle. 
Some castles also had moats which were water filled ditches encircling the whole castle where the only way in was over a drawbridge which was a heavy wooden door that could be pulled up by chains to protect the main gate and let down to act as a bridge over the moat to allow access to the castle. You could also pour oil that was hot down a hole.
The soldiers attacking the castle sometimes tried to knock down the castle walls, or dig under them. A siege was when the attackers just sat outside and waited. When the people inside were starving they had to give up and come out, which is called surrender. A siege could go on for months, if the castle had plenty of food and water.
Castles were built for defense until about 500 years ago, at the end of the Middle Ages. After that people still built very big stone buildings. They looked like castles, but they had bigger windows and more fireplaces and were much more comfortable. Really they were just great big houses. When castles were built to be homes instead of fortresses, the word 'Castle' was often put at the front of the name. One example is Castle Oliver in Ireland. This had 215 windows and 65 chimneys, as well as dozens of bedrooms. It was built about 150 years ago. It is very light and bright inside, because it was built to have parties, not to keep out soldiers.
Many castles are very beautiful and are public. Sometimes you can see furniture and clothes, armour, musical instruments, carpets, cannon and other weapons that once belonged to the people who lived there. Some castles have legends of ghosts. Some had very famous owners, like mad King Ludwig of Bavaria. Some, only a very few, are still lived in by the families who built them. Many others have become hotels or museums.
Castles seem romantic and mysterious to us now, but they were cold, dark places to live, often damp. Because the walls were so thick, sometimes 12 feet (4 metres) or more, they never got warm. Their windows also had no glass in them. Castles might have been safe, but they weren't very comfortable.

</doc>
<doc id="15935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15935" title="Wikimedia Commons">
Wikimedia Commons

Wikimedia Commons is a website owned by the Wikimedia Foundation, based on a wiki. Anybody can upload images, sounds, videos, and other multimedia files to the website. The files uploaded to Wikimedia Commons can be used by any other Wikimedia Foundation project, like Wikipedia or Wiktionary. For example, Wikipedia uses images on Wikimedia Commons to include pictures in their encyclopedia articles.
Other websites based on wikis can also use files from Wikimedia Commons, even if they are unrelated to the Wikimedia Foundation.
Wikimedia Commons has categories, which are groups of files that have something in common or similar. For example, there is a category for pictures of cats. Wikimedia Commons is a multilingual website, meaning that it can be used in every language. However, some parts of Wikimedia Commons are only in English, like names of categories.
Wikimedia Commons also has sound files. Not all of these are music. For example, there are recordings that read words out loud. These files are used in Wiktionary, a free dictionary, to teach people how to say words. 
For every file on Wikimedia Commons, the person who made it has to let everybody use it and change it as much as they want, including companies (see Creative Commons). Many files are public domain but others must not be used without the permission of the people who made them, because that would break copyright laws.
Wikimedia Commons reached 10 million files on April 15, 2011.
The Wikimedia Foundation was given money to make it easier for people to use their websites. They used some of this money to make the UploadWizard, a new system for uploading files on Wikimedia Commons. People started using the UploadWizard in December 2010. 
The UploadWizard also teaches new uploaders about copyright law. It has a tutorial for users to read so that they can check if the file they are uploading is violating copyright.
Right now, the UploadWizard is not being used by everybody. Only a few people who want to try it are using it. But in the future everybody will use the UploadWizard.
Before, Wikimedia Commons only let people upload one file at a time. The UploadWizard lets people upload multiple files at the same time and include all the required information about each one.
The logo of Wikimedia Commons has a red circle inside a blue circle. There are many small blue arrows pointing from the blue circle to the red circle in the middle, and one big blue arrow pointing upwards. The small blue arrows represent the different projects of the Wikimedia Foundation. The large arrow is to show that Wikimedia Commons is constantly improving.
This logo was chosen in a vote in 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="15937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15937" title="Bulgaria">
Bulgaria

Bulgaria (officially called the Republic of Bulgaria) is a country in southeastern Europe.
The capital and the biggest city is Sofia. Their money is called the lev. The Bulgarian government is a member of the European Union and NATO. The current president is Rosen Plevneliev. The population of Bulgaria is a little more than 7 million people.
Bulgaria has its own language, called Bulgarian. It is a type of Slavic language. It is related to languages like Serbian and Russian. Bulgaria became independent in 1908 from the Ottoman Empire. Bulgaria borders Romania, Serbia, the Republic of Macedonia, Greece, Turkey, and the Black Sea.
One of the national heroes of Bulgaria is Vasil Levski who led the fight for independence in the late 1800s. Bulgaria is an ancient country, some places have had people living there for over 6,000 years.
In what is now Bulgaria, many different people and different cultures lived over time. This includes Neolithic, Hamangia culture, Vinča culture, eneolithic, Varna culture (5th millennium BC) and the Bronze Age Ezero culture. The Thracians lived in the area of modern Bulgaria. King Tere united the people in Odrysian kingdom around 500 BC. Alexander the Great had influence over the people on the 4th century and later by the Roman Empire during the time of Christ. Eurasian Avars, South Slavs and Huns settled all over the territory of modern Bulgaria during the 6th century.
The first Bulgarian empire was established in 681 AD. But the first Bulgarian Empire came to fall under the pressure of the Byzantine Empire (se also Battle of Kleidion). The second Bulgarian empire started about 1185 AD, with Turnovo as the capital. But it only lasted about 70 years and there was too much fighting with their neighbors and with themselves. After a while the country separated into three parts. Then the Ottoman empire took over in 1396, and ruled Bulgaria for about 500 years. The Ottomans had very strict rules and the Bulgarians suffered. The Bulgarians rebelled several times against the Turkish rulers but did not win. After the first Balkan war (1876), Bulgaria pulled away from Ottoman Empire's influence with the help of the Russian Empire who were already fighting the Ottomans. But it was not until 1908 that the whole country of Bulgaria was united as modern Bulgaria.
Bulgaria joined the side of Germany in World War I and lost.
During the first year of World War II Bulgaria said it was neutral and refused to join sides with Nazi Germany or the Soviet Union. But the increased tension in the war made the leaders sign the Tripartite Pact with Germany in March 1941. This let German forces go through Bulgaria to reach Greece. However, Bulgaria did not follow Hitler's wishes. Bulgaria's troops refused to participate in military coups and also refused to send Jews to concentration camps in the Holocaust. This made Adolf Hitler very suspicious, and the king of Bulgaria, Tsar Boris III, died one day after talking to Hitler.
In 1944 when it became clear that the Allied Powers would win the war, Bulgaria had to find another solution. Their leaders declared that they withdrew from the Axis forces and they let the Soviets come in. But the Soviet Union didn't respect Bulgaria's wish to be neutral. They replaced the royal monarchy with Communism in 1947 before they withdrew from Bulgaria. For 40 years, under their leader Todor Zhivkov, Bulgaria was very close to the Soviet Union and followed their instructions.
Shortly after the fall of the Berlin Wall, on 10 November 1989, the Communist party gave up their rule and allowed the country to elect leaders of their own choice. But in a few years Bulgaria had serious money problems under the new socialist government. Since that time Bulgaria has recovered in many ways, and is much more stable. But it is still one of the poorest countries in Europe. Problems in the administration, a weak court system and organized crime are the biggest issues for Bulgaria.
Bulgaria's economy was dependent on the COMECON market. This was a group of communist countries (Soviet Union, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and Romania) that agreed to work together. This group fell apart in 1989 with the fall of communism in Europe. While this was good for personal freedom, it was too much of a change for the businesses and jobs. Also Yugoslavia, their neighbor, fell into a civil war as their country broke apart, and that did not help Bulgaria. Living standards fell by 40 percent as people lost their jobs and their savings were not worth much, and even some newborn babies were sent to orphanages when their parents could not take care of them.
In 1994 Bulgaria had a short economic boom. But that slowed down in 1996 from bad finance deals and other banking problems. In 1997 there was high inflation (the money could not buy as much as it did before). Retired people had little income (their pension did not go up as fast as inflation did) and their savings were not worth very much. Many retired people were begging in the streets for food. But since then the economy has grown steadily. People from outside the country started putting money into businesses and houses, and Bulgarians learned how to make their own businesses.
Today Bulgaria has Europe's lowest income and corporate tax, 10 percent for both individuals and businesses. This makes Bulgaria a very good place for business. Bulgaria also has skilled and educated workers. The average monthly salary in Bulgaria is still cheap at 400 euro or $541 USD.
The state no longer has free health care. This system has been replaced by an insurance plan that people pay for, and drug costs are based on income. Private health care is encouraged nowadays. Help for people who lose their jobs is no longer automatic, but some help is available, based on family status and length of unemployment.
The retirement age for men is 63 years and for women 60 years.
Since 1999, Bulgaria has been divided into 28 provinces or regions. Each province is named after its local capital. The provinces are divided into municipalities, there are 264 in total.
There are 6 Bulgarian development regions of 27 smaller provinces. See List of settlements in Bulgaria for a list of all large locations.
In Bulgaria there are 5,664,624 citizens of Bulgarians, 1,200,000 citizens of Turks and 800,000 Citizens of Roma/Gypsies.
Bulgaria is classified as an development country by the EU.

</doc>
<doc id="15938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15938" title="Alps">
Alps

The Alps is the greatest mountain range of Europe. It reaches from Austria and Slovenia in the east; through Italy, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Germany; to France in the west. The original meaning of the word was 'white'.
The highest mountain in the Alps is Mont Blanc, at , on the Italian–French border.
The Alps stretch from Austria and Slovenia in the east, through Italy, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Germany to France in the west.
The mountains are divided into the Western Alps and the Eastern Alps. The division is along the line between Lake Constance and Lake Como, following the Rhine. The Western Alps are higher, but their central chain is shorter and curved; they are located in Italy, France and Switzerland. 
The Eastern Alps (main ridge system elongated and broad) belong to Austria, Germany, Italy, Liechtenstein, Slovenia and Switzerland. The highest peaks of the Western Alps are Mont Blanc, 4,808 metres (15,774 ft), Mont Blanc de Courmayeur 4,748 metres (15,577 ft), the Dufourspitze 4,634 metres (15,203 ft) and the other summits of the Monte Rosa group, and the Dom, 4,545 metres (14,911 ft). The highest peak in the Eastern Alps is Piz Bernina, 4,049 metres (13,284 ft). Perhaps the most famous location for tourist to the Alps are the Swiss Alps.
The main chain of the Alps follows the watershed from the Mediterranean Sea to the Wienerwald, defining the northern border of Italy. It then passes over many of the highest and most famous peaks in the Alps. From the Colle di Cadibona to Col de Tende it runs to the west before turning to the northwest and then, to the north, near the Colle della Maddalena. Upon reaching the Swiss border, the line of the main chain goes about northeast, a heading it follows until its end near Vienna.
The Alps do not make an impassable block; they have been traveled by for war and commerce, and later by pilgrims, students and tourists. Crossing places by road, train or foot are called "passes". These are depressions in the mountains into which a valley leads from the plains and hilly pre-mountainous places.
The Union Internationale des Associations d'Alpinisme (UIAA) has defined a list of 82 "official" Alpine 4,000-meter (13,123 ft) peaks. The list has many sub-peaks with little prominence, but good for mountaineering. Here are the twelve four-thousanders with at least 1 km prominence.
Karl Blodig was the first person to climb all the main four-thousand meter peaks, round 1900.
The reason mountains form is usually the moving together of continental plates of the Earth's crust. The Alps rose as a result of the slow but gigantic pressure of the African plate as it moved north against the stable Eurasian landmass.
This all took place in the Tertiary period, mostly in the Miocene and Pliocene. That's about 35 to 5 million years ago.
The Alps are just a part of a larger orogenic belt of mountain chains, called the Alpide belt. It reaches through southern Europe and Asia from the Atlantic Ocean most of the way to the Himalayas. 
A gap in these mountain chains in central Europe separates the Alps from the Carpathians off to the east. Subsidence is the cause of the gaps in between.
A great and ancient ocean was once between Africa and Europe, the Tethys Ocean. Now sediments of the Tethys Ocean basin and its Mesozoic and early Cenozoic strata sit high above sea level. Even metamorphic basement rocks are found high on Mont Blanc, the Matterhorn, and other high peaks in the Pennine Alps and Hohe Tauern.
The formation of the Mediterranean Sea is a more recent development.
The Alps are popular both in summer and in winter. The Alps as a place for sightseeing and sports. Winter sports (Alpine and Nordic skiing, snowboarding, tobogganing, snowshoeing, ski tours) can be learned in most regions from December to April. In summer, the Alps are popular with hikers, mountain bikers, paragliders, and mountaineers. There are also alpine lakes which attract swimmers, sailors and surfers. The lower places and bigger towns of the Alps are well served by motorways and main roads, but higher passes and by-roads can be bad even in the summer. Many passes are closed in winter. Many airports around the Alps (and some within), as well as long-distance rail links from all bordering countries, afford large numbers of travelers easy access from abroad. The Alps normally has more than 100 million visitors a year.
The Alps is split into five climate zones, each with a different kind of environment. The climate, plant life and animal life vary on different sections or zones of the mountain. 
The Alps is a classic example of what happens when a temperate area at lower altitude gives way to higher land. A rise from sea level into the upper regions causes the temperature to decrease. The effect of mountain chains on winds is to carry warm air belonging to the lower region into an upper zone, where it expands and loses heat, and drops snow or rain.
The typical trees—oak, beech, ash and sycamore maple have a natural height limit: the 'tree line'. Their upper limit matches the change in climate which comes with increasing height. The change from a temperate to a colder climate is also shown true by a change in the wild flowering plant life. This limit normally lies about above the sea on the north side of the Alps. On the southern slopes, it often reaches to , sometimes even to .
The Alps do not always have the typical trees. People have felled them in many places. Except for the beech forests of the Austrian Alps, forests of the typical deciduous trees are hardly found. Where such woods were, Scots pine and Norway spruce now grow. These trees are less sensitive to the attacks of goats who eat the saplings of deciduous trees.
Above the tree line, there is often a band of dwarf pine trees ("Pinus mugo"), which is taking place of dwarf shrubs. These shrubs are "Rhododendron ferrugineum" (on acid soils) or "Rhododendron hirsutum" (on non-acid soils). 
Above this is the alpine meadow. Above the alpine meadow is where plant life becomes less and less common. At these great heights, the plants are likely to make separate groups. In the Alps, many species of flowering plants have been recorded above . These are like "Ranunculus glacialis", "Androsace alpina" and "Saxifraga biflora".
Species common to the Alps. 

</doc>
<doc id="15939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15939" title="Rwanda">
Rwanda

Rwanda is a country in Africa. It is near Burundi, Congo-Kinshasa, Uganda, and Tanzania. The official language is Kinyarwanda. The country has three ethnic groups (though there is debate about whether or not these groups really are tribes): Bahutu, Batutsi and Batwa. It is now known mostly because it is the place where the most efficient genocide in history happened.
During the Scramble for Africa, Belgium conquered Rwanda. The Belgians then began to divide Rwandans into groups: Bahutu, and Batutsi. The Belgians picked people that they thought looked more European to be abatutsi. The rest became abahutu. The Belgians told Rwandans that Batutsi were superior to Bahutu. They allowed Batutsi to rule over Bahutu.
On July 1, 1962, Rwanda became independent and Bahutu were given power. Thus, anti-Tutsi purges occurred frequently. Many abatutsi fled to Uganda, where they formed the Rwandan Patriotic Front, or RPF, which tried to invade Rwanda in 1990.
On the night of April 6, 1994, dictator Juvénal Habyarimana's plane was shot down, but it is still not clear who did it. Within half an hour, roadblocks manned by the Interahamwe militia were seen all over the capital, Kigali. The Rwandan Genocide had begun. It lasted for about 100 days, and it left over one million, (1,000,000), Tutsi and moderate Hutu dead. The main weapon used was the machete, or "umupanga". Other countries paid little attention to the killing. On July 2, 1994, the RPF captured Kigali. The other countries let the Rwandans sort out their own problems because they didn't care.
There are five provinces in Rwanda. These are Northern Province, Southern Province, Eastern Province, Western Province, and the Municipality of Kigali in the centre.
This is a list of cities in Rwanda
At , Rwanda is the world's 149th-largest country. The entire country is at a high altitude. The lowest point is the Rusizi River at above sea level. Rwanda is in Central/Eastern Africa. It is bordered by the Democratic Republic of the Congo to the west, Uganda to the north, Tanzania to the east, and Burundi to the south. It is a few degrees south of the equator and is landlocked. The capital, Kigali, is near the centre of Rwanda.
The country's longest river is the Nyabarongo. The Nyabarongo-Kagera eventually drains into Lake Victoria. Rwanda has many lakes, the largest being Lake Kivu. It is one of the twenty deepest lakes in the world. Other sizeable lakes include Burera, Ruhondo, Muhazi, Rweru, and Ihema. Ihema is the largest of a string of lakes in the eastern plains of Akagera National Park.
There are many mountains in central and western Rwanda. The highest peaks are found in the Virunga volcano chain in the northwest. This includes Mount Karisimbi, Rwanda's highest point, at . The centre of the country is mostly rolling hills. The eastern border area has savanna, plains and swamps.
Rwanda has a temperate tropical highland climate. It has lower temperatures than are typical for equatorial countries. This is because of its high elevation. Kigali, in the centre of the country, has a typical daily temperature range between and . There is little change through the year. There are two rainy seasons in the year. The first runs from February to June and the second from September to December. These are separated by two dry seasons. The major one is from June to September, during which there is often no rain at all. There is a shorter and less severe one from December to February.
In prehistoric times montane forest occupied covered one third of the land of present-day Rwanda. Naturally occurring vegetation is now mostly in the three National Parks, with terraced agriculture in the rest of the country. Nyungwe, the largest remaining forest, has 200 species of tree as well as orchids and begonias. Vegetation in the Volcanoes National Park is mostly bamboo and moorland, with small areas of forest. Akagera has a savanna ecosystem. Here there are mostly acacia. There are several rare or endangered plant species in Akagera, including "Markhamia lutea" and "Eulophia guineensis".
The greatest diversity of large mammals is found in the three National Parks. Akagera has typical savanna animals such as giraffes and elephants, while Volcanoes is home to about one third of the worldwide mountain gorilla population. Nyungwe Forest has thirteen primate species including chimpanzees and Ruwenzori colobus arboreal monkeys. The Ruwenzori colobus move in groups of up to 400, the largest troop size of any primate in Africa.
There are 670 bird species in Rwanda. There is a difference between the east and the west. Nyungwe Forest, in the west, has 280 recorded species. Species include the Ruwenzori Turaco and Handsome Francolin. Eastern Rwanda, by contrast, has savanna birds such as the Black-headed Gonolek and those who live near swamps and lakes, including storks and cranes.

</doc>
<doc id="15940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15940" title="Lake Ontario">
Lake Ontario

Lake Ontario is the smallest of the Great Lakes in North America. 
It is found on the border between Canada and the United States of America. Its inlet is the Niagara River (from Niagara Falls), and its outlet is the Saint Lawrence River. Nearly 9 million Canadians live near Lake Ontario. It is also the only Great Lake that does not touch the U.S. state of Michigan, the "Great Lakes State".

</doc>
<doc id="15941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15941" title="Lake Superior">
Lake Superior

Lake Superior is a lake in Canada and the United States. 
The Ojibwe Native Americans call it Gitchigume. Lake Superior is in between Ontario and Minnesota to the north and Wisconsin and Michigan in the south, and is the largest of North America's Great Lakes. It is the world's third largest lake, and the world's largest freshwater lake (by area).
Over 80 species of fish live in Lake Superior.

</doc>
<doc id="15942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15942" title="SS Edmund Fitzgerald">
SS Edmund Fitzgerald

SS "Edmund Fitzgerald" was a freight ship on Lake Superior, carrying iron ore, which sank on November 10, 1975 at around 7:30 PM. The ship was known for being the biggest of its time weighing in at around 13, 600 tons, Edmund Fitzgerald was one of the largest “iron boats” working the Great Lakes. Nobody know how the boat sunk, however it is very possible that the dangerously high weight of its cargo, and the violent winds and waves caused the ship to sink. All 29 men aboard the boat died and to this day no body's have been recovered. To remember the men on the S.S Fitzgerald a song was written by the Canadian singer Gordon Lightfoot the song was titled "The Wreck of the Edmund Fitzgerald". The song describes what the ship itself and touches on some theory's on how it may have sunk, interestingly enough the original song contained the passage:
This passage was proven to be false as a dive team sent in to recover the bodies found the main hatch way to be in perfect condition. When informed of this Gordon Lightfoot rewrote the verse to: 

</doc>
<doc id="15944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15944" title="Gordon Lightfoot">
Gordon Lightfoot

Gordon Meredith Lightfoot, Jr. CC, born November 17, 1938, is a Canadian singer and songwriter. He is famous around the World for his folk, country, and pop music songs. He was first heard in the 1960s and had hit radio songs in the 1970s such as: "If You Could Read My Mind", "Sundown", ""Carefree Highway"', "Rainy Day People" and ""The Wreck of the Edmund Fitzgerald".
Some of his songs have been recorded by other famous singers including: Elvis Presley, Johnny Cash, Marty Robbins, Jerry Lee Lewis, Barbra Streisand and Tony Rice
Robbie Robertson of the Canadian music group called The Band said Gordon Lightfoot was his "favourite Canadian songwriters."
Gordon Lightfoot's music career has lasted almost fifty years and he has recorded more than 200 songs. His folk music of the 1960s and 1970s influenced many famous singers including Bob Dylan and Jim Croce. Like Robertson, Bob Dylan called Lightfoot one of his favourite songwriters.
In his career Gordon Lightfoot has received sixteen Juno Awards. He won Junos as "top folk singer" in 1965, 1966, 1968, 1969, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1976 and 1977. He won a Juno as "top male vocalist" in 1967, 1970, 1971, 1972 and 1973 And he won in 1972 and 1976 for being "composer of the year." He received ASCAP awards for songwriting in 1971, 1974, 1976 and 1977. And he has been nominated for five Grammy Awards. In 1980 Gordon Lightfoot was named "Canadian Male Recording Artist of the Decade" for his music of the 1970s.
Gordon Lightfoot was inducted into the Canadian Music Hall of Fame in 1986 and he was added to Canada's Walk of Fame in 1998. He was inducted into the Canadian Country Music Hall Of Fame in 2001.
In May 2003 he was made a Companion of the Order of Canada which is one of Canada's highest awards.

</doc>
<doc id="15949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15949" title="Cornish">
Cornish

Cornish might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="15957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15957" title="Chameleon">
Chameleon

Chameleons are a family of lizards. Most can change the colour of their skins for camouflage, or to signal mood to other chameleons. 
They are a distinct clade of lizards. They have parrot-like zygodactylous feet, separately mobile and stereoscopic eyes, very long tongues they can flick out, a swaying gait, their prehensile tail, crests or horns on their strange-shaped heads, and many can change colour. 
There are about 160 species, living in Africa, Madagascar, Spain and Portugal, across south Asia, Sri Lanka. They have been introduced to Hawaii, California and Florida, and are found in warm habitats that vary from rain forest to desert conditions. Chameleons are often kept as household pets.
Chameleons have long sticky tongues that they can fire out in a fraction of a second. They stretch up to twice their body size. Their eyes can move independently. The largest species is about 1.5 feet when fully grown. They are mainly insectivores, but they do take occasional smaller lizards.
The world's tiniest chameleon has been found on Madagascar. At 2.9 cm, it is one of the world's smallest lizards.
Genetic analysis proved there are four different species of this tiny animal.

</doc>
<doc id="15961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15961" title="Interjection">
Interjection

An interjection is a spoken or written expression of emotion like "Wow!" for surprise, "Ouch!" for pain, or "Argh!" for frustration. These phrases can stand alone, and are usually capitalized and punctuated.

</doc>
<doc id="15962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15962" title="Millard Fillmore">
Millard Fillmore

Millard Fillmore (January 7, 1800 – March 8, 1874) was the 13th President of the United States. He was President from 1850 to 1853. He was the last Whig President, and the last President who was not a Democratic or Republican.
Fillmore became president in 1850 when the previous president, Zachary Taylor, died. The Whig party did not pick him to run for president in 1852. He ran for president in 1856 for the American Party, but lost.
Millard Fillmore grew up in a poor family. He worked hard to do well in school, and went to college. He got a job as a lawyer in 1823. In 1828 he was voted to be part of the New York congress, and made friends in the Whig Party. This helped him get chosen to run for vice president in 1848.
When he was vice president, Millard Fillmore was in charge of the United States Senate while it was fighting over a decision about slavery involving Texas and New Mexico.
When he became president, the slavery issue was very intense (to the point where the southern states were close to choosing to not be a part of the United States anymore).
Fillmore signed the Compromise of 1850 (five laws which would calm down the slavery issue by pleasing both the northern states and the southern states). Although, the Compromise of 1850 made the northern states and the southern states get along, the peace did not last forever. In the late 1850's the north and the south stopped getting along.
California was made a part of the U.S. on September 9, 1850. It became the 31st state.
His decision to sign the Compromise of 1850 made many of the people in his Whig Party upset at him. They stopped him from running for president in 1852.
He started the first library at the White House.
After Fillmore, Franklin Pierce became the 14th president. Fillmore got a job in charge of the University of Buffalo. Fillmore joined the Know Nothing Party and tried to run for president again, but the Know Nothing Party was not very successful.
There is a statue of Millard Fillmore at City Hall in Buffalo, New York.

</doc>
<doc id="15963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15963" title="John Tyler">
John Tyler

John Tyler (March 29, 1790 – January 18, 1862) was the 10th President of the United States of America, from 1841 to 1845. He was the first vice president to become president after the president before him died. He was also the first President born after the United States Constitution was ratified.
Tyler grew up in Virginia and became a lawyer. His father was also a lawyer who later became governor of Virginia. Tyler became a state representative in the United States Congress, and then also became governor of Virginia like his father.
Tyler started in government as a member of the Democratic Party, but later he changed to the Whig Party, which was very new. He was chosen to run as vice president next to William Henry Harrison. Whig Party people used to say "Tippecanoe and Tyler Too" to get people to vote for them. (William Henry Harrison was famous for being a general in a battle in a place called Tippecanoe, and that was his nickname.)
Harrison and Tyler won the election, but Harrison died one month later. Tyler then became president.
Some people thought that Tyler was not the real president, because he had not been elected. But the United States Constitution says that the vice president takes over if the president dies, and Tyler said that meant he was the new president. At first, the rest of the government agreed and declared him the new president. But the Whig Party did not want Tyler to be president, and a lot of people called him "the accidental president" or "His Accidency".
Tyler made the Whig Party angry when he picked people from the other party (the Democratic Party) to work in his government. He wanted to bring the two Parties to work together, but instead this made him unpopular. He rejected many of the Whigs' ideas. The Whig Party decided not to pick him to run for president in 1844.
While he was president, Florida became a new state. Texas was its own country, after winning a war against Mexico. Tyler wanted Texas to be a U.S. state and tried to make this happen while president, but it did not happen until a few months afterwards.
The Whig Party did not want Tyler to be president again, and did not pick him to run for president in 1844. He had some friends in the Democratic Party who sometimes asked him for ideas, but that Party did not like him enough to be president, either. Tyler was sometimes called "the President without a party" since both groups did not want him.
When the Confederate States of America was created, Tyler thought that states should be allowed to make their own laws, even about slavery. He did not want a civil war. Instead, he tried to get the United States to agree to let the southern states keep slavery. But the United States Congress said no, and Tyler decided that Virginia had to join the Confederacy. He later was elected to the Confederate congress, but died before taking the job.
Taylor died in Richmond, Virginia, Confederate States of America on January 18, 1862. Tyler's death was the only one in Presidential history not to be officially recognized in Washington, D. C. because of his loyalty to the Confederacy. His coffin was covered with the Confederate flag. He is the only United States President ever to be buried and honored ceremoniously under a foreign flag that is not the United States flag. He is the only President to die in another country.

</doc>
<doc id="15964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15964" title="Peter Davison">
Peter Davison

Peter Davison (born Peter Moffett April 13 1951) is an English actor. He is best known for his roles as Tristan on "All Creatures Great and Small", and as the Fifth Doctor on "Doctor Who" from 1981 to 1984.

</doc>
<doc id="15965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15965" title="Ballerina">
Ballerina

A ballerina is a name given to a female ballet dancer. Only very good female ballet dancers are called ballerinas. A ballerina is a principal dancer in a classical ballet company. The topmost female dancer in a company was usually called the prima ballerina.
Today the term 'ballerina' has gone rather out of fashion. Now they are simply called 'Principal dancers'. Dancers in a company are ranked by the company, and paid accordingly. They have to prove themselves in lesser parts before they can get promoted. 
Example of the ranks in a modern dance company:

</doc>
<doc id="15966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15966" title="Buffalo, New York">
Buffalo, New York

Buffalo is a city in the U.S. state of New York. Buffalo is the second-biggest city in New York State. 
There are about 280,000 people in the city of Buffalo. There are more than a million people in the surrounding area. 
Buffalo is on the eastern side of Lake Erie near the Niagara River. It is close to Niagara Falls, and to Canada. 
Buffalo has an NFL team called the Buffalo Bills (who play in the suburb of Orchard Park, NY) and an NHL team called the Buffalo Sabres.

</doc>
<doc id="15975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15975" title="1394">
1394

Geoffrey Chaucer wrote the Canterbury Tales.

</doc>
<doc id="15977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15977" title="Hertford">
Hertford

Hertford is the county town of Hertfordshire, England.

</doc>
<doc id="15978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15978" title="Jackie Chan">
Jackie Chan

Jackie Chan (成龍) (born Chan Kong-Sang on October 7, 1954) is a famous and well-renown martial artist, stuntman, actor, director, producer, screenwriter, singer and entrepreneur who hails from Hong Kong. He is perhaps most famous and best known for his uncanny combination and twist of both action and comedy in his films. He has also appeared and provided the voice for his character's animated counterpart in the animated TV series "Jackie Chan Adventures" which originally aired from 2000-2005. He is also the famous and well-renown legendary and rich father of actor and singer Jaycee Chan.
In his earlier roles, Chan did all of the dangerous stunts without safety equipment. Possibly the role where this was taken farthest is "Rumble in the Bronx", which was his ultimate breakthrough American movie, where he subjected his already aging body to several leaps and falls, which while finally gaining his American stardom, led to injuries including a broken ankle.
His 2 worst injuries occurred during the making of "Armour of God" and "Police Story". Footage of the former's aftermath was shown over the credits and showed a subdued and bloodied Chan in a spinal injury stretcher. Also, a tree branch in which he was to swing off had snapped just when he did jump upon and over for it. Chan fell 10 meters onto the rocky ground.
In "Police Story", Chan was doing a stunt when and where he fell off from about 5 to 6 stories through a series of window canopies. Chan nearly became disorientated about halfway through down. Instead of landing on upon his feet, Chan fell in a head-down position. His arms became caught in the material of the last canopy. He landed on his head first and his head was then forced on to the side as he could not break his fall up with his arms.
While the "Police Story" fall looked worse, Chan has also said that the "Armour of God" fall was the closest he has come to death while filming.

</doc>
<doc id="15983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15983" title="Category:67 deaths">
Category:67 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15985" title="Ron Weasley">
Ron Weasley

Ronald Bilius "Ron" Weasley is a character from the "Harry Potter" stories. He is a red haired child, who comes from a poor background. He wishes he had money. He comes from a big family, with five brothers and one sister. He is Harry Potter's best friend. It is revealed in later books, that Ron is romantically interested in Hermione Granger. The two are hinted to be romantically involved in the Deathly Hallows.

</doc>
<doc id="15986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15986" title="Hermione Granger">
Hermione Granger

Hermione Jean Granger is a character from the "Harry Potter" series. She is one of Harry's best friends. She spends a lot of time with Harry and Ron Weasley. Her parents are Muggles (not magical) though she is very clever and a very good witch. Her parents are dentists. Her mind is full of intelligence and her forte is the ability to remember all that she has read. Due to this, Hermione can ace her tests. Although she is smart, she also is brave and has street-smarts. She can be a little bossy to Ron and Harry. She cares about house-elves and has made the club S.P.E.W., the Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare, which Ron calls "Spew." Her appearance is made up of frizzy brown hair, dark brown eyes, and slightly freckled skin. It is also noted at the end of "Deathly Hallows" that she marries Ron and they have two children together. She belongs to Gryffindor, though the Sorting Hat thought about putting her in Ravenclaw. Hermione has a pet cat called Crookshanks. Crookshanks, in the third book, largely annoyed Ron, but then he started liking the cat.

</doc>
<doc id="15989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15989" title="Milk shake">
Milk shake

In North America, a milk shake (or milkshake) is a cold drink usually made with milk, ice cream, and sweet syrups, such as chocolate syrup, mixed in a blender. People usually drink milkshakes with a drinking straw and from a tall glass or cup.
Milk shakes are similar to smoothies. Smoothies are a type of cold drink made with an electric blender. Smoothies are made with a liquid (either milk, fruit juice, or water), crushed ice or ice cubes, different fruits, and honey or maple syrup.
Milk shakes and other cold drinks such as "ice cream floats" (a scoop of ice cream placed in a glass of cola or other carbonated soda drink) or "malts" (a milk shake with malt powder added to it) were popular among teenagers in the 1950s. Teenagers would go to ice cream parlors and order cold drinks.

</doc>
<doc id="16003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16003" title="Bollington">
Bollington

Bollington is a village in Cheshire. The village is home to over twenty pubs. Bollington was home to the biggest water wheel in England and only second in Britain to the Laxey wheel in the Isle of Man. The wheel powered huge mills for the production of cotton. Two of the huge mills were the Adelphi and Clarence.
By 1914 Bollington had a population of around 6000 people and was dominated by fine cotton spinning. The symbol of Bollington has to be White Nancy. A small white cone-like house stands alone on top of a hill overlooking all of Bollington. It was built by the Gaskell family early in the nineteenth century. It has now been sealed. 
Sport has been important in the life of Bollington. Even though the village did not have a football team successful enough to rival the cricket team it was still very popular amongst the people of Bollington. The most popular team was St Johns team which was quite successful in the lower leagues. Today there are good teams competing in the amateur leagues such as Bollington United.

</doc>
<doc id="16006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16006" title="KFC">
KFC

Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC) is a chain of fast food restaurants known for their fried chicken. It was started by Colonel Sanders in Corbin, Kentucky in 1952. They are now all over the world. They not only sell chicken, but other things like salads and french fries. 
KFC is well known for their "finger lickin' good" slogan. It was first used, along with others, beginning in 1956. It is the current slogan.
Other early slogans included "North America's Hospitality Dish" (1956–1966) and "We fix Sunday dinner seven nights a week" from 1957 until 1968. The two slogans were phased out in favor of the "finger lickin' good" slogan. It was trademarked in 1956.
After a local KFC TV ad showed an employee licking his fingers in the background, a viewer phoned the station to complain. The main actor in the ad answered back: "Well, it's finger lickin' good." The phrase was adopted nationally by the company in the 1960s. It became one of the best-known slogans of the twentieth century. 
When the trademark expired in the United States in 2006, it was replaced with "Follow your taste" until 2010. In 2011, the "finger lickin' good" slogan was dropped in favor of "So good", to be used around the world. The meaning was supposed to include employees and service, as well as food.
"Nobody does chicken like KFC" was first begun by KFC Australia in 1998. It is still used by KFC in some worldwide markets.
KFC has been criticised for different things. Greenpeace accused KFC of destroying the Amazon Rainforest. This is because KFC bought their soy they use for chicken food from Cargill. The soy has been traced back to the European KFC. Cargill has reportedly been exporting soy illegally for several years. The Greenpeace organization researched the issue and brought it to the attention of the parent company YUM! Brands, Inc. The parent company denied the illegal operation, and said that their supply of soy is grown in parts of Brazil. Greenpeace has called on KFC to stop purchasing soy from Cargill, to avoid contributing to the destruction of the Amazon.
Since 2003, animal rights and welfare organizations, led by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), have been protesting KFC’s treatment of the animals used for its products. These groups claim that the recommendations of the KFC Animal Welfare Advisory Council have been ignored. Adele Douglass, a former member of the council, said in an SEC filing reported on by the Chicago Times, that KFC "never had any meetings. They never asked any advice, and then they touted to the press that they had this animal-welfare advisory committee. I felt like I was being used."
KFC responded by saying the chickens used in its products are bought from suppliers like Perdue Farms, Tyson Foods, and Pilgrim's Pride, and that these suppliers are routinely monitored for animal welfare violations. Several PETA undercover investigations and videos of these and other KFC suppliers purport to show chickens being beaten, ripped apart, and thrown against walls contradict KFC’s claims. PETA has criticised some of the practices of chicken breeders, such as beak trimming and overcrowding, but KFC says its suppliers meets UK legal requirements. The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs recommends a maximum stocking density of 34 kg—around 30 chickens—per square metre, and say that in circumstances where beak trimming needs to be carried out to prevent the birds injuring each other, only one third of the beak should be trimmed "measured from the tip towards the entrance of the nostrils". PETA states that they have held more than 12,000 demonstrations at KFC outlets since 2003 because of this alleged mistreatment of chickens by KFC suppliers.
In June 2008, KFC Canada agreed to PETA's demands for better welfare standards, including favoring suppliers who use controlled-atmosphere killing (CAK) of chickens, and other welfare standards as well as introducing a vegan sandwich at 65% of its outlets. PETA has called off its campaign against KFC Canada, but continues to demonstrate against KFC elsewhere in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="16025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16025" title="Cytoplasm">
Cytoplasm

The cytoplasm (also known as cytosol) is the protoplasm of a cell outside the cell nucleus. It is the gel-like material plus the organelles outside the nucleus, and inside the cell membrane. 
Many important functions of a cell take place in organelles, which are like bits of machinery for doing jobs. The cytoplasm is highly structured: it is not some kind of soup, even though it is made out of 7580% water.
The cytosol contains a complex mixture of cytoskeleton filaments, including the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus. It includes dissolved molecules, and water that fills much of the cell. Due to this network of fibres, membranes and the many dissolved macromolecules such as proteins, the cytosol does not act like a simple liquid

</doc>
<doc id="16026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16026" title="Crusades">
Crusades

The Crusades were a series of religious wars fought between Christians and Muslims over control of the Holy Land. Traditionally, they took place between 1095 and 1291. The Holy Land was and still is a place that is very important for the three major monotheistic religions: Islam, Judaism, and Christianity. There are many important religious sites in the Holy Land. This is the land now called Israel or Palestine. 
Jerusalem, Nazareth, Bethlehem and other religious sites fell under the control of Muslims during the Caliphate of Omar (634-44). 
There were many different crusades. The most important and biggest Crusades took place from the 11th century to the 13th century. There were 9 large Crusades during this time. They are numbered 1 through 9. There were also many smaller Crusades. Some crusades were even within Europe (for example, in Germany, Austria and Scandinavia). The smaller Crusades continued to the 16th century, until the Renaissance and Reformation.
The word "Crusade" is related to the word "Cross", and means a Christian holy war. There is also the Arabic word "Jihad", referring to a holy war fought by Muslims. All sides (Christians, Muslims, and Jews) believed very much in their religions. They also had political reasons for fighting. The strong belief made people less able to understand other people during times when there was no peace. The Crusades and Jihads caused very much loss of life and property for all sides.
Alexius I was a ruler of the Byzantine Empire. When Alexius called for help to defend his empire against the Seljuk Turks in 1095, Pope Urban II asked all Christians to join a war against the Turks. The Pope told the Christians that fighting the war would repay God for their sins and that if they died on a crusade they would go straight to heaven. The Christian soldiers were called "crusaders". The armies marched to Jerusalem, attacking several cities on their way. In 1099 they won the battle for Jerusalem. As a result of the First Crusade, several small Crusader states were created, including the Kingdom of Jerusalem.
After some years of peace, Bernard of Clairvaux called for a new crusade when the town of Edessa was attacked by the Turks. French and German armies marched to Holy Land in 1147, but were defeated. On the way the Crusaders helped the Portuguese capture Lisbon from the Moors.
In 1187, Saladin recaptured Jerusalem. Pope Gregory VIII called for a new crusade, led by several of Europe's kings: Philip II of France, Richard I of England and Frederick I, Holy Roman Emperor. Frederick drowned in Cilicia in 1190. The Crusaders re-established the Kingdom of Jerusalem in Acre. Richard defeated Saladin at Arsuf and Jaffa but lacked the men needed to attempt recapturing Jerusalem. Richard and Saladin made a truce that let the Christians travel safely through Jerusalem. Afterward Richard left in 1192. On Richard's way home, his ship was wrecked, leading him to Austria. In Austria his enemy Duke Leopold captured him, and Richard was ransomed.
The Fourth Crusade was started by Pope Innocent III in 1202, with the idea to attack the Holy Land through Egypt. The Venetians changed this crusade, and went to the Christian city of Constantinople, where they attempted to place a Byzantine exile on the throne. After a series of misunderstandings and outbreaks of violence, the city was sacked in 1204.
The Albigensian Crusade was started in 1209 to eliminate the Cathars of southern France.
The Children's Crusade is a crusade of 1212. An outburst of the old popular enthusiasm led a gathering of children in France and Germany. A boy, from either France or Germany, said that Jesus had visited him, and told him to peacefully convert Muslims to Christianity. Following this vision, many children formed bands, and marched to Italy. There, they were put onto ships which either capsized in a storm, or which went to Morocco. Most of the children either starved to death or were sold into slavery.
It looks like there were really two groups of people who moved, in 1212. Both movements were very similar. For this reason, those who wrote the chronicles put them together, as a single movement.
In the first movement, Nicholas, a shepherd from Germany, led a group across the Alps and into Italy in the early spring of 1212. About 7,000 arrived in Genoa in late August. However, their plans did not bear fruit when the waters failed to part as promised and the band broke up. Some left for home, others may have gone to Rome, while still others may have travelled down the Rhône to Marseille where they were probably sold into slavery. Few returned home and none reached the Holy Land.
The second movement was led by a "shepherd boy" named Stephen de Cloyes near the village of Châteaudun. In June of that year, the boy said that he had a letter for the king of France from Jesus. He could gather a crowd of over 30,000 and went to Saint-Denis. There he was seen to work miracles. On the orders of Philip II, on the advice of the University of Paris, the crowd was sent home, and most of them went. None of the contemporary sources mentions plans of the crowd to go to Jerusalem.
Later chroniclers elaborated on these events. Recent research suggests those taking part were not children, at least not the very young. In the early 1200s, bands of wandering poor started cropping up throughout Europe. These were people displaced by economic changes at the time which forced many poor peasants in northern France and Germany to sell their land. These bands were referred to as "pueri" (Latin for "boys") in a condescending manner, in much the same way that people from rural areas in the United States are called "country boys."
In 1212, a young French "puer" named Stephen and a German "puer" named Nicholas separately began claiming that they had each had similar visions of Jesus. This resulted in these bands of roving poor being united into a religious protest movement which transformed this forced wandering into a religious journey. The "pueri" marched, following the Cross. They associated themselves with Jesus's biblical journey. This, however, was not a prelude to a holy war.
At that time, chronicles were mostly kept by the Catholic Church. They were written in Latin.
Thirty years later, chroniclers read the accounts of these processions and translated "pueri" as "children" without understanding the usage. So, the Children's Crusade was born. The resulting story illustrates how ingrained the concept of Crusading was in the people of that time— the chroniclers assumed that the pueri must have been Crusaders. In their innocence, they returned to the foundations of crusading characteristic of Peter the Hermit, and met the same sort of tragic fate.
According to Matthew Paris, one of the leaders of the Children's Crusade became "Le Maître de Hongrie," the leader of the Shepherds' Crusade in 1251.
During 1213, Pope Gregory IX pushed Frederick II into leading the Fifth Crusade. 
The Church tried another crusade to attack the Holy Land. A crusading force from Hungary, Austria, and Bavaria captured Damietta, a city in Egypt, in 1219. The crusaders had to surrender, due to losing the battle for Cairo.
In 1228, Emperor Frederick II set sail from Brindisi for Syria. He did this after the Pope excommunicated him. By talking to the Turks he had success, and Jerusalem, Nazareth, and Bethlehem was given to the Crusaders for ten years without fighting. This was the first major crusade not initiated by the Papacy, a trend that was to continue for the rest of the century. This crusade only lasted for a year, from 1228-1229.
The Templars argued with Egypt in 1243. In 1244, Egypt attacked Jerusalem. Louis IX of France started a crusade against Egypt from 1248 to 1254. It was a failure, and Louis spent much of the crusade living in Acre. In the midst of this crusade was the first Shepherds' Crusade in 1251.
The Eighth Crusade was organized by Louis IX of France in 1270, to help the Crusader states in Syria. However, the crusade got as far as Tunis, where Louis died a month later.
Before he was the king, Edward I of England started a crusade in 1271. He retired the following year after a truce.
In time, the people went on Crusades for other purposes. The Crusades ended two centuries after they had begun, achieving mixed results. The crusades ended with the Fall of Acre in 1291.

</doc>
<doc id="16028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16028" title="Saladin">
Saladin

Saladin, or idker 
A Muslim of Kurdish origin, Saladin led the Muslim opposition to the European Crusaders in the Levant. At the height of his power, his sultanate included Egypt, Syria, Mesopotamia, Hejaz, Yemen and other parts of North Africa.
His father, who worked for the Turkish governor, decided to raise him in Syria where he received his education. Another influential figure in his life was his uncle Shirkuh who was a military leader and later commanded for Saladin during the wars. Many Muslims consider him a hero for defeating the Crusaders over 20 years of battles. The Crusades were series of battles between Christian Europe and Islamic Near East over holy land in what is now known as Palestine. Saladin’s is army protected Egypt from the Crusaders in 1168. By taking Egypt and youu, he became Vizier, a high ruler of Egypt. Just before the Caliph died, Saladin was crowned Sultan of Egypt and Syria.. His greatest victory was at the Horns of Hattin in July 1187 AD, after which Jerusalem fell to the Muslims (October 1187) and was never again recovered by the Crusaders. He is also remembered for his series of battles and wins and losses against King Richard I of England.bye negolaaa noes These were inconclusive and in the end resulted in a moral victory for Sultan Salah ad-Din, when Richard's Crusade failed and returned to Europe.
He founded the Ayyubid dynasty of Egypt, Syria, Yemen (except for the Northern Mountains), Iraq, Mecca Hejaz and Diyar Bakr. Salah ad-Din is a title which translates to "The Righteousness of the Faith" from Arabic.
Many books were written about Saladin, the things he did and the battles he won. "Daastaan Imaan Farooshoon Ki" is one book in Urdu written by Althamash that says very good things about Saladin and compares and contrasts him to other kings and princes, in a favourable light.

</doc>
<doc id="16034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16034" title="1889">
1889


</doc>
<doc id="16035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16035" title="Category:1193 deaths">
Category:1193 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16036" title="Category:1193">
Category:1193


</doc>
<doc id="16037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16037" title="Category:1394">
Category:1394


</doc>
<doc id="16040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16040" title="Category:1874 deaths">
Category:1874 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16041" title="Category:1800 births">
Category:1800 births


</doc>
<doc id="16042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16042" title="Category:1800">
Category:1800


</doc>
<doc id="16043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16043" title="Category:1790 births">
Category:1790 births


</doc>
<doc id="16050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16050" title="1877">
1877


</doc>
<doc id="16051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16051" title="1860">
1860


</doc>
<doc id="16058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16058" title="Aphex Twin">
Aphex Twin

Aphex Twin (born Richard David James, August 18, 1971, in Limerick, Ireland) is an Irish-born Cornish musician. He lives and works in the United Kingdom. He is a famous electronic musician.
Aphex Twin is not his real name. His real name is Richard David James. His name is a combination of Aphex Systems Limited, a brand of audio signal processing equipment and the word Twin to remember his brother. His brother was stillborn, but given the name Richard James.
Aphex Twin was born in Limerick, Ireland. He grew up in Cornwall, U.K. He started to make music when he was a teenager. In 1991, he formed a record label called Rephlex Records.
After he became well known, he moved to London. This was so he could be in a place that was closer to other people. He however returned to Cornwall a few years later after meeting his wife. He still makes a lot of music today and uses many different pseudonyms (names). He lives in an old bank. He has bought interesting things like a tank and a submarine.
AFX
Bradley Strider
Caustic Window
Gak
Martin Tressider
In the Universal Indicator series:
Polygon Window
Power Pill
Q-Chastic
Universal Indicator

</doc>
<doc id="16065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16065" title="Niagara Falls">
Niagara Falls

Niagara Falls is the group name of three big waterfalls on the Niagara River in eastern North America, on the border between the United States and Canada. The three waterfalls are: the Horseshoe Falls, sometimes called the Canadian Falls, the American Falls, and the smaller Bridal Veil Falls. The American Falls and the Horseshoe Falls are separated with Goat Island, and the Bridal Veil Falls separated from the other waterfalls with Luna Island.
Niagara Falls were formed when glaciers receded at the end of the Wisconsin glaciation (the last ice age), and water from the newly formed Great Lakes carved a path through the Niagara Escarpment en route to the Atlantic Ocean.
Although not very high, Niagara Falls is very wide, and is probably the most popular waterfall in the world. The Horseshoe Falls are the largest out of the three falls. It is named the Horseshoe Falls because it looks like a horseshoe. 
Niagara Falls is a very popular tourist place and many people visit it on holiday in Canada. DO NOT FALL DOWN IT OR ELSE THE RUBBER DUCKIES WILL GET U

</doc>
<doc id="16125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16125" title="1831">
1831


</doc>
<doc id="16126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16126" title="1842">
1842


</doc>
<doc id="16129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16129" title="Custard">
Custard

Custard is a kind of food prepared with milk and eggs. Custard can be the dessert or its sauce.
Custard is an important part of dessert recipes from many countries, including the United Kingdom, France, Portugal, Spain, Italy, Australia, and Malaysia.

</doc>
<doc id="16130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16130" title="Huckleberry">
Huckleberry

Huckleberry is a name used in North America for several plants in two closely related genera in the family "Ericaceae": "Gaylussacia" and "Vaccinium". The huckleberry is the state fruit of Idaho.
Some "Vaccinium" species, such as the red huckleberry, are always called huckleberries. Other species may be called blueberries or huckleberries in different locations.
There is much confusion in naming of berries in American English. The 'garden huckleberry' ("Solanum melanocerasum") is not a true huckleberry but a member of the nightshade family.
The fruit of most species of huckleberry can be eaten. The berries are small and round. They are usually less than 5 mm in diameter and contain 10 seeds. Berries range in color from bright red, through dark purple, and into the blues. In taste the berries range from tart to sweet. They have a flavor similar to that of a blueberry. Huckleberries are well liked by many mammals such as bears and humans.

</doc>
<doc id="16131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16131" title="Cheesecake">
Cheesecake

A cheesecake is a dessert made of cream cheese (or sometimes ricotta), milk, eggs, and flour and usually has a graham cracker crumb base. The graham cracker crumb base is sometimes held together by melted butter. The filling is mostly cream cheese with some sugar to sweeten it and sometimes sour cream to make it easier to shape and fill the crust.
Cheesecake has a smooth texture, and comes in a variety of flavours such as strawberry, blueberry, lemon, and so on. It is often topped with fruit or chocolate.
The cheesecake is believed to have come from Greece. The earliest writer who wrote about cheesecakes is Aegiums, who wrote a book how to make cheesecakes (). Historians think that cheesecake was served to the athletes during the first Olympic Games held in 776 BC. However, cheese making began at about 2,000 BC, and anthropologists have found cheese molds dating back to that period. Alan Davidson, author of the Oxford Companion to Food, wrote that "cheesecake was mentioned in Marcus Porcius Cato's "De re Rustica" around 200 BC and that Cato described making his cheese libum (cake) with results very similar to modern cheesecake".
The Romans spread cheesecake from Greece to across Europe. Centuries later, cheesecake appeared in America, the recipes brought over by immigrants.
There is an all-garlic restaurant in Stockholm where they offer a garlic cheesecake.
Cheesecake may be thought as an American classic, but they have been popular through all ages. In ancient Greece, different types of cheesecake were popular.
Sonya Thomas holds the world record for eating the most cheesecakes in a given time. She ate 11 pounds of cheesecake in nine minutes.

</doc>
<doc id="16132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16132" title="Rhubarb">
Rhubarb

Rhubarb is one of about 60 plants in the genus Rheum, family Polygonaceae. The vegetable rhubarb is "Rheum rhabarbarum" (or "Rheum x hybridum"). The leaves are toxic, but the red stalks are baked in pies, with sugar to soften their tart flavor.
There are many varieties grown for eating. The drug "rheum" is prepared from the rhizomes and roots of another species, "R. officinale" or medicinal rhubarb.

</doc>
<doc id="16133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16133" title="Monkey">
Monkey

Monkeys are tree-dwelling (arboreal) mammals. They are in the primate order. Monkeys are intelligent, social animals. Most monkeys have a tail, even if it is a short one.
The word "monkey" is not a scientific term. It is used for two rather different groups of primates. The big distinction is between Old World monkeys and New World monkeys.
Both these groups are in the infraorder Simiiformes. That infraorder also includes the great apes and man.
Some monkeys live almost entirely in trees. Others live partly on the ground. Monkeys are mainly vegetarian, with a strong preference for fruit. However, they may eat a wide range of other food, including insects. Monkeys can live in forests and savannahs. Monkeys do not live in deserts. Some can live in snowy mountains, but more live in rainforests. There are none in the rainforests of Australia and New Guinea, and apparently they never reached those islands.
Some monkeys are small, about long and in weight. Other monkeys are much larger, about long and in weight. A group of monkeys is called a "troop" of monkeys or a "tribe" of monkeys.
The two groups of monkeys live in different places: the "New World Monkeys" in South America and the "Old World Monkeys" live mainly in Africa and Asia. New World Monkeys are often smaller than Old World Monkeys. Monkeys have long arms and legs to help them swing from trees. Some monkeys' tails can wrap tightly around branches, almost like a "fifth limb". This type of tail is 'prehensile'. 
The smallest known monkey is the pygmy marmoset. It is about 14-16cm in size (without the tail). It weighs about 120 grams. It lives in the treetops of rainforests in Brazil, Colombia and Ecuador. The largest known monkey is the mandrill. It can grow to about 1 m in size. Adults weigh up to 35 kg. The monkeys often climb with the help of their tails.
The word "monkey" might have come from a popular German story, "Roman de Renart" ("Reynard the Fox"). In there, the name of the son of Martin the Ape is "Moneke".
In Africa, monkeys can be sold as "bushmeat" (meat of wild animals). Monkey brains are eaten in some parts of Africa, South Asia, and China.

</doc>
<doc id="16146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16146" title="Civilization">
Civilization

Civilization (or civilisation) comes from the Latin word "civis" meaning someone who lives in a town. When people are civilised, they live in large well-organized groups like towns, not in small tribes or isolated family groups. 
However, a civilization is something more than a town. It is an advanced stage of organisation. That means it has laws, culture, a regular way of getting food and protecting the people. Most civilizations have agriculture, and a system of government like monarchs or elections. They speak a common language, and 
usually have a religion of some kind. They teach their young the knowledge they need. All civilizations since the Sumerians and the Egyptians have some kind of writing. Writing lets people store and build up knowledge.
The Roman Empire is an example of a large civilization. It was governed from Rome. This empire once stretched from the Scottish borders to North Africa and the eastern Mediterranean. They had their own language, Latin. 
Latin became the preferred method of communication among educated people until long after their civilization had vanished. Today lawyers and politicians, doctors and scientists, scholars and others still use Latin in the course of their everyday work, even though the Roman civilization died out more than 1,500 years ago. It is said that William Shakespeare excelled at Latin. Latin is still taught in some schools. We still admire and copy Roman architecture, use Roman numerals to count certain things, use the names of Roman gods to mark the days and months of our calendars, name the constellations in the sky by the same names that the Romans used and we model our Western political constitutions and structures on Roman models (Senate, Governor, election, tribunal, justice, vote, census, even the word Constitution, are all Latin words, their meaning unchanged in thousands of years). 
The Roman civilization lasted almost 1000 years, but the Ancient Egyptian civilization was older and lasted longer. The Romans and Egyptians fought each other in the Battle of Actium. Rome won, and Egypt became part of the Roman Empire.

</doc>
<doc id="16150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16150" title="Enlightenment (Buddhism)">
Enlightenment (Buddhism)

In Buddhism, enlightenment (called "bodhi" in Indian Buddhism, or "satori" in Zen Buddhism) is when a Buddhist finds the truth about life and stops being reborn. Buddhists believe a person can become enlightened by following the Middle Way.
Buddhists become enlightened by using meditation (deep thought). While they meditate, they concentrate very hard and clear their minds of all thoughts.
Siddhartha Gautama (the Buddha) is the first person thought to have reached enlightenment. The story of his life is told as an example of what he learned.
Siddhartha was a rich prince and the son of a king. His father went to a fortune teller who predicted that Siddhartha would either become a king or a religious leader. His father wanted him to become a king. He gave Siddhartha many things and did not let him see anything bad. Siddhartha married a woman and had a son. He named his son Rahula. The name meant "chains". Siddhartha named his son that because he was frustrated. He left the palace on the day his son was born. 
Siddhartha went to the Shramana teachers to ask for help. Siddhartha traveled for four days. On the first day, he saw an old man. On the second day, he saw a sick woman. On the third day, he saw a funeral. It was his first time seeing death. On the fourth day he saw a sadhu (holy man). This man was very poor. Siddhartha thought that the man was happy even though he was poor. Siddhartha also knew that he was not happy even though he was rich. He decided to leave the palace and never go back.
Siddhartha walked through the forest. In the forest, he found a group of ascetics. He watched them and thought this was the way to be enlightened. For six years he lived with the ascetics. He ate one grain of rice and drank from the river every day. One day a boat was on the river with a musician and his students on it. Siddhartha heard the musician say, "If the string is too tight, it will snap. If it is too loose, it will not play." After hearing that, Siddhartha knew that he wanted to find a middle way. He took a bowl of rice from a village girl. He had broken his promise to be an ascetic.
Siddhartha sat at the bottom of the Bodhi tree. He made a promise to keep meditating until he was enlightened. For forty days Devaputra Mara, the leader of demons, tried to stop Siddhartha. He made Siddhartha think of scary things. He made demons try to hurt Siddhartha with spears, arrows, fire, and rocks. Siddhartha thought very hard and made the hurtful things look like flowers and many colored lights. His hard thinking made him enlightened. After he was enlightened, he taught people about what he had learned. He died when he was 81 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="16155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16155" title="Mail">
Mail

Mail is part of the postal system. The postal system is a system where written documents and small to medium packages are sent (delivered) to places around the world. Anything sent through the postal system is called mail or post.
A postal service can be private or public. Governments often make rules about private postal delivery systems. Since the early 19th century, national postal systems have mostly been controlled entirely by governments. The governments make people pay a fee to send something. This fee is usually in the form of stamps. Some governments only let private postal services deliver parcel (non-mail) packages.
Postal systems often do things other than sending letters. In some countries, the postal system is also in charge of telephone and telegraph systems. The postal systems in other countries can help people apply for government papers such as passports and driver's licenses. Many places the post offices also work like banks. This is so that people can take out money or pay bills at a nearby post office, instead of travelling to a big bank in the nearest town.

</doc>
<doc id="16156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16156" title="The Righteous Brothers">
The Righteous Brothers

The Righteous Brothers were an American pop group consisting of two men named Bill Medley and Bobby Hatfield. They formed in California in 1962. Some of their hits include "You've Lost That Lovin' Feelin'" and "Unchained Melody". Phil Spector produced those songs.

</doc>
<doc id="16157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16157" title="Gene Pitney">
Gene Pitney

Gene Francis Alan Pitney (17 February 1940 – 5 April 2006) was an American rock singer and songwriter. He was born in Hartford, Connecticut. Some of his most well-known songs are "Town Without Pity", "The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance" and "Twenty Four Hours From Tulsa". He died of a heart attack in Cardiff in 2006 while on tour in the UK.

</doc>
<doc id="16166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16166" title="Federal Bureau of Investigation">
Federal Bureau of Investigation

The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is an agency of the United States Government. It investigates crime across the country. It is dedicated to national security and law enforcement. The Bureau of Investigation was founded in 1908. It was renamed the Federal Bureau of Investigation, FBI for short, in 1935. J. Edgar Hoover was the Director of the Bureau from its start, and continued as Director of the FBI until his death in 1972. Although the FBI work worldwide, their headquarters is in Washington DC. They have 56 main offices in cities throughout the United States.
The FBI's mission is to protect the USA and maintain justice. They do this in many ways:
The FBI is organized into branches and the Office of the Director. This office contains most administrative offices. An executive assistant director manages each branch. Each branch is then divided into offices and divisions. Each division is headed by an assistant director. The various divisions are further divided into sub-branches. Each sub-branch is led by deputy assistant directors. Within these sub-branches there are various sections headed by section chiefs. Section chiefs are ranked analogous to special agents in charge.
Four of the branches report to the deputy director while two report to the associate director. The functions branches of the FBI are:
The FBI Crisis Negotiation Unit (FCNU) is a 24/7 operational response to crisis and to negotiate person(s) who are threatening to commit suicide or other harmful situations after a crime has been committed. The FBI's lead negotiator contacts the person(s) involved, with a hard-wire phone line to communicate with the person(s) to try convincing them to give themselves up to local police who are on stand-by.

</doc>
<doc id="16167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16167" title="1596">
1596

1596 was a year in the 16th century. It was a leap year.

</doc>
<doc id="16170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16170" title="Nothofagus">
Nothofagus

Nothofagus is a kind of plant, also called southern beech. It is a tree which can reach 35 m tall. "Nothofagus" is found in South America, New Zealand, Australia and New Guinea.
There are 34 species, considering pollen morphology four sections are recognized, i.e. Brassospora, Fuscospora, Lophozonia, and Nothofagus.

</doc>
<doc id="16174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16174" title="Ancient Greek language">
Ancient Greek language

Ancient Greek was the language spoken by the people of Ancient Greece from the 9th to 4th century B.C. Ancient Greek and Latin are the most important ancient languages (languages which are no longer spoken) for speakers of English today. This is because a very large number of English words come from Greek and Latin. 
The Greek language had many different dialects, but the “Attic Greek” which was spoken by the people of Athens is thought to be the purest of the forms. Because the Greeks became very powerful in the countries around the Mediterranean Sea their language spread very quickly. Alexander the Great even took it into Asia. Later, in the Roman world, children were taught Greek as a second language in the same way that many non-English speakers today learn English as their second language. This all makes Ancient Greek very important. 
The great poems of the Ancient Greek poets like Homer were written in Greek. The poems of the "Iliad" and the "Odyssey" tell exciting stories about warfare, travel and the Greek gods. In the 5th century B.C., some great plays were written by Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides. This was the "Golden Age" of Ancient Greece. These works of Ancient Greek literature inspired people for centuries and are still read today.
All languages change with time, and Greek has changed a lot since 25 centuries ago. Modern Greek is often said to have started in the year 1453 A.D.
Unlike Latin, the Ancient Greek language did not split into many languages, but it is still considered to be a separate language from the Modern Greek language. Pronunciation has changed extensively. For instance, the letter "b" called beta is now pronounced "v" and Greeks now call this letter "vita". The spelling has not changed, which gives the appearance of less change than actually happened. Also, many different vowels and diphthongs all merged into "i", the vowel sound in the English word "meet". The verbal system has radically changed. It is now much simpler. The tonal system of Ancient Greek has disappeared. In spite of this the language, until recently, was spelled as if the old tones were still present. In spite of the extensive changes, it is remarkable how much has survived intact through the centuries.
There is a community near Trabzon in Turkey which speaks a dialect very like that of Ancient Greece. 

</doc>
<doc id="16178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16178" title="Category:1842">
Category:1842


</doc>
<doc id="16190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16190" title="Autobahn">
Autobahn

Autobahn (engl. "motorway") is the name for freeways (large streets) in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland. Those in Germany are famous because in many parts of the roads, there are no speed limits and drivers can drive as fast as they want to.
Usually an autobahn consists of two lanes in each direction. Sometimes there may be more than two lanes for one direction (or an additional lane for cars that are stuck).
All drivers are supposed to drive on the outer-most right lane except when they move past other cars or trucks that are going slower.
Many autobahns in Germany have no speed limit. There is only a speed recommendation of per hour. However, drivers going faster than 130 km/h can be made responsible for an accident that they are involved in. The German traffic law says that it is only permitted to drive as fast as the track conditions allow.
An emergency telephone is located at a German autobahn every . Junctions between two autobahns are called "Dreieck" (Triangle), if one autobahn ends there or "Kreuz" (Cross). Junctions with normal roads are called "Anschlussstelle". All junctions of an autobahn are numbered sequentially.
Driving on a German autobahn is free for cars. Trucks (12,5 tons and above) do have to pay a toll of about a twelve cents (-,€12) per kilometre.
On autobahns in Austria there is a general speeding limit of 130 km/h. However, there were some test sections where 160 km/h was allowed before April 2007. It is legal to drive with a car, truck, motorbike... if you can drive with it more than 60 km/h.
Austrian autobahns are not free of charge. Car drivers have to buy a "vignette" (which permits driving on the autobahn for a few days or months or even a year). Trucks do have to pay a distance-dependent toll (as in Germany). On some sections you have to pay toll and need no "vignette", like big tunnels and other expensive buildings in the mountains.
Junctions among Austrian autobahns are called "Knoten" (instead of "Kreuz") and there is often a speeding limit of 100 km/h.
On the "Wiener Süd-Ost Tangente" (engl.: Vienna South-East Bypass) are about 200,000 cars every day. There is the most traffic in Austria and it is an important autobahn of the capital city Vienna.
Autobahns in Switzerland have a speed limit of 120 km/h. Until 1997 they were called "Nationalstrassen" (and labeled with an "N" instead of "A"). As in Austria, car drivers have to buy a "vignette" which is always valid for one year (calendar year). Junctions between autobahns in Switzerland are called "Verzweigung".

</doc>
<doc id="16191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16191" title="Arnold Schoenberg">
Arnold Schoenberg

Arnold Franz Walter Schoenberg (originally written 'Schönberg') (13 September 1874 – 13 July 1951) was an Austrian-born composer. He was known for his twelve-tone system of writing music.
Schoenberg came from a strict Jewish family who had moved to Austria from Hungary. They were quite poor and Schoenberg taught himself about music. When he was grown up he had to do a lot of teaching to try and earn enough money to live. In later life he went to live in the United States. It took a long time before he was recognized world-wide as a great composer. His two most famous pupils were Alban Berg (1885-1935) and Anton Webern (1883-1945). He taught them how to write twelve-tone music and they became famous composers.
When Arnold Schoenberg was a young man he was living in the late 19th century. If you look at the way composers wrote music at this time you will find that their compositions became more and more chromatic. This means that more and more sharps and flats were used during the piece, and the music went from one key to another (modulated) very quickly. Richard Wagner wrote very chromatic music, especially in his opera "Tristan and Isolde".
In 1898 Schoenberg converted to Christianity in the Lutheran church. According to MacDonald, this was partly to connect with Western European cultural traditions, and partly as a means of self-defence "in a time of resurgent anti-Semitism". 
In 1933, after long thought, he returned to Judaism, because he realised that "his racial and religious heritage was inescapable", and to take up an unmistakable position on the side opposing Nazism. He would self-identify as a member of the Jewish religion later in life.
Schoenberg’s early works are mostly Late Romantic. His piece "Verklärte Nacht" (which can be played by six string instruments or by a whole orchestra) has very beautiful harmonies which go quickly from one key to another. Gradually Schoenberg’s music changed. It became so chromatic that it was no longer in any key at all. Music like this (called “atonal”) is much harder to understand. His "Five Orchestral Pieces" were played by the conductor Sir Henry Wood at a Promenade Concert in 1912. The audience did not like it at first and took some time to get used to the sound.
In 1923 Schoenberg developed the twelve-tone system for which he is famous. This is music which is based on a particular row of notes. Twelve-tone music is atonal because there is no feeling of being in any key, because of the equal use of every pitch.

</doc>
<doc id="16193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16193" title="Slovak koruna">
Slovak koruna

The Slovak Crown or Slovak Koruna (in Slovak, Slovenská koruna, "koruna" means crown) has been the currency used in Slovakia since February 8, 1993. It replaced the Czechoslovak Crown. Slovak koruna should not be mistaken with the Slovak koruna during the World War II (Slovak: Koruna slovenská, short Ks, notice word order)
The ISO 4217 code for the Slovak Koruna is SKK. The symbol is Sk. One Koruna is equal to 100 hellers (written shortly as "hal.", in Slovak singular: halier). The symbol is put after the amount. 
Slovak koruna exists in these values: 50 h, 1 Sk, 2 Sk, 5 Sk, 10 Sk, 20 Sk, 50 Sk, 100 Sk, 200 Sk, 500 Sk, 1000 Sk and 5000 Sk. 10 h and 20 h are not used since 31 December 2003.
The central rate of Slovak koruna against Euro was 35.4424 SKK as of 19 March 2007. Slovakia will use Euro instead of koruna from 1 January 2009.
Slovakia is using Euro now, so the Slovak koruna is not the valid currency any more.

</doc>
<doc id="16195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16195" title="War of the Roses">
War of the Roses

War of the Roses may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="16201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16201" title="Category:Cities in Kenya">
Category:Cities in Kenya

Cities in Kenya.

</doc>
<doc id="16202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16202" title="Category:Cities in Estonia">
Category:Cities in Estonia


</doc>
<doc id="16213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16213" title="Full Metal Jacket">
Full Metal Jacket

Full Metal Jacket is a 1987 American war drama movie directed by Stanley Kubrick. It is based on the Gustav Hasford book "The Short-Timers". The name of the movie comes from the full-metal jacketed bullets used in the military. The movie follows soldiers who are drafted to fight in the Vietnam War. The story is set in the late 1960s and follows the characters from their time in recruit training and them fighting in the war. 

</doc>
<doc id="16226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16226" title="Cambridgeshire">
Cambridgeshire

Cambridgeshire is a county in England. The counties around Cambridgeshire are Lincolnshire to the north, Norfolk to the northeast, Suffolk to the east, Essex and Hertfordshire to the south, and Bedfordshire and Northamptonshire to the west. The county town is Cambridge.

</doc>
<doc id="16227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16227" title="1468">
1468


</doc>
<doc id="16228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16228" title="English Channel">
English Channel

The English Channel is a body of water that separates the island of Great Britain from the rest of Europe. People who live in the UK and want to visit Europe, or people from Europe who want to visit the UK, can take a ferry across or ride a train under the channel in a special tunnel called the Channel Tunnel (nicknamed the "Chunnel"). Both the ferries and trains carry cars. It is 563 km long, 246 km wide, and its narrowest part (34 km) is the Strait of Dover. On a clear day, it is possible to see the cliffs of Dover from Calais on the French side.
In 1875, Matthew Webb became the first known person to swim the English Channel, crossing it in just under 22 hours. The first woman to do this was Gertrude Ederle. In 2004, over 600 people were recorded making the crossing. The fastest time was achieved by Bulgarian swimmer Peter Stoychev in 2007, who managed it in 7 hours. Recently, officials have outlawed swimming in the English Channel.
In France, it is known as "La manche" (The Sleeve).

</doc>
<doc id="16252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16252" title="Category:1886 deaths">
Category:1886 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16253" title="Category:1830 births">
Category:1830 births


</doc>
<doc id="16254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16254" title="Category:1830">
Category:1830


</doc>
<doc id="16256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16256" title="Upminster">
Upminster

Upminster is a place in the east London Borough of Havering, England. It is the eastern end of the London Underground system, on the District line. It is also a station on the c2c line, but Oyster cards and travel cards are not valid beyond Upminster. Nearby places include Hornchurch, Upminster Bridge and Cranham.
Saint Laurence Church in Upminster is where William Derham measured the speed of sound.

</doc>
<doc id="16258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16258" title="Colin Baker">
Colin Baker

Colin Baker (born June 8 1943) is an English actor. He is most famous as the Sixth Doctor on "Doctor Who" from 1984 to 1986. He has no relation to Tom Baker, who played the fourth incarnation of the Doctor.

</doc>
<doc id="16259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16259" title="Boxing">
Boxing

Boxing is one of the world's oldest combat sports. It is usually held in a ring and two boxers (people who fight in boxing fights) wear special gloves and try to hit one another.
There are a few different ways to win in boxing. One is by a way of a knockout, which is when a fighter is knocked to the ground and cannot get back up within ten seconds. Another way is by a technical knockout, which is when the fighter can not continue fighting or the referee stops the fight. Another possibility is winning on points, which a boxer gets by outboxing his or her opponent by hitting the opponent more often, harder, and more accurately. There are also draws in boxing. What in other sports are called "tie" in boxing it's called "draw". A referee can announce a technical draw due to an accidental cut or an accidental wound like a headbutt. Generally, it is considered a "no contest" (NC). However, from the second round, or four in some fights, if the score cards for both fighters are equal, the fight could be called a draw. Boxing is very popular around the world. It is a way to defeat your enemy by physical force.

</doc>
<doc id="16260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16260" title="1900s">
1900s

The 1900s was the decade that started on January 1, 1900, and ended on December 31, 1909. It was the decade which spanned the 19th century and the 20th century.

</doc>
<doc id="16261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16261" title="Tux Racer">
Tux Racer

Tux Racer is a video game made by Sunspire Studios where the player moves Tux, the Linux Penguin . In the game, Tux goes down a hill on his belly and collects fish. There are many things that slow Tux down. There are also things that may be hard for Tux to get past.
The developers of Tux Racer have long abandoned making and programing the game. But some programmers took the source code and they call their new version Extreme Tux Racer, it is much newer and has many improvements over the old Tux Racer.

</doc>
<doc id="16264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16264" title="Northwest Territories">
Northwest Territories

The Northwest Territories is a territory in northern Canada. 42,944 people lived there as of January 1, 2005. It is 1,171,918 square kilometers.
The capital of the Northwest Territories is Yellowknife. Yellowknife was the capital since 1967. The Northwest Territories have many geographical features, like the Great Bear Lake, the Mackenzie River and Nahanni River, which is a national park and a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
The Northwest Territories entered the Canadian Confederation in 1870. The Hudson's Bay Company gave the land to the Dominion of Canada. The Northwest Territories have one person in the House of Commons and the Canadian Senate. A lot of parts of the Northwest Territories were given to other provinces, including British Columbia, Alberta, Manitoba, Ontario, and Quebec. In 1999, the eastern part of the Northwest Territories became the territory of Nunavut.

</doc>
<doc id="16267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16267" title="Straight">
Straight

The word straight means something that goes in one direction without turns, bends, or curves. 
Lines can bend in a curve. If lines do not bend, they are straight. For example, the edge of a circle is not straight. The edge of a circle bends in a curve. 
Light bends in a curve in air and water, but travels in a straight line away from the earth or other bodies in outer space where there is no air.
The word "straight" is also a slang term for "heterosexual"

</doc>
<doc id="16270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16270" title="SS Richard Montgomery">
SS Richard Montgomery

The SS "Richard Montgomery" was an American ship built during World War II. "Montgomery" was wrecked off the coast of Kent in 1944 with around 1,500 tons of explosives on board, which continue to be a hazard to the area
"Montgomery" sank in the Thames estuary in August 1944. It was loaded with 15,000 tons of explosive munitions. The Admiralty decided to leave the wreck and its dangerous cargo undisturbed. The wreck lies just a few hundred yards offshore between an oil refinery and the several towns. Southend on Sea is just a couple of miles away on the other side of the Thames estuary. Rumours about the ship and its cargo have circulated in these towns ever since. Denials have been issued by ministers in the House of Commons in response to MPs questions about the presence on board of biological, chemical and gas warheads. Nevertheless, rumours persist that the real reason the wreck was not made safe was because of the existence of ‘dirty weapons’ on board.

</doc>
<doc id="16275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16275" title="Inno e Marcia Pontificale">
Inno e Marcia Pontificale

Hymn and Pontifical March (Inno e Marcia Pontificale) is the national anthem of the Vatican City. It was adopted in 1950.
O Roma felix - O Roma nobilis.<br>
Sedes es Petri, qui Romae effudit sanguinem,<br>
Petri, cui claves datae sunt regni caelorum.<br>
Pontifex, Tu successor es Petri;<br>
Pontifex, Tu magister es tuos confirmas fratres;<br>
Pontifex, Tu qui Servus servorum Dei,<br>
hominumque piscator, pastor es gregis,<br>
ligans caelum et terram.<br>
Pontifex, Tu Christi es vicarius super terram,<br>
rupes inter fluctus, Tu es pharus in tenebris;<br>
Tu pacis es vindex, Tu es unitatis custos,<br>
vigil libertatis defensor; in Te potestas.<br>
Tu Pontifex, firma es petra, et super petram hanc<br>
aedificata est Ecclesia Dei.<br>
O felix Roma - O Roma nobilis.<br>
[Hymn]<br>
O Rome immortal, city of martyrs and saints, <br>
O immortal Rome, accept our praises. <br>
Glory in the heavens to God our Lord <br>
And peace to men who love Christ! <br>
To you we come, angelic Pastor,<br>
In you we see the gentle Redeemer.<br>
You are the holy heir of our Faith,<br>
You are the comfort and the refuge of<br>
Those who believe and fight.<br>
Force and terror will not prevail,<br>
But truth and love will reign.<br>
[Pontifical March]<br>
Hail, O Rome,<br>
Eternal adobe of memories;<br>
A thousand palms and a thousand altars<br>
Sing your praises.<br>
O city of the Apostles,<br>
Mother and guide of the elect,<br>
Light of the nations,<br>
And hope of the world!<br>
Hail, O Rome!<br>
Your light will never fade;<br>
The splendour of your beauty<br>
Disperses hatred and shame.<br>
O city of the Apostles,<br>
Mother and guide of the elect,<br>
Light of the nations,<br>
And hope of the world!<br>

</doc>
<doc id="16279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16279" title="Category:219">
Category:219


</doc>
<doc id="16280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16280" title="Category:210s deaths">
Category:210s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16281" title="Category:210s">
Category:210s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 210s which begins in the year 210 and ends in the year 219.

</doc>
<doc id="16282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16282" title="Category:3rd century deaths">
Category:3rd century deaths

This category is a list of people who died in the 3rd century, organized by the year in which they died.
"See also": .

</doc>
<doc id="16283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16283" title="Category:323">
Category:323


</doc>
<doc id="16284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16284" title="Category:320s">
Category:320s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 320s which begins in the year 320 and ends in the year 329.

</doc>
<doc id="16285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16285" title="Category:160">
Category:160


</doc>
<doc id="16286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16286" title="Category:160s births">
Category:160s births


</doc>
<doc id="16287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16287" title="Category:2nd century births">
Category:2nd century births

This category is a list of people who were born in the 2nd century, organized by the year in which they were born.
"See also": .

</doc>
<doc id="16288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16288" title="Category:160s">
Category:160s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 160s which begins in the year 160 and ends in the year 169.

</doc>
<doc id="16289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16289" title="Category:2nd century">
Category:2nd century

This category is for articles and events specifically related to the 2nd century, which began in the year 101 and ended in the year 200.
Note that the year 200 is included in in the 3rd century but is actually part of the 2nd century.

</doc>
<doc id="16290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16290" title="Category:165">
Category:165


</doc>
<doc id="16291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16291" title="Category:160s deaths">
Category:160s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16292" title="Category:2nd century deaths">
Category:2nd century deaths

This category is a list of people who died in the 2nd century, organized by the year in which they died.
"See also": .

</doc>
<doc id="16295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16295" title="Northern Mariana Islands">
Northern Mariana Islands

The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is a group of islands in the Pacific Ocean that are a political division controlled by the United States. Its capital is Saipan.
The Northern Mariana Islands, together with Guam to the south, compose the Mariana Islands. The southern islands are limestone, with level terraces and fringing coral reefs. The northern islands are volcanic, with active volcanos on Anatahan, Pagan and Agrihan. The volcano on Agrihan has the highest elevation at . 
Anatahan Volcano is a small volcanic island north of Saipan. It is about long and wide. Anatahan began erupting suddenly from its east crater on May 10, 2003, at about 6 p.m. (0800 UTC). It has since alternated between eruptive and calm periods. On April 6, 2005, approximately of ash and rock were ejected, causing a large, black cloud to drift south over Saipan and Tinian.

</doc>
<doc id="16296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16296" title="1890s">
1890s


</doc>
<doc id="16297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16297" title="Benjamin Harrison">
Benjamin Harrison

Benjamin Harrison (August 20, 1833–March 13, 1901) was the 23rd president of the United States (1889-1893).
He was the grandson of William Henry Harrison. His home was in Indianapolis, Indiana. He was a member of the Republican party. He was elected to the White House in 1888, beating Grover Cleveland. Harrison is the only president to be the grandson of a former president. Harrison was the first president of the United States to use electricity in the White House.
After Benjamin Harrison served one full four-year term as president, Cleveland ran again and, this time, beat Harrison. Benjamin Harrison's first wife was Carrie Harrison. After Carrie Harrison died, his second wife was Mary Dimmick Harrison. Besides being president, Benjamin Harrison was a successful lawyer. He argued many cases before the United States Supreme Court.
Benjamin Harrison as president wanted to increase tariffs (a tax on goods that come into the country) for two reasons:
Harrison spent the money received from the tariffs to give money to injured American Civil War veterans.
Harrison was the first president to have a billion dollar budget for the government. People criticized him for that.
He also signed the Sherman Anti-Trust Act which gave the U.S. government the power to regulate big businesses. 
Harrison did not use that power much.

</doc>
<doc id="16298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16298" title="Pablo Picasso">
Pablo Picasso

Pablo Ruiz Picasso (25 October 1881 in Málaga, Spain – 8 April 1973) was a Spanish painter and sculptor. Pablo Picasso created over 20,000 images.
He is considered one of the greatest artists of the 20th century. He is best known as the co-founder of cubism. A work of art is cubist when the artist opts to break up objects and re-assemble them in abstract and geometric form. Picasso could draw and paint when he was very young. His first word was "lápiz", the Spanish word for "pencil".
Perhaps his most famous painting is "Guernica", which shows the horrors of war after the bombing of the town of Guernica.
He was 90 years old when a number of his works were shown in an exhibition at the Louvre in Paris. He was the first living artist to have an exhibition at the Louvre.
Picasso had four children with three women. He died of heart failure in Mougins, France, on 8 April 1973.
Pablo Picasso was born as the son of the painter and teacher José Ruiz Blasco and his wife María Picasso López. His birthplace was Málaga in Spain. In his first years, until 1898, he used both, the name of his father and his mother to sign pictures. Since around 1901, he only used his mother's one. At the age of eight, Picasso created his first oil painting called "The Picador". In 1891, Pablo moved with his family to Northern Spain, where his father taught at the "Instituto da Guarda". One year later, Pablo studied at this institute. Pablo's father was his teacher at this time. In 1896, he started to attend the art school in Barcelona after passing the entrance examination.<ref name="picasso-de/"></ref> One year later in 1897, Picasso started to study at the "Academia San Fernando" in Madrid. In 1898. he left the academy and went to a rest to Horta de Ebro. In 1900, he published his first illustrations in a newspaper in Barcelona. This had over 50 portraits.
Picasso also made in 1900 his first travel to Paris. There, he lived with Max Jacob, a poet and journalist. When Max was working during the day, Pablo slept and when Max slept in the night, Pablo worked. Picasso had to burn his paintings to keep himself warm. "Lovers in the Street" and "Moulin de la Galette" are examples of his work in Paris. Both pictures were painted in 1900.
He went back to Madrid in 1901. There, he worked for a newspaper called "Arte Joven". He was responsible for the illustration. He shortened his signature in this time to "Picasso" only rather than "Pablo Ruiz y Picasso". At the same time, his so called "Blue Period" started. Picasso made three trips to Paris. In 1904, he settled there. The "Blue Period" ended in 1904. "The Soup" and "Crouching Woman" are two examples of paintings from Picasso. Both were painted in 1903.
In 1905, Picasso made a trip to Holland. In the same year, Pablo's "Rosa Period" started. During this period, Picasso mostly painted circus motives. "Girl Balancing on a Ball" and "The Actor" are two paintings from this time. Both were painted in 1905 at the beginning of the Rosa Period. The end of the period is dated to 1907.
The next years in Picasso's life are called "Cubism". The start of this period is dated to the year 1909 and ended around 1912. This period was inspired by the French painter Paul Cezanne. This period is called "Cubism" because he often painted cubes. During this time, Pablo Picasso preferred to paint musical instruments and still-life objects. He also painted his friends.
Picasso had his first exhibition in the United States in 1911. One year later in 1912, he had his first exhibition in Great Britain. Pablo's father died in May 1913.
From 1912 to 1919 was Picasso's so called "Synthetic Cubism Period". During this time, he started to use collages in his paintings. His works from this time are called "papiers collés". He has spent the his time during the First World War in Rome. In 1914, Picasso spent the whole summer in Avignon. In 1915, he started to paint realistic again. At the end of the same year, his wife Eva died. During the World War, he also worked as a designer for Sergey Diaghilev.
In 1917, Picasso met Olga Koklova, a Russian dancer. In the same year, he painted several realistic portraits of her and their friends. One year later, he married her. The last summer of the wartime, Picasso and his wife spent in Barcelona and Biarritz.
In 1921, Picasso's son Paul was born. Due to this occasion, he painted several paintings with his wife and his son on it. Paul was Picasso's only legitimate son. In 1925, he took part in the first Surrealist exhibition in Paris. Between 1924 and 1926, Picasso preferred to paint abstract still lifes. in 1927, he got known to Marie-Thérèse Walter. She became his model and mistress. In 1928, he started a new period. He began to make sculptural works. In 1931, he left his wife and moved with his mistress to Boisgeloup. There they lived in a country home. There, Picasso had a room for his sculptures only. Since 1932, he used Marie-Thérèse as model. During a travel in Spain, he started to use the bullfight as a new topic of his paintings. In 1935, Picasso's daughter, Maïa, was born. At this time, he got divorced from his wife because of the birth of Maïa. In 1936, Picasso got a job as director of the Prado-Museum in Madrid. During this time, the Spanish Civil War started. German bombs fall on Guernica in Spain on 26 April 1937. Picasso used this impact to paint one of his most famous paintings, Guernica. This painting was completed in about 2 months. It was first shown in the Spanish Pavilion in Paris in 1937.
In 1938, Picasso's mother died. After the Second World War started on 1 September 1939, Picasso returned to Paris. Around 1943, he got known to the painter Françoise Gilot. She bore to him one son and one daughter. In 1941, he wrote his first play "Le désir attrapé par la queue" (English: "Desire Caught by the Tail"). It was first shown in 1944. Also in 1944, Picasso joined the communist Party. Picasso spent almost the full war time in Paris.

</doc>
<doc id="16299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16299" title="1880s">
1880s


</doc>
<doc id="16302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16302" title="1881">
1881


</doc>
<doc id="16306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16306" title="Category:1833 births">
Category:1833 births


</doc>
<doc id="16309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16309" title="Category:1951 deaths">
Category:1951 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16316" title="Wake Island">
Wake Island

Wake Island is an atoll (a type of island) in the Pacific Ocean, near Hawaii. It is controlled by the United States Army and United States Air Force. It is a territory of the United States, part of the United States Minor Outlying Islands. From December 1941 to August 1945 the Empire of Japan ruled Wake Island.
Wake is located to the west of the International Date Line and sits in the Wake Island Time Zone, one day ahead of the 50 U.S. states.
Referring to the atoll as an island is the result of a pre-World War II desire by the United States Navy to distinguish Wake from other atolls, most of which were Japanese territory.

</doc>
<doc id="16317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16317" title="William McKinley">
William McKinley

William McKinley (January 29, 1843 – September 14, 1901) was the 25th President of the United States, from 1897 until his assassination in 1901. 
Before he became President, McKinley was a congressman of Ohio. 
McKinley was inaugurated in 1897. This was the first presidential inauguration to be filmed.
When the USS "Maine" was sunk, the public wanted war. Congress declared war against Spain in Latin America. This was the Spanish-American War. It started the era of imperialism for the United States.
During his presidency, McKinley also supported higher tariffs (taxes on countries which trade with the US). During his term, the United States annexed Hawaii, Cuba, the Philippines, and Wake Island.
McKinley was elected to a second term as president in 1900. His second term did not last very long. He was shot by an anarchist named Leon Czolgosz on September 6, 1901. His abdominal gunshot wounds became infected and resulted in gangrene. He died on September 14. Czolgosz said the President committed war crimes in the Philippines and was an enemy of the people. Czolgosz was executed in the electric chair. McKinley was the third American President to be assassinated. 
After McKinley's death, his vice president Theodore Roosevelt became president.

</doc>
<doc id="16318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16318" title="Record producer">
Record producer

A record producer (or music producer) is a person who takes charge of a recording session, in the same kind of way that a movie director is in charge of filming movies. Record producers help musicians and recording artists to make singles and albums. The producer controls the recording sessions, coaches and guides the musicians and supervises the recording, mixing and mastering processes to make the music finalized. 

</doc>
<doc id="16321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16321" title="Gliwice">
Gliwice

Gliwice is a city in south Poland, in Silesian Voivodeship and along the Kłodnica River. According to a count in 2004, it has a population of 200,361 people.
In the late Middle Ages, around 1276, was the first known time that there was a reference to Gliwice in history. At first, it was ruled by Polish dukes, but later became a part of Bohemia in 1335. Later on, in 1526, it was conquered by Austria.
In the middle of the 18th century, Gliwice was taken from the Austrian ruling family and became a part of Prussia. However, in the unification, or coming together, of Germany in 1871, Gliwice became a part of the German empire.
In the 19th century, Gliwice became more developed and was home to many businesses, including one of the most famous theaters in Germany at the time.
In 1945, Gliwice passed into Polish rule.

</doc>
<doc id="16323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16323" title="First aid">
First aid

First aid is basic knowledge about how to help people who are suddenly sick (illnesses) or hurt (injuries or body damage). For example, first aid is used at accidents to help an injured person until he receives medical treatment (help by doctors, nurses or ambulances). First aid is also used to help people who suddenly become sick, until help arrives or they can be taken to medical care.
A person does not need much equipment to give first aid. A package of things useful to give first aid is called a first aid kit. Lives can be saved even without a first aid kit. First aid can be done just about anywhere that an emergency requires. In places far from hospitals, first aid may be the only help possible until the person can be taken to a hospital or clinic.
Emergency medical dispatchers are trained in first aid, so that if there is an emergency, they can give the caller some information on what to do until the ambulance arrives. This can include the "C-A-B" listed below.
First aid skills are kept simple on purpose so that people can remember and use them in an emergency to save at least one life.
One set of goals of first aid is called the "Three P's":
Another set of goals for keeping a badly hurt person alive is sometimes called "C-A-B" :
People can learn about first aid from books ("manuals") and videos. A good first aid kit will often include a simple First Aid Guide.
It is best to have good training to give first aid. In addition to books and videos, good training includes a good teacher and the chance to practice. For example, CPR is practiced on a dummy called a mannequin, so a student can learn to push down on someone's chest in an emergency without actually doing it to a person. The teacher makes sure the first aid student is doing the skill correctly.
Training can be given by an organization or by a professional medical person, like a doctor, a nurse, or a paramedic. Organizations that teach first aid include the International Red Cross, schools, hospitals, the military, Scout groups, and rescue groups such as fire departments.
The level of training needed to be a first aid helper changes from country to country. For example, in the United Kingdom and the United States, you can go on a 1-day course to become a first aid giver. In the U.K., you can go on a 4-day course for emergencies in a place of work. All firefighters, police officers, and soldiers are trained in first aid during their basic training.
First aid kits may be kept in cloth bags or plastic or metal boxes. They are often labeled with a symbol such as those on the upper right. A first aid kit may contain many items, but basic items that can help with first aid include:

</doc>
<doc id="16324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16324" title="1868">
1868


</doc>
<doc id="16325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16325" title="1814">
1814


</doc>
<doc id="16326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16326" title="1846">
1846

1846 was a year in the 19th century.

</doc>
<doc id="16327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16327" title="1705">
1705

Year 1705 (MDCCV) was a common year starting on Thursday. It was a common year starting on Monday on the 11-day slower Julian calendar. In the Swedish calendar, it was a common year starting on Sunday. The Swedish calendar is one day ahead of the Julian and ten days behind the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="16330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16330" title="Wausau, Wisconsin">
Wausau, Wisconsin

Wausau is a city in Marathon County in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. It is the largest city in the county, and it is the county seat (where the government of the county works). According to the 2000 census (official count), 38,426 people lived in the city.
The Wisconsin River flows through the middle of the city.

</doc>
<doc id="16331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16331" title="1749">
1749


</doc>
<doc id="16333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16333" title="1852">
1852

Year 1852 (MDCCCLII) was a leap year starting on Thursday of the Gregorian calendar. It was a leap year starting on Tuesday of the 12-day slower Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="16334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16334" title="701">
701

701 was a common year starting on Saturday of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="16335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16335" title="1158">
1158


</doc>
<doc id="16336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16336" title="1201">
1201

1201 is a year in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="16337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16337" title="Care Bears Movie II: A New Generation">
Care Bears Movie II: A New Generation

Care Bears Movie II: A New Generation is an animated movie from 1986, made by Canada's Nelvana Limited and distributed by Columbia Pictures. A follow-up to the first "Care Bears Movie", it tells of the beginnings of the Kingdom of Caring, and of the Care Bears' first Caring Mission, which takes place at a summer camp.
The movie made $8.5 million in the United States during its original run at theatres. Only one more addition to the original Care Bear trilogy, "Adventure in Wonderland", would premiere on the big screen the next summer.
"A New Generation" is a prequel to the Nelvana television series that would be shown on the ABC network the following September.
In this second movie, the Great Wishing Star helps True Heart Bear and Noble Heart Horse start the Care Bear Family, as they try to save them and the Kingdom from a demon villain named Dark Heart. A camper named Christy makes a deal with the villain that makes her a success at anything she never did before, even cartwheels. In turn, he plans to forever capture the Care Bears and Care Bear Cousins, one at a time, inside a magic red bag, and them trap them all inside a secret location somewhere at camp.
Christy's two friends, Dawn and John, later join the Care Bear Family so that they can put an end to his evil doings.
An episode of DiC's Care Bears show also took place at a summer camp. But the storyline of "A New Generation" does not borrow from it.
This was one of only two Care Bear movies to have Harmony Bear as a character; the other one was 2005's "Big Wish Movie". Her second and final 1980s appearance was in the animated series' "Great Race" episode.

</doc>
<doc id="16339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16339" title="35">
35

35 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Saturday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Gallus and Nonianus.

</doc>
<doc id="16340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16340" title="1025">
1025

1025 (MXXV) was a common year when the Julian calendar was used. It was the twenty-fifth year of the 2nd millennium and the 11th century.

</doc>
<doc id="16343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16343" title="Category:1846">
Category:1846


</doc>
<doc id="16346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16346" title="Category:1289">
Category:1289


</doc>
<doc id="16347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16347" title="Category:1280s">
Category:1280s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1280s which begins in the year 1280 and ends in the year 1289.

</doc>
<doc id="16349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16349" title="Category:1201">
Category:1201


</doc>
<doc id="16351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16351" title="Category:1158">
Category:1158


</doc>
<doc id="16354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16354" title="Category:1025">
Category:1025


</doc>
<doc id="16356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16356" title="Category:701">
Category:701


</doc>
<doc id="16357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16357" title="Category:700s">
Category:700s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 700s which begins in the year 700 and ends in the year 709.
Note that 700 is actually the last year of the 7th century; 701 is the actual first year of the 8th century.

</doc>
<doc id="16358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16358" title="Category:496 BC deaths">
Category:496 BC deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16364" title="Category:1705">
Category:1705


</doc>
<doc id="16365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16365" title="Category:1843 births">
Category:1843 births


</doc>
<doc id="16366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16366" title="Category:1843">
Category:1843


</doc>
<doc id="16368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16368" title="Mikhail Bakunin">
Mikhail Bakunin

Mikhail Alexandrovich Bakunin (30 May 1814 – 1 July 1876) was a Russian anarchist. He was one of the early founders of anarchism.
Mikhail was born in the Russian Empire to a family of Russian nobles, He spent his youth as a junior officer in the Russian army but resigned his commission in 1835. He went to school in Moscow to study philosophy and began to attend radical groups where he was greatly influenced by Alexander Herzen. Bakunin left Russia in 1842 for Dresden, and eventually Paris where he met George Sand, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon and Karl Marx
He was eventually deported from France for speaking against Russia's oppression of Poland. In 1849 he was apprehended in Dresden for his participation in the Czech rebellion of 1848. He was turned over to Russia where he was imprisoned in Peter-Paul Fortress in Saint Petersburg. He remained there until 1857, when he was exiled to a work camp in Siberia.
He escaped to Japan, the U.S. and finally ended up in London for a short time, then Switzerland and Italy.
In 1868, Bakunin joined the socialist International Working Men's Association, a federation of trades union and workers' organizations. A showdown with Marx, a key figure in the General Council of the International, ended with Bakunin expelled for having a "secret organisation within the International".
The far larger Bakuninist international outlasted its small Marxist rival, which was isolated in New York. Bakunin promoted the basic ideas of syndicalism and of anarchism. From 1870 to 1876, Bakunin wrote some of his longer works, such as "Statism and Anarchy" and "God and the State". 
The Paris Commune fitted many elements of Bakunin's anarchist programme – self-management, mandates delegates, a militia system with elected officers, and decentralisation. Despite declining health, Bakunin also tried to join anarchists in Bologna, Italy, but was forced to return to Switzerland in disguise, where he settled in Lugano. He remained active in the worker's and peasant's movements of Europe and was also a major influence on movements in Egypt and Latin America.

</doc>
<doc id="16377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16377" title="Internet Relay Chat">
Internet Relay Chat

Internet Relay Chat (IRC) is a chat system on the Internet. It allows people from around the world to have conversations together, but it can also be used for two people to chat privately.
The IRC chat rooms are also called "IRC channels". These channels are on IRC servers, which you can connect to by finding that server's information. This information will often begin with "irc," then a period, the name of the server, then another period, and finally, .com .org or .net. An example would be 'irc.[Servername].org'
There are small IRC servers (for example, OperaNet) to medium IRC servers (freenode and DalNet, which have about 30,000 users) and big IRC servers (for example, EFNet, UnderNet, which have over 100,000 users).
An IRC client is needed to use IRC. An IRC client is a computer program designed to work with IRC. There are many Java web browser based clients as well as application based. Popular stand-alone clients includes mIRC for Microsoft Windows and XChat for Linux and Microsoft Windows. The Opera web browser has an IRC client built into the browser. ChatZilla is a chat client which is a plugin to Mozilla Firefox.
IRC bots are computer programs used to help control and protect channels.
IRC channels usually begin with a hash (#). 
IRC is an open protocol that uses TCP and optionally TLS. An IRC server can connect to other IRC servers to expand the IRC network. Users access IRC networks by connecting a client to a server. There are many client and server programs, such as mIRC and the Bahamut IRCd, respectively. Most IRC servers do not require users to log in, but a user will have to set a nickname before being connected.
IRC was originally a plain text protocol (although later extended), which on request was assigned port 194/TCP by IANA. However, most servers now run IRC on 6667/TCP and nearby port numbers (for example TCP ports 6112-6119) so that the server does not have to be run with root privileges.
This is a list of some programs that allow users to connect to IRC.

</doc>
<doc id="16382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16382" title="Spring">
Spring

Spring is the season after winter and before summer. Days become longer and weather gets warmer in the temperate zone because the Earth tilts towards the Sun. In many parts of the world plants grow and flowers bloom. Often people with hay fever suffer more, because of the allergens. Many animals have their breeding seasons in spring.
In many parts of the world it rains for hours. This helps the plants grow and the flowers bloom.
At the start of spring, people suffering from seasonal affective disorder will feel better. Hay fever, however, often becomes worse.
Spring break is a vacation period in early spring at universities and schools in various countries in the world. Holidays celebrated in spring include Passover and Easter.

</doc>
<doc id="16384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16384" title="1862">
1862

1862 was a year.

</doc>
<doc id="16385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16385" title="1801">
1801

1801 was the first year of the 19th century.

</doc>
<doc id="16386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16386" title="Muse">
Muse

The Muses are goddesses representing different arts and sciences in Greek mythology. They are the daughters of Mnemosyne and Zeus.
Most commonly the Muses are:
The word "muse" is also sometimes used for a person who inspires somebody else, or any other type of inspiring object. Muse can also be used to describe one's creative thoughts, such as poetry or a musical composition.

</doc>
<doc id="16388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16388" title="Yes (band)">
Yes (band)

Yes are a progressive rock band that formed in London, England in 1968 that is among the most influential progressive bands of all time. The band has received wide critical praise for their work. Their best known songs include "Owner of a Lonely Heart", "Roundabout" and "I've Seen All Good People". 

</doc>
<doc id="16389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16389" title="Mason Williams">
Mason Williams

Mason Williams (born August 24, 1938) is an easy listening guitarist. His most famous work is "Classical Gas".
Also a photographer, Williams published a life-sized photo print of a Greyhound bus in the 1960s. He appeared with the print on the cover of his first album, "The Mason Williams Phonograph Record". The print is now in the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, DC.

</doc>
<doc id="16390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16390" title="Leaf">
Leaf

A leaf is an above-ground plant organ. Its main functions are photosynthesis and gas exchange. A leaf is often flat, so it absorbs the most light, and thin, so that the sunlight can get to the chloroplasts in the cells. Most leaves have stomata, which open and close. They regulate carbon dioxide, oxygen, and water vapour exchange with the atmosphere.
Plants with leaves all year round are evergreens, and those that shed their leaves are deciduous. Deciduous trees and shrubs generally lose their leaves in autumn. Before this happens, the leaves change colour. The leaves will grow back in spring.
Leaves come in many shapes and sizes. The biggest undivided leaf is that of a giant edible arum. This lives in marshy parts of the tropical rain forest of Borneo. One of its leaves can be ten feet across and have a surface area of over 30 square feet (~2.8 sq. metres).
A leaf is a plant organ and is made up of a collection of tissues in a regular organisation. The major tissue systems present are:
The epidermis is the outer layer of cells covering the leaf. It forms the boundary separating the plant's inner cells from the external world.
The epidermis is covered with pores called "stomata". They are part of a complex with a pore surrounded on each side by chloroplast-containing guard cells, and two to four subsidiary cells that lack chloroplasts. Opening and closing of the stoma complex regulates the exchange of gases and water vapor between the outside air and the interior of the leaf and plays an important role in allowing photosynthesis without letting the leaf dry out.
Most of the interior of the leaf between the upper and lower layers of epidermis is a tissue called the mesophyll (Greek for "middle leaf"). This assimilation tissue is the main place photosynthesis takes place in the plant. The products of photosynthesis are sugars, which can be turned into other products in plant cells.
In ferns and most flowering plants, the mesophyll is divided into two layers: 
Leaves are normally green in color, which comes from chlorophyll found in the chloroplasts. Plants that lack chlorophyll cannot photosynthesize.
The 'veins' are a dense network of xylem, which supply water for photosynthesis, and phloem, which remove the sugars produced by photosynthesis. The pattern of the veins is called 'venation'. 
In angiosperms the pattern of venation differs in the two main groups. Venation is usually is parallel in monocotyledons, but is an interconnecting network in broad-leaved plants (dicotyledons). 
Many leaves are covered in trichomes (small hairs) which have a wide range of structures and functions. Some trichomes are prickles, some are scaled, some secrete substances such as oil. Carnivorous plants secrete digestive enzymes from trichomes.
What leaves look like on the plant varies greatly. Closely related plants have the same kind of leaves because they have all descended from a common ancestor. The terms for describing leaf shape and pattern is shown, in illustrated form, at Wikibooks.
Different terms are usually used to describe leaf placement (phyllotaxis):
Leaves form a helix pattern centered around the stem, with (depending upon the species) the same angle of divergence. There is a regularity in these angles and they follow the numbers in a Fibonacci sequence. This tends to give the best chance for the leaves to catch light.
Two basic forms of leaves can be described considering the way the blade (lamina) is divided. 
Some leaves have a petiole (leaf stem). Sessile leaves do not: the blade attaches directly to the stem. Sometimes the leaf blad surrounds the stem, giving the impression that the shoot grows through the leaf.
In some "Acacia" species, such as the Koa Tree ("Acacia koa"), the petioles are expanded or broadened and function like leaf blades; these are called phyllodes. There may or may not be normal pinnate leaves at the tip of the phyllode.
A stipule, present on the leaves of many dicotyledons, is an appendage on each side at the base of the petiole resembling a small leaf. Stipules may be shed or not shed.
In the course of evolution, many species have leaves which are adapted to other functions.

</doc>
<doc id="16391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16391" title="War on Terrorism">
War on Terrorism

The War on Terrorism or War on Terror is a campaign that the United States and some of its allies started to remove terrorist groups and to punish the states that sponsor terrorism. It replaced the Cold War.The former United States President Bush's argument was that the countries like North Korea, Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Syria, and Libya (also known as the Axis of Evil) were a direct threat to the United States and its allies. The term was typically used with a particular focus on militant Islamists and al-Qaeda.
The Administration of US President Barack Obama uses the term "Overseas Contingency Operation".

</doc>
<doc id="16396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16396" title="Category:1814 births">
Category:1814 births


</doc>
<doc id="16399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16399" title="Alkali metal">
Alkali metal

Alkali metals are the chemical elements in group one of the periodic system. They are silver-coloured when pure, soft and have only one valence electron. They like to make reactions in which they give up this single electron and then have a charge of +1. They react strongly with water and because of this, they have to be stored in petrol. Alkali metals are the first group in the periodic table. They are never found in nature uncombined because they are unstable and they react fast to other elements. They bond well with all elements except the noble gases. When they are in air, they quickly turn black. 
The alkali metals are lithium (Li), sodium (Na), potassium (K), rubidium (Rb), caesium (sometimes written "cesium", although "caesium" is preferred) (Cs), and francium (Fr). Lithium is the least reactive. Although it was thought before that francium would be the most reactive, although it is very rare, it was more recently predicted that caesium is in fact more reactive than francium due to relativity.
Sodium is the most important alkali metal. One of the most important salts of sodium is sodium chloride (NaCl) (common 'table salt'). It also forms a hydroxide, sodium hydroxide (NaOH), which is commonly called 'caustic soda'. It is a very strong base.

</doc>
<doc id="16401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16401" title="Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl">
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl

Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is a 2003 movie from Walt Disney Pictures. It is set in the early eighteenth century in the British Empire.
When the movie begins, a young girl called Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley) is seen on a ship with her father, who is the major of a British colony in the Caribbean. Elizabeth catches sight of a boy in the water and the ship's crew save him. He is called Will Turner (Orlando Bloom). Elizabeth finds a chain around his neck with a golden medallion. This leads her to believe that Will is a pirate. She takes the medallion and keeps it.
Eight years later, Elizabeth has grown up, and her father is now governor of Port Royal. James Norrington, a commodore in the Royal Navy, proposes to her. She accepts, despite the fact that she in love with Will Turner, who is her father's blacksmith.
When James Norrington proposes to her, she faints (seemingly overcome by Norrington's proposal, but she actually fainted because her corset was too tight, and she could not breathe.) and falls off the ledge into the water below. Jack Sparrow sees her fall and rescues her. Despite this, James Norrington believes he should be arrested. Jack then threatens Elizabeth's life, and tries to escape. However, his escape fails due to Will Turner and he is taken to prison.
That night, the cursed crew of the "Black Pearl" attack Port Royal and kidnap Elizabeth. Jack Sparrow escapes his prison. He steals a ship to travel to Tortuga, a privateer port where he hopes to assemble a crew. Will Turner goes with him to rescue Elizabeth. Jack Sparrow went to Tortuga for the treasure, not for Elizabeth. On Will and Jack's journey to Tortuga, Will finds out his father was a pirate.
Elizabeth, on board the "Black Pearl", learns that the crew is under the curse of a chest of Aztec gold. They need the blood of each crew member to break the curse. However, Bootstrap Bill was killed, and they still need his blood, or the blood of his descendant. They believe Elizabeth is his descendant. They plan to spill her blood on the chest of Aztec gold in hopes to break the curse. 
Will secretly takes away Elizabeth to safety and the zombies of the Black Pearl invade the British's ship positioned not far from the land. An epic fight goes on between the zombies and the british, Jack Sparrow and Captain Barbosa (Captain of the Black Pearl), and Will Turner/Elizabeth Swan and some left over zombies.
Jack Sparrow uses his one shot to shoot Captain Barbosa and Will puts his blood on the Aztec Gold, causing the bullet to cause damage to Captain Barbosa. 
The British win the fight against the zombies that are now humans. Jack Sparrow is captured by the British but Will Turner saves him from the lynching and Jack escapes with the Black Pearl. Before Barbosa, he use to be the Captain of the Black Pearl.

</doc>
<doc id="16407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16407" title="1866">
1866


</doc>
<doc id="16410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16410" title="Buenaventura Durruti">
Buenaventura Durruti

Buenaventura Durruti Dumange (1896-1936) was a Spanish anarchist leader. He was born in the town of León and died in Madrid when he was killed by a person using a gun. Durruti was a central figure of Spanish anarchism during the country's civil war of 1936-1939. He helped to fight against fascism.

</doc>
<doc id="16411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16411" title="Chester">
Chester

Chester is a city in the north-west of England. It is almost 2000 years old and was started by Romans. A person from Chester is called a Cestrian.
Chester is on the river Dee, and is the county town of the county of Cheshire. It is near to the country Wales. Almost 120,000 people live in Chester. It is just south of Liverpool.
Near to Chester is Chester Zoo, which is the biggest zoo in the United Kingdom. There are other interesting places in Chester, and many are connected to its history. For example, there is the old Roman amphitheatre. This is the biggest in the UK. The Rows are unusual shops. In the centre of the town, the main streets have two rows of shops, one on top of the other. The Rows have been part of Chester since the Middle Ages. 

</doc>
<doc id="16413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16413" title="The Secret of NIMH">
The Secret of NIMH

The Secret of NIMH is an animated movie directed by Don Bluth and released by his studio United Artists in 1982. The movie was based on Robert C. O'Brien's children's book "Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH". (The main character's name was changed to "Brisby", so that its audiences would not take its sound for the Frisbee toy.) Bluth began the idea of creating this movie after disagreement with Disney over "The Fox and the Hound". Before that he worked with the previous Disney animated movie which was also about mice: "The Rescuers". Later he made another animated movie about mice called "An American Tail", which came out in 1986.
A widow mouse named Mrs. Brisby does what she can to move her home, a stone block, before humans invade her place with a tractor. To do that, she must find help from a comic, love-seeking crow and a group of very smart rats from NIMH, the National Institute of Mental Health. In order to get the task done, she must see the leader of the rats, an old magician named Nicodemus, for a glowing red amulet that could rescue her home and her children (Martin, Teresa, Cynthia and a sick Timothy). She also learns, from him, a secret about his group that could forever change her life.
In spite of its critical success, this movie had a mediocre run at the box office, mostly because of a much bigger rival, Steven Spielberg's E. T. (Ironically, Spielberg saw the Bluth movie and asked its director to work on "An American Tail".)
Many fans and critics have called "NIMH" Don Bluth's most important work and magnum opus and masterpiece. Even though this movie was not a big box office success, "An American Tail" and 1997's "Anastasia" became his most successful works in later years.
In 1998, MGM released a direct-to-video sequel called "The Secret of NIMH 2: Timmy to the Rescue". In the sequel, Timothy goes to a place called Thorn Valley because he wants to become a hero like his father. His brother Martin has turned evil (although he does not want to), and Timothy must fight him in order to save the Rats of NIMH. At Thorn Valley Timothy learns from a young girl mouse that the mice who were thought to have been killed during the escape from NIMH are still alive, so he and the rats try to rescue them.
The sequel was hated by the fans of the first movie and the movie critics because of its clichéd and familiar storyline, and because many people thought that the magic of Don Bluth's dark and original "NIHM" was destroyed by the sequel, because MGM toned down the darkness of the story.

</doc>
<doc id="16416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16416" title="397">
397


</doc>
<doc id="16418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16418" title="Category:Animated movies">
Category:Animated movies

This category lists animated movies with Simple English Wikipedia pages.

</doc>
<doc id="16422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16422" title="Category:397">
Category:397


</doc>
<doc id="16423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16423" title="Category:390s">
Category:390s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 390s which begins in the year 390 and ends in the year 399.

</doc>
<doc id="16427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16427" title="Nonmetal">
Nonmetal

Nonmetal or non-metal is a chemical element that does not have the properties of a metal. They can either be gases or elements that do not have the properties of a metals. Examples of gaseous elements are: hydrogen, helium, oxygen, nitrogen, fluorine, neon, or radon, just to name a few. An example of a solid that is a nonmetal is sulfur. It is yellow and not shiny at all. An example of a liquid that is a nonmetal is bromine. It is red. A non metal is also a good insulator for heat and cold. Usually, gases or brittle solids are non-metals. Elements on the periodic table can be classified as metal, semimetal, or non-metal.
Five times more elements are metals than nonmetals. Two of the nonmetals—hydrogen and helium—make up over 99 per cent of the observable Universe, and one—oxygen—makes up close to half of the Earth's crust, oceans and atmosphere. Living organisms are also composed almost entirely of nonmetals, and nonmetals form many more compounds than metals.

</doc>
<doc id="16433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16433" title="Holly Marie Combs">
Holly Marie Combs

Holly Marie Combs (born December 3, 1973 in San Diego, California) is an American actress. She is best known for working on the television series "Charmed". Before "Charmed", she work in the TV series "Picket Fences".

</doc>
<doc id="16434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16434" title="Bengal tiger">
Bengal tiger

The Bengal tiger ("Panthera tigris tigris") is a tiger subspecies native to the Indian subcontinent. It lives in Bhutan, Nepal, Bangladesh and northern India. It is the National animal of both India and Bangladesh.
The tiger's habitat includes tropical moist evergreen forests, tropical dry forests, tropical and subtropical moist deciduous forests, mangroves, subtropical and temperate upland forests, and alluvial grasslands.
In 2010 it became endangered by IUCN. There are less than 2,500 of these tigers. There are about 1,520–1,909 in India, 440 in Bangladesh, 124–229 in Nepal and 67–81 in Bhutan. New tiger census 2014 showed the population of tiger in India approximately 2,226 which is 30% more from 1706, counted in the year 2010. 
The Bengal tiger's coat is yellow to light orange. Its stripes go from dark brown to black. The belly and the inside parts of the limbs are white. The tail is orange with black rings.
They are the second largest tiger, after the Siberian tiger also known as the Amur Tiger. Male Bengal tigers have a total length, including the tail, from . Females go from . The average weight of males is . Females are .

</doc>
<doc id="16445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16445" title="Wikipedia:Transwiki log/Articles moved to here">
Wikipedia:Transwiki log/Articles moved to here


</doc>
<doc id="16497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16497" title="Category:1801">
Category:1801


</doc>
<doc id="16499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16499" title="Taekwondo">
Taekwondo

Taekwondo (also spelled tae kwon do, taekwon-do, or more exactly taegwondo) is a martial art (system of fighting) of Korean origin, similar enough to the Japanese karate. It is based on the utilization of the hands and feet in order to attack or to be defended from an adversary, although some techniques use fingertips, elbows, or knees in order to strike the opponent. Taekwondo is a national sport in South Korea, "kyeorugi" is a sport event in the Olympic Games. In the Korean alphabet hangeul, "태" (跆) signifies "to strike with the foot"; "권" (拳) to "strike with the hand"; and "도" (道) signifies "way", "road" or "route". "Taekwondo" can therefore be translated as "way of the foot and of the fist". 
Taekwondo refers to a great tradition of Korean martial arts (higher or under 2000 years), but exists in its current form only near 50 years. Today, it has been changed into a sport practiced very much. In the Olympic Games of Seoul 1988 and of Barcelona 1992 it became Olympic sport of exhibition and at present it has come to be Olympic sport of competition.
Taekwondo is best known for its use of kicks. This makes it different from other martial arts such as karate or certain forms of southern kung-fu. Kicking is important because the leg is the most powerful and longest body part that the martial artist can use as a weapon. Therefore, a fighter who kicks well can hurt his opponent without hurting himself.
One of the most important exercises is the act of doing "poomse" ("katas" in terminology of karate). The "poomses" are the arranged groups of movements of defense and of attack. They simulate a combat against diverse adversaries, and they are related directly to the different degrees of belts. They are done with the purpose to improve the equilibrium, the elasticity, the rapidity and the control of the different movements.
Taekwondo as a sport and as an exercise is popular among people of both sexes and many ages. Taekwondo develops force, speed, balance, flexibility, and stamina. It also involves mental focus. Breaking boards, for example, demonstrates a union of mental and physical discipline. Breaking a board with one's hand or foot requires both the physical mastery of the technique and a concentrated focus on one's force.
Even though some things in Tae Kwon Do have changed over the years, respect is not one of those things. Respect is the biggest part of Tae Kwon Do, without respect Tae Kwon Do would not be the huge art it is today. Some of the things that have changed are the belts. The original colors are still the same, but every time you test you either receive a new belt or receive a stripe to place on you current belt. Legend has it that long ago there was just one belt. There still were colors though: white, the color the belt was originally; yellow, the color achieved thorough sweat soaking into the belt; green, a color that came though practicing outside and falling; blue, the color of the sky; red, the color of blood; and black, the color of all the dirt mixing with everything else on the belt.
There are several world-wide Taekwondo associations. The most known of them are:

</doc>
<doc id="16500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16500" title="Fish and chips">
Fish and chips

Fish and chips is a kind of food that originally came from the United Kingdom. It is a popular kind of fast food in some parts of the world. As the name says, it made of chips and a deep fried fish fillet.
Shops and restaurants that have fish and chips are easy to find in England and Wales. They are common in British cities. The first Fish and Chips were found in the East end of London in the late 19th Century. So they are not as traditional as we think. 
Traditionally, cod, haddock, or (rarely) flounder are used to make fish and chips. Of these, cod is by far the most popular. Other fish with white meat can be used as well, for example whiting or plaice. Many places that serve fish and chips have more than one kind of fish. The customers can then choose what kind of fish they want...
The fish is always dipped in batter, which is a kind of liquid mixture which hardens upon frying. After that, it will be fried for a short time. The phrase 'fish & chips' implies that it will be fried in batter; of course, in a fish restaurant, grilling or boiling would be alternatives. Fish cooked like that do not have batter. Typically Fish and Chips is eaten with lots of vinegar and salt. 
The chips are made from sliced potatoes. They are larger than French fries. Large slices of potatoes are fried.
Very often there are other side-dishes that are served with Fish and chips (also called a 'chippie' or 'fish shop'). They include mushy peas, onions, gherkins(which are baby cucumbers),baked beans and saveloys (long sausages). Sometimes, you can ask for 'scrapings' which are the bits of crunchy batter that have fallen off the fish when it was frying.
In Northern England there is also the variety chips and gravy (a little sauce) on the chips. It is less common in the rest of the country but sometimes you can also find 'curry sauce' in other parts of the UK.
Fish and chips are also sold out of mobile shops. Very often the shops and restaurants that serve fish and chips do not have a license to serve alcohol. Some nutritionists criticize fish and chips, because the meal contains a large amount of fat.

</doc>
<doc id="16504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16504" title="Marxist economics">
Marxist economics

Marxist economics comes from the ideas of a philosopher named Karl Marx applied to economics. He created it to explain the "rules of motion" of production and exchange under capitalism. This theory was used to argue against the middle class theories of economics common at that time. Marx wanted this to be a tool for the working class (the proletariat) to use to overthrow capitalism and replace it with socialism, then with communism. Socialism, would be a step towards the disappearance of the state, and communism would be, according to Marx, a society where goods and services would be distributed "to each according to his need, from each according to his ability."
Marx used the Labor Theory of Value, which says that the value of a commodity is determined by the labor required to produce it. More specifically, Marx defined the value of a commodity as the Socially necessary labor time required to produce it, the average (taken across all of society) time required to produce a given commodity under the average conditions of production. It follows from this that the [working class] is responsible for the production of all of the [value] (wealth) consumed by all members of society.
Marx viewed the capitalist class (the bourgeoisie), those who control the means of production, as leech-like and unnecessary; they are not necessary for the production of the goods society must consume in order to meet human needs and reproduce itself. Rather, Marx saw the capitalist class as getting wealth for itself by the exploitation of the working class. Marx argued that wages under capitalism are determined not by the value created by workers during a given period of time, but by the cost of their labor power (ability to work). He argued that the cost of labor power is determined by the cost of the goods and services (food, clothing, shelter, child care, education etc.) necessary to maintain and reproduce workers. So, capitalists do not pay workers for the value they create: they extract Surplus value, the difference between the value created by a worker and the cost of their labor power (their wages), from the working class. In other words, surplus value is unpaid labor performed by the working class for the capitalist class, which Marx termed exploitation.
Marx argued that because the capitalist class enriches itself by the exploitation of the working class, the economic interests of the two classes are opposed and therefore incompatible. He saw the dispossession of the capitalists and the seizure of control of the means of production by the working class as historically progressive in that it would bring about the end of class society, remove the contradictions inherent under capitalism (a result of the antagonism of the two major classes, the bourgeoisie and proletariat), and qualitatively increase the scope of human development in many areas.

</doc>
<doc id="16510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16510" title="South African rand">
South African rand

The rand (sign: R; code: ZAR) is the South African currency. 100 cents make up one rand. 
The rand is named after an area near Johannesburg called the Rand, which is famous for its gold mines.
The symbol for the rand is a capital R, written before the sum. Thus, one hundred rands is written as R100.

</doc>
<doc id="16511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16511" title="The Care Bears Movie">
The Care Bears Movie

The Care Bears Movie is a Canadian/American animated movie that came out on March 29, 1985. It was produced by Nelvana Limited of Canada, and was distributed by The Samuel Goldwyn Company. It was the first in a trilogy(or set of three) of big-screen movies that had the Care Bears in lead roles, and the first to be based directly on a toy line. The movie's success led to a spin-off television series that premiered on ABC a year after its release.
There were well-known celebrities among the movie's starring line-up, such as Carole King, who wrote and sung its opening theme. John Sebastian and NRBQ also contributed to its score. The movie also had the voices of Mickey Rooney, Canadian actress Georgia Engel, and voice actress Cree Summer.
It was made as a full-length commercial for the title toys, and had mixed views from critics. But its $23 million gross at the box office made it the biggest animated work outside the Disney market when it came out. It is one of the most profitable releases in the animation industry (its cost was $3 million). The movie saved Nelvana from closing down when "Rock & Rule", the company's first production, did not do well.
The Care Bears Movie holds financial records for non-Disney animation (at the time it first came out), for Canadian moviemaking (only rivalled by "Porky's" and, more recently, "The Wild"), and for its distributor Samuel Goldwyn.
Its director, Arna Selznick, was one of three women to ever lead the production for a full-length cartoon. To this day, she is proud of these efforts, though she was aware of the strategy to promote it.
In this movie, an orphanage caretaker named Mr. Cherrywood tells the story of how the Care Bears come to help two children who do not care for anyone (Kim and Jason). The Care Bears live in Care-a-lot, a cloud-filled place up in the sky. As the two of them become friends with the Bears, a carnival magician's helper, Nicholas, turns from good to bad, because of an evil spirit he got from an old book.
When the boy's evil grows more and more, the Care Bears and their Cousins (from the Forest of Feelings), along with Kim and Jason, come back to Earth to end his evil doings. In turn, the carnival and the whole world will be saved.

</doc>
<doc id="16512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16512" title="1779">
1779


</doc>
<doc id="16513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16513" title="1700">
1700


</doc>
<doc id="16515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16515" title="1322">
1322


</doc>
<doc id="16516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16516" title="1463">
1463


</doc>
<doc id="16517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16517" title="1205">
1205

1205 is a year in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="16520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16520" title="Victoria (Australia)">
Victoria (Australia)

Victoria is a state in Australia, in the south-east corner of the country. Its capital, largest and most-populated city is Melbourne. Geelong is Victoria's second biggest city, Ballarat is the third and Bendigo the fourth.
At the end of 2015 Victoria's population was an estimated 5,996,400 . After British settlement in Australia in 1788, it was called the Port Phillip District of New South Wales. In 1851, it became an independent colony. It was named after Queen Victoria. In 1901 it became a state in Australia.
Victoria's premier is Daniel Andrews from the Labor Party.
The state's emblems are:
Victoria has the highest population density of a state in Australia. Highways lead to and from population centres, mainly Melbourne and other major cities. Rail transport in Victoria is common. Major railway line operators include Metro Trains Melbourne, V/Line and Pacific National.
Melbourne Airport is the biggest domestic and international airport for Victoria. It is linked to Melbourne by the Tullamarine Freeway.
The Port of Melbourne is the largest port for cargo in Australia, located in Melbourne near Yarra River. Additional seaports are at Westernport Bay, Geelong, and Portland.
See main article Melbourne.
The city of Melbourne has many attractions, including shopping, the Crown Casino, Melbourne Zoo, Melbourne Museum, Melbourne Aquarium, Melbourne Docklands, Southbank and St. Kilda. Melbourne is also the home of cultural and sporting icons such as The Arts Centre, National Gallery of Victoria and the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG) which held the 1956 Summer Olympic Games.
The historic cities of Ballarat, Beechworth, Bendigo, Castlemaine, Maldon and Daylesford which were all towns built on the goldfields during the 1850s.
Natural attractions include The Twelve Apostles on the Great Ocean Road, Wilson's Promontory, The Grampians, Buchan Caves, Gippsland Lakes and the penguins on Phillip Island. The Dandenong Ranges just east of Melbourne has the Puffing Billy Railway and Healesville Sanctuary.
The Murray River which is the state's northern border, has towns including Echuca and Mildura. Boating, fishing and other water sports are popular along the river.
Geelong, south west of Melbourne on Corio Bay, has many beaches, and hosts the Australian International Airshow. Nearby is the Bellarine Peninsula, which has many famous beaches such as Bells Beach, Torquay and Queenscliff.
The Mornington Peninsula is well known for its beaches and wineries.
The Victorian Alpine Region in the Australian Alps is popular for skiing with resorts at Falls Creek, Mount Hotham, and Mount Buffalo.
Victoria is the home of AFL, with ten of the eighteen clubs of the Australian Football League based in Victoria. The traditional Grand Final is held at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on the last Saturday in September.
Victoria's cricket team, the Victorian Bushrangers play in the national Pura Cup cricket competition.
Victoria has one team each represented in the National Rugby League and the Australian Rugby Championship, the Melbourne Storm and Melbourne Rebels respectively.
Victoria's climate varies greatly despite its small size. It ranges from the snowfields in the north east where the temperatures can be below freezing, to the dry semi-arid Mallee area of the north west where it can get very hot.
Overall, the southern position of Victoria means it tends to be a bit cooler and wetter than the other Australian mainland states.
The hottest temperature recorded in Victoria was 48.8 °C at Hopetoun, on the 9 February, 2009.
The coldest temperature recorded in Victoria was -11.7 °C at Omeo, on 15 June, 1965.
The highest daily rainfall was 375mm at Tanbryn, on 22 March, 1983.
Victoria was the scene of much volcanic activity which started 40 million years ago. The Western Volcanic Plains which cover 10% of the state are the third largest volcanic plains in the world. Most of the plains were formed about six million years ago. There are about 400 volcanoes on the plains.
It is unknown exactly when humans settled in Victoria. A site near Keilor has evidence of Australian Aborigines living near on the Maribyrnong River more than 31,000 years ago. Victoria was one of the most populated areas of Australia. The Aborigines used fire-stick farming to burn the volcanic plains regularly, and they became some of the biggest grass plains in the world. This supported large numbers of animals such as kangaroos and wallabies. The Kulin federation were a large language group that lived on the plains and included the Watha wurrung, Boon wurrung, Woi wurrung, Daung wurrung and Djadja wurrung people. Other groups in Victoria included the Jari Jari, Ladji Ladji, Wemba Wemba, Wergaia, Jardwadjali, Gunnai, Waywurru and the Taungurung. In the rivers, creeks and wetlands the Aboriginals had built large fish traps to catch both fish and eels. In the Yarra River wetlands, some of these traps had stone walls about high.
Within ten years of the British settlement at Sydney in 1788, explorers began looking at the coast of Victoria. The first settlement in Victoria was at Sorrento, just inside the entrance to Port Phillip Bay. A small group of 51 soldiers, 308 convicts, 17 free settlers, 12 officials, one missionary and his wife, led by Lieutenant-Governor David Collins set up camp at the end of 1803. They had come from England to set up a colony because the British government was worried that the French may try to claim the area. However they were unable to find water and gave up the settlement within six weeks. They went further south and began the settlement of Hobart, Tasmania. While at Sorrento, a convict named William Buckley escaped. He lived with Aboriginal tribes until meeting with Europeans again when Melbourne was settled in 1835. On 12 December 1826, Captain Samuel Wright, Lieutenant Burchill, explorer William Hovell and 21 convicts tried to start a settlement near Corinella, on Westernport Bay. This was also unsuccessful and the group went back to Sydney on 19 February 1828.
Although the two official attempts to settle in Victoria had failed, there were a number of unofficial settlements along the coast. From 1820 small groups of people lived at various places along the south coast, including Phillip Island. They were hunting seals and Southern Right Whales. The Launceston Fishing Company had a base at Portland Bay. These hunters were often in conflict with the Aboriginal communities. The Europeans often captured Aboriginal women to use as slaves and for sex. Edward Henty moved to Portland Bay and began sheep farming in December 1834. These settlements were against the law, as the British government was trying to restrict the areas of settlement. They argued that they did not have the ability to provide support to remote and isolated settlements. Repeated requests for official permission to settle in Victoria were refused by the government.
In 1835 a group of settlers, farmers and government officials from Tasmania formed the Port Phillip Association. Led by John Batman, who had heard about the grass plains from William Hovell, the group decided to ignore the British government and move flocks of sheep to Victoria. Batman landed at Indented Head, Victoria on 29 May 1835. He began exploring Port Phillip Bay. On 6 June 1835 he met with Aboriginal leaders near Merri Creek, and made a treaty. Under this treaty the Aboriginals agreed to allow Batman to use their land for his sheep. In return, they could continue to stay on the land, they would be provided with food and goods, and they would receive protection from other Europeans. This was the only treaty ever made with the Australian Aborigines. On 26 August 1835, the Governor of New South Wales, Sir Richard Bourke, said the treaty was against the law. The land belonged to the crown, and did not belong to the Aboriginals.
At the end of 1835, the British government changed its policy on settlement in eastern Australia. People were allowed to use large areas of the country for sheep farming. If people paid a £10 fee, they could settle wherever they liked. These farmers became known as "squatters", as they "sat" on the land, which they did not own. The effect of this new policy meant that between 1835 and 1838, more land was settled than had been since 1788. It has been described as the fastest land occupation in history. By 1849, just 1019 squatters had taken over 17.7 million hectares of land.
The effect of the fast land occupation had terrible consequences for the Victorian Aborigines. The squatters moved their sheep onto the grasslands that had once been the Aborigines main source of food. The squatters built their farms near the waterholes and creeks where the Aborigines had camped for thousands of years. The Aborigines began to kill sheep to eat, and attempted to stop people from taking their land. The early settlers tried to remove the Aborigines from the land. Sometimes they were chased away, and sometimes they were murdered. For example, at Murdering Creek, near Camperdown, 35-40 men, women and children were shot dead by the manager of Glenorminston Station, Frederick Taylor and several of his farm workers.
Gold was found in Victoria at Clunes on 28 June 1851. With further discoveries at Ballarat, Bendigo and Castlemaine there was a huge increase in the population as people came from all around the world.

</doc>
<doc id="16522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16522" title="Chaos theory">
Chaos theory

Chaos theory is a part of mathematics. It looks at certain systems that are very sensitive. A very small change may make the system behave completely differently. 
Very small changes in the starting position of a chaotic system make a big difference after a while. This is why even large computers cannot tell the weather for more than a few days in the future. Even if the weather was perfectly measured, a small change or error will make the prediction completely wrong. Since even a butterfly can make enough wind with its wings to do this, a chaotic system is sometimes called the "butterfly effect". No computer knows enough to tell how the small wind will change the weather.
Some systems (like weather) might appear random at first look, but chaos theory says that these kinds of systems or patterns may not be. If people pay close enough attention to what is really going on, they might notice the chaotic patterns.
The main idea of chaos theory is that a minor difference at the start of a process can make a major change in it as time progresses. Quantum chaos theory is a new idea in the study of chaos theory. It deals with quantum physics.
As an example, take a pendulum that is attached at some point, and swings freely. Connecting a second pendulum to the first will make the system completely different. It is very hard to start in exactly the same position again - a change in starting position so small that it cannot even be seen can quickly cause the pendulum swing to become different from what it was before. 
A very important part to the study of chaos theory is the study of mathematics functions that are known as "fractals". Fractal functions work like chaotic systems: a small change in the starting values can change the value of the function in ways that look random. Due to the fact that they are mathematical, they are easy to study.

</doc>
<doc id="16524" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16524" title="1540">
1540


</doc>
<doc id="16527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16527" title="First World">
First World

First World is a term used in politics and economics to refer to the richer and better developed nations. In these countries, the majority of the people are in the middle class and enjoy a good standard of living. This term is being used less, as terms like "global North" and "developed world" become more common.

</doc>
<doc id="16530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16530" title="Mulan (movie)">
Mulan (movie)

Mulan is a 1998 American animated movie produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation. It is the 36th movie in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series. It is set in old-time China and based on local legend. The movie stars the voices of Ming-Na Wen and Eddie Murphy. "Mulan" was a success with its fans because it was different from Disney's other movies in terms of music and artistic design. The music was written by Jerry Goldsmith who also wrote the music for another animated movie, 1982's "The Secret of NIMH". Christina Aguilera sang "Reflections" for the movie's soundtrack.
A direct-to-video sequel, "Mulan II", was released on February 1, 2005.
The story is about a girl called Mulan. An army of Huns from Mongolia, led by Shan Yu, attack China. The Chinese army must face them, and needs one man from every family to go to war. Mulan's father is willing to join, but he is old and has a limp, and it is clear that he cannot fight and will die in the war. Mulan is supposed to get married, but is so clumsy that she fails the test to prove she would be a good wife.When seeing the match-making mistress she fails to be elegant and ladylike. Mulan fears she has dishonoured her family, but now decides that she must save her father. Mulan decides to become a boy to bring "honor" to her family. She secretly takes her father's armour and weapon and leaves to report in the Chinese army.
Mushu is an old spirit guardian of the Fa family, who has lost his job and been turned into a dragon. The family ancestors want to send someone to watch over Mulan on her journey, and Mushu takes the job in order to restore his honour. He and the lucky cricket of the family catch up with Mulan, as she joins the small army led by Li Shang. Mulan pretends to be a man, called Ping. All the men in the new army need a lot of training, but after a while the soldiers must face the enemy.
The army meets the Huns in the snowy mountains. When the Chinese are attacked, Mulan uses a cannon to start an avalanche that covers all the Mongolians. Mulan is hurt by a sword, and the doctor who examines her finds that she is not a boy but a girl. Li Shang becomes angry and leaves Mulan alone in the mountains. The army then travels to the Emperor's palace in the Imperial City. As Mulan and her animals spend the night trying to light a fire, they witness some of the surviving enemies climbing from the snow, and they start moving towards the Emperor's city. Mulan decides to follow them and warn her friends in the army.
In the Imperial City the army is celebrated for winning the war, and no one will listen to Mulan's warnings, since she is a girl. Suddenly Shan Yu and his surviving men step forward, kidnap the emperor and hide in the palace. Mulan and her soldier friends dress up as palace women and manage to fool the attackers and move the emperor to safety. With her friends' help, Mulan destroys Shan Yu using a store of fireworks. The emperor rewards her for saving the country.
Mulan returns home with her imperial gifts to show her family. The honour of Mulan, of her family and also of the dragon is now restored. Shang is encouraged by the emperor to marry Mulan. He travels to her town, pays a visit and is invited to dinner by her family.

</doc>
<doc id="16531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16531" title="1823">
1823


</doc>
<doc id="16532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16532" title="1876">
1876


</doc>
<doc id="16534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16534" title="1861">
1861

1861 was a common year starting on Tuesday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="16535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16535" title="1829">
1829


</doc>
<doc id="16536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16536" title="Baltimore">
Baltimore

Baltimore is the biggest city in the U.S. state of Maryland. In 2010 it had about 620,961 people living there. It is not in any county, so it is called an independent city. It is next to the Chesapeake Bay and used to be an important port for trade by ships. There is still some shipping but the Inner Harbor is now mostly famous for shopping and restaurants, and also for the National Aquarium and other museums.
Baltimore is home to the Ravens (football) and Orioles (baseball), both professional sports teams. Its main newspaper is the "Baltimore Sun." There is a place for horse races in the city called Pimlico. There are many colleges and universities in Baltimore, like Johns Hopkins University.
The city was made in 1729 and is named after the British Lord Baltimore who started the colony of Maryland. The mayor of this city is Stephanie Rawlings-Blake. She is the second woman to be the mayor of Baltimore, the first was Sheila Dixon. Many governors of Maryland were mayor of Baltimore first. One famous thing that happened in Baltimore was in the War of 1812, when the British attacked the city and Francis Scott Key wrote a song about it called "The Star-Spangled Banner". It is now the national song of the United States.
Some famous people from Baltimore are the Supreme Court judge Thurgood Marshall, the poet and writer Edgar Allen Poe, the baseball player Babe Ruth, the singer Billie Holiday, and the movie director John Waters.
In 1706, the colony of Maryland's General Assembly created the Port of Baltimore at Locust Point. It was built for tobacco trading. The Town of Baltimore was founded on July 30, 1729. It was named after Cecilius Calvert, the British Lord Baltimore. Calvert was the first Proprietary Governor of the Province of Maryland. Baltimore grew quickly in the 1700s as a granary (place for storing cereals and grains) for the sugar plantations in the Caribbean.
Baltimore was important in the time leading up to the American Revolution. Leaders like Jonathan Plowman Jr. got the city to refuse to pay taxes to Britain. Merchants (people who buy and sell things) signed agreements to not trade with Britain. The Second Continental Congress met in the Henry Fite House from December 1776 to February 1777. This made Baltimore the capitol of the United States during this time. In 1796, after the war, the Town of Baltimore, nearby Jonestown, and an area called Fells Point were incorporated as the City of Baltimore. (This means that these areas all merged and became the City of Baltimore.) The city was a part of Baltimore County until 1851. It then became an independent city.
During the War of 1812, the Battle of Baltimore happened in the city. The British attacked Baltimore on the night of September 13, 1814. This was right after they burned Washington D.C.. United States soldiers from Fort McHenry defended the Inner Harbor. Francis Scott Key watched the battle from a British ship in the harbor. He wrote the poem "The Star-Spangled Banner" about the attack. Later, "The Star-Spangled Banner" became the official National Anthem of the United States.
After the war, the number of people who lived in the city grew quickly. The National Road (now part of U.S. Route 40) and the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad (B&O) connected the city with big markets in the Midwest. This made Baltimore a very important shipping and manufacturing center. Baltimore was nicknamed "the Monumental City" by President John Quincy Adams in 1827. During an event, Adams gave a toast and said: "Baltimore: the Monumental City – [m]ay the days of her safety be as prosperous and happy, as the days of her dangers have been trying and triumphant." In 1835, the Baltimore bank riots happened. These were one of the worst riots of the antebellum South. (The "antebellum" period is the time right before the American Civil War.)
During the American Civil War, Maryland did not secede from the Union. (That is, Maryland stayed a part of the Union and did not join the Confederacy.) When Union soldiers marched through the city at the start of the war, some people attacked the soldiers. This started the Baltimore riot of 1861. Four soldiers and 12 civilians were killed. After the riot, Union soldiers occupied (stayed in) Baltimore. During the war, Maryland was governed directly by the federal government and the state government did not have any power. This was to keep the state from seceding (leaving the Union). After the war ended in April 1865, Maryland began governing itself again.
During the 1870s there was an economic depression called the "Panic of 1873." After the Panic, the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad company decided to pay its workers less. This caused the Great Railroad Strike of 1877. These strikes stopped train service in Cumberland in western Maryland. On July 20, 1877, the Maryland Governor, John Lee Carroll, ordered the Maryland Army National Guard to stop the strikes. People who supported the railroad workers attacked the national guard soldiers. Soldiers from the 6th Regiment fired their guns at the crowd. 10 people were killed, and 25 people were hurt. This started a riot. Trains were damaged and parts of Camden Station were burned. US Army soldiers came to Baltimore to protect the railroad and end the strike. The riot and strike ended on July 21–22, 1877.
The Great Baltimore Fire started on February 7, 1904. It burned for 30 hours and destroyed 1,500 buildings. More than 70 blocks of downtown burned to the ground. The fire caused about $150 million of damage (US$ million in .)
The city grew bigger by annexing (absorbing) suburbs from nearby counties. The last suburb was added in 1918. The city added parts of Baltimore County and Anne Arundel County. In 1948, the state constitution was amended (changed). It now required a special vote by citizens before an area could be added to the city. This stopped the expansion (growth) of the city.
In 1950, the city was 23.8% black. By 1970, it was 46.4% black. After Martin Luther King, Jr. was murdered in Memphis, Tennessee on April 4, 1968, the Baltimore riot of 1968 started. It lasted until April 12, 1968. The riot cost the city about $10 million (US$ million in ). During the riot, 11,000 Maryland National Guard soldiers and US Army soldiers tried to protect the city. It is possible to see some effects of the riots today. Parts of North Avenue, Howard Street, Gay Street, and Pennsylvania Avenue are barren, empty, and not taken care of.
During the 1970s, Baltimore's downtown area, called the "Inner Harbor," was run down and neglected. It was full of empty and abandoned warehouses. The city began trying to redevelop the area. The Baltimore Convention Center was opened in 1979. Harborplace, a shopping and restaurant area, opened in 1980. The National Aquarium in Baltimore (Maryland's largest tourist destination) and the Baltimore Museum of Industry opened in 1981. In 1992, the Baltimore Orioles baseball team moved from Memorial Stadium to Oriole Park at Camden Yards near the harbor. Six years later the Baltimore Ravens football team moved into M&T Bank Stadium next to Camden Yards.
The National Register of Historic Places lists 280 historical properties in Baltimore city.
Baltimore is in north-central Maryland. It is on the Patapsco River, close to where it empties into the Chesapeake Bay. It is on the fall line between the Piedmont Plateau and the Atlantic Coastal Plain. (The "fall line" is a phrase in geology that means that this is a place where two different kinds of earth meet.) The fall line splits Baltimore into a "lower city" and "upper city."
At the harbor, the city is at sea level. The highest point is near Pimlico in the northwest. There the elevation is .
According to the 2010 census, the city has a total area of . This is of land and of water. The total area of Baltimore City is 12.07% water.
Baltimore is in the humid subtropical climate zone ("Cfa".) This is according to the Köppen climate classification
July is usually the hottest month of the year. The average temperature in July is . Summer is usually very humid. The highest temperature on record is in 1936.
January is the coldest month of the year. Sometimes wind from the subtropics brings springlike weather during winter. At night, winds from the Arctic make temperatures drop into the teens (in Fahrenheit; less than -7 °C.) Some nights the temperature drops to the single digits (less than -12 °C.) The coldest temperature on record is from 1934.
Downtown Baltimore and the parts of the city that are on the coast are usually warmer than other parts of Baltimore. This is because of the urban heat island effect. Also the Chesapeake Bay acts to moderate the effects of temperature. This means that the water helps keep the temperature from changing greatly.
Baltimore gets a lot of rain during the whole year. There is no "rainy season" or "dry season." This is normal in most cities on the East Coast of the United States. Every month, about of precipitation (rain, snow, sleet, etc.) falls in Baltimore. The total rainfall yearly average is around . There are usually about 105 sunny days in a year. There are lots of rain showers and thunderstorms during spring, summer, and fall. In the winter, there are longer but lighter rain showers, and less sunshine and more clouds. It sometimes snows in the winter. The average snowfall is .
Baltimore has architecture in every style from the last 200-plus years. Many famous architects have designed buildings in the city. Some of these architects are Benjamin Latrobe, George A. Frederick, John Russell Pope, Mies Van Der Rohe and I. M. Pei.
The city has some buildings that are thought to be important to the history of architecture. Baltimore Basilica (1806–1821) was designed by Benjamin Latrobe in the neoclassical style. It is the oldest Roman Catholic Cathedral in the United States. The Municipal Museum of Baltimore, often called the Peale Museum, was build in 1813 by Robert Cary Long, Sr. It was built for Rembrandt Peale and is the first building in the United States designed specifically to be a museum. The McKim Free School, built by Isaac McKim in 1822, shows the interest of early American architects in ancient Greek art.
The Phoenix Shot Tower (1828) was the tallest building in the United States until the Civil War. It is tall. The tower was build without scaffolding. The Sun Iron Building (1851) was the first iron-front building. Brown Memorial Presbyterian Church (1870) has stained glass windows by Louis Comfort Tiffany. It has been called "one of the most significant buildings in this city, a treasure of art and architecture" by "Baltimore Magazine". The 1845 Greek Revival style Lloyd Street Synagogue is one of the oldest synagogues in the United States.
The Baltimore World Trade Center was built in 1977 by architect I.M. Pei. The building is in the shape of an equilateral pentagon (it has five equal sides.) It is the tallest building of this shape in the world.
Oriole Park at Camden Yards is considered by many to be the most beautiful baseball park in Major League Baseball. It is designed to be "retro style". The park has inspired many other cities to build their own retro ballparks. Camden Yards and the National Aquarium have helped revive the Inner Harbor. The area used to be an industrial district of run-down and abandoned warehouses. Today it is a lively commercial district full of bars, restaurants, and stores.
Baltimore is officially split into nine regions. These regions are based on geography. Each region is patrolled by their own Baltimore Police Department district. These regions are: Northern, Northwestern, Northeastern, Western, Central, Eastern, Southern, Southwestern, and Southeastern. Locals sometimes split the city into "East Baltimore" and "West Baltimore" along Charles Street. Other locals sometimes split the city into "North Baltimore" and "South Baltimore" along Baltimore Street.
The Central district includes Downtown Baltimore, Harborplace, The Camden Yards Sports Complex (Oriole Park at Camden Yards and M&T Bank Stadium), the Convention Center, and the National Aquarium in Baltimore. It is the city's main commercial area. It also has many nightclubs, bars, restaurants, shopping centers, and other attractions. Many of the city's key businesses are in this area as well. The University of Maryland, Baltimore campus, University of Maryland Medical System, Maryland Institute College of Art, the Peabody Institute of music, the Lyric Opera House, The Walters Art Museum, and The Joseph Meyerhoff Symphony Hall are also in the central district.
The Northern District is north of the Central district. Loyola University Maryland, The Johns Hopkins University and College of Notre Dame of Maryland are in this district. Some of the more affluent (rich) residential neighborhoods are also here. The neighborhood of Roland Park, the first planned suburban community in America, is one of these richer neighborhoods. The borders of the district are made by The Alameda on the east and Pimlico Road on the west.
The Southern district is the part of the city below the Inner Harbor and east of the B&O Railroad tracks. It is a mix of industrial and residential areas. It is also a mix of many demographics, cultures, and ethnicities. It is home to the ethnically diverse neighborhood of Locust Point, the historic neighborhood Federal Hill, and poor residential neighborhoods like Cherry Hill. There are two Port of Baltimore terminals in this district. The old Domino Sugar plant is also here.
The Northeastern district is mostly residential. It is home to Morgan State University. Today it is mostly African-American. The district is bordered by the city line to the north and east; Sinclair Lane, Erdman Avenue, and Pulaski Highway on the south; and The Alameda on the west.
The Eastern district is mostly poor, African-American residential neighborhoods. There are entire blocks of abandoned buildings. The district is also dangerous and has a problem with drug trafficking. For this reason, the TV show "The Wire" was often filmed in this district. This area is also home to Johns Hopkins Hospital and Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. The district is bordered by Erdman Avenue, Sinclair Lane, and Orleans Street.
The Southeastern district is a mix of industrial and residential areas. Neighborhoods in this district usually have a mix of races and cultures. The district is bordered by Orleans Street, the Inner Harbor, the city line, and the Baltimore harbor.
The Northwestern district is mostly residential. It is also home to the Pimlico Race Course and Sinai Hospital. Until the 1960s, Baltimore's Jewish community was based in the Park Heights neighborhood. Since then, there has been "white flight" and the neighborhood today is almost all black. Northern Parkway is a dividing line in the district. North of the parkway, the neighborhoods are mostly white. Some of these are Mount Washington and Cheswolde. South of the parkway, the neighborhoods are mostly black. The borders of the district are made up by the county line on the north and west, Gwynns Falls Parkway on the south and Pimlico Road on the east.
The Western district is the home of Coppin State University, Mondawmin Mall, and Edmondson Village. These are important to the culture, economy and history of the city's African American community. This district used to be the home to many middle and upper class African Americans, but they have moved away since. Today, more than 45% of people living in some neighborhoods have income levels below the poverty line. Some of the crime from this district was used in the TV show "The Wire". The district is west of downtown. Its borders are Gwynns Falls Parkway, Fremont Avenue, and Baltimore Street.
The Southwestern district is a mix of industrial parks and residential areas. St. Agnes Hospital is in this district. It has Baltimore County to the west, Baltimore Street to the north, and the downtown area to the east.
The City of Baltimore is next to several communities. All of these are unincorporated census-designated places.
Baltimore is sometimes called the "city of neighborhoods." This name comes from the fact that it has 72 official historic districts (areas). People of one ethnic group mainly live in each one of these areas. Some of the most important today are downtown. These are the Inner Harbor, Fells Point, and Little Italy. The Inner Harbor has lots of hotels, shops, and museums. Many tourists visit the Inner Harbor. Fells Point used to be a place where sailors went for entertainment. Today it has been rebuilt and cleaned up. This is the neighborhood in the movie "Sleepless in Seattle". Little Italy is where the Italian-American people live and work. Nancy Pelosi grew up in this neighborhood. She used to be Speaker of the House in Congress.
Another important neighborhood is Mount Vernon. This neighborhood is the center of culture and art in Baltimore. There are many important monuments and museums there. One important monument is the Washington Monument. This monument was built in the 1800s in a plaza. It is older than the Washington Monument in Washington, D.C..
Every year there is an art festival called Artscape. The festival is in the Bolton Hill neighborhood. This is very close to the Maryland Institute College of Art. Artscape is called the "largest free arts festival in America." Another art festival that happens in Baltmore is the Maryland Film Festival. It happens every year in May. At the Film Festival, movies are shown at the Charles Theatre. (The Charles Theatre is an old cinema.)
One of Baltimore's nicknames is "Charm City." Some advertisers wanted to make the city's reputation better. They started using the name in 1975.
People in Baltimore speak English. They have a very unique accent and way of speaking (dialect). For example, they pronounce "Baltimore" as "Balamer" or "Balmer." The Baltimore dialect is sometimes called "Baltimorese." It is a kind of Mid-Atlantic English. People from Baltimore will often call each other "Hon."
There are movies that parody (make fun of) the way people from Baltimore talk. A lot of these movies are made by John Waters. He is a movie maker from Baltimore. Most of Waters's movies were made in Baltimore. "Pink Flamingos" and "Hairspray" are some of these movies. Waters also wrote the musical version of "Hairspray."
Many very famous and important people were born or raised in Baltimore. Some of these are:
Baltimore used to be mostly industrial. There was a lot of steel processing, shipping, car manufacturing, and transportation. Deindustrialization happened, and Baltimore lost a lot of jobs that paid a lot of money and did not need a lot of training or skill. Today, most of the jobs in Baltimore are service economy jobs. These jobs do not pay very much. 90% of jobs are service jobs today.
In July 2012, the unemployment rate was 11%. Also in 2012, the steel mill (factory) at Sparrow's Point closed. This will mean more people will lose their jobs. 25% of people who live in Baltimore, and 37% of all children living in Baltimore, live in poverty.
Johns Hopkins Hospital is in Baltimore. Some big companies from Baltimore are Under Armour, Cordish Company, and Royal Farms. There is a big sugar refinery in Baltimore. It is owned by American Sugar Refining.
There are eight Interstate Highways in Baltimore. These are:
Some of these highways do not connect to each other. I-70 stops at a parking lot just inside of the city. This is because of "freeway revolts" that happened in Baltimore. The interstate highways were supposed to go through downtown Baltimore, but the people in the city did not want this to happen. Barbara Mikulski, now a United States Senator, started the "freeway revolts" to keep the highways from being built in downtown.
Today there are some highways numbered U.S. highways and state routes that run through downtown. These are US 1, US 40 National Road, and the Baltimore-Washington Parkway. There are also some tunnels underneath the Baltimore harbor. I-95 runs through the Fort McHenry Tunnel. I-895 runs through the Harbor Tunnel.
Baltimore has a beltway. A beltway is a highway that circles around a city. The Baltimore Beltway is I-695. It crosses over the Chesapeake Bay on the Francis Scott Key Bridge. This bridge is just south of the Inner Harbor.
Baltimore is an important train stop. Amtrak trains in the Northeast Corridor stop in Baltimore. Penn Station is one of the busiest train stations in the country. In 2008 it was the 8th busiest train station in the United States. That year, more than 1 million people took a train to or from Penn Station. Another important train station is at Baltimore-Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport. Many Amtrak trains stop at the BWI Rail Station. The Amtrak trains that stop in Baltimore are: "Acela Express", "Palmetto", "Carolinian", "Silver Star", "Silver Meteor", "Vermonter", "Crescent", and "Northeast Regional". The MARC commuter rail service also has trains that stop in Baltimore. The MARC trains run from Camden Station and Penn Station in Baltimore to Union Station in Washington, D.C..
Baltimore has many colleges and universities. These are both public (run by the government) and private. Some of them are:
Baltimore City Public School System runs Baltimore's public schools. Some of these schools are well known. Carver Vocational-Technical High School was the first vocational high school for African-Americans in Maryland. Lake Clifton Eastern High School is the biggest school campus in Baltimore City. Frederick Douglass High School is the second-oldest African-American high school in the United States. Baltimore City College is the third oldest public high school in the country. Western High School is the oldest public all-girls school in the nation. Baltimore City College and Baltimore Polytechnic Institute are football rivals. This is the second-oldest high school football rivalry in the country.
Baltimore's main newspaper is "The Baltimore Sun." In 1986, the newspaper was sold to the Times Mirror Company. This company was bought by the Tribune Company in 2000. Today, "The Sun" is still a Tribune newspaper.
Baltimore had two newspapers until 1986. (It was very common for US cities to have two newspapers.) The other main newspaper was the "Baltimore News-American". The "News-American" went out of business in 1986.
"The Baltimore Examiner" was started in 2006 to compete with "The Sun." It was owned and run by a company that also published newspapers like "The San Francisco Examiner" and "The Washington Examiner". "The Examiner" was a free newspaper that was paid for by advertising. ("The Sun" is not free.) "The Examiner" was not able to make money, and it stopped being published on February 15, 2009.
According to Nielsen Market Research, Baltimore had the 26th-largest television market in 2008-2009. It was the 27th-largest market for 2009-2010. Arbitron listed Baltimore as the 22nd-largest radio market in Fall 2010.
Baltimore has a long baseball history. The first team to play for Baltimore were the 19th century Baltimore Orioles (1882-1899). This was one of the most successful early baseball teams. The team had many hall of famers play for them. The great Babe Ruth was born in Baltimore in 1895. He played for the minor league Baltimore Orioles team. This team existed from 1903 to 1914 and from 1916 to 1953.
Today, Baltimore's Major League Baseball team is the Baltimore Orioles. They play in the American League. The Orioles came to Baltimore in 1954. Before that, the team had been in St. Louis, Missouri, where they were called the St. Louis Browns. The Orioles went to the World Series in 1966, 1969, 1970, 1971, 1979 and 1983. They won the World Series three times: in 1966, 1960, and 1983. 
In 1995, Cal Ripken, Jr. broke the record for the most games played in a row. The old record was set by Lou Gehrig, and was 2,130 games. Ripken was added to the Baseball Hall of Fame. He was also named "Sportsman of the Year" by "Sports Illustrated" magazine. There are six Orioles players and two managers in the hall of fame.
Baltimore's first football team were the Baltimore Colts. The team came to Baltimore in 1953. Before then, they had played in Dallas, Texas as the Dallas Texans. The Colts played for Baltimore until 1984. In 1984, the team moved to Indianapolis and took the name. Today the team still plays as the Indianapolis Colts.
In 1996, the Cleveland Browns came to Baltimore. They were renamed the Baltimore Ravens. The Ravens won a Super Bowl championship in 2000 and again in 2012. They also won three American Football Conference (AFC) North division championships in 2003, 2006, and 2011. In addition, the played in three AFC Championship Games in 2000, 2009, and 2011.
Baltimore has an indoor soccer team, the Baltimore Blast. They play for the Major Indoor Soccer League at the 1st Mariner Arena. The team joined the League in 2001. The Blast have won 5 league championships: 2002, 2003, 2005, 2007 and 2008.
The Baltimore Blues are a semi-professional rugby league football club. They will compete in the USA Rugby League in 2012. Other professional or semi-professional Baltimore teams include Crystal Palace Baltimore, an outdoor soccer franchise of
USL Second Division. The Charm City Roller Girls are a member of the Women's Flat Track Derby Association since 2005.
The Preakness Stakes are held every May at the Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore. The Preakness is the "second jewel" in the United States Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing.
Car races are held on the streets of downtown every year in September. The Baltimore Grand Prix runs through the Inner Harbor. It started in 2011. The American Le Mans Series, IndyCar Series, Indy Lights, and other races are a part of it.
Baltimore has eleven sister cities. These were picked by Sister Cities International.

</doc>
<doc id="16537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16537" title="Chantilly, Virginia">
Chantilly, Virginia

Chantilly is a community in Fairfax County, Virginia. The Battle of Chantilly was fought here during the American Civil War.

</doc>
<doc id="16539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16539" title="Corpus Christi, Texas">
Corpus Christi, Texas

Corpus Christi, Texas is a city in the United States. It is near the coast of the Gulf of Mexico and is one of the fastest growing cities in America. Its economy is based around petroleum refining and tourism.
The city was founded in 1839 as "Kinney's Ranch" and has been known as Corpus Christi since 1847.

</doc>
<doc id="16541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16541" title="Sick">
Sick

To be sick can mean:
Sick may also refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="16544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16544" title="Panama Canal">
Panama Canal

The Panama Canal is a waterway (a canal) in the country of Panama in Central America, that connects the Atlantic Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. Because of the way Panama twists, the entrance to the Pacific Ocean is farther east than the entrance to the Atlantic Ocean. This is the opposite of what one would expect.
The Panama Canal is 77 km (48 miles) long and cuts across the Isthmus of Panama. At each end it uses three pairs of "locks" for lifting and lowering ships on different water levels. This saves ships 15,000 km (10,000 miles) compared to going around South America. Each year, about 14,000 ships come through the canal. By 2002, around 800,000 ships came through. The biggest ships that can go through the Panama Canal are called Panamax. New locks opened in 2016 to allow ships more than twice as big, called New Panamax.
The French people tried building it in 1880, but couldn't finish it. It was finally finished in 1914 by the United States who spent ten years and 375 million dollars building it. It is such an amazing achievement that it has been named one of the Seven Wonders of the Modern World.

</doc>
<doc id="16545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16545" title="Suriname">
Suriname

Suriname, or Surinam, Dutch Guiana, Dutch Guyana or Sranang is a country in South America. The official name of the country is Republiek Suriname (this is Dutch and translates to "Republic of Suriname"). It used to be known as "Nederlands Guyana", "Netherlands Guiana" or "Dutch Guiana". It is between Guyana and French Guiana. Paramaribo is the capital city. About half a million people live in the country. Suriname became independent from the Netherlands in 1975. Before that, it was a part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 
There are border disputes with French Guiana and Guyana all to the south of the country. 
The industry of the country is centered on the mining and processing of bauxite. This makes up 15 percent of the Gross Domestic Product and more than 70% of the exports. Other exports are sugar, oil and gold. About 25% of the working people are employed in agriculture. The main trade partners are the Netherlands, the United States and countries in the Caribbean. 
Dutch, French, Spanish and English explorers discovered the area in the early 16th century. A century later, sugar plantation colonies were established by the Dutch and English along the many rivers in the fertile Guyana plains. After the second Anglo-Dutch War England traded any claims to the territory for New Amsterdam which became New York.

</doc>
<doc id="16547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16547" title="Aarre Merikanto">
Aarre Merikanto

Aarre Merikanto (29 June 1893 — 29 September 1958) was a Finnish composer. His parents were Liisa Häyrynen and composer Oskar Merikanto.
Merikanto was born in 1893. He studied music in Helsinki (1911), Leipzig (1912-1914) and Moscow (1916-1917). He tried composing an opera for the first time when he was 18 years old. The result was "Helena", which was completed in early 1912. The opera had one act and its libretto was written by Jalmari Finne. In the 1920s Merikanto created his own modernist style. Merikanto was a professor of composition in the Sibelius Academy, Helsinki from 1951 to his death. Merikanto died of lung cancer in Helsinki in 1958.

</doc>
<doc id="16550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16550" title="1878">
1878


</doc>
<doc id="16551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16551" title="1325">
1325


</doc>
<doc id="16554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16554" title="1076">
1076


</doc>
<doc id="16555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16555" title="1568">
1568


</doc>
<doc id="16559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16559" title="Tribe">
Tribe

A tribe is a group of people who live and work together. A "tribal society" is a group of tribes organized around kinships. Tribes represent a part in social evolution between bands and nations.
A tribe can be a collection of families or of families and individual people living together. A tribe usually divides up the jobs that need to be done among themselves. Most tribes have special customs or traditions.
Tribes are the type of groups humans lived in before they started living in cities and nations. There are still tribal groups all over the world. Their numbers are getting smaller and smaller.

</doc>
<doc id="16563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16563" title="1832">
1832


</doc>
<doc id="16564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16564" title="Satan">
Satan

Satan (meaning "the enemy" or "the trouble-maker" in Hebrew), sometimes called the Devil, is a figure found in the writings of the Abrahamic religions. Muslims, Christians and Jews believe that he tempts people to do bad things. His role is to question and tempt people's faith. They also say that he was once an angel named Lucifer.
In Satanism, Satan is thought to be just a metaphor for what humans want. In Theistic Satanism, Satan is considered to be a good force.
In Islam, a "shayṭān" is any sort of evil creature. The Qu'ran describes Satan as arrogant. The story about him begins in surah Baqarah. It states that Satan views himself as a greater entity than Gods' other creations because he was created from fire. After this, the Qu'ran states:
Many people believe that Satan was first an angel called Lucifer that left Heaven and took many other angels with him. He did this because he thought he was as powerful as God. 

</doc>
<doc id="16573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16573" title="Hiking">
Hiking

Hiking is a general word for travelling on foot in the mountains or the countryside.
Hiking is a kind of physical activity as well as a leisure activity (a way of spending free time). Hikers (the people who do hiking) enjoy fresh air and the beauty of nature. Hiking can also be an attraction for people who enjoy challenging their physical and mental strength. Hiking gives them the chance to become stronger.
In general, people can make profit on it for having rest, health, and everyday life.
The three parts to the hiking process are: 
Planning means a hiker should decide what he wants from the hike. A traveller should examine the information on landscape, climate, weather, plants, animals, type of ground, and so on. Based on that information, a hiker decides what equipment (tools) he needs. Writing everything on paper is strongly suggested not to forget anything. A hiker should choose the itinerary (the way of the hike).
Equipping means getting specialized clothing and equipment. Different suggestions can be found on each point in any hiking book. A hiker is suggested to learn more than one source and work. Equipping sometimes needs getting skills in using the apparatus. Basic skills–different ways of orientation (the ability to find the way, for example)–must be developed before hiking.
Hiking itself lies in the observation of the presented steps and hiker's skills. There are different hiking tips and suggestions on the internet (see other websites).
Hiking can quickly become a fight for life. For this reason everything in hiking is very important. Nobody should hike alone, no matter what the situation, until a hiker feels certain of his hiking abilities.
Every hiker should keep in mind that theory is important, but it can hardly replace firsthand experience. To be safe a traveller should have enough experience. A hiker had better start by taking short hikes.
A hiker is strongly suggested to check from time to time (at least every hour) whether he is going the right way. On no account should he go on travelling if he finds out he has lost his way. The first thing a hiker should do is find the direction in which he was travelling before getting lost. Using the compass and the map, he should choose a reference point nearby (railway, road, river, etc.).

</doc>
<doc id="16574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16574" title="Saint Petersburg">
Saint Petersburg

Saint Petersburg (Sankt-Peterburg/Санкт-Петербург) is a Russian city in northwestern Russia near the Gulf of Finland of the Baltic Sea. Over five million people live in St. Petersburg as of 2015, and it is the second biggest city in Russia. It connects with the rest of the world's shipping paths through the Baltic Sea.
Saint Petersburg and its surroundings are a World Heritage Site called The Historic Centre of Saint Petersburg and Related Groups of Monuments.
Saint Petersburg was started by the Russian Tsar, Peter I as the capital of the Russian Empire in 1703, to take the place of the earlier capital, Moscow. It was the capital of Russia until 1918. Peter the Great established Saint Petersburg as a warm-weather port in order to show Russian dominance in the Baltic and to increase trading opportunities. Peter sought to modernize Russia, therefore he tried to make Saint Petersburg as different as possible from the former capital, Moscow, by modernizing the city.
Saint Petersburg has changed its name many times. During World War I, when Russia and Germany were fighting each other, Russians thought the name Sankt Peterburg sounded too German, so Tsar Nicholas II, on August 31 (August 18, Old Style), 1914 decided that the city was renamed Petrograd. In 1918 during the Russian revolution, the Soviet capital was moved to Moscow, still the capital of Russia now.
On January 26, 1924, five days after Lenin's death, Petrograd was renamed Leningrad in his honor. During World War II, the city was surrounded by the German army and under (siege) for twenty-nine months.
Leningrad again took its old name of St. Petersburg on September 6, 1991, when Russia stopped being communist. In every-day Russian, the city is often called just "Piter". The name of the "Oblast" (administrative province) where the city is the capital is still called "Leningrad Oblast".
Saint Petersburg was a beautiful city planned by Peter I. There are many man-made rivers (or canals) in the city, so the city is sometimes called the "Venice of the North". There are also beautiful buildings built by Russian emperors in other places of the city. Some of these buildings are the Hermitage Museum and the Winter Palace. 

</doc>
<doc id="16576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16576" title="Kiwifruit">
Kiwifruit

Kiwifruit ("Actinidia deliciosa") is a fruit. It has an oval shape. It is green on the inside with small black seeds that can be eaten. The kiwi has furry brown skin that is edible but is usually removed. The skin is relatively thin. The kiwi is native to South China.
The fruit was named in 1959 after the kiwi, a bird and the symbol of New Zealand. Before that, its English name was Chinese gooseberry.
The kiwifruit is healthy and contains many vitamins and minerals. Kiwis are rich in vitamin C, vitamin K, potassium, and fiber. Kiwis have more vitamin C than an equivalent amount of orange.
There are different types of kiwifruit. The main types are Hayward (the most common green kiwifruit), chico, Saanichton 12, and golden kiwifruit. Golden kiwifruit are sweeter than normal green kiwifruit. Golden kiwifruit was invented by grafting and cross-pollinating different types of kiwifruit.

</doc>
<doc id="16583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16583" title="Aardvark">
Aardvark

The Aardvark ("Orycteropus afer") is a mammal from Africa; its name means "earth pig" in the language Afrikaans. It is the only living member in its order, though some fossil genera have been found
The Aardvark looks a bit like the South American anteaters but they are not related. It is in a proposed clade Afroinsectiphilia, with the golden moles and tenrecs. Another proposal is to out it in the Pseudungulata, with the elephants and Sirenia. There is no consensus at present.
Adult aardvarks weighs about 60 kilograms (130 pounds) and a little more than one meter (45 inches) long.
Aardvarks eat mostly ants and termites. They have a long sticky tongue which makes it easy to pick up many ants at once.
Aardvarks are nocturnal, which means they are awake at night and asleep during the day.

</doc>
<doc id="16591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16591" title="Rutherford B. Hayes">
Rutherford B. Hayes

Rutherford Birchard Hayes (October 4, 1822 - January 17, 1893) was the 19th President of the United States. He served only one term, from 1877 to 1881. Hayes was a Republican. He was elected governor of Ohio three times before becoming president. Hayes barely won the election of 1876, only defeating Democratic opponent Samuel Tilden after a Congressional committee gave Hayes some disputed electoral votes.
Hayes was born in Delaware, Ohio. He went to Kenyon College in Gambier, Ohio, and then went to Harvard Law School. After graduating from law school, he became a lawyer. In 1849, he joined the Republican Party, which was new then, because he was against slavery. In 1852, he married Lucy Webb, a woman who was also against slavery. In the 1860s, he served in the American Civil War on the Union side, and became a major general. After the war ended, he was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives as a part of the Republican Party. In 1867, he became the governor of Ohio.
Ulysses S. Grant had been president since 1869, and was not going to run for president a third time in 1876. Grant was a member of the Republican Party, and while he was president, became known for allowing corruption to go on around him. The Republican Party did not want people to think that everybody in the party was corrupt, so they decided to make Hayes their candidate. They thought he was a good candidate because he had made many changes in Ohio while he was governor there that people thought were good, and because he was thought to have been a hero in the Civil War.
Hayes ran against Samuel Tilden, whom the Democratic Party nominated. The election was close, and many people who did not think that Hayes fairly won the election called him "His Fraudulency". Tilden actually got more votes than Hayes, but Hayes got 185 votes in the Electoral College, while Tilden got 184, so Hayes won the election.
While he was president, Hayes ended the Reconstruction period that followed the American Civil War. Rutherford B. Hayes ordered military forces that had been in the Southern states to leave. He also sent federal troops to end a railroad strike. Hayes refused to seek a second term as president.
After being president, Hayes retired to Fremont, Ohio. Meanwhile He spent time talking about his beliefs that all children should have the chance to go to school, that people who had been in the military should get their fair payments for their service, and that people in prisons should be treated better.

</doc>
<doc id="16598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16598" title="Category:Articles that need to be wikified">
Category:Articles that need to be wikified

Pages listed in the subcategories here are marked with and need to be .

</doc>
<doc id="16604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16604" title="Eyebrow">
Eyebrow

An eyebrow is the stripe of hair about 2 cm over the eye. Eyebrows protect the eyes, if water runs over the face or if there is too much sunlight. The eyebrow's ability to move is also important in facial expression.

</doc>
<doc id="16611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16611" title="Solstice">
Solstice

A solstice is an astronomical event that happens twice each year when the Sun reaches its highest position in the sky as seen from the North or South Pole. The day of the solstice is either the "longest day of the year" or the "shortest day of the year" for any place on Earth, because the length of time between sunrise and sunset on that day is the yearly maximum or minimum for that place. The name is derived from the Latin words "sol" (“sun”) and "sistere" (“to stand still”). During the solstice, the Sun stands still; that is, the seasonal movement of the Sun's path comes to a stop before reversing direction. The “Northern Solstice” occurs in June, when the sun is at its highest point seen from the North Pole. The “Southern Solstice” occurs in December, when the sun is at its highest point seen from the South Pole.
The solstices, together with the equinoxes, are connected with the seasons. In some cultures they mark either the beginning or the middle of summer and winter.
The June Solstice happens when the Northern Hemisphere of the Earth is tilted toward the Sun and the Southern Hemisphere of the Earth is tilted away from the Sun. At the North Pole, the Sun reaches its highest point in the sky, and then begins moving lower. At the moment of the June solstice, the Sun is directly overhead some point on the Tropic of Cancer; this is the furthest north that the subsolar point ever reaches. In the Northern Hemisphere the June solstice is called the Summer Solstice (and marks the longest day of the year), while in the Southern Hemisphere it is called the Winter Solstice (and marks the shortest day of the year). The June Solstice is usually on June 21.
The December Solstice happens when the Southern Hemisphere of the Earth is tilted toward the Sun and the Northern Hemisphere of the Earth is tilted away from the Sun. At the South Pole, the Sun reaches its highest point in the sky, and then begins moving lower. At the moment of the December solstice, the Sun is directly overhead some point on the Tropic of Capricorn; this is the furthest south that the subsolar point ever reaches. In the Southern Hemisphere the December solstice is called the Summer Solstice (and marks the longest day of the year), while in the Northern Hemisphere it is called the Winter Solstice (and marks the shortest day of the year). The December Solstice is usually on December 21.
While the exact causes were long unknown, the effect (of days getting shorter or longer) was recognised in many ancient cultures. Many of the pre-Christian cultures, like the druidic, the Germanic and the Norse faith therefore celebrated these events as holidays.
When the importance of the old faiths vanished, the Christian religion took over some of the festivities, which were then carried out in the honour of a new (Christian) occasion. For instance, the date of Christmas in the Catholic and Protestant faith is just 3 days away from the December Solstice.

</doc>
<doc id="16613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16613" title="Secular humanism">
Secular humanism

Secular humanists believe that each human being is worth something and has dignity. They think that people are happiest when they give something to society. They also believe that human beings can solve problems without help from god(s).
Secular humanists are not religious. Usually they are atheists.

</doc>
<doc id="16622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16622" title="Quebec City">
Quebec City

Quebec City (Ville de Québec in French) is the capital of the Canadian province of Quebec. It is the second largest city in Quebec, behind Montreal. It is known for its winter fair, beautiful churches, and an old hotel called Château Frontenac. It is next to the Saint Lawrence River. There are almost 700,000 people in the whole area.
The city was created in 1608 at a First Nations (native) Canadian place called Stadacona. People came from France to live there. The English captured the city in 1759 during the Battle of the Plains of Abraham. The walls made to keep the city safe are still there. The walls that surrounded Old Quebec are the only remaining fortified city walls that still exist in the Americas north of Mexico. They were declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1985.
Quebec City has a humid continental climate ("Dfb" in the Köppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="16623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16623" title="Vancouver Island">
Vancouver Island

Vancouver Island is in the province of British Columbia in Canada. You can go there by boat from Vancouver (across the Strait of Georgia) or from the state of Washington (across the Strait of Juan de Fuca). Over 750,000 people live on the island. The first people to live on the island, before Europeans came, were the Nuu-chah-nulth, Salish, and Kwakiutl. The University of Victoria is on Vancouver Island.
Some cities and towns on Vancouver Island:

</doc>
<doc id="16625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16625" title="First Nations">
First Nations

First Nations are the people of native tribes who lived in Canada before Europeans came there. Many Canadians also use "First Nations" to mean people with natives in their family trees. Many say it because these nations were here long before Canada, and to make it clearer that the First Nations have many cultures, and that some of the cultures are very different from others. Some consider it a respect to those who first cultivated certain patches of land.
Other words that have been used for First Nations people, tribes, and cultures have been "indigenous", "aboriginal", "Indian", "Native Indian", "Amerind," or "native." Now many people say "Indian" only about people from India.

</doc>
<doc id="16626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16626" title="New Brunswick">
New Brunswick

New Brunswick is a province in the eastern part of Canada. Its capital city is Fredericton. Other large cities are Saint John and Moncton. More than 750,000 people live in New Brunswick.
The English and French languages are both spoken in New Brunswick, and is the only province in Canada where both languages are official. This is because about 33% of the people living in New Brunswick speak French.
Some industries such as forestry, mining, farming and fishing are important to the province, as it is near the Atlantic Ocean.

</doc>
<doc id="16628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16628" title="AC/DC">
AC/DC

AC/DC is a hard rock band from Australia. They formed in Sydney, Australia in November 1973. AC/DC has sold an estimated 200 million albums worldwide, including 68 million in the United States of America. The two primary founders of the band, Malcolm Young and Angus Young, developed the idea for the band's name after their sister Margaret saw the initials "AC/DC" written on a sewing machine. "AC/DC" is an abbreviation for "alternating current/direct current," which refer to the two different types of charges used in electricity. The band chose the name because of their energetic “electrical” style of playing rock and roll. Even though AC/DC considers their music style simply as "rock and roll", AC/DC are often considered pioneers of heavy metal.

</doc>
<doc id="16629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16629" title="Double bass">
Double bass

Double bass is a widely-used name for a large stringed instrument. Other terms, perhaps more correct, include contrabass and upright bass. It is used in orchestras, jazz bands, rockabilly bands, bluegrass music, and some country music bands. It plays low-pitched musical notes in musical ensembles and bands. In jazz bands, these low-pitched musical notes are called the "bass line." The double bass looks like smaller instruments like the violin, viola, and cello.
The double bass is usually made from wood. Double basses have a hollow wooden body which helps to amplify the sounds of the instrument ("amplify" means "to make louder"). A wooden neck is attached to the body, and a flat wooded fingerboard is glued onto the neck. It usually has four metal strings which are strung with tension on the neck. It has a peg at the bottom to stand it.
In an orchestra, double bass players bow the strings with a wooden bow strung with horsehair, or pluck the strings with their fingers (plucking the strings is called pizzicato). In jazz the double bass is played pizzicato most of the time. However some jazz players use the bow to play melodies on the double bass.
Double bass players hold down the metal strings against the fingerboard with their left hand and then bow the string or pluck it with their right hand. To play different notes the double bass players move the left hand to different positions on the fingerboard.
Double bass players in jazz bands or rock bands often connect their double bass to an electronic amplifier and a loudspeaker, to make a louder, stronger sound. This makes it easier for the double bass player, the other musicians, and the audience to hear the double bass's musical notes.
The double bass is usually considered a member of the violin family, because it is constructed using many of the same techniques as violins. The double bass also has influences from the viol family. Viols are old string instruments from the 1400s and 1500s with sloping "shoulders" on the instrument's body and flat backs. Like the viols, the double bass also has sloping "shoulders" on its body and a flat back.
The double bass is generally tuned in fourths, in contrast to members of the orchestral string family, which are tuned in fifths. Modern double basses are usually tuned, low to high, E-A-D-G, which is one octave lower than the four lowest-pitch strings on a guitar.
Throughout classical repertoire, there are notes that fall below the range of a standard double bass. Notes below low E appear regularly in double bass parts in the Baroque and Classical eras, when the double bass was typically doubling the cello part an octave below. In the Romantic era and the 20th-century, composers such as Mahler, Beethoven, Busoni, and Prokofiev also requested notes below the low E. There are two common methods for making these notes available to the player. Major European orchestras generally use basses with a fifth string, tuned to B three octaves and a semitone below middle C. Players with standard double basses (E-A-D-G) typically play the notes below "E" an octave higher.
In the United States, Canada and United Kingdom, most professional orchestral players use four-string double basses with a "C extension," which extends the lowest string down as far as low C, an octave below the lowest note on the cello. More rarely would one find a four-string double bass with a "B extension", extending the lowest string down to a low B. The extension is an extra section of fingerboard mounted up over the head of the bass. There are several varieties of extensions.
In the simplest version, there are no mechanical aids attached to the fingerboard extension except a locking nut for the "E" note. To play the extension notes, the player reaches back over the pegs to press the string to the fingerboard. The advantage of this "fingered" extension is that the player can adjust the intonation of all of the stopped notes on the extension, and there are no mechanical noises from metal keys and levers. The disadvantage of the "fingered" extension is that it can be hard to perform rapid alternations between low notes on the extension and notes on the regular fingerboard, such as a bassline that quickly alternates between "G" and the low "D".
The simplest type of mechanical aid is the use of wooden "fingers" that can be closed to press the string down and fret the C#, D, Eb, or E notes. This system is particularly useful for basslines that have a repeating pedal point such as a low D, because once the note is locked in place with the mechanical "finger", the lowest string then sounds a different note when it is played "open" (e.g., a low D).
With the B extension, the "fingers" can fret the low C.
The double bass also has many other names. Some bluegrass musicians call it a "bass fiddle" or a "bull fiddle." Rockabilly bands often call it an "upright bass" or "Doghouse" Some orchestra musicians call it a "contrabass." In a military concert band, it is often called the "string bass." Sometimes the double bass is simply called a "bass."
b'

</doc>
<doc id="16631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16631" title="Allies of World War II">
Allies of World War II

The Allied Powers (or Allies of World War II) were a group of nations that fought against the Axis countries in World War II. They were successful in defeating the Axis nations. The war ended in 1945. The group of nations was later named the United Nations by U.S. President Franklin Roosevelt. The main great powers, sometimes called "The Big Three", were the United Kingdom, the United States, and the Soviet Union.
Some of the powers fought for a short time. Romania, Bulgaria, and Finland fought from 1944-1945 and before that were Axis powers.
These nations were:

</doc>
<doc id="16633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16633" title="Convair B-36 Peacemaker">
Convair B-36 Peacemaker

The B-36 Peacemaker was a strategic bomber. It was used in the United States. The B-36 could carry a 21,000 pound bomb. The B-36 was never used in wartime, but was in a movie called Strategic Air Command. The Peacemaker could fly for 48 hours non-stop and was one of the longest ranged bombers at the time. It first flew in 1948, and the last combat flight was in 1959.

</doc>
<doc id="16634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16634" title="Wing">
Wing

A wing is the part of an animal or airplanes that allows it to fly.
A "wing" is part of an animal that allows it to fly. By moving its wings, the animal can produce lift and get off the ground.
Animals that have wings are insects, birds and bats. Birds' wings are made of feathers. The wings of bats are made of skin, which is stretched between the bones of the bat's arms and fingers. Not all insects and birds can fly, even if they have wings.

</doc>
<doc id="16642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16642" title="Disability">
Disability

A disability is a condition that a person has which limits them in some way.
People with a disability or disabilities may need to use special equipment that can help them. This can include using a wheelchair, a cane or walking stick, hearing aids, a teletypewriter (TTY) and using specially designed software and hardware for the personal computer.
People who use a wheelchair or cane/walking stick cannot walk up or down stairs in a building. They need to use ramps and elevators when going into and moving around in a building. Wide doorways and accessible toilets also make it easier for people with physical disabilities to use.
Prejudice towards people with disabilities is common. This is sometimes called 'ableism'. A person with such a prejudice is called an ablecentrist.

</doc>
<doc id="16653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16653" title="Newfoundland">
Newfoundland

Newfoundland is an island off the East Coast of Canada, and is part of the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador. The capital city of Newfoundland is St. John's, on the north-east part of the island. Over 500,000 people live in Newfoundland (these people are called Newfoundlanders). It, along with Labrador on the mainland, became part of Canada on March 31, 1949. There is no bridge or tunnel from Newfoundland to the rest of the country but there is a ferry to Nova Scotia.
In Newfoundland, most people speak English, but there are also French speakers on the island, mostly in the south-west. In some areas of Newfoundland, people speak with an accent and use words that are not in standard English. There is even a dictionary of Newfoundland English.
People first came to Newfoundland from countries like Norway, England, Portugal, France, and Ireland in the 16th century. The first explorers were the Vikings from Norway and they settled in L'Anse aux Meadows. They came because of the good fishing off the coast, especially off the south-east coast. Eventually they left because of disagreements with aboriginals.Today, there is still fishing, but not very much because people fished too much, and now there are not many fish left.
Cutting down trees and mining have also been attractions of the island. There are some paper mills (paper factories) in a few cities in Newfoundland.

</doc>
<doc id="16656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16656" title="Kiss (band)">
Kiss (band)

Kiss is an American hard rock/heavy metal band. The band started in the early 1970s. They formed in New York City in 1973. The original members are Gene Simmons, Paul Stanley, Peter Criss, and Ace Frehley. They are most famous for their stage show and songs like "Rock and Roll All Nite" (1975), "Strutter" (1974) and "Detroit Rock City" (1976).
KISS has had several changes in style and lineup. Their more famous era was in the mid 1970s, particularly the first 6 studio albums, and the first live album, Alive! which was widely popular. In the 1980s, KISS started to follow the trend taking place with more synthesizers, and songs that many fans didn't like because of a big change in style. In the 1990s, KISS changed toward the grunge and heavier trend with Revenge and . The original members reunited for Psycho Circus and then parted ways again in 2002. Tommy Thayer and Eric Singer replaced Frehley and Criss, and the current lineup has made the 2009 album Sonic Boom, which was a return to the classic style of the 70's, and many fans liked it. The follow up to that is going to be released in June 2012, titled Monster. 

</doc>
<doc id="16672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16672" title="The Visioner's Tale">
The Visioner's Tale

The Visioner's Tale is one of the little-known writings of Geoffrey Chaucer. Only parts of the story were left from when Chaucer wrote it in the 14th century, so it is not normally included in modern versions of the Canterbury Tales.
Here is the tale, as put together by someone from Denmark who studied the parts of the story, and tried to put them together:
"My lady's touch upon the lute is light,"
"yet she weaves the streams of melody,"
"with such profound synchicity,"
"that the river of time spills into dream,"
"into that ocean of unspoken promise,"
"where lives primordial the memory of future things,"
"here vision and voice and sound,"
"and meaning emerge at last as one."

</doc>
<doc id="16687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16687" title="Geoffrey Chaucer">
Geoffrey Chaucer

Geoffrey Chaucer (c. 1343–25 October 1400) was an English writer, poet, and philosopher. He is most famous for writing Canterbury Tales which had 24 stories but was not completed. He was one of the first writers to write in English.
Chaucer was probably born in London. His father, John, and grandfather were prosperous wine merchants in London. The name "Chaucer" is French and means shoemaker. However, not many details are known of his early life and education.
By 1357, Chaucer was a page to Elizabeth, Countess of Ulster, wife of Lionel, 1st Duke of Clarence. In 1360, he was captured by the French near Reims during a battle in the Hundred Years' War. He was then ransomed and released. King Edward III gave £16 towards his release. Chaucer married Phillipa (de) Roet. She was a lady-in-waiting to the queen and had close family connections to John of Gaunt. He had about three or four children.
Chaucer may have studied law in the "Inner Temple". He joined the Royal court and travelled around Europe on business for the king. He became one of the king's esquires. One of his first known poems was written in 1369. It was called "The Book of The Duchess", and was written after the death of John of Gaunt's wife, Blanche. In 1374, he became "Comptroller" (in charge of the money) of the Customs for the Port of London. He did this job for 12 years. It was a well paid job and Chaucer was quite rich.
When Richard II became king, Chaucer continued to work in Customs. He was also sent to Europe on several more diplomatic jobs for the king.
Chaucer moved to Kent in 1385 where he had a new position as Justice of the Peace. He was also elected as one of two knights of the shire to be a member of parliament. At the end of the year he lost his customs jobs. His wife, Phillipa, died in 1387. But on 12 July 1389, he was made the "Clerk of the Kings Works", looking after repairs to the royal palaces. He was given other small positions, including looking after the river banks of the Thames, and as a deputy forester in the Royal Forest. Over the next few years, Chaucer became poorer and often was given small payments and pensions from the king.
He died at St.Mary's Chapel in Sevenoaks on 25 October 1400. Chaucer is buried in Westminster Abbey, in what is now called the Poets' Corner.
Chaucer did most of his writing between 1369 and 1393. He is famous for his collection of stories in verse called the "Canterbury Tales". He also wrote "The Book of the Duchess", "The House of Fame" and "Troilus and Criseyde".

</doc>
<doc id="16689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16689" title="Category:1343">
Category:1343


</doc>
<doc id="16690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16690" title="Category:1340s">
Category:1340s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1340s which begins in the year 1340 and ends in the year 1349.

</doc>
<doc id="16691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16691" title="Category:1340s births">
Category:1340s births


</doc>
<doc id="16694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16694" title="Category:1400 deaths">
Category:1400 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16695" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16695" title="Category:1400s deaths">
Category:1400s deaths

Note that the year 1400 is actually the last year in the 14th century; 1401 is the first year in the 15th century.

</doc>
<doc id="16696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16696" title="Category:1400">
Category:1400


</doc>
<doc id="16701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16701" title="Category:1878">
Category:1878


</doc>
<doc id="16702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16702" title="Category:1861">
Category:1861


</doc>
<doc id="16703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16703" title="Category:1823">
Category:1823


</doc>
<doc id="16704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16704" title="Category:1829">
Category:1829


</doc>
<doc id="16705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16705" title="Category:1568">
Category:1568


</doc>
<doc id="16706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16706" title="Category:1463">
Category:1463


</doc>
<doc id="16707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16707" title="Category:1322">
Category:1322


</doc>
<doc id="16708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16708" title="Category:1325">
Category:1325


</doc>
<doc id="16709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16709" title="Category:1076">
Category:1076


</doc>
<doc id="16711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16711" title="Category:360s">
Category:360s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 360s which begins in the year 360 and ends in the year 369.

</doc>
<doc id="16714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16714" title="Category:30s">
Category:30s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 30s which begins in the year 30 and ends in the year 39.

</doc>
<doc id="16715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16715" title="Category:50s">
Category:50s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 50s which begins in the year 50 and ends in the year 59.

</doc>
<doc id="16716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16716" title="Category:1st century">
Category:1st century

This category is for articles and events specifically related to the 1st century, which began in the year 1 and ended in the year 100.
Note that the year 100 is included in in the 2nd century but is actually part of the 1st century.

</doc>
<doc id="16720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16720" title="Category:80s births">
Category:80s births


</doc>
<doc id="16723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16723" title="Category:1st century births">
Category:1st century births

This category is a list of people who were born in the 1st century, organized by the year in which they were born.
"See also": .

</doc>
<doc id="16724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16724" title="Category:20s">
Category:20s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 20s which begins in the year 20 and ends in the year 29.

</doc>
<doc id="16725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16725" title="Category:80s">
Category:80s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 80s which begins in the year 80 and ends in the year 89.

</doc>
<doc id="16726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16726" title="Category:0s">
Category:0s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 0s which begins in the year 1 and ends in the year 10.
Because nothing is "zeroth" in the numerical order, there is no "year zero" in either the Gregorian calendar or the Julian calendar). The first decade of the Common era runs from the beginning of the year 1 AD through the end of the year 10 AD, while the decade before it starts at the beginning of the year 10 BC and ends at the end of the year 1 BC.
The years 1 BC and 1 AD are consecutive, and so are the 1st century BC and the 1st century AD. 
Note that the term "the year 1" means "the 1st year", because the English uses cardinal numbers for years, instead of the more complicated ordinal numbers. This usage may not be relevant when the number of the year is small, but does come into prominence with three or four-digit numbers.

</doc>
<doc id="16728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16728" title="Category:60s deaths">
Category:60s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16729" title="Category:60s">
Category:60s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 60s which begins in the year 60 and ends in the year 69.

</doc>
<doc id="16730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16730" title="Category:1st century deaths">
Category:1st century deaths

This category is a list of people who died in the 1st century, organized by the year in which they died.
"See also": .

</doc>
<doc id="16731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16731" title="Echidna">
Echidna

Echidna, the spiny anteater, is a monotreme that lives in Australia and in New Guinea. They are the living members of the family Tachyglossidae.
Echnidas have a long, tube-like mouth with a sticky tongue, and they are also covered in spines. They have mammary glands, and lay eggs.
The echidna has a way of protecting itself. With its long, sharp claws, they quickly dig a hole until only their spines are showing. The predator will not be able to get to it without injuring itself.
When there is a fire, the Echidna will dig down out of reach of the fire.
The short-beaked echidna ("Tachyglossus") eats termites and ants. The three "Zaglossus" species also eat other small insects and grubs. Echidnas pick up the prey with their sticky tongues.

</doc>
<doc id="16738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16738" title="Category:1972 albums">
Category:1972 albums

Albums released in 1972.

</doc>
<doc id="16739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16739" title="Category:1972 in music">
Category:1972 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16741" title="Category:1973 albums">
Category:1973 albums

Albums released in 1973.

</doc>
<doc id="16742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16742" title="Category:1974 albums">
Category:1974 albums

Albums released in 1974.

</doc>
<doc id="16743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16743" title="Category:1973 in music">
Category:1973 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16744" title="Category:1974 in music">
Category:1974 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16745" title="Category:1975 albums">
Category:1975 albums

Albums released in 1975.

</doc>
<doc id="16746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16746" title="Category:1976 albums">
Category:1976 albums

Albums released in 1976.

</doc>
<doc id="16747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16747" title="Category:1977 albums">
Category:1977 albums

Albums released in 1977.

</doc>
<doc id="16748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16748" title="Category:1978 albums">
Category:1978 albums

Albums released in 1978.

</doc>
<doc id="16749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16749" title="Category:1979 albums">
Category:1979 albums

Albums released in 1979.

</doc>
<doc id="16750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16750" title="Category:1981 albums">
Category:1981 albums

Albums released in 1981.

</doc>
<doc id="16751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16751" title="Category:1983 albums">
Category:1983 albums

Albums released in 1983.

</doc>
<doc id="16752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16752" title="Category:1984 albums">
Category:1984 albums

Albums released in 1984.

</doc>
<doc id="16753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16753" title="Category:1988 albums">
Category:1988 albums

Albums released in 1988.

</doc>
<doc id="16755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16755" title="Category:1997 albums">
Category:1997 albums

Albums released in 1997.

</doc>
<doc id="16758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16758" title="Category:2003 albums">
Category:2003 albums

Albums released in 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="16760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16760" title="2002 Bali terrorist bombing">
2002 Bali terrorist bombing

The 2002 Bali terrorist bombings took place in Kuta on the Indonesian island of Bali. The attack was the deadliest act of terrorism in the history of Indonesia. Kuta is a popular tourist destination. 202 people were killed. 164 of them were foreigners, 38 were Indonesian citizens. Most of those killed were Australians, Britons or Indonesians. In addition, 209 people were injured. 
At around 11 in the evening, a bomb destroyed a bar on Bali. The bomb was in a backpack, and only the person that owned it died. A few seconds later, a larger bomb went off. This bomb was close to 1,000 kilograms.
A terrorist group called Jemaah Islamiyah are believed to be responsible for making and exploding the device.
In total, four people were charged with the terrorist attack. An Indonesian court sentenced three of them to death. One person received a long prison sentence.

</doc>
<doc id="16761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16761" title="Category:1975 in music">
Category:1975 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16762" title="Category:1976 in music">
Category:1976 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16763" title="Category:1977 in music">
Category:1977 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16764" title="Category:1978 in music">
Category:1978 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16765" title="Category:1979 in music">
Category:1979 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16766" title="Category:1981 in music">
Category:1981 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16767" title="Category:1983 in music">
Category:1983 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16768" title="Category:1984 in music">
Category:1984 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16769" title="Category:1988 in music">
Category:1988 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16771" title="Category:1997 in music">
Category:1997 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16773" title="Category:2002 in music">
Category:2002 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16774" title="Category:2003 in music">
Category:2003 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16779" title="Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress">
Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress

The Boeing 17 Flying Fortress was a heavy bomber, that was used by the United States Eighth Air Force during World War II. It first flew in 1935, and was introduced in 1938. It had a shorter range, and a smaller bomb load, then its sister bomber the B-24 Liberator, but it had more defensive arment. It dropped large amounts of bombs, and was also used during air raids against Germany, such as the raid on Dresden. The B-17 was also used in the Pacific, at the Battle of Midway. The flying fortress had its name for a good reason, it could take the hits and dish them out, being able to fly while under intense enemy fire. the B-17 was a heavy duty bomber plane that carried 2 tons of bombs. Not many B-17's survived WWII. It was the result of the lack of escortations of fighters. Although the Flying Fortress took down many opposing fighters they also took a beating. Later in WWII, the U.S. air force decided to add escortations to the bombers giving them more protection. The escortations lasted till the end of WWII. 

</doc>
<doc id="16781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16781" title="Category:1958 deaths">
Category:1958 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16782" title="Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith">
Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith

Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith is the third film in the "Star Wars" saga produced by Lucasfilms It was released in 2005.
The movie shows the events that led to the transformation of Anakin Skywalker to Darth Vader of the original trilogy. It also shows how Palpatine turned the Galactic Republic into the Galactic Empire as well as showing the destruction of the Jedi because of Order 66.

</doc>
<doc id="16783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16783" title="Category:323 BC deaths">
Category:323 BC deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16784" title="Category:356 BC births">
Category:356 BC births

[an:Categoría:356 aC (naixencias)]]

</doc>
<doc id="16785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16785" title="Midway Atoll">
Midway Atoll

Midway Atoll was the site of a famous battle in World War II, the Battle of Midway. The atoll is currently held by the United States of America.
Midway Atoll is now home to 67-70% of the world's Laysan Albatross population, and 34-39% of the global Black-footed Albatross.
While Midway supports nearly three million birds, each seabird species has carved out a specific site on the atoll in which to nest. Seventeen different species of seabird can be found, the rarest of which is the Short-tailed Albatross, otherwise known as the “Golden Gooney.” Fewer than 2,200 are believed to exist due to excessive feather hunting in the late nineteenth century.
Over 250 different species of looli marine life are found in the of lagoon and surrounding waters. The critically endangered Hawaiian monk seals raise their pups on the beaches. Monk seals are benthic foragers and rely on the Midway Atoll’s reef fish, squid, octopus and crustaceans. Green sea turtles, another threatened species, occasionally nest on the island. The first was found in 2006 on Spitsy Rinaia Island and another in 2007 on Sand Island. A resident pod of 300 spinner dolphins live in the lagoons and nearshore waters.

</doc>
<doc id="16786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16786" title="Category:1909 births">
Category:1909 births


</doc>
<doc id="16787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16787" title="Category:1837 births">
Category:1837 births


</doc>
<doc id="16788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16788" title="Category:1908 deaths">
Category:1908 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16790" title="Category:1831 deaths">
Category:1831 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16791" title="Category:1758 births">
Category:1758 births


</doc>
<doc id="16792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16792" title="Category:1758">
Category:1758


</doc>
<doc id="16793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16793" title="Category:1700">
Category:1700


</doc>
<doc id="16794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16794" title="Category:1205">
Category:1205


</doc>
<doc id="16801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16801" title="Beşiktaş J.K.">
Beşiktaş J.K.

Beşiktaş Jimnastik Kulübü (Besiktas JK) is a Turkish football club from Istanbul. Besiktas JK was founded in 1903 by 26 young men in "Osman Pasa Konagi".
It was the beginning of the 20th century and it was forbidden then to attend sports activities on a club basis. People were gathering together all around Istanbul. Twenty-six young men (Huseyin Bereket, Mehmet Samil, Ahmet Fetgeri, Mehmet Ali Fetgeri, Fuat Balkan, Muhittin Pasa, Mazhar Kazanci, Nazim Nazif Ander, Haydar Bey, Cami Baykurt, Behcet Bey, Sevket Cenani, Mahmut Naci Bey, Refik Bey, Sukru Pasa, Haci Ahmet Pasa, Kilic Ali, Ziya Karamursel, Kenan Bey, Yuzbasi Fethi Bey, Seraffettin Bey, Seref Bey, Celal Davut, Hami Bey, Fuat Pasa, and Kamil Beyler) gathered together on November in 1902 and decided to found a club. Next year in 1903 the vision came to life and Besiktas JK was founded.
Besiktas is one of the 3 big clubs in Turkey. Others are Galatasaray and Fenerbahçe.

</doc>
<doc id="16805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16805" title="Phosphorus">
Phosphorus

Phosphorus has the chemical symbol P, and its atomic number is 15. Its mass number is 30.97. It is not found in nature as an element but as compounds, such as phosphates. It can be a red or a white waxy solid.
Phosphorus comes in several forms. White and red phosphorus are the most common forms. White phosphorus is a waxy white solid. When pure, it is colourless. It is insoluble in water, but soluble in carbon disulphide, an organic solvent. It turns light yellow when in air. It glows in the dark because it "burns" very slowly in air.
When exposed to sunlight, or when heated in its own vapour to 250 °C, it is converted to the red variety. This form does not ignite spontaneously and it is less toxic and less flammable than white phosphorus. The red modification is fairly stable and sublimes with a vapor pressure of 1 atmosphere at 417 °C.
White phosphorus is more reactive than red phosphorus. White phosphorus catches fire spontaneously in air, burning to make smoke of phosphorus(V) oxide. If it burns in a little air, it produces poisonous phosphorus(III) oxide. When white phosphorus is heated in an alkali, it disproportionates to produce hypophosphites and phosphine. Red phosphorus can burn but needs to be ignited. Phosphorus reacts with the halogens to make phosphorus halides. It reacts with some metals to make phosphides.
Phosphorus compounds are chemical compounds containing phosphorus. They are listed below with some of their properties. Phosphorus comes in several oxidation states, the number of electrons moved during a redox reaction. -3 is flammable, powerful reducing agent, and toxic; +1 is a strong reducing agent and is rare; +3 is a weaker reducing agent that is poisonous; +5 is not a reducing agent and is very common.
It is an essential component of living systems and is found as phosphate in nervous tissue, bones and cell protoplasm. It is also found in the earth as phosphate rock. Phosphate rock is the main source of phosphorus and phosphorus compounds. Many body tissues have calcium phosphates in them.
Phosphorus was first made by heating a mixture of phosphates and carbon in an iron pot. The phosphates were made by dissolving bones in strong acids and evaporating the solution.
Phosphorus is made now by heating calcium phosphate, carbon, and silicon dioxide in an electric arc furnace. The heat of the electric arc melts the mixture of materials, and phosphorus gas is given off. It is absorbed under water. This makes white phosphorus.
White phosphorus is used in incendiary weapons and smoke grenades. It is also used to make organic compounds that have phosphorus in them. Phosphorus is used to dope semiconductors. Phosphorus is used to remove oxygen from copper. It is also used in making alloys. Red phosphorus is used in matches and flares.
Phosphorus compounds are used for fertilizers, soft drinks, toothpaste, and detergents. Most of these are phosphates. Phosphides can be used to kill rodents.
White phosphorus is very dangerous. It is very toxic and ignites easily, burning with a very hot flame. Red phosphorus is much safer. Some phosphorus compounds are toxic, but the common phosphates are not toxic.

</doc>
<doc id="16842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16842" title="Franklin Pierce">
Franklin Pierce

Franklin Pierce (November 23, 1804 – October 8, 1869) was the 14th President of the United States (1853–1857) and is the only President from New Hampshire. Pierce was a Democrat and a "doughface" (a Northerner with Southern sympathies) who served in the U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate.
Pierce was born on November 23, 1804, in Hillsborough, New Hampshire. He attended school at Hillsborough Center but then moved to Hancock Academy in Hancock at the age of 12. After attending school there for five years, he was transferred to Phillips Exeter Academy in the spring of 1820. After he entered, he felt homesick and returned home. Consequently, his father then put him in a wagon, drove him half way back to school, and left him on the roadside without saying a word. Franklin walked the seven remaining miles back to school. Later that year, he was transferred to Phillips Exeter Academy to prepare for college. That fall, he was sent to Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Maine. While he was there, Franklin Pierce participated in literary, political, and debating clubs. During his second year there, his grades were the lowest in his class, but he was able to improve them and graduated with the rank of fifth in his class.
Once finished with college, he went to law school in Northampton, Massachusetts. Pierce was admitted to the bar and began law practice in Concord, New Hampshire, in 1827. Franklin Pierce rose to a central position in the Democratic party of New Hampshire and was elected to the lower house in New Hampshire’s General Court in 1828. Pierce served in the State House from 1829 to 1833 and also served as Speaker from 1832 to 1833. Then in 1832, Franklin was elected Democrat to the 23rd and 24th of Congress from March 4, 1833, to March 4, 1837. At 27 years of age, Pierce was the youngest U.S. Representative at that time. In 1836, he was elected by the New Hampshire General Court as a Democrat to the U.S Senate, serving from March 4, 1837, to February 28, 1842. After serving in the Senate, Pierce went back to Concord to resume law practice. He then was U.S. Attorney from 1845 to 1847 for the district of New Hampshire, though he declined Democratic nomination for Governor of New Hampshire and refused the appointment as General of the United States.
On November 19, 1834, Franklin Pierce married Jane Means Appleton. They had three children, all of which died in childhood. Franklin Pierce Jr. died only three days after birth; and Frank Robert Pierce died at four years of age from epidemic typhus; just two months before his inauguration, Franklin Pierce and his family boarded a train bound for Boston. Shortly after, their derailed car started to roll down an embankment. Franklin and Jane survived, merely shaken up, but saw their 11-year-old son Benjamin get crushed to death. Jane Pierce thought the train accident was a divine punishment for Franklin’s pursuit and acceptance of high office.
Franklin Pierce served as President from March 4, 1853, to March 4, 1857. He was the first President to “affirm” his oath of office instead of swearing it (the only other president to do this has been Herbert Hoover). So rather than placing his hands on the Bible, Franklin Pierce placed his hands on a law book. He was also the first President to recite his inaugural address from memory. Surprisingly, Franklin Pierce selected men of different opinions for his Cabinet. Many people expected a diverse group to break up quickly, but the Cabinet stayed together for Pierce’s four-year term.
Franklin Pierce’s toughest challenge as President was the passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Act in 1854. This act repealed the Missouri Compromise and, in the west, reopened the question of slavery. These and more triggered a series of events known as "Bleeding Kansas". Pro-slavery Border Ruffians, mostly from Missouri, illegally voted in a government. Pierce recognized this and called the Topeka Constitution, set up by Free-Staters, as an act of “rebellion.” Overall, Franklin Pierce is ranked among the least effective Presidents of the United States, as he was unable to steer a steady, prudent course.
After losing the Democratic reelection in 1856, Pierce retired with his wife. Franklin Pierce died in Concord, New Hampshire on October 8, 1869 at the age of 64. He was buried in Old North Cemetery in Concord.

</doc>
<doc id="16844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16844" title="Ottoman Empire">
Ottoman Empire

The Ottoman Empire lasted from 1299 to 1923. It was centered in Turkey and controlled the eastern and southern lands around the Mediterranean Sea. The empire was founded by Osman I around 1299, and was most powerful from around 1400 to 1600, when it controlled trade and politics in southeastern Europe, southwest Asia, and northern Africa. Suleiman the Magnificent was one of the most powerful rulers. 
The empire was a collection of conquered countries. The Sultan sent governors to rule these countries or provinces, with titles such as Pasha or Bey. The most famous in the early 19th century was Muhammad Ali Pasha. Besides provinces, the empire also had tributary states. 
In later years, the Ottoman Empire began to weaken. In the latter part of the 19th century became known as "the sick man of Europe". The empire was defeated in World War I and broke into pieces. 
The empire was a hereditary monarchy. The ruler's title was 'Sultan'. In the early years of the empire, shahzadahs, the sons of the Sultan, were sent to different parts of the empire (Sanjaks) to get experience of governing. Later they might be candidates for the Sultanate and Caliphate. 
After Ahmed this system changed. In the new system the Sultan would keep his male relatives locked in a small apartment called a "kafes" where they would never be able to see the outside world, and would therefore be unable to take power from him. Often, a new Sultan would have his male relatives killed, a simpler solution since it removed competition for the Sultanate and prevented rebel movements. However, the women in his harem often sought greater status and influence, and the Sultan's mother might become a powerful political force in the Empire. Each mother in the harem would try to make her own son the next Sultan, since they knew he would probably be killed if he was not. 
The Sultans gradually lost their ability to govern far-away territories well. Distant governors did whatever they wanted and made their own laws instead of obeying the Sultan. By its end, the Ottoman Empire grew so worn out and corrupt that it was ready to collapse.
Bursa was the first capital of the Ottoman Empire. Edirne in Thrace became the capital city of the Ottoman Empire in 1365, until Istanbul was conquered by the Turks and became the empire's final capital.
Many places were vassal states to the empire rather than being directly ruled. These included Transylvania, Moldavia, Wallachia, (Romania), Caucasus (Georgia, Dagestan, and Chechnya). Their rulers received a degree of independence and autonomy from the Ottoman Empire. The price for this autonomy was more money (tax or tribute) paid to the Sultan.

</doc>
<doc id="16846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16846" title="Strategic bombing">
Strategic bombing

Strategic bombing is a military strategy used to destroy the enemies' economic ability to fight a war. It is an attack from the air. Strategic bombing missions usually attack targets such as factories, railroads, oil refineries and cities. Tactical bombing missions would attack targets such as military bases, command and control facilities, airfields, and ammunition dumps.
The United States Air Force (USAF) over the years have used strategic bombers. Such bombers used to bomb cities and camps used by the opposing force.
Strategic bombing was an idea first tried in World War I. It was used by the German Luftwaffe. They bombed London. Later Gotha bombers could carry over a ton of bombs. United States Army Air Force (USAAF) Colonel Billy Mitchell promoted strategic bombing in the United States. He had new ideas on the strategic, and tactical air war. The first USAAF strategic bomber was the B-17 Flying Fortress. 
Strategic bombing was important in World War II. In the Battle of Britain the German Air Force almost defeated Britain by attacking the Royal Air Force and the factories that supplied their equipment. Later the large bomber fleets of the enemies of Nazi Germany and the Empire of Japan devastated those countries.
After World War II, the Strategic Air Command was located at Omaha, Nebraska, at Offutt Air Force Base. Nuclear weapons became an important mission. 
A full cadre of generals at Offutt participated in many of the missions of the "Looking Glass", a KC-135 air tanker which was stipped and refitted with state of the art electronics which would take over in case the president was killed in wartime. The plane had several generals on board to assume wartime duties. The "red telephone" was an instant connection to the president at the White House. The plane flew all day every day, three planes took off a day in overlapping flights to provide this level of coverage. Since the end of the cold war, this flight ended, however, the Strategic Air Command still maintains the main facility at Offutt AFB (this is where President Bush flew to when the Twin Towers were bombed on 9-11-01 to set up his command center.)

</doc>
<doc id="16847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16847" title="Edsel">
Edsel

Edsel was a make of car and a new car making division introduced by the Ford Motor Company on September 4, 1957. The company called that day, "E-Day." It was named after Henry Ford's son, Edsel Ford. The Edsel was also one of the biggest failures in history. It was sold for only three years, ending in 1960.
Ford planned to move their Lincoln brand upmarket and put another make in beneath it. Design of the Edsel began in 1955 under the name "E-car" which stood for "Experimental car". 
Edsel produced four models their first year, the 1958 model year. These were the large Citation and Corsair, and the smaller, easier to buy Pacer and Ranger.
These were the different body styles offered:
The Bermuda, Villager and Roundup were station wagons based on the two smaller Edsel models. They were basically the same as the 1957-59 Ford wagons.
63,110 Edsels sold the first year, which was the second largest car launch for any brand in history. Only the Plymouth introduction in 1928 was better, but still not as many cars as Ford hoped would sell.
There were only 2 Edsels in 1959, the Ranger and the Corsair. Only 44,891 cars were sold in that model year. 
Only the Ranger and Villager were produced in 1960. These were almost exactly like the 1960 Ford cars. Only 2848 cars were built before the Edsel Motor Division was closed on November 19, 1959.
Edsel's failure is very famous because it failed after Ford put US$400,000,000 into its development. It had many innovations which are still in use today, including brakes which adjusted themselves and a very powerful V-8 engine called the "FE-series" that would be used for many years in later Fords. Also, the car did not live up to all of the promises in the advertisements before it was released. Some people blamed the look of the new car because of its very unusual grille shaped like a horse's collar. One famous quote from an auto writer said that the Edsel looked like "an Oldsmobile sucking on a lemon." Quality of the Edsel was a problem as well. Even the name was a problem to some buyers. Worst of all, the U.S. was entering a period of recession. All car sales were down. 
Many drivers did not like having the automatic transmission as push-buttons mounted on the steering wheel hub. Since this was the place the horn was normally found, drivers ended up shifting gears instead of honking the horn. 
The planned 1960 Edsel Comet compact car was relabeled Mercury Comet and sold more cars in its first year than all models of Edsel ever produced. 
Fewer than 6,000 Edsels survive and today they are considered collectors’ items, with convertibles sometimes selling for over US$20,000 if in good condition. As usual with classics, hardtop models are worth considerably less, station wagons less than that, and sedans least of all. It is possible to get a very good 1959 sedan for about US$3000–$3500.

</doc>
<doc id="16851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16851" title="1000">
1000

1000 (M) of the Gregorian Calendar was the last year of the 10th century as well as the last year of the first millennium of the Christian era ending on December 31. According to the then used Julian Calendar, 1000 AD was a leap year starting on Monday. In the Gregorian Calendar (not invented at the time) the year would have been a common year starting on Wednesday.
It is one of only seven years to use just one Roman numeral. The seven are 1 AD (I), 5 AD (V), 10 AD (X), 50 AD (L), 100 AD (C), 500 AD (D), and 1000 AD (M).

</doc>
<doc id="16852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16852" title="1830">
1830


</doc>
<doc id="16858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16858" title="Category:1804 births">
Category:1804 births


</doc>
<doc id="16868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16868" title="Chino Hills, California">
Chino Hills, California

Chino Hills is a city in the U.S. state of California. It is in San Bernardino County. Almost 75,000 people live in Chino Hills. It is named for the hills that cover most of the city.

</doc>
<doc id="16872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16872" title="Learning">
Learning

Learning is getting new stuff into your brain. 
There are a number of different types of learning: 
Learning may occur as a result of habituation or classical conditioning, seen in many animal species, or as a result of more complex activities such as play, seen only in relatively intelligent animals. Learning may occur consciously or without conscious awareness. There is evidence for human behavioral learning prenatally, in which habituation has been observed as early as 32 weeks into gestation, indicating that the central nervous system is sufficiently developed and primed for learning and memory to occur very early on in development. According to James Zull, Professor of Biology and Biochemistry at Case Western University, "Learn­ing is phys­i­cal. Learn­ing means the mod­i­fi­ca­tion, growth, and prun­ing of our neu­rons, connectionscalled synapsesand neu­ronal net­works, through expe­ri­ence".

</doc>
<doc id="16877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16877" title="Acrocorinth">
Acrocorinth

Acrocorinth is the acropolis of the Greek city Corinth.

</doc>
<doc id="16878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16878" title="Category:Possible copyright violations">
Category:Possible copyright violations

Please do not add pages directly to this category. Use the template and blank the article in question.

</doc>
<doc id="16879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16879" title="Category:1000">
Category:1000


</doc>
<doc id="16880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16880" title="Category:1000s">
Category:1000s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1000s which begins in the year 1000 and ends in the year 1009.
Note that 1000 is actually the last year of the 10th century; 1001 is the actual first year of the 11th century.

</doc>
<doc id="16883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16883" title="Category:1336">
Category:1336


</doc>
<doc id="16884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16884" title="Category:1330s births">
Category:1330s births


</doc>
<doc id="16885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16885" title="Category:1330s">
Category:1330s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1330s which begins in the year 1330 and ends in the year 1339.

</doc>
<doc id="16913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16913" title="Neutron">
Neutron

Neutrons, with protons and electrons, make up an atom. Neutrons and protons are found in the nucleus of an atom. Unlike protons, which have a positive charge, or electrons, which have a negative charge, neutrons have zero charge which means they are neutral particles. Neutrons bind with protons with the residual strong force.
Neutrons were predicted by Ernest Rutherford, and discovered by James Chadwick, in 1932. Atoms were fired at a thin pane of beryllium. Particles emerged which had no charge, and he called these 'neutrons'. They were later added to the modern image of the atom. 
Neutrons have a mass of 1.675 × 10g, which is a little heavier than the proton. Neutrons are 1839 times heavier than electrons. 
Like all hadrons, neutrons are made of quarks. A neutron is made of two down quarks and one up quark. One up quark has a charge of +2/3, and the two down quarks each have a charge of -1/3. The fact that these charges cancel out is why neutrons have a neutral (0) charge. Quarks are held together by gluons.
Neutrons can be found in almost all atoms together with protons and electrons. Hydrogen-1 is the only exception. Atoms with the same number of protons but a different number of neutrons are called isotopes of the same element. 
The number of neutrons in an atom does not affect its chemical properties. However it affects its half-life, a measure of its stability. An unstable isotope has a short half-life, in which half of it decays to lighter elements. By contrast, a stable isotope has a long half-life, much longer than that of an unstable isotope. The stability of an isotope is related to radioactivity: an unstable isotope can be highly radioactive.
Neutrons are the key to nuclear chain reactions, nuclear power and nuclear weapons.

</doc>
<doc id="16927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16927" title="LiveJournal">
LiveJournal

LiveJournal (often called LJ) is a website on which Internet users can keep a blog. It is also the name of the software that was designed to run it. LiveJournal is different from some other blogging sites, because a user can interact with friends in certain ways that are unique to the website (such as instant messaging in LJ Talk). It is based in San Francisco, California.
LiveJournal was started in 1999 by Brad Fitzpatrick as a way of keeping his high school friends updated on his activities. In January 2005, a blogging software company called Six Apart bought Danga Interactive, the company that was owned by Fitzpatrick, which operates LiveJournal.
LiveJournal has a service called a "friends list", which makes the site a way to socialise with friends and other people, even though it is a blog service too.
LiveJournal lets users change their accounts in several ways. A programming language called S2 can help users make their blogs look different. Users may upload small pictures (maximum 100 by 100 pixels) called "userpics", which appear next to the username. People can pay to get more features, like extra userpics, the ability to record their voices into a post ("voice posts"), the ability to make polls, and better layouts.
Each user also has a "User Info" page, which may contain contact information, a biography of the user, and lists of friends, interests, communities, and even schools the user had attended.
Currently LiveJournal has five kinds of accounts. About 95% of all LiveJournal users use a non-paid account ("plus" accounts). People can pay for their accounts ("Paid" accounts) and get more features, or they can get a "sponsored" account, which is free and has more features, but has advertisements. "Early adopters" are the accounts of people who signed up for LiveJournal back in 1999 or 2000. There are also permanent accounts. Most people can not get a permanent account. LiveJournal only sells them sometimes, and they may not sell them again.

</doc>
<doc id="16928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16928" title="RNA">
RNA

RNA is an acronym for ribonucleic acid, a nucleic acid. Many different kinds are now known.
RNA is physically different from DNA: DNA contains two intercoiled strands, but RNA only contains one single strand. RNA also contains different bases from DNA. These bases are the following:
Adenine often forms bonds with uracil, and guanine often forms bonds with cytosine. In this way, we say that adenine is complementary to uracil and that guanine is complementary to cytosine. The first three bases are also found in DNA, but uracil replaces thymine as a complement to adenine.
RNA also contains ribose as opposed to deoxyribose found in DNA. These differences result in RNA being chemically more reactive than DNA. This makes it the more suitable molecule to take part in cell reactions.
RNA is the carrier of genetic information in certain viruses, especially the retroviruses like the HIV virus. This is the only exception to the general rule that DNA is the hereditary substance.
The main function of RNA is to carry information of amino acid sequence from the genes to where proteins are assembled on ribosomes in the cytoplasm. 
This is done by messenger RNA (mRNA). A single strand of DNA is the blueprint for the mRNA which is transcribed from that DNA strand. The sequence of base pairs is transcribed from DNA by an enzyme called RNA polymerase. Then the mRNA moves from the nucleus to the ribosomes in the cytoplasm to form proteins. The mRNA translates the sequence of base pairs into a sequence of amino acids to form proteins. This process is called translation.
DNA does not leave the nucleus for various reasons. DNA is a "very" long molecule, and is bound in with proteins, called histones, in the chromosomes. mRNA, on the other hand is able to move and to react with various cell enzymes. Once transcribed, the mRNA leaves the nucleus and moves to the ribosomes.
Two kinds of non-coding RNAs help in the process of building proteins in the cell. They are transfer RNA (tRNA) and ribosomal RNA (rRNA).
Transfer RNA (tRNA) is a short molecule of about 80 nucleotides which carries a specific amino acid to the polypeptide chain at a ribosome. There is a different tRNA for each amino acid. Each one has a site for the amino acid to attach, and an anti-codon to match the codon on the mRNA. For example, codons UUU or UUC code for the amino acid phenylalanine.
Ribosomal RNA (rRNA) is the catalytic component of the ribosomes. Eukaryotic ribosomes contain four different rRNA molecules: 18S, 5.8S, 28S and 5S rRNA. Three of the rRNA molecules are synthesized in the nucleolus, and one is synthesized elsewhere. In the cytoplasm, ribosomal RNA and protein combine to form a nucleoprotein called a ribosome. The ribosome binds mRNA and carries out protein synthesis. Several ribosomes may be attached to a single mRNA at any time. rRNA is extremely abundant and makes up 80% of the 10 mg/ml RNA found in a typical eukaryotic cytoplasm.
Small nuclear RNAs (snRNA) join with proteins to form spliceosomes. The spliceosomes govern alternative splicing.
Genes code for proteins in bits called exons. The bits can be joined together in different ways to make different mRNAs. Thus, from one gene many proteins can be made. This is the process of alternative splicing. Any unwanted versions of the protein get chopped up by proteases, and the chemical bits re-used.
There are a number of RNAs which regulate genes, that is, they regulate the rate at which genes are transcribed or translated. 
Micro RNAs (miRNA) act by joining an enzyme and blocking mRNA, or speeding its breakdown. This is called RNA interference.
Small interfering RNAs (sometimes called silencing RNAs) interfere with the expression of a specific gene. They are quite small (20/25 nucleotides) double-stranded molecules. Their discovery has caused a surge in biomedical research and drug development.
Transposons are only one of several types of mobile genetic elements.
Retrotransposons copy themselves in two stages: first from DNA to RNA by transcription, then from RNA back to DNA by reverse transcription. The DNA copy is then inserted into the genome in a new position. Retrotransposons behave very similarly to retroviruses, such as HIV. 
Viral genomes, which are usually RNA, take over the cell machinery and make both new viral RNA and the protein coat of the virus.
Phage genomes are quite varied. The genetic material can be ssRNA (single-stranded RNA), dsRNA (double-stranded RNA), ssDNA (single-stranded DNA), or dsDNA (double-stranded DNA). It may be between 5 and 500 kilo base pairs long with either circular or linear arrangement. Bacteriophages are usually between 20 and 200 nanometers in size.
Phage genomes may code for as few as four genes, and as many as hundreds of genes.

</doc>
<doc id="16946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16946" title="Category:Western Sahara">
Category:Western Sahara


</doc>
<doc id="16947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16947" title="Figure skating">
Figure skating

Figure skating is both an art and a sport, in which people skate around on ice, doing jumps and spins. It is done at the Winter Olympics, and it has its own world championships. The name means to make figures or patterns on the ice. People skate with music.
In figure skating, sometimes women or men skate alone, or they skate in couples. Couples dancing includes "pairs" and ice dancing. Pairs skating has jumps, and sometimes the man lifts the woman in the air. These things are not done in ice dancing. In ice dancing, the woman must be held in the man's arms. Another kind of figure skating is synchronized skating done in groups.
The first ever figure skating club was started in 1742 in Edinburgh, Scotland. World Championships began in 1896 (the first in St. Petersburg, Russia). Before the Winter Olympic Games were started, competitions in figure skating were part of the Summer Olympic Games, in 1908 and 1920.
The International Skating Union (ISU) make the rules. 
Singles skating is composed of a Short Program and a Free Skate. Both of them have a technical score and a presentation score.
Under the ISU Judging System the Judges focus entirely on evaluating the quality of each element performed (technical aspect) and the quality of the performance. There will be a panel of 9 Judges per segment. Out of these 9 scores, the highest and lowest score of each element or program component are ignored and the average will be taken.
The score for the element is composed of a “Base Value” of each element and the “Grade of Execution - GOE”. GOE is that the Judge grades the quality of the element on a scale of +3, +2, +1, 0, -1, -2, -3. The total of all the elements scores gives the Technical Score.
The Judges award points on a scale from 0.25 to 10,00 with increments of 0.25 for the Presentation Score to grade the overall presentation of the performance. There are five items in the Presentation Score.
Skating Skills
Transitions, Linking Footwork and Movement
Performance/Execution
Choreography/Composition
Interpretation
There are six types of jump that ISU decides to score. The following items are listed in order of the score (difficulty). There are two types of jumps: edge jump and toe jump. The Axel, loop, and Salchow are edge jumps and the lutz, flip and toe loop are toe jumps.
Spins are classified as Sit spins, Upright spins or Camel spin. Each of them has various variations. Any position which is not basic is a non-basic position.
Sit spin
The position of this spin is that the upper part of the skating leg is at least parallel to the ice.
Upright spin
The position of this spin is any position with the skating leg is extended or slightly bent which is not a camel position.
Camel spin
The position of this spin is any position where the free leg backwards and the knee is higher than the hip level, however Layback, Biellmann and similar variations are still considered upright spins.
Pairs:
Ice dance:

</doc>
<doc id="16948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16948" title="Gabriel">
Gabriel

Gabriel (meaning "God is my strength" or "man of God"), in the Bible and Qur'an, is an angel, specifically an archangel (arch means "highest" or "chief"). 
Gabriel is first mentioned in the Bible, in the book of Daniel, when he appeared to Daniel. In the New Testament, St. Gabriel appears first in the book of Daniel in the Old Testament, the angel announced to Daniel the prophecy of the seventy weeks. And most famously, to Mary to announce the coming birth of Jesus. The Catholic feast of the Annunciation celebrates this visit every year, nine months before Christmas. The Bible does not say angels have wings, but Christian artists usually show them that way.
Gabriel ("Jibril" in Arabic) is a messenger from Allah. He is the angel who tells Mary that she will have a baby boy. Gabriel is one of four names of angels in holy Qur'an. He revealed the Qur'an to the prophet Muhammad.
Gabriel has sometimes been used as a given name in English-speaking counties because of a Continental European influence. Cognates: Hungarian: Gábor. Italian: Gabriele. Finnish: Kaapo.
The feminine form of the name Gabriel is Gabrielle.

</doc>
<doc id="16949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16949" title="Post office">
Post office

A post office is a place that is made available by the postal system to post, receive, sort, handle, and to move or deliver mail. You can buy postage stamps to mail things like packages or letters and drop them off there, and they will bring it to where you want it to go.

</doc>
<doc id="16950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16950" title="Lahn">
Lahn

The Lahn is a river in Hesse, Germany with a length of .
Its source is in the Rothaargebirge.
It flows through the towns Marburg, Gießen, Wetzlar, and Limburg an der Lahn.
It joins the River Rhine at Lahnstein, near Koblenz.

</doc>
<doc id="16961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16961" title="Rottweiler">
Rottweiler

The Rottweiler is a large breed of dog. Their coat of fur is mostly black, with brown on the legs and face. They are excellent guard dogs, as well as herding, and companion dogs.
Dogs are pack animals. When they feel threatened, they will defend themselves. They will also protect other members of the pack to a certain extent. How they defend themselves, and how close they feel to the rest of the pack (their owners) depends on the dog's nature. It also depends on how they were raised. Since dogs judge dangerous situations differently, they should not be left unattended near a place where people are arguing. They may also judge "unattended" moves of a child as an attack. Therefore dogs should not be left alone near children.
There is no specific weight for a Rottweiler to qualify to be judged in dog shows. The dog must be neither too thin or too fat for its size. Both males and females must be "medium-large" in size for the American Kennel Club. The General German Rottweiler Club (ADRK) lists 50 kilograms (110 pounds) for males and 42 kilograms (93 pounds) for females .
When the Rottweilers' owners are not experienced, problems arise. Sometimes humans, mostly children, are attacked by these dogs. The attacks are often a result of irresponsible owners. Rottweilers are very intelligent and need equally smart handlers to raise them. 
In some areas, breeding certain dogs has been restricted or forbidden.
 

</doc>
<doc id="16964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16964" title="Anne Murray">
Anne Murray

Morna Anne Murrary (born June 20, 1945) is a Canadian Pop and Country musician. She was born in Nova Scotia. She was a teacher, but also sang and made records. One of her records, "Snowbird", became a hit late in 1970. The song was not about Christmas, but was popular during the Christmas season. The record became a perennial through association with the holiday.
Murray later had hits with remakes of Beatles ("I'm Happy Just to Dance With You") and Monkees songs ("Daydream Believer"). She also recorded "Shadows in the Moonlight" and "A Little Good News", which became popular.

</doc>
<doc id="16966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16966" title="Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets">
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets by J. K. Rowling is the second novel (published in 1998) in the Harry Potter series of books. A movie of the book was released in 2002. 
The story begins as Harry, orphaned, spends summer with an aunt, uncle and cousin who do not love him. Harry is visited by Dobby, a house-elf, who is forced to serve the Malfoy family. Dobby warns Harry not to go back to Hogwarts, the magical school that Harry went to the year before, saying that terrible things will happen there. Harry doesn't listen to the warning, so Dobby causes a mess to make Harry's aunt and uncle angry. They lock Harry in his room for the rest of the summer. Harry is rescued by his best friend Ron Weasley in a flying car. He spends the rest of the summer at the Weasley home, called "The Burrow". The reader is introduced to the Weasley family, including Ron's sister Ginny, who is just starting at Hogwarts.
Mr Weasley works for the Department of Magic. He is fascinated by "Muggles" (ordinary people) and the way that they manage to live without magic. It is his job to prevent wizards from illegally enchanting Muggle objects. But he does not always do his job in the way the Department would like. In fact, he drives his family to catch the school train in a magical Ford Anglia. The magical train leaves Paddington station in London from Platform 9¾. But because of strange happenings, Harry and Ron miss the train to school.
Harry and Ron go to school, very late, and in disgrace. Harry has not been back at school very long before it becomes clear that everybody inside the school is in danger. One by one students, and even the caretaker's cat, are affected by a strange and frightening spell. As everyone becomes more and more frightened, they start to be suspicious of other people.

</doc>
<doc id="16971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16971" title="Personal computer">
Personal computer

A personal computer (PC) is the common name for a type of computer that is most popular in offices and homes. The first PC called the "IBM PC" was made by the company called IBM in 1981, although many computers were made before like the Commodore PET. Smartphones and tablet computers are also computers for personal use, but they are not often called "personal computers". 
Today, most PCs usually have a basic set of software called an operating system. The operating system is responsible for several tasks including providing an user interface (UI). The most popular operating system on PCs is Windows, sold by Microsoft Corporation. PCs made by a company called Apple Inc. can use a different system of software called Mac OS that is sold by Apple Inc. 
Many free operating systems are available. They are called Linux operating systems. There are over 300 different Linux "distributions". Each one has a different purpose. Ubuntu-Linux is the most-used Linux because it is the easiest to use.
A modern PC has a minimum set of parts to be useful. The "Base unit" or "Tower" is the main part of the computer. A mouse and keyboard are used for input. A monitor is needed to view output. In a laptop computer these parts are all together. 
Inside the base unit or tower there are many electronic parts. The main parts are the motherboard, CPU, the Hard disk and memory.
The CPU (Central Processing unit) follows the instructions in the operating system and application programs. The memory, or RAM (random access memory), is for moving information (or data) quickly to and from the processor. The hard drive holds programs and data while the computer is powered off. Floppy drives, CD-ROM drives are used for storing information on removable disks. 
Computers often have a modem to send and receive data over a phone line, or more recently, over cable television lines. Computers can also be connected to a computer network. 
Modern PCs have various sockets called ports. The most common ports are known as USB ports.
Computers may be used for work, including doing research using the internet, keeping records; or writing documents. Other uses include communicating, with people across the world using Instant messaging, e-mail or Skype or recreation activity such as playing computer games.

</doc>
<doc id="16972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16972" title="MS-DOS">
MS-DOS

MS-DOS is a computer operating system by Microsoft Corporation. It stands for "Microsoft Disk Operating System", and came from an operating system Microsoft bought called QDOS, or the "Quick and Dirty Operating System." It was popularly used in PCs before an operating system called Microsoft Windows came out and still is in some places today. OS/2 was originally made by a joint agreement with companies that are called Microsoft and IBM. OS/2 was maintained by IBM until 2006. OS/2 was supposed to replace MS-DOS, but that replacement did not succeed. MS-DOS was the framework behind Windows operating systems until an operating system known as Windows XP.
MS-DOS is a text-based operating system, meaning that a user works with a keyboard to input data and receives output in plain text. Later on, MS-DOS often had programs using a mouse and graphics to make work more simple and quick. (Some people still believe that working without graphics is really more efficient.) It is called a disk operating system because it was originally made to be loaded into a computer's memory with a floppy disk each time the computer is started (booted) up.
Many books have been written on how to use MS-DOS. One of the easiest to understand is "MS-DOS for Dummies", by Dan Gookin, the first book in the "For Dummies" series of easier to follow instruction books.

</doc>
<doc id="16975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16975" title="DOS">
DOS

A disk operating system (DOS) will load from a floppy disk each time a computer starts, and will access that disk for software to complete operations. MS-DOS is probably the most well-known DOS, and was purchased by Microsoft Corporation from a system known as QDOS. As operating systems became more complicated and took up more space, they began to be permanently installed on hard drives, which are faster and more reliable than floppy disks, and can store more data. This was encouraged by a steady drop in hard drive prices.
"DOS"es are usually text-based and without graphics to save space on a floppy disk. Although DOSes have mostly been replaced by Windows, Macintosh, and Linux systems, among others (sporting a GUI, or Graphical User Interface), they are still in use in some places, mostly on older computers. This may be because of a lack of money, the need to use software which still runs on a DOS system, nostalgia for an older operating system, or the belief that text-based systems are more efficient.
Although GUIs are more popular, in times of emergency or when one needs to install special software, a boot disk allows a user to start his computer into a DOS.

</doc>
<doc id="16976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16976" title="Internet service provider">
Internet service provider

An Internet service provider, or ISP, maintains, installs and provides internet connection to residential or commercial areas. Some examples of ISP clients include - homes, coffee shops, hotels, libraries, offices. They usually charge a fee for installing the connection and a monthly fee for maintaining it.
The internet is basically a web of interconnected networks - which are maintained by a huge number of different ISPs. They keep connected around the world by giving their clients access to other ISP networks. This is called peering.
Many ISPs have other services such as e-mail and web hosting service. 
ISPs offer different types of connections such as dial-up, DSL, through optical fiber wires, through a cable television connection, or wireless. Communications satellite connections are used mainly in remote areas. Dial-up is the slowest connection, while a direct fiber-optic connection is usually the fastest.

</doc>
<doc id="16982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16982" title="National Women's Hockey League">
National Women's Hockey League

The National Women's Hockey League (NWHL) was an ice hockey league in Canada that was formed in 1999 and ended in 2007. The best female players in the world played in this league and in the Western Women's Hockey League. The mayor of Brampton, Ontario, Susan Fennell, was the NWHL's commissioner (president).
]

</doc>
<doc id="16983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16983" title="Western Women's Hockey League">
Western Women's Hockey League

The Western Women's Hockey League (WWHL) is an ice hockey league in North America. It was formed in 2004. The best female players in the world play in this league and in the National Women's Hockey League (NWHL). Some WWHL teams began in the NWHL. The Minnesota Whitecaps and the Manitoba Maple Leafs continue to be active teams and are playing a number of exhibition games as the league expands to include several new teams.

</doc>
<doc id="16984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16984" title="Category:Ice hockey">
Category:Ice hockey

This is a category for various articles concerning the sport of ice hockey.

</doc>
<doc id="16986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16986" title="Yukon">
Yukon

The Yukon is part of Canada, north of British Columbia, west of the Northwest Territories, and east of the American state of Alaska. Its population is 31,000. Most of the territory's people live in the capital of Whitehorse. Many of the people are native Canadians (First Nations).
The Yukon became a territory in 1898. It was part of the Northwest Territories from 1870 to 1898. Many people came to live in the Yukon during the Yukon Gold Rush of the 1890's.
Mount Logan, at 5959 metres above sea level, is Canada's highest mountain.
The most important industry in the Yukon is mining.

</doc>
<doc id="16987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16987" title="Saanich">
Saanich

The District of Saanich is a region of Greater Victoria, British Columbia. It is north of the City of Victoria. Over 100,000 people live in Saanich. It is named after the Saanich First Nation.
Some communities within Saanich include Gordon Head, Royal Oak, Cordova Bay, Tillicum-Gorge, Cadboro Bay, Broadmead, Cedar Hill, and Ten-Mile Point.
Saanich Commonwealth Place, a recreation centre first used for swimming and diving at the 1994 Commonwealth Games, is located in Saanich.
Saanich celebrated its 100th anniversary in 2006.
The mayor of Saanich is Frank Leonard.

</doc>
<doc id="16988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16988" title="Emily Carr">
Emily Carr

Emily Carr (December 13, 1871 - March 2, 1945) was a Canadian artist and writer.
Emily Carr was born in Victoria, British Columbia in 1871. Her parents died while she was a young teenager. She began art lessons when she was sixteen. When she was nineteen, she went to study art in San Francisco. She also studied art in England but she got sick and came back to Victoria. After she got better, she went to France to continue her art studies. She saw paintings by many French artists who were experimenting with new ways of painting. She was most influenced by French impressionism and post-impressionism, though.
When Carr came back to Canada, she had trouble selling her paintings because they looked unusual to many people. Her paintings were even laughed at. She had to make money to support herself so she ran a small apartment house. She was so busy that she did not have much time to paint.
In 1927, she met a famous group of Canadian painters called the Group of Seven. They were impressed by her paintings and she became respected for her art.
In the later years of her life, Carr started writing books. "Klee Wyck" was the title of one of these books. It won the Governor General's Award which is an important award for literature in Canada. She also wrote "The Book of Small." She died in 1945 in Victoria.
Carr painted scenes from nature and from First Nations culture. For example, she painted many Haida and Tlingit totem poles. The Tlingit people called her Klee Wyck, which means "the laughing one." She went on long trips by canoe to visit First Nations villages.
She also liked to paint Canadian nature. She believed it was important that Canadian paintings have a different style than paintings from Europe. She liked the paintings of the Group of Seven because of their originality.
One of Carr's most famous paintings is "The Raven." The Emily Carr Institute of Art and Design was named after her and two schools are also named after her. She is considered one of Canada's most famous artists.

</doc>
<doc id="16997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16997" title="Hatikvah">
Hatikvah

Hatikvah (also transliterated as Hatikva, or, without vowels, H-t-k-v , "The Hope") is the national anthem of Israel. The song tells about the 2000-year-old hope of the Jewish people to return to their homeland, Israel. The song lyrics (words) were originally a 9-stanza poem called "תקותנו" (Tikvatenu), or "Our Hope," written by Naphtali Imber. "Hatikvah" uses only the first stanza and the refrain of Imber's poem. The last line of the refrain was changed, and the words were put to music. The music is from a very old--and very popular--folk song that Samuel Cohen, a Jew born in Spain, found himself humming one day. It is in a minor key, which is usually not used for national anthems, because it sounds sad, but the words to the song are about the Jews' hope that one day their sadness will be turned into joy.
כל עוד בלבב פנימה
נפש יהודי הומיה,<br>
ולפאתי מזרח קדימה<br>
עין לציון צופיה -
עוד לא אבדה תקותנו,<br>
התקוה בת שנות אלפים,<br>
להיות עם חופשי בארצנו<br>
ארץ ציון וירושלים.
HATIKVA<br>
Kol ʻod balevav penimah<br>
Nefesh Yehudi Homiyah<br>
Ulfa'atey Mizrakh Kadimah<br>
ʻAyin letzion Tzofiyah
ʻOd lo avdah tikvatenu<br>
Hatikvah bat shnot alpayim<br>
Lihyot am chofshi be'artzenu<br>
Eretz Tziyon v'Yerushalayim<br>
As long as in the heart, within, 
A Jewish soul still yearns, 
And onward, towards the ends of the east, 
An eye still looks toward Zion; 
Our hope is not yet lost, 
The hope of two thousand years, 
To be a free nation in our land, 
The land of Zion and Jerusalem.

</doc>
<doc id="17007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17007" title="Virology">
Virology

Virology is the study of viruses such as the cold virus.
Virologists are responsible for many immunisations against common viruses like the common influenza (Flu) and things like chickenpox and smallpox.

</doc>
<doc id="17022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17022" title="MediaWiki:Sidebar">
MediaWiki:Sidebar


</doc>
<doc id="17024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17024" title="MediaWiki:Sitestatstext">
MediaWiki:Sitestatstext

There are $2 article pages in the Simple English Wikipedia at the moment. This number does not include redirects or articles without links.
There are $1 pages on Simple English Wikipedia. This number includes all pages on this wiki, including user pages, talk pages, help pages, and redirects.
There are $8 uploaded files.
$4 changes have been made since Simple English Wikipedia was started. That comes to $5 'changes per page' in the project.
The length is $7.

</doc>
<doc id="17032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17032" title="MediaWiki:Watchdetails">
MediaWiki:Watchdetails

You have on your watchlist (not counting talk pages). Click to see or change the complete list.

</doc>
<doc id="17035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17035" title="Stanley Cup">
Stanley Cup

The Stanley Cup is a trophy given to the champions of the National Hockey League (NHL) every year.
It was bought by Lord Stanley, the Governor General of Canada, in 1892, for $50. The first team to win it was the Montreal A.A.A. in 1893. Other teams could challenge for it. By 1915, it was awarded on a yearly basis.
The names of players and others such as coaches are put on the cup every year. As a result, the NHL had to make the cup bigger, by adding layers to the bottom. When the first cup was full of names, they made a copy of it, which is now what is awarded.
Today, there are 30 teams in the NHL. They play 82 games per year, and then 16 teams make the playoffs. These teams play best-of-seven series until there is only one champion.
The Montreal Canadiens have won the Stanley Cup 24 times, the most of any team. They also won the most in a row: five between 1955-56 and 1959-60.
Henri Richard of the Montreal Canadiens appears the most on the Stanley Cup, 11 times.
The Stanley Cup was not awarded in 2005: there was no NHL season because of a labour disagreement. It was not awarded in 1919, either, because of the influenza epidemic.

</doc>
<doc id="17036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17036" title="MediaWiki:Edittools">
MediaWiki:Edittools


</doc>
<doc id="17037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17037" title="Militarization">
Militarization

Militarization is the general movement of a country to focus its production on war. This includes production of war machines such as tanks and aircraft as well as arms for infantry. There is a focus of the population to produce these goods. An example of this is seen when females during the Second World War would work in factories to produce planes and tanks. Militarism is simply a country that is focusing on increasing their military might through production and concentration of capital resources. 
This movement can be started in either a country at war already or in a country that is newly entering a conflict. Example of this include the one stated earlier, since the United States entered the Second World War they shifted from supplying Britain to producing their own weapons. When Germany was about to begin their invasion of Europe they started militarization. They broke the Treaty and began to produce weapons. Their focus changed from economic progress to fascism and militarism.

</doc>
<doc id="17038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17038" title="Wikipedia:Aids for writing Simple English">
Wikipedia:Aids for writing Simple English

Here are a few electronic aids for writing Simple English.
OpenOffice.org (OOo) is a program that does everything that Microsoft Office Professional does. OpenOffice is a free download (115MB) or can be bought on Compact disc (CD). The Basic English Institute has a spell checking word list download
The B.E.I now offers a Simple English spell checking wordlist for Open Office software. Each non-Simple English word is underlined in red. Readme
WriteIdea (bad link, needs update) is an Open Source writers' tool for simplifying English text. There is a java-based version you can download, and a web-based version (bad link, needs update) you can use online.
There is a free Simple English dictionary for Firefox. Add the dictionary to Firefox. When you change an article, change the spelling dictionary to the new Simple English dictionary (marked "English").
Internet Dictionary Project software called IDP Companion
translates between several languages. Replace one of the minor
languages with the Basic English definitions from the Institute download page. Enter the "misspelled" word and copy and paste the desired Basic replacement.
A beta release of a thesaurus-like drop-down list for translation of the non-Simple English words into Basic English is also available. Readme . Help from a Unix programmer to compile an update the Beta of the thesaurus would be appreciated.
An opensource web app (dead/seized; no longer functioning) specifically for simple.wikipedia that translates—to some degree—regular English to simple English automatically, using a different, editable, and context-sensitive . Leaves links, quotes, references and headings untranslated. Can pull random en.wikipedia articles, in an effort to streamline simple.wiki development using en.wikipedia as a source.
Tools for measuring textual difficulty (long words, long sentences, etc.) include:

</doc>
<doc id="17042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17042" title="Category:1871 births">
Category:1871 births


</doc>
<doc id="17052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17052" title="Tour de France">
Tour de France

The Tour de France () is a well known bicycle race. It began in 1903. It is held in France, every summer. In recent years it has ended with a race through the centre of Paris, past the Eiffel Tower. It is among the most famous, and has some of the highest prizes, of bike races in Europe. Recently, it was in the media, because some athletes were doping. The race goes around France, but can have some parts in other countries, including England, Belgium, or Spain as they race in the Pyrenees mountains.
The tour lasts about three weeks. At the end of each day's race the leader is given a yellow shirt, the best sprinter is given a green shirt, and the best rider in the mountain races is given a polka dot jersey. He is sometimes called the King of the Mountains. The best young rider, who must be under 25, gets a white jersey. The winner is the one who finishes the race to Paris in the fastest time. There is a lot of prize money for the teams of the winners of the Tour, but the winner of each day's race also gets prize money 123.

</doc>
<doc id="17056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17056" title="Joseph Smith, Jr.">
Joseph Smith, Jr.

Joseph Smith, Jr. (December 23, 1805 – June 27, 1844) was an American religious leader. He started the Latter Day Saint movement (also called Mormonism). Latter Day Saints believe that Smith was a prophet.
According to Joseph Smith's own story, when he was 17 years old, he was visited by an angel named Moroni. Moroni told him about a really old book written upon Golden Plates. It was buried in a hill. A few years later, Joseph said that he received those plates and translated them into the book that today is call The Book of Mormon. He instructed a man named Martin Harris to write down the words that he said was a translation of the plates. He said Moroni gave him seer stones which would help him translate the golden plates. Harris took home the pages and told his wife all about what had happened, but she did not believe him. Those pages were lost, and Joseph told Martin that God was very angry with them. Eventually, Joseph was allowed to translate the rest of the book, with help from Oliver Cowdery instead of Martin Harris.
On April 6, 1830, he started The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is often called the Mormon Church. Joseph Smith said that God wanted him to be a prophet and teach other people the things that he learned from God. This church still exists today, with millions of members around the world.
Joseph Smith taught some things that some people did not like. He said that other churches were only partly true. He also said that men could have more than one wife if God commanded them, just like was taught in the Old Testament of the Bible. The Mormons also did not always get along with their neighbors.
On June 7, 1844, some people who were upset with Smith created a newspaper in Nauvoo, Illinois called the "Nauvoo Expositor" This newspaper was filled with bad things about Smith, such as how Smith secretly had many wives. Some men even said that Smith tried to take their wives. Smith had the printing press that made the newspaper destroyed, and had the city declare martial law. Smith was arrested after being accused of trying to start a riot, and was put in jail in Carthage, Illinois as he waited for his trial to start. On June 27, a group of angry men entered the jail and killed Smith and his brother, Hyrum.

</doc>
<doc id="17057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17057" title="Anastasia">
Anastasia

Anastasia or Anastacia is a woman's name that comes from the Koine Greek. It translates to "She who shall rise up again", but it is also used to mean "resurrection". The name, and its similar male name, Anastasius, were given to children born during Easter in the early years of Christianity.
The names "Stacey" (also spelled "Stacie", "Stacy" or "Stacee"), "Tasia", and "Stasia" are short forms for Anastasia.
It is also the name of several important women in history.
Anastasia is also the name of:

</doc>
<doc id="17058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17058" title="Band">
Band

In music, a band is a group of people (usually musicians) that get together to sing songs, or perform music. There are different kinds of bands that use different groups of instruments. 

</doc>
<doc id="17060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17060" title="Demographics of Nicaragua">
Demographics of Nicaragua

About 86 per cent of Nicaraguans are European (but not limited to Spanish) or mixed European and of native ancestry. Most Nicaraguans have Spanish ancestors, but the 19th century saw several waves of immigration from other European countries (mainly from Germany). Most of the Mestizo and European population live in the western and central regions of the country and especially in the cities of Managua, Leon and Granada.
About 9 per cent of Nicaragua's population is black or afro-nicaragüense and they are concentrated in the country's eastern coast, and were brought mostly from Jamaica and Haiti when the region was a British protectorate. There is also a smaller number of Garifuna, a people of mixed African, Caribbean, Angolan, Congoan and Arawak descent.
Just 5 per cent of the population are of pure native descent. Nicaragua's pre-Columbian population consisted of the Nahuatl-speaking Nicarao people of the west, and six ethnic groups including the Miskitos, Ramas and Sumos in the Caribbean region. While very few pure-blooded Nicarao people still exist, the Caribbean peoples have remained distinct. In the mid-1980s, the government divided the eastern half of the country - the former department of Zelaya - into two autonomous regions and granted the African and indigenous people of the region limited self-rule.
There is also a small Middle Eastern-Nicaraguan community of Syrian, Armenian, Palestinian and Lebanese people in Nicaragua with a total population of about 30,000, and an East Asian community of Japanese, Taiwanese and Chinese people of almost 8,000. The minorities speak Spanish and maintain their ancestral languages as well.
Spanish is spoken by about 90% of Nicaraguans; the Nicaraguan dialect has many similarities to Galician, and also has similarities to Argentinian Spanish which uses "vos" instead of "tu", along with the "vos" conjugation. The black population of the east coast region has English as its first language. Several indigenous peoples of the east still use their original languages.
Roman Catholicism is the major religion, but evangelical Protestant groups have grown recently, and there are strong Anglican and Moravian communities on the Caribbean coast. 0.1% of Nicaragua is Buddhist and the religion has been growing in recent years.
Ninety per cent of Nicaraguans live in the Pacific and central lowlands and the adjacent interior highlands. The population is 54% urban.

</doc>
<doc id="17071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17071" title="Carlo Azeglio Ciampi">
Carlo Azeglio Ciampi

Carlo Azeglio Ciampi (9 December 1920 in Livorno, Italy – 16 September 2016 in Rome, Italy) was the 10th President of the Italian Republic. His work started in 1999 and ended in 2006. He was followed by Giorgio Napolitano
He is appreciated very much by the Italian people because of his equality and rightness.
Since 1979 he had been President of the Bank of Italy, but his task ended in 1993.
He was also Prime Minister of the Italian government, but his task lasted just a few months, because it was just a technical government,which purpose was to lead the country in a moment of difficulties.
Ciampi died at a hospital in Rome from complications of pneumonia, aged 95.

</doc>
<doc id="17073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17073" title="Barry Sadler">
Barry Sadler

Barry Sadler (November 1, 1940 – November 5, 1989) was an American soldier, songwriter and author. In 1966, He recorded a song called "The Ballad of The Green Berets". It was the biggest selling song that year. He later helped write the "Casca" series of books. He died after being shot in the head by a robber.

</doc>
<doc id="17074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17074" title="Nancy Sinatra">
Nancy Sinatra

Nancy Sinatra (born 8 June 1940) is an American singer and actress. She was born in Jersey City, New Jersey. She is the elder daughter of Frank Sinatra. She is best known for the song "These Boots Were Made for Walkin'".
She had a younger brother, Frank Sinatra, Jr. and has a younger sister, Tina Sinatra.

</doc>
<doc id="17075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17075" title="The Rascals">
The Rascals

The Rascals (formerly known as The Young Rascals) were an American pop-soul group popular in the 1960s.

</doc>
<doc id="17077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17077" title="Percy Sledge">
Percy Sledge

Percy Sledge (November 25, 1940 – April 14, 2015) was an American R&B singer. He was born in Leighton, Alabama. He was best known for his song "When a Man Loves a Woman".
Sledge died of liver cancer in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, aged 74.

</doc>
<doc id="17078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17078" title="Tommy Roe">
Tommy Roe

Tommy Roe (born May 9, 1942) is an American singer and guitarist. He was popular in the 1960s. His best known songs were "Sweet Pea" and "Dizzy".

</doc>
<doc id="17079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17079" title="The Box Tops">
The Box Tops

The Box Tops were a 1960s pop music group, from Memphis, Tennessee. Their best known songs are "The Letter" and "Cry Like A Baby".

</doc>
<doc id="17080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17080" title="Lulu">
Lulu

Lulu can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="17081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17081" title="James K. Polk">
James K. Polk

James Knox Polk (November 2, 1795 – June 15, 1849) was the eleventh President of the United States. His term was from March 4, 1845 to March 3, 1849. He died days after leaving office and has the shortest retirement of any president.
Polk was born in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina. He went to the University of North Carolina.
Polk was sworn in on March 4, 1845. He is the first president elected under the age of 50. 
Polk is respected by historians because he made four promises during his presidential campaign and accomplished all of them. 
He signed legislation which made the Smithsonian Institution.
He promised to lower tariffs (taxes on foreign trades) and he did that.
He promised to make the U.S. government its own bank so it did not have to put its money in other banks. He did that.
He intimidated England into allowing the United States to have the Oregon Territory (the north-western United States) just like he promised.
He promised he would make Texas part of the United States. He declared war on Mexico and led the country through the Mexican-American War.
During his presidency, the U.S. gained a lot of land.
He is the only President to have been Speaker of the United States House of Representatives. 
He promised to serve only a single term. He did not run for re-election as President and did not serve a second term.
On January 1, 1824, Sarah Childress Polk, aged 20, married James Polk, aged 28, at the plantation home of the bride's parents near Murfreesboro. They had no children, but raised a nephew as if it were their own child. 
Polk died on June 15, 1849 in Nashville, Tennessee. He died from cholera. Polk was only in retirement for three months. Polk was buried at Tennessee State Capitol in Nashville, Tennessee.

</doc>
<doc id="17083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17083" title="Al Gore">
Al Gore

Albert Arnold "Al" Gore, Jr. (born March 31, 1948) is a former American politician, who served as the Vice President of the United States under Bill Clinton from 1993 to 2001. Before that, he was a Senator for Tennessee and a congressman. He is a Democrat.
He was chosen as the Democratic nominee of the 2000 United States Presidential election, but lost the electoral vote to Republican candidate George W. Bush because of Florida and the US Supreme Court ruling a 5-4 favor of Bush. Gore won the popular vote. When Gore lost the presidency, many people were against the Supreme Court argued that it was the only time in history that the Supreme Court chose the next President.
Gore won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007.
Albert Gore, Jr. was born in Washington, D.C.. He is the second of two chidren. His father, Albert Gore, Sr. was a Senator for Tennessee and congressman. His mother, Pauline LaFon Gore is one of the first women to have graduated from Vanderbilt University Law School. Gore is descended from Scots-Irish immigrants who first settled in Virginia in the mid-17th-century, and moved to Tennessee after the Revolutionary War. Gore was brought up in both Washington and Tennessee. His older sister was Nancy LaFon Gore, who was born in 1938, died of lung cancer in 1984.
Gore was a Representative from 1977 to 1985 and a Senator from 1985 to 1993. In 1988 he ran for President for first time, but lost to Michael Dukakis in the Democratic primary. In 1993, he became Vice President to Bill Clinton. He ran for President in 2000, but lost to George W. Bush (many people still argue this). Even though he lost the race, Gore won in the popular vote by over 500,000 votes.
Gore is now a businessman, and runs and works for several companies, including Generation Investment Management, Google, Apple Computers, and TV channel Current. 
He is also a fighter for issues involving the environment. He released a movie in 2006 about global warming and climate change called "An Inconvenient Truth", which was based on a slide show he had given to millions of people. In 2007, Gore won the Nobel Peace Prize which he shared with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
Interest in having Gore run for the 2016 Presidential election arose in 2014 and again in 2015, though Gore has not declared an intention to run.
He currently lives in Nashville and was married to Tipper for 40 years. In June 2010, they filed for divorce. The Gores have 4 children and 2 grandchildren.

</doc>
<doc id="17085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17085" title="Pumpkinhead II">
Pumpkinhead II

Pumpkinhead II: Blood Wings is a 1994 movie about a young boy named Tommy, a misfit and deformed teenager who had no friends.
One day, Tommy is killed by a gang of bad boys from his home town for no reason at all. Miss Ossie was an old lady who used to take care of Tommy from the very beginning. When the young boy is killed, she decides to bury him in her backyard as a way to keep him around anyway. Several years later in the 1990s, a bunch of teenagers go to Miss Ossie's house and they do something that brings Tommy back to life. Some kind of spelling that resurrect the deformed kid. For some reason, Tommy comes back as an angry and even more grotesque creature who wants to take revenge on the people who killed him in the past and innocent people as well.

</doc>
<doc id="17087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17087" title="Category:1795 births">
Category:1795 births


</doc>
<doc id="17088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17088" title="Category:1795">
Category:1795


</doc>
<doc id="17091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17091" title="Category:1971 movies">
Category:1971 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1971.

</doc>
<doc id="17092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17092" title="THX 1138">
THX 1138

THX 1138 is a 1971 movie and was the first feature movie directed by George Lucas and executive produced by Francis Ford Coppola and Coppola's production company American Zoetrope. 
It was based on a short film Lucas made in college in 1967 called "Electric Labyrinth THX 1138 4EB".

</doc>
<doc id="17093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17093" title="Category:2005 movies">
Category:2005 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="17094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17094" title="Category:1980 movies">
Category:1980 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1980.

</doc>
<doc id="17095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17095" title="Category:1988 movies">
Category:1988 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1988.

</doc>
<doc id="17096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17096" title="Category:1993 movies">
Category:1993 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1993.

</doc>
<doc id="17097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17097" title="Category:1987 movies">
Category:1987 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1987.

</doc>
<doc id="17098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17098" title="Category:2001 movies">
Category:2001 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 2001.

</doc>
<doc id="17099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17099" title="Bat">
Bat

Bats are mammals in the order Chiroptera. They are the only mammals that can fly. Other mammals like flying squirrels, or flying possum, can glide but not fly. Bats are nocturnal – they are active during the night, dusk, or dawn. Most use echolocation to catch prey and to find their way about. As nighttime animals, bats avoid direct competition with birds, few of which are nocturnal.
Bats are a successful group. They are the second largest order of mammals: there are more than 1,100 species of bats. This means that 20% of all living mammal species – one in five – are bats. 
About seventy percent of bats are insectivores, which is the basal form of life for this group. The common pipistrelle is a successful example. Most of the rest are fruit-eaters (fruit bats). A few species suck blood, and a few large ones are carnivorous.
Bats live almost everywhere, except the Arctic, Antarctic and a few oceanic islands. They usually roost in caves, old buildings, or trees.
Traditionally, bats are divided into two groups. Microbats mostly use echo-location and catch insects, but just a few eat fish or drink blood. Megabats do not echolocate, but instead eat fruit or nectar.
The phylogenetic relationships of the different groups of bats have been the subject of much debate. The traditional subdivision between Megachiroptera and Microchiroptera reflects the view that these groups of bats have evolved independently of each other for a long time, from a common ancestor which was already capable of flight. 
The hypothesis was that flight only evolved once in mammals. Most molecular biological evidence supports the view that bats form a single or monophyletic group.
There are few fossilized remains of bats, as they are terrestrial and light-boned. An Eocene bat, "Onychonycteris", was found in the 52-million-year-old Green River Formation in Wyoming, United States, in 2003. It could fly, but the well-preserved skeleton showed the cochlea of the inner ear could not achieve the great hearing ability of modern bats. This was evidence that flight in bats developed before echolocation. The team said it lacked ear and throat features not only of echolocating bats today, but also in other known fossil species. Fossil remains of other Eocene bats, "Icaronycteris", "Archaeonycteris", "Palaeochiropteryx", "Hassianycteris" and "Australonycteris" all show a similar mixture of basal and derived traits, as expected by mosaic evolution.
All Eocene bats had long tails. This feature is also found in early flying insects in the Carboniferous, in early pterosaurs and in "Archaeopteryx" and other dinobirds. The tail helped to keep their flight stable, which means it kept on course, and did not dart about much. To dart about quickly requires special advanced brains and reflexes, which later bats, birds and pterosaurs had, but early ones did not. It requires more brains to control unstable flight than it does for stable flight. That early bats had long tails was predicted by John Maynard Smith before any fossil early bats were found.
"Onychonycteris" had longer hind legs and shorter forearms, similar to climbing mammals that hang under branches such as sloths and gibbons. This palm-sized bat had broad, short wings, suggesting it could not fly as fast or as far as later bat species. Instead of flapping its wings continuously while flying, "Onychonycteris" likely alternated between flaps and glides while in the air. Such physical characteristics suggest this bat did not fly as much as modern bats do, rather flying from tree to tree and spending most of its waking day climbing or hanging on the branches of trees.
An interesting thing about bats is that even though they can see with their eyes, they also use their ears to help them 'see' in the dark. Because of this, they can fly into very dark places where no eye could see. This way of sensing is called echolocation. Echolocation means they use echoes to find where things are.
Echolocation is like sonar, which submarines and ships use to find things underwater. This is how it works: when a bat flies, it makes lots of sounds. "We" cannot hear these sounds (they are too high-pitched), but bats can hear them. Biologists have instruments to record them, and then play them back at a lower frequency so humans can hear them.
When a bat makes its noises, the sound waves move away from the bat. If they hit something, they bounce back to the bat (this bounce is called an "echo".) If nothing bounces back, the bat knows there is nothing in front. They use this echolocation to catch their food, like butterflies or dragonflies. When a bat begins its nightly exploration, it usually sends out about 10 calls per second. From the echo they know what is in front. When they get an echo from something good to eat, the calls increase up to 200 calls per second. This increase of sounds is called a "feeding buzz". The bat makes a feeding buzz to sense all the quick moves of the insect it is trying to catch.
Hearing and understanding the echoes that go back to the bat takes special structures in the bat's brain. Because of this, many scientists, doctors, and even the U.S. army study bats carefully. The U.S. army spends hundreds of thousands of dollars every year to study echolocation in bats.
Bats also have reasonably good eyesight, and can see their prey and where they are flying if it's not too dark. There are lots of stories about bats flying right into people, but this is not true. They can see in the light very well, and in the dark, they can see much better than us. So the expression "blind as a bat" is not very scientific. 
Bats fly with their hands. In fact, the name of the order of bats, "Chiropetera", means 'hand-wings' in Greek.
Bat and bird wings are different. Birds do not have long finger-like bones in their wings like bats. Birds can not move each of their fingers, but bats can. Because of this, bats can change their direction while flying or fly in any pattern they want: this makes it easier to catch their food. A bat flies as if they are "swimming" through the air – pushing both wings down and backward.
A bird's wing has lots of feathers, while a bat's wing is mostly a stretchy, thin skin called a patagium. This thin membrane of skin stretches between each finger bone, connects to the bat's ankle, and connects to the bat's tail (if it has one). A bat folds its wings next to its body when not flying.
Bats have one claw (sometimes called a "bat thumb") that sticks out of the top of the wing. They use their "thumb" to climb and crawl. Interestingly, bats also use their thumbs to clean their ears.
Bats' wings have a lot of maneuverability (they can change direction well) – more than a bird, in fact – but they do not have a lot of lift. Because of this, bats usually have to climb up onto a tree or jump up into the air for the boost before they start flapping their wings.
Megabats eat fruit, nectar or pollen. They pollinate flowers and sometimes spread their seeds. Many tropical plants completely depend on bats.
Most microbats (7 out of 10 bat species) are insectivorous, that is, they eat insects. Some microbats eat small vertebrate animals (small mammals or fish), blood, or even other bats. There are only a few species of vampire bats, which eat blood from cattle.
Bats usually live in caves or trees. In North America and in Europe they sometimes live in people's houses or barns. They are protected animals in the U.K.
Most bats rest, sleep and hibernate in an upside-down position. They hang on to branches or rocks with their feet. To do this they have a locking mechanism on the tendons in their feet which stops them from slipping. The advantage of this is that the energy they spend hanging on is greatly reduced. Once the tendons are locked, the muscles in their legs and feet can relax. Even dead bats stay hanging.
In the United Kingdom all bats are protected by law, and even disturbing a bat or its roost can be punished with a heavy fine.
Austin, Texas is the summer home to North America's largest urban bat colony (under the Congress Avenue bridge), an estimated 1,500,000 Mexican free-tailed bats, who eat an estimated 10 to 30 tons of insects each night, and attract 100,000 tourists each year.
In Sarawak, Malaysia bats are protected species, but the large naked bat and greater nectar bat are eaten by the local communities.
In the West, bats are associated with vampires, who are said to be able to change into bats. Bats are also a symbol of ghosts, death and disease. However bats are said to be lucky in some European countries, such as Poland.
The bat is used in fiction by both villains like Dracula and heroes like Batman. Kenneth Oppel wrote a series of novels, beginning with "Silverwing", which feature bats as good characters.
An old wives' tale says that bats will entangle themselves in people's hair. This is untrue as bats can detect even a single hair, and fly around it.

</doc>
<doc id="17101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17101" title="Category:2002 movies">
Category:2002 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="17102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17102" title="Category:1995 movies">
Category:1995 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1995.

</doc>
<doc id="17103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17103" title="Category:1999 movies">
Category:1999 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="17104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17104" title="Category:1994 movies">
Category:1994 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1994.

</doc>
<doc id="17105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17105" title="Miguel de Cervantes">
Miguel de Cervantes

Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra (29 September 1547 – 23 April 1616) was a Spanish writer. His most famous book was "Don Quijote de la Mancha". It is considered the first modern novel, and therefore Cervantes was the first novelist. The book has been published in 65 countries. The work is considered among the most important in all of literature. He is sometimes called "The Prince of Satire".
Nobody knows for sure the reasons that forced Cervantes to leave Castile. Whether he was a "student" of the same name, a "sword-wielding fugitive from justice", or fleeing from a royal warrant of arrest, for having wounded a certain Antonio de Sigura in a duel, is another mystery. 
In any event, in going to Italy, Cervantes was doing what many young Spaniards of the time did to further their careers. Rome would reveal to the young artist its ecclesiastic pomp, ritual, and majesty. In a city teeming with ruins Cervantes could focus his attention on Renaissance art, architecture, and poetry (knowledge of Italian literature is readily discernible in his own productions) and on rediscovering antiquity. He could find in the ancients "a powerful impetus to revive the contemporary world in light of its accomplishments". Thus, Cervantes' continuing desire for Italy, as revealed in his later works, was in part a desire for a return to an earlier period of the Renaissance.
By 1570, Cervantes had enlisted as a soldier in a regiment of the Spanish naval elite corps, Infantería de Marina, stationed in Naples, then a possession of the Spanish crown. He was there for about a year before he saw active service. In September 1571 Cervantes sailed on board the "Marquesa", part of the galley fleet of the Holy League, Spain, the Republic of Venice, the Republic of Genoa, the Duchy of Savoy, the Knights Hospitaller based in Malta, and others, under the command of King Philip II's illegitimate half brother, John of Austria, that defeated the Ottoman fleet on October 7 in the Gulf of Lepanto near Corinth, at great cost to both sides. Though taken down with fever, Cervantes refused to stay below, and begged to be allowed to take part in the battle, saying that he would rather die for his God and his king than keep under cover. He fought bravely on board a vessel, and received three gunshot wounds – two in the chest, and one which rendered his left arm useless. In "Journey to Parnassus" he was to say that he "had lost the movement of the left hand for the glory of the right" (he was thinking of the success of the first part of "Don Quixote"). Cervantes always looked back on his conduct in the battle with pride; he believed that he had taken part in an event that would shape the course of European history.

</doc>
<doc id="17106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17106" title="Category:1936 movies">
Category:1936 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1936.

</doc>
<doc id="17107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17107" title="Category:1968 movies">
Category:1968 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1968.

</doc>
<doc id="17108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17108" title="Category:1996 movies">
Category:1996 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1996.

</doc>
<doc id="17109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17109" title="Category:1977 movies">
Category:1977 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1977.

</doc>
<doc id="17110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17110" title="Category:2004 movies">
Category:2004 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="17112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17112" title="Category:1973 movies">
Category:1973 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1973.

</doc>
<doc id="17113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17113" title="Category:1982 movies">
Category:1982 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1982.

</doc>
<doc id="17114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17114" title="Category:1985 movies">
Category:1985 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1985.

</doc>
<doc id="17115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17115" title="Category:1986 movies">
Category:1986 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1986.

</doc>
<doc id="17117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17117" title="Category:1946 movies">
Category:1946 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1946.

</doc>
<doc id="17118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17118" title="Category:1998 movies">
Category:1998 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1998.

</doc>
<doc id="17119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17119" title="Category:1991 movies">
Category:1991 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="17120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17120" title="Category:2003 movies">
Category:2003 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="17121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17121" title="Category:1997 movies">
Category:1997 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1997.

</doc>
<doc id="17122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17122" title="Category:1547 births">
Category:1547 births


</doc>
<doc id="17123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17123" title="Category:1970 movies">
Category:1970 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1970.

</doc>
<doc id="17133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17133" title="Game Boy line">
Game Boy line

The Game Boys are a group of handheld video game consoles made by Nintendo.
The first Game Boy was released in 1989. It had a small screen, a D-pad, and an A and B button. To play games, there were small objects called cartridges that you put into the Game Boy to play the game in the cartridge. The game that made it popular was Tetris. The Game Boy had a link cable and a link port which let it connect with other Game Boys.
After the Game Boy, Nintendo released the Game Boy Pocket. It only needed two batteries instead of four. The link port was smaller than the Game Boy's, so the Game Boy and Game Boy Pocket could not connect.
The Game Boy Light was only released in Japan and had a front-light so people could see better. It is very rare - only about 12,000 of them were manufactured. Because it is rare, it sells for more money than other Game Boys.
The Game Boy Color was the first Game Boy in color. It was also able to play Game Boy cartridges, which helped it sell better. This also helped other Game Boy models after the Game Boy Color. It is sometimes called GBC.
The Game Boy Advance is a handheld that had better color and smaller cartridges. It is sometimes called GBA. It came out in 2001.
The Game Boy Advance SP was an improved version of the GBA. It has a clamshell design, which means you can fold it to make it smaller. It has a better light. It can play Game Boy and Game Boy Color games, along with the new cartridges introduced with the GBA.
The Game Boy Micro is a smaller GBA. It has a smaller link port than the Game Boy Advance. It has the very best screen out of all the Game Boys.
When Nintendo released the Nintendo DS handheld in 2004, they said it was a "third pillar" (the other two pillars were the Game Boy and the home console). It has two screens, one of them is a touch screen. DS games use cards in Slot 1. In Slot 2, it can accept Game Boy Advance games, but not the older Game Boy or Game Boy Color ones.

</doc>
<doc id="17138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17138" title="Pope Paul VI">
Pope Paul VI

Pope Paul VI (; ), born Giovanni Battista Enrico Antonio Maria Montini, was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 263rd Pope from from 1963 until his death in 1978. Paul was a spiritual leader and the head of the church bureaucracy.
Montini was born in Concesio. That is near Brescia in northern Italy. His father was editor of a Roman Catholic newspaper. He received degrees in civil and canon law, theology and philosophy.
Montini was ordained and celebrated his first mass in 1920. He worked in the Vatican diplomatic corps. During World War II, he was in charge of the Vatican's work for refugees and prisoners of war. He was made Archbishop of Milan in 1954. Pope John XXIII made Montini a cardinal in 1958.
Cardinal Montini was elected Pope in 1963. Pope Paul continued the Second Vatican Council which was begun by Pope John XXIII. His first encyclical is the only one in the Vatican archives which is in the handwriting of the pope who delivered it. Paul VI was known as the "pilgrim" pope for his numerous travels. He was the first pope to fly in an airplane. 
In 1964, Paul was the first pope to travel from Rome to the Holy Land. He flew first to Amman in Jordan. Then he traveled by car to Jerusalem. In 1970, the pope visited Australia, the Phillipines, and Indonesia. In 1975, Paul declared 1975 to be a "jubilee" year with themes of renewal and reconciliation.
In 1978, Prime Minister Aldo Moro was kidnapped in Rome. Pope Paul VI made an offer to exchange his life for Moro's. The offer was not accepted. Moro was killed 55 days later.
At the age of 80, Pope Paul VI died at Castel Gandolfo, Italy, from a heart attack.
The Pope Paul VI Hall is the modern building in which mass papal audiences are held.
Serafian, Michael. (1964). "The Pilgrim." New York: Farrar, Straus. OCLC 386084?

</doc>
<doc id="17171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17171" title="Macau">
Macau

The Macao Special Administrative Region (Macau or Macao, ) is one of China's two Special Administrative Regions. (The other one is Hong Kong). Macau is a small city in the southern coast in China. Like Hong Kong, Macau has a large amount of autonomy, with its own passport, currency, economic rules, and constitution.
It consists of Macau Peninsula (Aomen Bandao), Taipa Island (Dangzai Dao), Coloane Island (Luhuan Dao) and Cotai (Ludangcheng), the new reclaimed land between Taipa and Coloane. It is very densely populated, with over half a million people living in just over 12 square miles.
Macao used to be a colony of Portugal. Although Portuguese is an official language alongside Chinese (as a result of it being a Portuguese colony in the past), very few Macanese actually speak Portuguese; only about 0.7% speak it at home. As a matter of fact, English is more commonly spoken, despite it not being an official language (about 2.3% speak it at home). Cantonese is the main dialect of Chinese spoken in Macau, much like Macau. However, Mandarin has also become more common since Portugal returned it to China in 1999.
Today, Macao mostly lives off of offshore gambling. In fact, Macau makes 7 times as much money as Las Vegas per year. They make some money from exporting clothing.

</doc>
<doc id="17173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17173" title="Taipei">
Taipei

Taipei City () is the capital city of the Republic of China, known by most people simply as Taiwan. It is the fourth largest city in Taiwan. It has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa" in the Köppen climate classification). Its population in 2014 was about 2.7 million people. Its mayor is Ko Wen-je.
Taipei City is divided into 12 districts.

</doc>
<doc id="17183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17183" title="Bob Chiarelli">
Bob Chiarelli

Robert (Bob) Chiarelli (born September 24, 1941) is the current mayor of Ottawa, Canada. He grew up in Ottawa, and was married to the late Carol Chiarelli.
He was first made mayor of the new Ottawa on November 13, 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="17184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17184" title="Skeleton">
Skeleton

A skeleton is the hard structure that supports the body of a living thing. Skeletons can be inside the body or outside the body. In mammals, which include humans, the skeleton is made of bones. All the bones, when they are joined together, make the "skeletal system" of a body. The skeletal system or "skeleton" is under the skin, the muscle and the tissue of the body. The skeleton supports the skin, muscle and tissue, and all the organs that are inside the body. The skeleton protects important internal organs like the brain, heart and lungs. If humans did not have a skeleton then the body would be flat as the skeleton gives the body its frame.
The important parts of a human body are the head, the spine, the chest, the abdomen, the arms and hands, and the legs and feet. 
The head bones all together are called the skull. 
The spine supports the head, the chest and the structure that carries the arms. It is made of small bones called vertebrae. The spine, all together, is called the spinal column. It is not straight, but has curves that help to support the body, and help the person to move and bend. One bone is a "vertebra". More than one are "vertebrae".
The "vertebrae" have different names, depending on the part of the body they are joined to. 
This part of the body is made of the sacrum and the two pelvic bones which are joined to it on either side. The pelvic bones are carried by the leg bones, and they support the "spinal column". Each pelvic bone has a strong structure for the leg bone to fit into, so that a person can stand, walk, run and jump. Each pelvic bone spreads into a large flat plate which supports the person's "internal organs". The pelvis of a woman spreads into a wider shape than a man's, so that when the woman is pregnant, the baby is supported by the pelvis, until it is ready to be born. At the bottom of the pelvis is a large opening, big enough for a baby to pass through. 
The chest is called the thorax, and the vertebrae that are part of it are the thoracic vertebrae. The thorax is made up of long flat curved bones called ribs. At the back, the ribs are joined to the vertebrae. At the front, most of the ribs are joined to the sternum, which is often called the "breast bone". All together, the "thorax" protects the heart, lungs and stomach. 
At the top of the "thorax" is the shoulder girdle. This is made of two thin horizontal bones at the front, joined to the "sternum". These two bones are called the clavicles or "collar bones". At the back of the "thorax" are two flat triangular-shaped bones called the scapulae, or "shoulder blades". The "clavicles" and "scapulae" come together on each side to make "shoulders". The bones of the arms fit into sockets (cup-like holes) in the "scapulae". 
Arms and legs both have a thicker bone at the top and two thinner bones at the bottom. They both have a rotating joint at the top, and a hinge joint in the middle. The hands and feet have lots of bones and are joined to the arms and legs by small bones with sliding parts. 
A skeleton, or just a skull, has often been used as a symbol for Death. 
Skeletons, particularly living skeletons, have often been used in horror stories and comedies.
Skeletons appear in the popular game: Minecraft. In Minecraft, skeletons have bows that try to shoot the player.

</doc>
<doc id="17186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17186" title="Catalan">
Catalan

Catalan might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="17187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17187" title="Category:Handheld video games">
Category:Handheld video games

This category is for handheld video game consoles.

</doc>
<doc id="17188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17188" title="Category:Cities in Taiwan">
Category:Cities in Taiwan


</doc>
<doc id="17189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17189" title="Category:Mormonism">
Category:Mormonism

This category has articles relating to the Book of Mormon and those who accept the Book of Mormon as a sacred text.

</doc>
<doc id="17190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17190" title="Category:1805 births">
Category:1805 births


</doc>
<doc id="17191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17191" title="Category:1844 deaths">
Category:1844 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="17193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17193" title="GP2X">
GP2X

The GP2X is a handheld gaming console. It uses the Linux operating system. An operating system goes inside another system. It helps the other system do what it needs to. The GP2X can have music, videos, games, and pictures. There are updates to the GP2X so it will get more things. The GP2X can have DivX, XviD, MP3, and Ogg Vorbis. DivX and XviD are ways to keep videos and MP3 and Ogg Vorbis can keep music. It can also be able to emulate video games. Emulating means you copy a system. It can emulate systems like the Nintendo Entertainment System, Sega Master System, Turbo Grafx 16, Game Boy, Super Nintendo Entertainment System, and Genesis.

</doc>
<doc id="17207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17207" title="Community">
Community

A community is a group of living things sharing the same environment. They usually have shared interests. In human communities, people have some of the same beliefs and needs, and this affects the identity of the group and the people in it.

</doc>
<doc id="17223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17223" title="Upton Sinclair">
Upton Sinclair

Upton Beall Sinclair (September 20, 1878 – November 25, 1968) was a writer of many works from the United States. His most famous book, "The Jungle" from 1906, was about the American meat-packing industry.
Upton Sinclair had socialist political opinions. Most of Sinclair's books, including "The Jungle", dealt with social injustice. He also wrote a book called "Mental Radio" where he claimed to have conducted telepathic experiments with his wife. 
He wrote many other books. His book "The Flivver King" was about the Ford Motor Company. "The Flivver King" was written at the time when workers at Ford factories were trying to start a labor union. He wrote a series (many books in a row) with Lanny Budd as the main character. There were eleven (11) Lanny Budd books. The Lanny Budd books were about current events in the World at the time.
He later joined the Democratic Party and ran for governor of the state of California in 1934. He wanted California to start new businesses which would be run by the state government. This was to help people who were unemployed (did not have jobs) because of the Great Depression. He lost the election. 
He retired in the town of Buckeye, Arizona.

</doc>
<doc id="17224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17224" title="Gizmondo">
Gizmondo

Gizmondo is a handheld video game system. It is made by Tiger Telematics. It has GPRS and GPS. GPRS is used to go on the Internet, and GPS is where you can see where you are. Some games use the Gizmondo's GPS. It has a camera. It can also send text (words) and multimedia (pictures and videos and music) messages, play MP3/WAV/MIDI music and WMA/MP4 video, and play games. MP3, WAV, and MIDI are ways to keep music, and WMA and MP4 are ways to keep videos.
The Gizmondo came out in the United Kingdom in March 2005 for £229. It came out in the USA in October 22, 2005. Games include "Agaju: the Sacred Path", "Colors", and "Chicane". 
In February 2006, the company was forced into bankruptcy and stopped making the Gizmondo.

</doc>
<doc id="17227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17227" title="Category:1878 births">
Category:1878 births


</doc>
<doc id="17228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17228" title="Antarctic Treaty System">
Antarctic Treaty System

The Antarctic Treaty System is a set of agreements about the continent of Antarctica. It was signed in 1959 and took effect in 1961. So far, it has been signed by 46-48 countries.
The ATS is used for governing the continent. The main idea of the Antarctic Treaty System (ATS) is to make sure that Antarctica is:

</doc>
<doc id="17230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17230" title="Category:1859 books">
Category:1859 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1859.

</doc>
<doc id="17231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17231" title="Category:1962 books">
Category:1962 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1962.

</doc>
<doc id="17232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17232" title="Category:2003 books">
Category:2003 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="17233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17233" title="Category:2005 books">
Category:2005 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="17234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17234" title="Category:1997 books">
Category:1997 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1997.

</doc>
<doc id="17235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17235" title="Category:1998 books">
Category:1998 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1998.

</doc>
<doc id="17237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17237" title="Kansas City, Missouri">
Kansas City, Missouri

Kansas City is the biggest city in the U.S. state of Missouri. The Kansas River and Missouri River meet one another in Kansas City. The city has about 448,000 people, and the entire metropolitan area has about 2,000,000 people, some of whom live in the state of Kansas. Its mayor is Sly James. Some sports teams there are the Royals (baseball), the Chiefs (American football), and the Wizards (soccer). Kansas City is well known for some of its barbecue restaurants, and is also an important place for business.

</doc>
<doc id="17238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17238" title="Category:1942 books">
Category:1942 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1942.

</doc>
<doc id="17239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17239" title="Category:1937 books">
Category:1937 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1937.

</doc>
<doc id="17242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17242" title="Category:1949 books">
Category:1949 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1949.

</doc>
<doc id="17243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17243" title="Category:1948 movies">
Category:1948 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1948.

</doc>
<doc id="17244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17244" title="Category:1960 movies">
Category:1960 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1960.

</doc>
<doc id="17245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17245" title="Category:1990 movies">
Category:1990 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1990.

</doc>
<doc id="17247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17247" title="Category:Cities in New Zealand">
Category:Cities in New Zealand


</doc>
<doc id="17250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17250" title="Category:1605 books">
Category:1605 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1605.

</doc>
<doc id="17251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17251" title="Category:1615 books">
Category:1615 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1615.

</doc>
<doc id="17252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17252" title="Category:1993 books">
Category:1993 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1993.

</doc>
<doc id="17254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17254" title="Category:Honduras">
Category:Honduras


</doc>
<doc id="17262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17262" title="Cascading Style Sheets">
Cascading Style Sheets

Cascading Style Sheets, or CSS, are a way to change the look of HTML and XHTML web pages. CSS was designed by the W3C, and is supported well by most modern web browsers. The current version of CSS is CSS3. CSS4 is available, but is split into parts 
One advantage to using CSS is a web page can still be displayed and understood, even if the CSS is not working or removed.
CSS code is saved in files with the .css file extension.
To make all paragraphs on a page blue and sized 20% bigger than normal text, we would apply this CSS rule to a page:
The codice_1 refers to all HTML elements with the codice_2 tag. The CSS is being used to change this element. The codice_3 and codice_4 are both properties and the codice_5 and codice_6 are values. Each property has a set of possible values. These values can be words or numbers.

</doc>
<doc id="17263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17263" title="Allah">
Allah

The word Allah () is the Arabic term for God. It usually refers to the Islamic God, but in the Middle East, other religions sometimes use the same term for their God.
In Islam, Allah is the main word for "God." Muslims use 99 Names of God to describe God, but "Allah" is the most common of these and means all of them. This is because in Arabic, "al" is an article (word for "the"), so al-Lah means ""the" God". This is monotheism. When a Muslim says "Allah," all of the other names of God are thought of as part of it. Muslims also believe that this word tells about God's being a single entity and as being without wrong or defect and of God having no partner. 
In Arabic, the name "Allah" is composed of four letters, (or Alif Lam Lam Ha, from right to left), which when brought together make الله.
"Allah" is often used by Muslims when they are praying. Muslims have a faith in one God. They believe that God is the one who made everything, the one judge, and the only one who has power over all things. They also believe that Allah created the heavens and the Earth just by saying "Kun,' which means "Be".
Some Arab Christians in The Levant call God Allah. Most Arab Christians, like other Christians, believe in the Trinity. Most Muslims believe that Allah cannot be three persons.

</doc>
<doc id="17267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17267" title="Wikipedia:Privacy policy">
Wikipedia:Privacy policy

If you only read the Wikimedia project websites, there is no more information collected about you than is normally collected by web sites in general in their server logs.
If you contribute to the Wikimedia projects, you are publishing every word you post publicly. If you write something, assume that it will be kept forever. This includes articles, user pages and talk pages. Some limited exceptions are described below.
Simply visiting the web site does not expose your identity publicly (but see private logging below).
When you edit any page in the wiki, you are publishing a document. This is a public act, and you are identified publicly with that edit as its author.
When you publish a page in the wiki, you may be logged in or not.
If you are logged in, you will be identified by your user name. This may be your real name if you so choose, or you may choose to publish under a pseudonym, whatever user name you selected when you created your account.
If you have not logged in, you will be identified by your network IP address. This is a series of four numbers which identifies the internet address from which you are contacting the wiki. Depending on your connection, this number may be traceable only to a large internet service provider, or specifically to your school, place of business, or home. It may be possible that the origin of this IP address could be used in conjunction with any interests you express implicitly or explicitly by editing articles to identify you even by private individuals. 
It may be either difficult or easy for a motivated individual to connect your network IP address with your real-life identity. Therefore if you are very concerned about privacy, you may wish to log in and publish under a pseudonym. When using a pseudonym, your IP address will not be available to the public, but it will be stored on the wiki servers for a relatively short amount of time. Thus it will be available to developers and may be released under certain circumstances (see below).
If you use a company mail server from home or telecommute and use a DSL or cable internet connection, it is likely to be very easy for your employer to identify your IP address and find all of your IP based Wikimedia project contributions. Using a user name is a better way of preserving your privacy in this situation. However, remember to disconnect yourself after using a pseudonym to avoid allowing others to use your identity.
The wiki will set a temporary session cookie (PHPSESSID) whenever you visit the site. If you do not intend to ever log in, you may deny this cookie, but you cannot log in without it. It will be deleted when you close your browser session.
More cookies may be set when you log in, to avoid typing in your user name (or optionally password) on your next visit. These last up to 30 days. You may clear these cookies after use if you are using a public machine and don't wish to expose your username to future users of the machine. (If so, clear the browser cache as well.)
Many aspects of the Wikimedia projects community interactions depend on the reputation and respect that is built up through a history of valued contributions. User passwords are the only guarantee of the integrity of a user's edit history. All users are encouraged to select strong passwords and to never share them. No one shall knowingly expose the password of another user to public release either directly or indirectly.
Every time you visit a web page, you send a lot of information to the web server. Most web servers routinely maintain access logs with a portion of this information, which can be used to get an overall picture of what pages are popular, what other sites link to this one, and what web browsers people are using. It is not the intention of the Wikimedia projects to use this information to keep track of legitimate users.
These logs are used to produce the site statistics pages; the raw log data is not made public, and is normally discarded after about two weeks.
Here's a sample of what's logged for one page view:
Log data may be examined by developers in the course of solving technical problems, in tracking down badly-behaved web spiders that overwhelm the site, or very rarely to correlate usernames and network addresses of edits in investigating abuse of the wiki.
It is the policy of Wikimedia that personally identifiable data collected in the server logs will not be released by the developers who have access to it, except as follows:
Wikimedia policy does not permit public distribution of such information under any circumstances, except as described above.
Except where otherwise specified, all text added to Wikimedia projects is available for reuse under the terms of the GFDL, except for Wikinews, where the text is available under a Creative Commons License.
Wikimedia will not sell or share private information, such as email addresses, with third parties, unless you agree to release this information, or it is required by law to release the information.
The Wikimedia Foundation makes no guarantee against unauthorized access to any information you provide. This information will be available to all with access to the servers.
You may provide your e-mail address in your Preferences. This allows other logged-in users may send email to you through the wiki (unless you disable this in your preferences). Your address will not be revealed to them unless you respond, or possibly if the email bounces. The email address may be used by the Wikimedia Foundation to communicate with users on a wider scale.
If you do not provide an email address, you will not be able to reset your password if you forget it. However, you may contact one of Wikimedia developer to enter a new mail address in your preferences.
You can remove your email address from your preferences at any time to prevent it being used.
If you subscribe to one of the project mailing lists, your address will be exposed to any other subscriber. The list archives of most of Wikimedia's mailing lists are public, and your address may find itself quoted in messages. The list archives are also archived by Gmane services. Mails are usually not deleted or modified, but it may be done in extreme cases.
Some email addresses (see below) may forward mail to a team of volunteers trusted by the community to use a ticket system (OTRS) to view them and answer them. Mail sent to the system is not publicly visible, but is visible to this group of Wikimedia editors. By sending a mail to one of these addresses, your address may become public within this group. The OTRS team may discuss the contents of your mail with other contributors in order to best answer your query.
Addresses that direct to OTRS system are:
Mail to board@wikimedia.org or to board member's private addresses may also be forwarded to the OTRS team.
 are not officially part of Wikimedia proper. By participating to an IRC channel, your IP address will be exposed to other participants. Different channels have different policies on whether logs may be published. 
Data on users, such as the times at which they edited and the number of edits they have made are publicly available via "user contributions" lists, and occasionally in aggregated forms published by other users.
Once created, user accounts can not be removed. It may be possible for a developer to change the username on an account, but you will need to request this yourself. The Wikimedia Foundation does not guarantee that a name will be changed on request. See for further details.
Whether specific user information is deleted is dependant on the deletion policies of the project that contains the information.
Deleting text from Wikimedia projects does not really delete them. In normal articles, anyone can look at a previous version and see what was there. If an article is "deleted", any sysop/administrator, meaning almost anyone trusted not to abuse the deletion capability, can see what was deleted. Only a developer can permanently delete information from the Wikimedia projects and there is no guarantee this will happen except in response to legal action.

</doc>
<doc id="17282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17282" title="IPod nano">
IPod nano

The iPod nano is a MP3 player made by Apple Inc. It is available in 8GB and 16GB memory, in nine colours: silver, grey, purple, blue, green, yellow, orange, red, and pink.
There is a built-in FM receiver inside the iPod nano, and with the radio app, radio from the FM channels can be listened to. There is also a feature called Live Pause which allows listeners to pause the radio stream, and resume it at the same place later.
The iPod nano can 'talk to you', using a feature called VoiceOver. When the button on the headphones or the Click Wheel is held down, VoiceOver will speak the song currently playing and its artist. This feature is available in 20 languages.
The iPod nano has a built-in pedometer. You can create a Daily Step goal, or use the 'Always On' setting so it counts all of your steps.
Using the Nike+iPod sport kit, the iPod nano can be used as a fitness aid. It can measure your run by fitting into the insole Nike+ shoe pocket, then it can sync it to nikeplus.com. Nike+ is also compatible with some exercise machines.
The iPod nano includes a video camera which can be used to capture video. You can add fifteen video effects, then upload it to YouTube, MobileMe, or Facebook with your computer.
The iPod Nano was first released on September 7, 2005. 1, 2, and 4 GB iPods were available.
The second generation iPod Nano was released on September 25, 2006. Like the second generation iPod Mini it was available in different colors. But unlike the Mini, the click wheel was grey for all colors except for the black iPod which had a black click wheel.
The 1GB iPod was only available in silver, the 4GB iPod was available in green, blue, silver, and pink and the 8GB was only available in black, but red was added later.
On October 13, 2006, a Product Red iPod Nano was released. For each red iPod Nano sold a $10 donation goes to the Product Red brand. On November 3, 2006 a red 8GB iPod Nano was released due to high demand.
The third generation iPod Nano was released on September 5, 2007. It had a new smaller and wider design, video playback ability and a new user interface.
A 4GB iPod was released in silver while an 8GB iPod was released in silver, turquoise, mint green, black, and Product Red. A pink 8GB iPod was also released on January 22, 2008.
On October 6, 2007 Apple released OS 1.0.2 which improved cover flow and made going throw the menu a lot quicker. On November 28, 2007 1.0.3 was released which fixed a couple of bugs. On January 15, 2008 1.1 came out which had support for iTunes movie hiring, music song lyrics and more bug fixes. 1.1.2 and 1.1.3 had bug fixes. They were both released in May and July 2008.
The iPod Nano fourth generation was released on September 9, 2008 and changed back to the body shape used in the first and second generation models.
The six old colors (silver, black, mint, turquoise, berry red and rose pink were replaced with silver, black, purple, light blue, green, yellow, orange, red and pink. But the Product Red iPod could only be bought on the Apple website and retail stores. An accelerometer was also added to the iPod Nano. Because of this, you could turn the shuffle songs feature on and off by shaking it, go through the cover flow when you put the iPod on its side and look at pictures portrait or landscape. But videos could only be watched in landscape. Because of the accelerometer feature, the Quiz game was removed and a new Maze game was added.
The iPod Nano fifth generation was released on September 9, 2009 and had a smaller price than the last generation. At the time the 8GB Nano was $149 and the 16GB Nano $179. The screen was also bigger and some new colors were introduced: Silver, Black, Purple, Blue, Yellow, Orange, Product Red, Green and Pink though the yellow and Product Red iPods were only available at the Apple Website and retailers.
The fifth generation introduced a number of new things including a microphone, a pedometer, a video camera and an FM radio that had station frequencies coming from North and South America, Europe, Australia and New Zealand and Asia.
The dock connector and the head jack also swapped sides so that the head jack was left of the dock connector.
The sixth generation iPod Nano was released on September 1, 2010. It was a combination of the iPod Shuffle by the size and shape and the iPod Touch by the touch screen, a sleep/wake button and the user interface and icons. This iPod Nano however didn't have a video camera, the ability to play back videos, the voice-recorder, (though plugging in the headphones with a microphone would show a voice memos app) built in speaker and games. But it did still have a pedometer and an FM radio. The price for this iPod Nano was also the same GB models for the same prices as the previous generation Nano.
On February 28, 2011, OS 1.1 was released with featured the ability to change song or pause by double clicking the sleep/wake button and on October 4, 2011 OS 1.2 added several new wallpapers and the ability to change the size of icons.
The seventh generation iPod Nano was released on October 12, 2012. The shape was again similar to the fifth generation shape but it was still the same size as the sixth generation and still had a touch screen but only a single 16GB iPod Nano was released but video playback was also restored.

</doc>
<doc id="17283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17283" title="Proton decay">
Proton decay

Proton decay is a theory where some physicists believe that radioactive decay could also be that a proton decays into two particles smaller than an atom, a pion and a positron. So far, this has not been observed though. Most current theories say that protons do not decay.

</doc>
<doc id="17286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17286" title="Names of God in Islam">
Names of God in Islam

The 99 Names of God (, translit: ) also known as The 99 attributes of Allah, according to Islamic tradition, are the names of God revealed by the Creator(God) in the Qur'an.
The 99 Names of God (Allah) according to the tradition of Islam are:
Name-English Name: Arabic 
Allah is the personal name of God and Muslims worship God mostly by this name. The names refer to "characteristics" and "attributes" of God (Allah).
The English translation of names may have a slightly different meaning than the original Arabic word due to the words available in each language.

</doc>
<doc id="17296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17296" title="Single-player video game">
Single-player video game

A single player game, when talking about computer games or video games, means a game that is played by one player. It involves playing against or with computer-controlled (AI) characters.

</doc>
<doc id="17299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17299" title="Fallopian tube">
Fallopian tube

The fallopian tubes (also known as oviducts and uterine tubes) connect the ovaries to the uterus, and let the ovum pass into the uterus where they are able to be fertilized by sperm during sexual intercourse or other ways, such as artificial insemination. There are two Fallopian tubes attached to either side of the uterus.
They are named after the 16th century Italian anatomist, Gabriele Falloppio. The Greek word salpinx (σαλπιγξ) means "trumpet".
There are two Fallopian tubes attached to either side of the end of the uterus. Each tube will end near one ovary. This place is called the fimbria. The Fallopian tubes are not attached to the ovaries, but open into the peritoneal cavity.
In humans, the Fallopian tubes are about 7 - 14 cm long. 
There are four parts of the fallopian tube from the ovary to the uterus:
The fallopian tube is made of three layers:
The Fallopian tubes can move around the pelvis.
When an ovum is ready to be released from the ovary, the ovary wall breaks open and the ovum goes into the fallopian tube. There, it starts moving towards to uterus with the help of liquids and cilia on the inside walls. This can take hours or days.
If the ovum is fertilized while in the fallopian tube, then it sticks to the endometrium, which is the beginning of pregnancy.

</doc>
<doc id="17301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17301" title="1818">
1818

1818 is a common year in the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="17302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17302" title="Carmen Miranda">
Carmen Miranda

Carmen Miranda (February 9, 1909 – August 5, 1955) was a Portuguese-Brazilian singer and actress. She was best known for her exotic costumes and hats made of fruit.

</doc>
<doc id="17303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17303" title="Magnum, P.I.">
Magnum, P.I.

Magnum, P.I. was a television show starring Tom Selleck. It was on TV from 1980 to 1988. It told the story of Thomas Magnum III, a private detective working in Hawaii.

</doc>
<doc id="17304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17304" title="Twin Peaks">
Twin Peaks

Twin Peaks was an American television series that ran from 1990 to 1991. It told the story of an FBI agent who comes to the strange small town of Twin Peaks, Washington, to investigate the murder of a teenage girl. It was made by David Lynch. The show was successful around the world. In 1992, a Twin Peaks movie was released.

</doc>
<doc id="17305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17305" title="McDonald's">
McDonald's

McDonald's is the second largest chain of fast food restaurants in the world. They mainly serve hamburgers, cheeseburgers, chicken products, French fries, breakfast items, soft drinks, milkshakes and desserts. They also have options such as salads, apples, milk, and Snack Wraps on the menu.
McDonald's was founded by Richard and Maurice McDonald. It was later bought by Ray Kroc.
McDonald's has been around since 1955, when it was started by Ray Kroc in Des Plaines, Illinois. Kroc had bought the previous company from Dick and Maurice (Mac) McDonald, who opened their restaurant in 1940. The first restaurant was on Route 66 in San Bernardino, California.
McDonald's is the world's second largest fast food chain and a worldwide corporation. It is second only to Subway. McDonald's can be found in 119 countries and territories around the world. They serve almost 54 million people each day.
More McDonald's food is sold in the United States than in any other area, which means that it is McDonald's largest market. Europe is McDonald's second largest market..
The restaurants are either operated directly by McDonalds or more often by a franchisee, where the business is owned and operated by someone else to the standards set by McDonald's and with support from the McDonald's company. The company provides a central source of supply for food items and standardized menu.
In 2014, McDonald's in Europe used chicken meat which was produced by using genetically modified animal feed, which it had not done since 2001. Greenpeace states that McDonald's saves less than one Eurocent for each Chickenburger and goes down a path not desired by its customers.
The McDonald's mascot is Ronald McDonald.
McDonald's has restaurants in the following countries:

</doc>
<doc id="17307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17307" title="English people">
English people

English people are British citizens born in England. Most English people speak the English language. Over the years, many English people have moved to other countries, such as the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa.
English people sometimes live in England, which is one of the nations of the island of Great Britain, which they share with Scottish people and the Welsh. They are descended from immigrants from all over Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="17310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17310" title="To Kill a Mockingbird">
To Kill a Mockingbird

To Kill a Mockingbird is an American novel written by Harper Lee. It was published in 1960. The book was a great success. It won the Pulitzer Prize. The book was adapted to a 1962 movie starring Gregory Peck. The movie won three Academy Awards.
Lee based the story and characters on her family and neighbors, and something that happened near her hometown in 1936. This was when she was 10 years old.
"To Kill a Mockingbird" is a Southern Gothic novel and a "bildungsroman" (a story where the main character develops and grows). Its main themes are racism and innocence. Lee also writes about bravery, compassion, and gender roles in the American Deep South. The book is taught in many schools in English-speaking countries with lessons about being patient and fair. 
It is set during the Great Depression of the 1930s. It was first published in 1960 and made into a movie in 1962. It tells the story of a young girl, Jean Louise Finch, (known as "Scout") and her brother Jeremy Atticus Finch (known as "Jem"). They live in the Southern United States with their father Atticus Finch, who is a lawyer. In the story Atticus defends a black man, Tom Robinson, who has been accused of raping a white woman.
Harper Lee was born in 1926 and grew up in the Southern town of Monroeville, Alabama. There, she became close friends with Truman Capote, who became a famous writer later. She went to Huntingdon College in Montgomery (1944–45), and then studied law at the University of Alabama (1945–49). When she went to college, she wrote for literary magazines, like "Huntress" and "Rammer Jammer". At both colleges, she wrote short stories and other works about racial unfairness, which was not usually written about in colleges at the time. In 1950, Lee moved to New York City, where she worked as a clerk for British Overseas Airways Corporation. While she was there, she began writing essays and short stories about people in Monroeville. In 1957, Lee showed her writing to a literary agent Capote told her about. An editor at J. B. Lippincott suggested to her that she should stop working at the airline and focus on writing instead. Her friends gave her money to help her continue writing for a year.
Lee spent two and a half years writing "To Kill a Mockingbird". The National Endowment for the Arts describes how Lee once became so unhappy that she threw her manuscript out the window into the snow. Her agent made her take her writing back again. The book was printed on July 11, 1960. It was first titled "Atticus", but Lee changed its name because the story was more than simply about one character. The editors at Lippincott told Lee that she would probably sell only several thousand copies. In 1964, Lee said, "I never expected any sort of success with 'Mockingbird.' ... I was hoping for a quick and merciful death at the hands of the reviewers but, at the same time, I sort of hoped someone would like it enough to give me encouragement. Public encouragement. I hoped for a little, as I said, but I got rather a whole lot, and in some ways this was just about as frightening as the quick, merciful death I'd expected." Instead of a "quick and merciful death", "Reader's Digest Condensed Books" chose part of the book to be printed again. This immediately made many more people read it. After it was first published, the book never stopped being printed.
The book follows Jem and Scout, two siblings living in the 1930’s in a small southern town. Their father, Atticus, is a lawyer who is hired to defend a black man who is accused of rape. The children watch the town and the trial change and grow. Atticus loses the trial and Tom Robinson, the man who is being accused of rape gets killed by prison guards. The whole town is in an uproar. Some people are furious, some are pleased, and others see it as no big deal. But for Jem and Scout it is a time for them to grow up and face the harsh realities of racism. The story happens during three years of the Great Depression in the fictional town of Maycomb, Alabama. The city is in a fictional county of the same name. It is told in the first person by Jean Louise "Scout" Finch. She is six years old; lives with her older brother Jeremy "Jem"; her father Atticus, a lawyer; her mother died when she was young. Jem and Scout become friends with a boy named Charles Baker Harris, nicknamed Dill, who visits Maycomb to stay with his aunt in the summer. The children are interested in their neighbors' (the Radleys) estate. Few people had seen the residents for many years. The children imagine how Boo Radley looks, why he hides in his house, and how to make him come out. After two summers, Scout and Jem find small presents in a tree outside the Radley place. Boo often shows signs of kindness to the children, then meets Scout while protecting her as Bob Ewell tries to kill her and Jem.

</doc>
